06-08-2021||India||Goa’s plan to throw open tourism after July vaccination deadline runs into hurdles||The Goa government’s plan for a gradual reopening of the economy appears to have hit a roadblock with the state now reconsidering whether to push ahead with its initial plan of reopening tourism after the July 31 deadline that it had set for itself to ensure that all eligible people are given at least one dose. The State Expert Committee that was constituted by the state government to offer advice on containing the Covid-19 pandemic is yet to take a final decision but has recommended several options to the government including mandating that only fully vaccinated people be allowed to enter the state without a negative test. “At present I can say only one thing, Covid-19 is still on. Even today the positivity rate in Goa is 1.9 to two per cent. There are one to two deaths. We need to take precautions,” Chief Minister Pramod Sawant told reporters in Panaji.“Kerala is witnessing a rise in third wave cases. We have made RT-PCR compulsory for people travelling from Kerala, even as people from other states are allowed entry with a Covid-19 negative certificate or a double dose certificate,” the Chief Minister said.The State Expert Committee has also said that if children above the age of two years are accompanying their fully vaccinated parents into the state, they will be made to undergo a Covid-19 test upon arrival while children below the age of two years will be exempted provided they are asymptomatic. The Goa government had set itself a target of vaccinating every eligible person with one dose by July 31 which the chief minister said would decide whether the state could reopen for tourism. Presently, casinos, river cruises, entertainment parks, are not allowed to reopen as also spas and massage parlours. However, bars and restaurants are allowed to open with 50% capacity up to 11pm at night.The Goa government is unlikely to reopen casinos and other tourism hotspots given that the viral infection still persists and despite nearly 90% of the state having received at least one dose of the vaccine.A Covid-19 negative certificate is mandatory on arrival to the state, except for persons who are fully vaccinated. However, tourists, and people arriving from Kerala will have to produce a negative certificate on arrival even if they are fully vaccinated. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said that according to state records roughly around one lakh people were left to be vaccinated, but it is possible that those registered on the voters lists were residing out of Goa. “We had said that the first dose would be completed by July last week. One lakh odd people have not been vaccinated yet. I have sought details. Even though we have said that these people are left out, we go according to the voting roll. We have to check whether these people have relocated outside Goa. Some voters do not live in Goa at all,” Sawant said.Goa recorded 97 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday and one new death taking the total number of confirmed cases since the pandemic began to 171,705 which is roughly around 10% of the state’s population. The state has recorded 3157 deaths, around half of which occurred during the month of May this year when the second wave was at its peak. At 97 daily cases, Goa’s daily tally is higher than much larger states like Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi. While the number of cases dipped to below 100 on Friday for much of the week Goa has been recording above 100 cases with a positivity rate above 2% prompting fears that the state will yet again see resurgence in cases.The Bombay High Court at Goa is expected to next week hear the application filed by the Goa government to open its borders to people who have been fully vaccinated. The state has been pushing to allow those fully vaccinated to enter the state in a bid to reduce the hold-ups at the state’s borders since testing on arrival was made mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goas-plan-to-throw-open-tourism-after-july-vaccination-deadline-runs-into-hurdles-101628273280328.html
06-08-2021||India||India condemns removal of holy flag from Afghan gurdwara by Taliban||India on Friday condemned the reported removal by the Taliban of a Sikh religious flag from the roof of a gurdwara in Afghanistan’s eastern Paktia province, which has witnessed fighting between militants and Afghan security forces in recent weeks. Reports from Afghanistan said the Taliban had allegedly forced the custodian of Gurdwara Thala Sahib in Chamkani region of Paktia province to remove the Nishan Sahib or holy flag from the shrine’s rooftop. The gurdwara is revered by Sikhs as it was once visited by Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism. Images of the shrine posted on social media since Thursday showed that the flag was removed from the gurdwara’s rooftop. “We have seen media reports about the Nishan Sahib on the roof of Gurdwara Thala Sahib having been removed. We condemn this act and reiterate India’s firm belief that Afghanistan’s future must be one where interests of all sections of Afghan society, including minorities and women, are protected,” a person familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. In June last year, Nidan Singh Sachdeva, a leader of the Hindu and Sikh minorities in Afghanistan, was kidnapped by the Taliban from the same gurdwara. Sachdeva was later released due to efforts made by the Afghan government and community elders. Before that, about 30 members of the Sikh minority were killed in a terror attack on a place of worship in Kabul that was claimed by the Islamic State. However, Indian officials said the Haqqani Network and Lashkar-e-Taiba were behind the killings. Afghanistan has witnessed a surge in violence amid the drawdown of troops by the US and NATO. The Taliban have begun attacking key urban areas and cities such as Lashkargah, Herat and Kandahar after capturing territory in rural areas since early May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-condemns-removal-of-holy-flag-from-afghan-gurdwara-by-taliban-101628272260290.html
06-08-2021||India||Mirabai honours truck drivers who gave her free lifts during early training||India’s Olympic Silver medallist Saikhom Mirabai broke down in tears and honoured the truck drivers who provided free lifts from her home to the training centre in Imphal during her early training days at an event in her village home on Thursday.Since her arrival at home after winning a silver medal at the Tokyo Olympics 2020 in the 49 kg women’s weightlifting category on July 27, she has been attending many felicitation events.In most of the events, she as well as her mother Saikhom Ongbi Tombi mentioned how the truckers had been helping her in reaching her training centre at Khuman Lampak sports complex in Imphal from her home at Nongpok Kakching village which is about 25 km north east of the capital. She had wanted to meet them once and seek blessing for her success.At that point of time during her early training, local transport was very limited in her village. So the sand/stone carrying trucks which passed through her village in the early hours of the day on their way to Imphal from Etham Moirangpurel area often provided free lifts to Mirabai.“Those were the days when I faced a lot of hardship. So I feel like crying when I see the uncles and others here today. What I am today and can stand here before you is due to their help and support,” said Mirabai while thanking the truck drivers. “I’ve been requesting to arrange such a meeting so that I can seek blessings again for my achievement. I am so happy to meet you all again,” she said.During Thursday’s event, Mirabai honoured the truck drivers by presenting gifts as a token of appreciation. The members of the truck association of the area who were present during Thursday’s event also expressed their gratitude to Mirabai for remembering them after winning a medal in the world’s biggest sporting event.Mirabai, who won the country’s first medal at the Tokyo Olympics, became India’s first silver medallist in women’s weightlifting, and second only to Katnam Malleswari to win a medal at the Olympic Games.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mirabai-honours-truck-drivers-who-gave-her-free-lifts-during-early-training-101628271300225.html
06-08-2021||India||Army chief Naravane says Indian Army ‘strong and tall’ in face of challenges||Chief of Army Staff General MM Naravane on Friday expressed confidence in the Indian Army and said that in face of challenges at both western and north borders it continues to stand ‘strong and tall’. The Army chief also said that he firmly believes that wars are not fought between two armies but two nations.His remarks come after both Indian and Chinese armies said that they completed the disengagement process and restored the status quo at the Gogra friction point in eastern Ladakh. Naravane was speaking at the golden jubilee celebrations (1971-2021) of the Television Wing of the Film and Television Institute of India.Naravane said that ‘exigencies’ at the western and northern borders have increased amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Naravane also started his two-day visit to production facilities of Larsen and Toubro (L&T) and Tata Motors in Pune, Maharashtra. He will be visiting Indian Navy's airbase INS Hansa in Goa on Saturday.While speaking at the event, Naravane said that Indian cinema and television have immortalised the role of the army. He, on a lighter note said, that he found the portrayal of Indian (armed forces) officers in the films slightly stereotyped in Indian cinema. “The beautiful heroine's father is always a 'khadoos' (rude, snobbish) colonel, wearing a silk gown with whisky in one hand and a shotgun in the other. That really intrigues me,” Naravane was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-naravane-says-indian-army-strong-and-tall-in-face-of-challenges-101628270669779.html
06-08-2021||India||321 pilgrims penalised in Haridwar, 68 held for violating religious sanctity at Ghats||As part of Operation Maryada, launched last month by the Uttarakhand police to rein in tourists and people creating nuisance at holy places, more than 300 people have been fined and 68 arrested so far in Haridwar, police officials said. Initiated by Uttarakhand Director General of Police (DGP) Ashok Kumar under Operation Maryada, police teams have been patrolling and keeping a watch at the Ganga Ghats and temple premises on anti-social elements who often hurt religious sentiments and aura of places of worship. The DGP called for Operation Maryada after dozens of people were found smoking hookah, partying and creating a nuisance at night at Har-Ki-Pauri in July which created resentment among local priests, seers and the Ganga Sabha which manages the affairs of the sanctum sanctorum of the Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri Ganga ghats, saints and local people. On Friday, on the festive occasion of Shravan Shivratri at Malviya Ghat near Har-Ki-Pauri, police caught 9 people who were creating a nuisance and arrested them under CrPC section 151. The arrested pilgrims hailed from Saharanpur, Panipat, Muzaffarnagar, and Mahendragarh Haryana. Circle Officer City Abhay Pratap Singh said that the drive has been quite effective to rein in such anti-social elements who create nuisance and violate the religious sanctity and dignity of such places. “A total of 321 people have been fined and 68 arrests have been made so far at Ganga Ghats. Even those who litter garbage or leave leftovers at the ghats are being sensitized and a penalty has been levied on 41 such people so far,” said Abhay Pratap. Ganga Sabha has lauded the impact of Operation Maryada urging the police to continue it further so that everyone gets the message that no such nuisance or undignified act will be allowed and will be legally dealt with. Ganga Sabha president Praveen Jha said that their volunteers through a public announcement system regularly urge pilgrims, devotees, tourists and visitors at Har-Ki-Pauri to adhere to decent behaviour and ensure the sanctity of the Ganga ghats. Dharamshala Raksha Samiti general secretary Vikas Tiwari has also called Operation Maryada a success pointing out that a stern message is going to everyone through the legal action being taken against such violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/321-pilgrims-penalised-in-haridwar-68-held-for-violating-religious-sanctity-at-ghats-101628269740238.html
06-08-2021||India||India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage tops 500 million; PM Modi, Union health minister comment||The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) announced on Friday India has crossed the milestone of administering more than 500 million (50 crore) doses of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on what was the 203rd day of the nationwide inoculation drive against Covid-19, which began on January 16.“India’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage is at 500,348,866 as per the 7pm provisional report today. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccine commenced from 21st June. 4,329,763 vaccine doses have been administered today, as per the 7pm provisional report,” the ministry said in a statement. Giving further break-up, the statement noted that more than 172 million beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group have received their first dose, adding that five states have administered more than 10 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines for the said age group: Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh.The number of new beneficiaries who received their first and second dose on August 6, till 7pm, stood at 3,210,613 and 1,119,060 respectively, the statement noted further.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya took to Twitter to complement citizens on achievement of this significant milestone. “India’s fight against Covid-19 receives a strong impetus. Vaccination numbers cross the 500,000,000-mark. We hope to build on these numbers and ensure our citizens are vaccinated under the ‘Sabko Vaccine Muft Vaccine’ initiative,” PM Modi tweeted. “India soars high on Covid-19 vaccination. Historic record of 500,000,000 doses administered to date,” Mandaviya posted on Twitter.India’s fight against COVID-19 receives a strong impetus. Vaccination numbers cross the 50 crore mark. We hope to build on these numbers and ensure our citizens are vaccinated under #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine movement.India soars high on #COVID19 vaccination, historic record of 50 crore doses administered to date!कोरोना से लड़ाई में भारत ने प्राप्त की ऐतिहासिक उपलब्धि, देश ने टीकाकरण में 50 करोड़ के आँकड़े को पार किया। सभी को बधाई एवं स्वास्थ्यकर्मियों का धन्यवाद।#SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine pic.twitter.com/3JX8Ej3GISThe Union health minister also listed the number of days taken to reach each stage of this milestone: 0 to 100 million doses in 85 days, 100 to 200 million in 45 days, 200 to 300 million in 29 days, 300 to 400 million in 24 days, and the previous 100 million in just 20 days.PM @NarendraModi जी के '#SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine' अभियान से आज देश ने 50 करोड़ टीकाकरण का आँकड़ा पार कर लिया है।भारत को 0-10 करोड़ का आँकड़ा छूने में 85 दिन10-20 करोड़ में 45 दिन 20-30 करोड़ में 29 दिन 30-40 करोड़ में 24 दिन और 50 करोड़ टीकाकरण में केवल 20 दिन लगे pic.twitter.com/pNqcUvxEqAHealthcare workers were the first to be vaccinated, followed by frontline workers, who became eligible from February 2. From March 1, vaccination opened for people aged above 60 and those above 45 with co-morbidities, while everyone above the age of 45 became eligible for a shot from April 1. From May 1, every citizen aged 18 or above was permitted to get vaccinated against the viral disease. Vaccination drive for children, meanwhile, is likely to begin this month.Thus far, four vaccines have received clearance from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), of which two -- Covishield and Covaxin -- have been in use since the beginning of the drive. The other two vaccines to be granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) are Sputnik V and Moderna’s anti-Covid jab. Among these, Covaxin, developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited, is India’s first and thus far only indigenous vaccine against the coronavirus disease. In recent days, other firms, too, have filed EUA applications with the DCGI for their respective vaccine candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-vaccination-coverage-tops-500-million-pm-modi-union-health-minister-comment-101628268121581.html
06-08-2021||India||ED raids labs in fake Covid-19 testing scam unearthed at Mahakumbh||After registering a money laundering case in connection with the fake Covid-19 testing scam during the Mahakumbh, the Enforcement Directorate on Friday conducted raids at the offices of various laboratories.Among the premises raided were Novus Path Labs, DNA Labs, Max Corporate Services, Dr. Lal Chandani Labs Pvt. Ltd; and Nalwa Laboratories Pvt. Ltd. and the residential premises of their Directors at Dehradun, Haridwar, Delhi, Noida and Hisar in connection with the fake Covid-19 tests carried out during the Kumbh Mela at Haridwar, a statement issued by the ED on Friday read. The agency has launched a probe under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on the basis of the FIR (first information report) registered by the Uttarakhand Police.During the money laundering investigation, it was revealed that the labs were given the contract by the Uttarakhand government for conducting Rapid Antigen Test/RT-PCR tests to detect the Covid-19 viral infection during the Kumbh Mela, 2021. “These laboratories hardly carried out any Covid-19 tests (Rapid Antigen Test and RT-PCR Test), but made fake entries for testing and raised bogus bills in order to make illegal financial gains,” the ED added. It said that an amount of ₹3.4 crore had already been received by them from the Uttarakhand government as part payment. “Modus operandi used by these labs was that these labs used a single mobile number/false mobile number/single address/ same Specimen Referral Form (SRF) for multiple people for showing the inflated numbers of Covid-19 testing without actually testing. Investigation further revealed that testing was claimed to be done in the name of people, who never visited the Kumbh Mela,” the ED statement added. “Due to false negative testing by these labs, the positivity rate of Haridwar at that time was shown at 0.18% against the actual 5.3%. During the search proceedings, the ED seized incriminating documents, bogus bills, laptops, mobile phones and property documents. Searches resulted in seizure of cash to the tune of Rs. 30.9 lakh,” it added. The agency said the searches were still going on in the matter till filing of this report. Allegations of fake testing surfaced at the Kumbh after a Faridkot resident complained to the authorities that he received a message for collecting his Covid-19 report despite never having been tested. The complaint triggered a probe that unearthed roughly 100,000 fake rapid antigen tests.Three firms – Lalchandani Lab, Nalwa Lab, and Noida-based private agency Max Corporate Services – have been booked under the Indian Penal Code, Disaster Management Act, and Epidemic Diseases Act by the Uttarakhand police in the matter. Calls made to offices of Novus Path Labs, DNA Labs, Max Corporate Services and Dr Lal Chandani Labs remained unanswered. An official at Nalwa labs in Hisar, who didn’t identify himself, said, “ED took whatever they had to. They also recorded our statements.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-raids-labs-in-fake-covid-19-testing-scam-unearthed-at-mahakumbh-101628267940062.html
06-08-2021||India||Will ensure stability in Afghanistan through democratic process: India at UN||India's permanent representative to United Nations TS Tirumurti said on Friday that New Delhi would continue to stand with Kabul in ensuring that peace and stability are restored in the troubled nation through a "legitimate and transparent democratic process that is essential for the long-term stability of Afghanistan and the region.""We will continue to provide all support to Afghanistan in realising their aspirations for a peaceful, democratic and prosperous future, free of terror, where the rights and interests of all sections of the Afghan society are promoted and protected," Tirumurti said.The Indian envoy stressed the urgency to ensure that the territory of Afghanistan is not used by terrorist groups to threaten or attack any other country."There needs to be zero tolerance for terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. It is equally important to ensure that Afghanistan is not used by terrorist groups to threaten or attack any other country," the Indian ambassador told the briefing of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC).Taking to Twitter from his official handle, Tirumurti stressed the importance of Taliban in the restoring peace in Afghanistan.In UN #SecurityCouncil meeting on #Afghanistan, I said: Necessary to ensure that #Taliban engage in negotiations in good faith, eschew path of violence, severe ties with #AlQaeda & other terrorist organizations, and fully commit itself towards reaching a political settlement. https://t.co/N1O15nlv8E pic.twitter.com/MrGJUKKTWR"Those providing material and financial support to terrorist entities must be held accountable. We, as the international community, must ensure that our commitments to Afghanistan, including to its various institutions, are maintained," Tirumurti said during his address to the United Nations.ALSO READ | Iran President Raisi backs India’s role in establishing security in AfghanistanTirumurti also pressed that terrorist safe havens and sanctuaries in the region are immediately dismantled and their supply chains disrupted to restore peace in Afghanistan. "It needs to be ensured that Afghanistan’s neighbours and the region are not threatened by terrorism, separatism and extremism. There needs to be zero tolerance for terrorism in all its forms and manifestations," India's permanent representative to the UN stressed.Expressing concerns over the security situation in Afghanistan, the top Indian diplomat said, "As a neighbour of Afghanistan, the current situation prevailing in the country is of great concern to us. The violence shows no signs of abating."ALSO READ | Women can't leave home alone, men have to grow beard: Taliban rules in captured Afghan districtsTirumurti laid stress on a UN report to outline that civilian casualties and targeted killings have reached record levels. "Even the UN compound hasn't been spared, the residence of defence minister of Afghanistan has been attacked...an Indian journalist was murdered while he was reporting on the situation in the countries. Meanwhile, fighting continues in Helmand and Herat even as over 100 Afghan civilians were mercilessly killed in Spin Boldak," he told the UNSC.Tirumurti highlighted that the rapid deterioration of the security situation in Afghanistan constitutes a threat to regional peace and stability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-afghanistan-un-security-council-terrorism-ts-tirumurti-101628266738345.html
06-08-2021||India||Three booked for attempt to murder for driving through Tripura CM’s security cordon||Three people were arrested on different charges including attempt to murder after they allegedly drove through the security cordon of Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb during his evening walk near his official residence in Agartala. Deb was not hurt but one of his security personnel sustained injuries.The three men were identified as Subham Saha, 27, Gairik Ghosh, 24, and Aman Saha, 25. They were produced before a local court on Friday. According to the police, the three accused men had broken into the Tripura CM’s security cordon with their vehicle on Thursday night. The chief minister, however, escaped unhurt.Within half-an-hour, the police arrested them. They were charged under Section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty), 279 ( rash driving), 332 ( voluntarily causing hurt to deter a public servant from his duty) and 307 ( attempt to murder). “They had ignored the signal of the security personnel on the outer cordon and hit one of our police personnel. However, their vehicle didn’t enter the security cordon and the CM had a narrow escape. We arrested them and have taken the matter up. We are investigating the issue to trace if there is any conspiracy behind the incident,” said West District superintendent of police Manik Das. The officer added that the security personnel received head injuries, but his condition was stable.Tripura has been placed under night curfew which comes into force from 7.00 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-for-driving-through-tripura-cm-s-security-cordon-101628265119867.html
06-08-2021||India||Zero tolerance to corruption: Rijiju stresses at SCO justice ministers' meet||India's approach is of zero tolerance to corruption and black money, Union law minister Kiren Rijiju told a gathering of justice ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) on Friday.Speaking at the virtual meeting of the 8th Ministers of Justice of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO), chaired by Tajikistan's justice minister, MK Ashuriyon, Union minister Kiren Rijiju stressed that India has a sound legal framework backed by a strong institutional mechanism to deal with corruption."India is relentlessly working towards eliminating corruption in all its possible forms. The approach of the Indian government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi is of zero tolerance to corruption and black money," Rijiju told the gathering.The Union minister also apprised the gathering of legislative and executive measures taken by India in its effort to be UNCAC-compliant (UN Convention against Corruption)."The government continues to work on further legislation and other arrangements to meet emerging challenges," Kiren Rijiju said as he underscored the Centre's "priority in resolving disputes" through alternate dispute resolution.He highlighted that India has framed business facilitating laws and rules, including Commercial Courts Act and Arbitration Laws with a view to make India a preferred destination for investment and business.Highlighting various facets of provisioning of free legal aid to marginalised sections of the society, Kiren Rijiju told the gathering of India's move to launch e-Lok Adalat, a tool aimed at offering faster, transparent and accessible option to settle disputes by combining technology and alternative dispute resolution.The experts' working group of SCO member states had on Wednesday and Thursday discussed the importance of providing free legal aid to the citizens as also cooperation in all spheres, including legal initiatives, given the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.The law minister urged the SCO member states — including Kazakhstan, China, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan — to promote an exchange of ideas, best practices and experiences in identified areas through the forum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kiren-rijiju-black-money-corruption-sco-justice-ministers-meet-india-initiatives-101628262147787.html
06-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Chinese govt says nation warming up faster than the world and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.China warming up faster than the world: Govt reportA book published by China’s National Climate Centre said that 9 of the 10 warmest years since 1901 have been recorded in the 21st century. Read more here.'Hope to launch Covavax for adults in Oct, early 2022 for kids': Adar PoonwallaThe Serum Institute of India CEO also said that the price of the anti-Covid vaccine will be determined at the time of launch. Read more here. Covid-19 patient develops rare white fungus abscess in brain after recoveryThe Covid-19 patient complained of weakness in limbs and difficulty in speech following recovery from the viral disease. Read more here. Aditya Narayan says he 'became super famous, girls were kissing' him after his TV stint but wasn't offered songsAditya Narayan has said that he has become 'super famous and girls were coming and kissing me'. He also said he hosted Sa Re Ga Ma Pa as it was a music show. Read more here. Music is an extremely personal and emotional experience for people: Dolby Lab’s Ashim MathurAshim Mathur, Senior Regional Director, Emerging Markets, Dolby Laboratories, chats with HT Tech about the Apple and Dolby collaboration that brought Dolby Atmos support to Apple Music and why it matters. Read more here. Why Barca say they have to let go of MessiThe La Liga club explains the financial compulsions that led to the two-decade long relationship with the Argentine great ending. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-chinese-govt-says-warming-up-faster-than-the-world-101628263336239.html
06-08-2021||India||Tamil Nadu to reopen schools for classes 9-12 from September 1||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday decided to reopen schools for classes 9 to 12 from September 1 onward. The state government highlighted that schools will initially reopen with 50% attendance and will strictly adhere to the measures necessitated to contain the spread of Covid-19.Tamil Nadu will also allow medical colleges to operate from August 16 even as it has extended the lockdown with certain restrictions in place by two more weeks.Neighbouring states Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka have also decided to reopen schools. Andhra Pradesh will reopen schools on August 16 and Karnataka will open schools for classes 9 to 12 August 23.Tamil Nadu on Thursday recorded 1,997 Covid-19 cases which pushed its Covid-19 tally to 2.56 million. At least 34,230 people have died in the state since the beginning of the pandemic. Coimbatore was among the districts with the highest number of new infections (220) followed by Chennai (196), Erode (161), Chengalpet (130), Thanjavur (119) and Thiruvallur (106). On Thursday, the state also recorded less recoveries compared to the number of new cases for the first time in several weeks. There are 20,138 active cases in the state as of Thursday.Tamil Nadu reported 10 cases of Delta Plus variant of Covid-19. Union minister of state for health Bharati Pravin Pawar informed the Lok Sabha that Tamil Nadu along with Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh are among states which have reported this variant.(with inputs from Divya Chandrababu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-9-12-from-september-1-101628262213335.html
06-08-2021||India||'Let's be careful for 6 more months': WHO chief scientist says variant worse than Delta possible||Chief scientist of the World Health Organization Dr Soumya Swaminathan on Friday warned that if the SARS-CoV-2 virus continues mutating, then a new variant that could be worse than Delta can emerge. Amid the speculations of a third wave of the pandemic which, according to many scientific projections, has already begun in the country, Dr Swaminathan dismissed fears that the third wave will be impacting the children most and said it is not yet time to let down the guard.Speaking to news agency ANI in Chennai, Dr Swaminathan said 65 per cent of children and adults have developed antibodies, according to the ICMR serosurvey. This data proves that children have also been mildly affected by Covid, though their infections might have been mild. So the assumption that children will get affected the most in the third wave as they have not been affected in the first two waves has no scientific backing as it is wrong to assume that children were not affected in the first two waves. "We should not be too worried about a third wave affecting children. There is no scientific evidence," Dr Swaminathan said.Also Read | 'If new variants are more infectious...': Virologist Gagandeep Kang on Covid 3rd wave threat"I know everybody is tired, everyone wants to meet their family, organise parties. But this is not the time to let down your guard. Let's be careful for another six months," the WHO chief scientist said.The six month period is not for the virus to disappear, but for vaccine coverage to increase, she explained.Covid 3rd wave and new variantIndia is standing between the peak of the second wave and a possible third wave, the peak of which may come in October. This is what maximum scientific studies have predicted. However, it has been said that the possibility of the third wave depends on several factors, including variant, Covid appropriate behaviour, vaccine coverage etc. Virologist Gagandeep Kang on Thursday said as long as the virus is getting a chance to replicate, the chances of emerging a more virulent strain than Delta remain there. Hence, transmission has to be stopped to stop the virus from replicating, Dr Kang said.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lets-be-careful-for-6-more-months-who-chief-scientist-says-variant-worse-than-delta-possible-101628259406984.html
06-08-2021||India||Covid-19 patient develops rare white fungus abscess in brain after recovery||A patient who recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Hyderabad reportedly developed a rare case of white fungus or Aspergillus forming an abscess in the brain.According to reports, the patient who recovered from the viral disease in May complained of weakness in limbs and difficulty in speech. When doctors conducted a scan of the patient’s brain, they found clot-like formations that did not reduce despite medication. It was only after surgery was conducted that the doctors detected that the white fungus had formed an abscess in the brain.Doctors say while inflammation of the brain by Aspergillus is common instances of white fungus forming an abscess, especially in Covid-19 patients, is extremely rare.A senior neurosurgeon of Hyderabad-based Sunshine Hospitals, Dr P Ranganadham, said while fungal infections have been found in Covid-19 patients who are diabetic, in this case, although the patient has a history of high blood pressure there was no presence of diabetes, according to a report published in TOI.“The paranasal sinuses are clear indicating that white fungus had not entered the brain through the nose unlike black fungus,” the specialist doctor said.Elaborating on the condition of the patient that led to the rare discovery, Dr Ranganadham, who performed the surgery on the patient, said, the patient complained of weakness in the limb and difficulty in speech on the sixth day following hospitalisation with symptoms of Covid-19 virus, at a time when the second wave of the pandemic was at its peak. A brain scan revealed a large lesion in the left part and two small lesions in other areas.The doctor said the patient was initially treated for haematoma, however, when another MRI of the brain was conducted it was found that the lesion had increased in size with dense and well-defined margins.The doctor elaborated that the smaller lesions remained unchanged in size. Following surgery, the doctors “found a well-encapsulated abscess containing soft necrotic material, separate from normal brain.”The medical team working in the case conducted a pathological analysis of the abscess and found it to be a case of white fungus infection, also known as Aspergillosis in medical terms.Dr Ranganadham said the Aspergillosis of the central nervous system was caused after the white blood cells of the brain were invaded by the white fungus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-white-fungus-brain-abscess-post-recovery-rare-symptom-101628257930209.html
06-08-2021||India||Uttarakhand villagers dedicate forest to local deity to protect trees, ecology||In another display of their love for forests and ecology, the residents of two villages in Uttarakhand’s Bageshwar district have decided to dedicate the forests of the area to their local deity for five years, in a bid to protect water resources and to check illegal felling of trees, villagers said.They added that their economic and social life was centered around forests and as such, they needed to protect them, by invoking the power of their Goddess. “Our forests need protection and if we don’t take care of them, our natural water resources will dry up resulting in water shortage and other problems. Forest degradation has been going on. So we took a unanimous decision to save our forests by dedicating them to our Goddess Kotgari Devi,” said Bhagirathi Mehta, village head of Devalchora village under Bageshwar block. These villagers of Devalchora village in Bageshwar district held a meeting last week and expressed concern on the deterioration of water resources and illegal felling of trees in the forests near them. They said if illegal felling was not checked it would lead to many problems like drinking water shortage and increase in landslides in their village and surrounding areas. The villagers then decided that no activity such as fodder and firewood collection would be carried out in the forest for the next five years. They decided to dedicate the forests to the local deity Kotgari Devi. Later a delegation of villagers went to Kotgari temple and hung a letter mentioning their decision at the temple premises. Due to this people visiting the temple are reminded every day to protect their forests, Mehta said. The villagers have also put up colourful religious flags at many points in the forest to remind others that the forest now belonging to the deity. In another similar initiative, villagers of Dobad of Bageshwar block dedicated Vinayak forest to the local deity and decided that no villager would graze cattle in the forest till the planted saplings were fully grown. “We have planted saplings in the forest and we will take care of them till they grow to a height that no animal can harm them. Conservation of forests is connected with our life and economy,” said Prema Arya, village head of Dobad village. Dinesh Pandey, a social activist in Champawat said, “It is our old tradition in the hills to show love and care for nature by dedicating forests to our local deities. This practice has been in the hills for centuries. Hill peoples’ livelihood and the economy is entirely based on forests, so conservation of the forest is important for their existence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-villagers-dedicate-forest-to-local-deity-to-protect-trees-ecology-101628257439554.html
06-08-2021||India||'Hope to launch Covavax for adults in October, in early 2022 for kids': Adar Poonwalla||Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Friday he is "hopeful" that American pharmaceutical firm Novavax's vaccine candidate against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Covavax, will be launched in India for both adults and children in October and early 2022, respectively."I'm hopeful that for adults, Covavax, will be launched in October, depending upon approvals from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). For kids, the Covavax vaccine will be launched in the first quarter of the next year, most likely in January-February," Poonawalla told news agency PTI, after meeting Union home minister Amit Shah in Parliament for 30 minutes.Also Read | Jolt to Serum Institute as govt panel says no to Covovax trial on childrenPoonawalla's remarks, however, are in contradiction to earlier reports that claimed Covavax will be introduced in the country in September. Earlier, in a statement, Novavax had said the jab is 100% effective against moderate and severe Covid-19, with an overall efficacy of 90.4%.Also Read | SII to introduce Novavax vaccine in India by September: ReportCurrently, every citizen aged 18 and above is eligible to be vaccinated against Covid-19. While a vaccine is yet to be approved for kids, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on July 27 that vaccination drive for children is likely to begin in August.Also Read | Covid-19: Vaccination for kids likely to begin next month, says health minister MandaviyaThe Serum India CEO further said Covavax will be a two-dose vaccine and its price will be decided at the time of its launch. He also thanked prime minister Narendra Modi for his support. "The government is helping us and we are facing no financial crunch. We are thankful to PM Modi for all the cooperation and support," Poonawalla, who also met Mandaviya, said.Met @AdarPoonawalla, CEO of @SerumInstIndia and had a productive discussion on the supply of Covishield vaccine.I appreciated their role in mitigating #COVID19 & assured continued Government support in ramping up vaccine production. pic.twitter.com/i3HQeeOALHSII, which is the world's largest manufacturer of vaccines, is prominently involved in India's fight against the coronavirus pandemic. It is already manufacturing the Oxford University-AstraZeneca shot as Covishield locally, and will also manufacture Russia's Sputnik V vaccine, according to an agreement with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-to-launch-covavax-for-adults-in-october-in-early-2022-for-kids-adar-poonwalla-101628253139693.html
06-08-2021||India||Indian, Chinese armies disengage from Gogra, 6 months after Pangong pullback||NEW DELHI: The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have pulled back their forward deployed troops from Gogra or Patrol Point-17A, one of the friction points on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), with the breakthrough coming after the 12th round of military talks held in the Ladakh sector last week, the Indian Army announced on Friday. The second round of disengagement, carried out on August 4-5, comes almost six months after the two armies pulled back their front-line troops and weaponry from the Pangong Tso sector in mid-February after the ninth round of talks. “As per the agreement (reached during the 12th round of talks on July 31), both sides have ceased forward deployments in this area (PP-17A) in a phased, coordinated and verified manner. The troops of both sides are now in their respective permanent bases,” the army said in a statement. Also Read | Stern message to China: Indian warships head to South China SeaAs part of the disengagement process, both armies have dismantled temporary structures erected by them along with allied infrastructure, with the actions being mutually verified. “The landform in the area has been restored by both sides to the pre-standoff period (April 2020),” it said. India and China have been locked in a border row for 15 months, a phase that witnessed a deadly skirmish in the Galwan Valley and saw tensions spiral between the rival armies on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso last year. The two armies kicked off talks to cool border tensions in June 2020. “This agreement ensures that the LAC in this area will be strictly observed and respected by both sides, and that there is no unilateral change in status quo. With this one more sensitive area of face-off has been resolved. Both sides have expressed commitment to take the talks forward and resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in the Western Sector,” the statement said.Former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd) said the current agreement removes a flashpoint from one of the areas and should be welcomed.“Hopefully, it could provide grounds for further disengagement in other areas. The real test will come when Depsang is discussed, and a breakthrough here could lead to a major de-escalation,” Hooda said.Top Indian and Chinese commanders had agreed to a speedy resolution of outstanding issues on the LAC at the 12th round of talks held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC, with the dialogue focusing on disengagement of rival troops from the remaining flashpoints on the contested border. “As an outcome of the meeting, both sides agreed on disengagement in the area of Gogra. The troops in this area have been in a face-off situation since May last year,” the army said. A joint statement issued after the 12th round described the talks as “a candid and in-depth exchange of views on resolution of remaining areas related to disengagement along the LAC in the Western Sector of India-China border areas.” The latest round of talks was held following the meeting of the Indian and Chinese foreign ministers on July 14, in Dushanbe, and the 22nd meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) on June 25. Problems at Hot Springs and Depsang are yet to be resolved. To be sure, the problems at Depsang predate the current border standoff. “The focus will now be on resolving outstanding issues at other friction points,” said a senior officer. Both armies have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre and the deployments haven’t thinned after the disengagement in the Pangong Tso sector. “The Indian Army, along with Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), is totally committed to ensure the sovereignty of the nation and maintain peace and tranquility along the LAC in the Western Sector,” the army statement added. The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has been affected in Hot Springs (PP-15). The PLA’s forward presence in Depsang has also hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to PP-10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-armies-disengage-from-gogra-6-months-after-pangong-pullback-101628252459289.html
06-08-2021||India||Gunfight in J&K’s Rajouri; 2 militants killed||Two militants were killed in a gunfight with security forces in Thannamandi area of Rajouri district on Friday morning.Additional director general of police Mukesh Singh said, “An encounter has started in Pangai village in Thanamandi area of Rajouri. Three to four militants are expected to be trapped.” Later, the army confirmed that two militants had died in the exchange of fire.Also Read | Arms, ammunition dropped by Pak drone recovered from Samba in J&KBased on accurate intelligence from J&K Police, a joint operation was launched on Thursday night in the forested area. Meanwhile, police on Friday morning recovered two wireless communication sets, batteries and some torches during an operation that was launched near a sheep farm in Balnoi area of Poonch district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gunfight-in-j-k-s-rajouri-2-militants-killed-101628252159280.html
06-08-2021||India||Opposition leaders join protesting farmers at Jantar Mantar||Opposition leaders on Friday joined farmers protesting at Jantar Mantar in Delhi to extend support to their demand for a repeal of the three controversial farm laws. They included Congress’s Rahul Gandhi and leaders from DMK, Trinamool, NCP, Shiv Sena, Rashtriya Janata Dal, and Samajwadi Party.Speaking on the occasion, Gandhi said, “All parties have gathered here today to extend their support to the farmers against the black laws imposed by the government. You all know what is happening in the Parliament. We want to talk about the Pegasus in Parliament but they (government) are not allowing the issue to be raised.”He highlighted the importance of discussion on Pegasus saying that “(PM) Narendra Modi has snooped into every Indian’s phone”.Also Watch | Rahul Gandhi joins farmers protesting in Delhi along with Opposition leadersOn why they not taking part in any discussion on farm laws despite the government agreeing to it, Gandhi said, “We are here to support farmers from all parts of India. Nothing can be worked out through a discussion. These laws need to be repealed.” The farmers, who have been protesting against the laws at Jantar Mantar, have been holding a Kisan Sansad, or farmers’ parliament, parallel to the ongoing monsoon session of the Parliament.Earlier, on July 26, to express his support for protesting farmers, Gandhi drove a tractor to Parliament. The vehicle, with a banner demanding that the three “anti-farmer black laws” be repealed, was stopped at the entry gate as it didn’t have a valid pass to be allowed in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-leaders-join-protesting-farmers-at-jantar-mantar-101628251679100.html
06-08-2021||India||'I was hoping...': Digvijaya leads Congress' charge over renaming of Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award||Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Friday took a dig at prime minister Narendra Modi over the rechristening of Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award, tweeting that he expected PM Modi to rename the award after himself, “just like he did with Sardar Patel Cricket Stadium in Ahmedabad.”“First, Ahmedabad’s Sardar Patel Cricket Stadium was renamed as Narendra Modi Stadium. I was hoping that he (PM Modi) will rename Rajiv Gandhi Khel Award after himself. I was shocked when he named it after Major Dhyan Chand,” a rough translation of Singh’s tweet, posted in Hindi, read.मुझे तो उम्मीद थी वे राजीव गांधी खेल अवॉर्ड का नाम भी बदल नरेंद्र मोदी खेल अवॉर्ड रखेंगे। इसी को अंग्रेज़ी में कहते हैं।  # MegalomaniaHowever, Singh was not the only Congress leader to make this analogy. Lok Sabha MP Gaurav Gogoi, too, demanded that the Narendra Modi Stadium be restored to its original name after Sardar Patel, the country’s first home minister. “Major Dhyan Chand has inspired many young Indians. Our current Olympic teams will continue to bring the necessary attention to Hockey. I hope the government will also award the Bharat Ratna to Major Dhyan Chand,” Gogoi posted on Twitter.Major Dhyanchand has inspired many young Indians. Our current Olympic teams will continue bringing the necessary attention to hockey. I hope the Government will also award the Bharat Ratna to Major Dhyanchand and rename Narendra Modi stadium to its original Sardar Patel Stadium.Earlier, PM Modi took to Twitter to announce that the country’s highest sports award is being renamed after legendary Hockey player Major Dhyan Chand. “I have been getting requests from many citizens across India to name the Khel Ratna Award after Major Dhyan Chand. Respecting their sentiment, the award will hereby be called the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award. It is fitting that our nation’s highest sporting honour will be named after him,” the prime minister had tweeted.I have been getting many requests from citizens across India to name the Khel Ratna Award after Major Dhyan Chand. I thank them for their views. Respecting their sentiment, the Khel Ratna Award will hereby be called the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award! Jai Hind! pic.twitter.com/zbStlMNHdqThe announcement was made just hours after the Indian Women’s Hockey team finished fourth in the ongoing Tokyo Olympics, going down 4-3 to 2016 gold medallists Great Britain in the bronze medal clash. If successful, this would have been the team’s first-ever Olympic medal. On Thursday, the men’s team had defeated Germany 5-4 to finish third, clinching its first Olympic medal in 41 years.The Khel Ratna Award was instituted in 1991-92, and named after former PM Rajiv Gandhi. The refurbished Narendra Modi Stadium, meanwhile, was inaugurated in February this year. With a seating capacity of more than 130,000, it is the world’s largest cricket stadium, surpassing Australia’s Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-was-shocked-digvijaya-leads-congress-charge-over-renaming-of-rajiv-gandhi-khel-ratna-award-101628250171650.html
06-08-2021||India||UP takes step to ‘disrupt’ Chinese monopoly in toys industry||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday said that Gautam Budh Nagar is poised to become a major toy manufacturing hub with potential to challenge China’s booming toy industry. The government’s confidence is buoyed as 134 big industrialists acquired land at Noida’s Toy Park to set up their factories at a reported cost of around ₹410.13 crore.The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) officials also said that these factories will provide permanent jobs to 6,157 people. The construction of these units will begin soon, according to a statement by the Uttar Pradesh government. Some of the Indian companies that have invested in the Toy Park are Fun Zoo Toys India, Fun Ride Toys LLP, Super Shoes, Ayush Toy Marketing, Sunlord Apparels, Bharat Plastics, Jai Shree Krishna, Ganpati Creations and RRS Traders.The YEIDA officials said that companies like Fun Zoo Toys India and Fun Ride Toys are major companies who have the potential to challenge the monopoly of Chinese toy makers. The UP government, however, acknowledges that a massive challenge is to organise the 90% of the 4,000 micro, small and medium enterprises in the toy manufacturing business which are currently a part of the unorganised sector.The investment by major toy companies also reflects Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s desire to increase the country's share in the global toy business. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath aimed to fulfil that objective by earmarking 100 acres of land in Sector 33 of Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority area to push the industry.India's toy industry will be worth ₹147-221 billion by the year 2024 and the nation’s demand for toys is rising by 10-15% compared to the 5% global annual growth rate in terms of demand. India, however, faces the issue of the unorganised sector which exports toys worth ₹18-20 billion and also finds it hard to compete with China due to the higher cost of its products compared to theirs.Noida’s Toy Park aims to address the issue by reducing the cost of manufacturing of Indian toys while guaranteeing its quality. The Uttar Pradesh government claims that the toys that will be manufactured here will be high-quality, more durable and cheaper than the Chinese toys.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-takes-step-to-disrupt-chinese-monopoly-in-toys-industry-101628250008592.html
06-08-2021||India||No complaints of violence against anganwadi workers during pandemic: WCD||The ministry of women and child development (WCD) on Friday said that no complaints of violence against anganwadi workers were received during Covid-19. Anganwadi workers were mobilized to carry out relief and awareness work during the pandemic. The government response was to a question asked by Congress MP Rahul Gandhi. WCD minister Smriti Irani said no state has reported any such incident to the ministry. “However, it is the duty of the state administrations to ensure safety and security of the anganwadi workers (AWWs) and anganwadi Helpers (AWHs),” she added.Also Watch | Rahul Gandhi joins farmers protesting in Delhi along with Opposition leadersThe minister said the government increased the honorarium provided to AWWs from ₹3,000 to ₹4,500 per month in October 2018.For AWHs, the renumeration rose from ₹1,500 to ₹2,250 per month. “(The government also) introduced performance-linked incentive to AWHs at ₹250 per month. Apart from the honorarium and other incentives paid by the Government of India, respective state/UTs are also giving monetary incentives to these workers. Various state governments are compensating these AWWs/ AWHs out of their own resources for Covid-related activities,” Irani said in her response. On whether many positions for child development project officers were lying vacant, the ministry stated that of the 7,000 sanctioned posts, 4,884 were filled. As for anganwadi supervisors, 51,312 posts have been sanctioned, of which 34,342 are filled. “From time to time, states/UTs are advised to fill the sanctioned positions of staff which are lying vacant for effective implementation of the scheme,” said the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-complaints-of-violence-against-anganwadi-workers-during-pandemic-wcd-101628250719027.html
06-08-2021||India||34.4% prisoners got 1st dose of Covid vaccine, 4.6% got both: Govt||The government on Friday said that states and union territories across the country have vaccinated at least 165,108 prisoners with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and over 22,345 with the second dose. The total number of inmates in prisons across the country, until February this year, was 478,600, according to a government answer in Rajya Sabha.So, at least 34.4% of prisoners have received the first dose of the vaccine, and just 4.6% have received both doses.In response to a question asked by Bharatiya Janata Party MP Aparajita Sarangi in Lok Sabha, the minister for health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya gave a state-wise list of all the prisoners vaccinated by the government. He said that the vaccination of prisoners is included and recorded under the vaccination of “Persons without Prescribed Identity Cards.”Also Read | India has administered at least 490 million Covid vaccine doses till nowThis, he said, includes “nomads, prison inmates, inmates in mental health institutions, citizens in old age homes, roadside beggars, people residing in rehabilitation centres/camps and any other identified eligible persons, aged 18 years or more, and not having any of the nine prescribed individual Photo ID Cards.”He reiterated that the Centre expected to vaccinate all eligible beneficiaries aged 18 years and above, including prisoners, by December 2021.In the state-wise list provided by Mandaviya, one of the states with the highest rate of vaccination of prisoners seems to be Mahararashtra, one of the states hardest hit by the pandemic. Of its 36,798 prisoners, Maharashtra has vaccinated 21,868 with the first dose and 1,183 with both doses--which means it has vaccinated 59.4% of inmates with the first dose and 3.2% with both doses.Uttar Pradesh, one of the most populated states, has vaccinated 24,230 of its 101,297 prisoners with the first dose and 2,789 people with both, which means it vaccinated 23.9% with the first dose of the vaccine and just 2.7% with both doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/344-prisoners-got-1st-dose-of-covid-vaccine-4-6-got-both-govt-101628249099018.html
06-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Assam, Meghalaya CMs discuss border dispute and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Assam, Meghalaya CMs meet to discuss border row, panels to submit reports soonCMs Himanta Biswa Sarma and Conrad Sangma held a joint press conference after the talks. Read moreHealth minister meets Biological E MD; briefed on progress of its Covid-19 vaccineMansukh Mandaviya tweeted that he assured Biological E of support from the Central government for its vaccine. Read moreTokyo Olympics: India’s foreign wrestling coach Murad expelled from Games for referee assaultThe Russian coach was punished for his behaviour following Deepak Punia’s defeat in his bronze medal playoff on Thursday. Read moreThe Suicide Squad movie review: James Gunn's DC film is a bonkers bloodbath of brillianceJames Gunn's DC film is both a creative departure from his Marvel movies, and also a return to his gonzo roots. Read moreWhatsApp introduces “View Once” feature to users: Here’s how to use itWhatsApp's parent company Facebook is going to introduce the feature of being able to send self-destructing photos and videos within the app. Read moreOla receives bookings from over 1000 cities for its electric scooterOla electric scooter is set to launch on August 15 and it is now available for bookings at ₹499. Read moreWomen's hockey team cries during PM Modi phone call after Olympics lossIndian Women's hockey team broke down during A telephonic conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-assam-meghalaya-cms-discuss-border-dispute-and-all-the-latest-news-101628247430882.html
06-08-2021||India||Protected forest areas, larger than 70% of Jim Corbett Park, diverted for mining||Around 38,846.7 ha of protected forest land has been diverted for mining projects between 2011 and 2021, according to the union environment ministry. That area is over 70% of Jim Corbett National Park in Uttarakhand.The highest diversion of protected forest took place in Odisha with 14,158.34 ha of forests handed over for mining, according to the reply of the ministry of environment, forest, and climate change (MoEFCC) to a question in Lok Sabha on Friday. Odisha is followed by Chhattisgarh where 7,086.85 ha was diverted; 6,135.48 ha was diverted in Madhya Pradesh and 3,699.90 ha diverted in Telangana.“As per the order of the Hon’ble Supreme Court dated August 4, 2006 in the Writ Petition (C) no. 202/1995 (TN Godavarman Thirumalpad vs Union Of India & Ors) the permission for mining cannot be granted inside any National Park and Wildlife Sanctuary. However, the mining activities can be permitted in Protected Forest (PF) areas by the concerned state government subject to prior approval of Central Government under the provisions of Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980,” ministry said in its reply.Also Read | This July was 6th warmest since 1901, says IMDIn reply to another question on illegal mining in forest areas, the ministry has shared data on such instances in Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Jharkhand. There have been 2,045 instances of illegal mining in protected forests of Rajasthan in 2020-21 which increased from 1,341 in 2016-17. In Maharashtra, there were 150 instances of illegal mining compared to 69 in 2017; in Jharkhand there were 546 instances of illegal mining.“Protection and management of forests is primarily the responsibility of concerned state/UT. Various actions to check illegal mining are taken as per the provisions under various Acts, such as Indian Forest Act, 1927; Wildlife Protection Act, 1972; and various rules made under these Acts and other State specific Acts and Rules. Further, to prevent and stop forest offences including illegal mining, various measures are taken by the state forest departments such as setting up of check posts, barriers, use of modern technology (that includes wireless networks, remote sensing, Geographical Information System, Information Technology, Global Positioning System and Differential Global Positioning System), improved mobility of field staff by providing vehicles for patrolling, survey and demarcation of forest areas and construction of boundary pillars,” MoEFCC said in its reply on Friday.Kanchi Kohli, a legal researcher with Centre for Policy Research said these diversions were not just about the number of hectares. "It is about the diversion of livelihood and habitation rights and obstruction for the movement of wildlife that creates new local and interstate conflicts. It is crucial that legal processes move away from treating forests and forest rights as mobile, tradable commodities that can be compensated for in cash or kind. Decisions related to forest diversion cannot be given effect without addressing questions of social legitimacy, ecological consequences and climate vulnerability," said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protected-forest-areas-larger-than-70-of-jim-corbett-park-diverted-for-mining-since-2011-101628248619091.html
06-08-2021||India||RT-PCR test for visiting shops is justified, says Kerala health minister||Kerala has become the first state in India to have mandated negative RT-PCR test for visiting all public places, including shops, for unvaccinated people, which has invited protests. Health minister Veena George on Friday defended the decision and said the government is responsible to provide adequate protection to the people and these decisions have been taken after detailed consultation with the experts. Speaking at the zero hour in the Assembly, the health minister said that these curbs were not meant forever and lifting all restrictions might cost the state dear.On Wednesday, the state government announced some relaxations of Covid-19 curbs doing away with Saturday lockdown. In its latest order, the government has allowed shops, markets, banks, offices, factories, tourist places to be open on all days from Monday to Saturday. But the rider that only vaccinated people or people with recent negative RT-PCR tests can enter these places has effectively changed nothing, many have alleged.There was confusion whether this provision is desirable or mandatory, but the state government has clarified that it is a mandatory provision.Congress leader K Babu said if the new order is implemented, then elderly people will have to go out as they are the ones fully vaccinated. Only 28 per cent of the youth have been vaccinated in the state, the Congress leader said.The health minister said the resistance to this new guideline is only to tarnish the image of the government as the situation needs close monitoring. Citing a recent Supreme Court order, Veena George said any relaxation to lockdown restrictions should be given after ensuring protection to people.The Covid-19 situation in Kerala has suddenly turned worrisome as the state is recording over 20,000 fresh infections for the past few days. With the lowest seropositivity rate in the country, Kerala has a considerable population yet to be exposed to SARS-CoV-2. The sudden rise in the number of infections in Kerala has sent an alarm to bordering Karnataka and Tamil Nadu as wellThe health minister has said high population density, coupled with lifestyle diseases and the increasing number of elderly people are major causes of worry with regard to the Covid spread in the state.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rtpcr-test-for-visiting-shops-is-justified-says-kerala-health-minister-101628247761713.html
06-08-2021||India||'No policy or intention': Gujarat CM says Congress was responsible for rise in unemployment and corruption in country||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Friday claimed that the Congress had no "policy or intention" due to which there was unemployment and corruption in the country before Narendra Modi became the prime minister in 2014 . Rupani, who was speaking in Surat on the occasion of "Rojgar Diwas," further claimed that more than 2 lakh people got government jobs in Gujarat in last five years alone.Also Read: Madhya Pradesh minister blames ex-PM Nehru’s speech for inflation, economic woes"The Congress did not have a policy or intention to eliminate unemployment and corruption in the country, and was therefore responsible for the rise in both. After he came to power, PM Modi took concrete steps to remove poverty and employment. He also introduced skill development initiatives so that people become job givers and not just job seekers," the Gujarat chief minister said, according to PTI. "Congress banned government recruitment in Gujarat while it was in power here. However, PM Modi, during his term as the chief minister, lifted the ban. Over the last five years, we gave government jobs to more than 2 lakh people, while more than 17 lakh people were recruited to the private sector in the same period," he claimed further.People used to ask former PM Jawaharlal Nehru to "stop giving slogans" if his government cannot provide jobs and employment, Rupani added.Gujarat, Rupani remarked, has emerged as a "ray of hope" during the time of the coronavirus pandemic. "As against our target of giving jobs to 50,000 youths, we are providing appointment letters to 62,000 youngsters from across the state today. This shows that Gujarat is a land of opportunities, and we invite people to come here to give wings to their dreams," the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said, adding that it is the Congress leaders who have become "jobless" today and not the youths, as people have forced the party to "shut its shop.""Rojgar Diwas" was organised as a part of nine-day-long celebrations to mark Rupani's five years in office. The BJP first formed government in the western state in 1995, and has been in power there since then. The home state of both PM Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, Gujarat is likely to vote for its next government in December 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/had-no-policy-or-intention-gujarat-cm-holds-congress-responsible-for-rise-in-unemployment-and-corruption-101628244406435.html
06-08-2021||India||India has administered at least 490 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 490 million Covid vaccine doses by Thursday, August 5, even as Delhi said it will have over 37,000 dedicated beds in hospitals, Covid care centres and facilities in the event of another wave of the pandemic.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Thursday, 494,558,204 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 5,029,573 doses were administered on the day. Of these, 3,713,231 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 1,316,342 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine as per the provisional report till 7pm.In the 18-45 age group, 2,726,494 were given the first dose while 481,823 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 169,268,754 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 10,772,537 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Also Read | Johnson & Johnson applies for approval of its single-dose Covid vaccine in IndiaMadhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 10 million vaccine doses in the 18-45 years age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.On Friday, As many as 44,643 fresh Covid cases were registered in India in the last 24 hours pushing the cumulative tally to 31,856,757. This is the third straight day when the country saw more than 40,000 new cases being registered, while there has been a rise in over 2,000 cases from Thursday’s figures when 42,982 were recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-490-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101628244718735.html
06-08-2021||India||Etihad to resume flights from 5 Indian cities from August 7||Etihad Airways will launch its flights from New Delhi, Chennai, Kochi, Bengaluru and Trivandrum from August 7 as the United Arab Emirates recently relaxed some travel restrictions from people travelling from India. This does not mean that Indians will now be allowed to travel to Dubai, as the UAE government has not completely lifted the travel restriction on India. UAE citizens and transit passengers from India are now allowed to travel to the UAE. Last month, the national airways suspended all flights in India and said that suspension can extend till mid-August. But as the UAE revised its restrictions for people travelling from India, Etihad has resumed booking.From August 10, the airline will add flights from three more Indian cities, and other cities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, the carrier said in a statement. Flights from Ahmedabad (transit), Hyderabad, Mumbai, Karachi, Lahore, Islamabad, Dhaka and Colombo will resume.UAE residents, students and professionals working for UAE government agencies are now allowed to travel to the country. Indian students who want to transit through UAE airports for some other destination are also allowed now if they have negative PCR tests. In the wake of the second wave of the pandemic, the UAE imposed a strict ban on Indian travellers. Even UAE residents who have valid residential proof were stuck in India as the authorities imposed a blanket ban on anyone travelling from India. India, however, was not the only country. The UAE had banned passengers from Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka etc.On August 5, the restrictions were relaxed and the UAE authorities decided to allow fully vaccinated UAE residents, travelling from India, healthcare workers, students, teachers, patients undergoing treatment in the UAE to travel from India. All passengers have to apply for permission to return through the Federal Authority for Identity and Citizenship website.Quarantine rules in Abu DhabiPassengers coming from countries other than UAE's green list will be required to wear a medically approved wristband and quarantine for seven days if they are fully vaccinated and for up to 12 days if not vaccinated.Both vaccinated and non-vaccinated tourists, not allowed from India as of now, have to undergo a 12-day quarantine in Abu Dhabi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/etihad-to-resume-flights-from-5-indian-cities-from-august-7-101628242337321.html
06-08-2021||India||Assam, Meghalaya CMs meet to discuss border row, panels to submit reports soon||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Meghalaya counterpart Conrad Sangma held a meeting in Guwahati on Friday to discuss issues regarding the inter-state border. The duo held a joint press conference after the talks wherein Sangma said it has been decided regional committees, headed by cabinet ministers, will be formed to resolve inter-state boundary disputes in phased manner. The committees will focus on points like historical facts, ethnicity, administrative convenience and submit their reports in 30 days.“Today in the meeting, we had a detailed presentation given by the Assam government on six out of the 12 areas of dispute. We have three regions where these six areas of differences fall. Three committees from Meghalaya and as many from Assam will focus on historical facts, ethnicity, administrative convenience, willingness, and contiguity and submit their reports within 30 days,” Sangma was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The six disputed sites taken up in the first phase are Tarabari, Gijang, Phalia, Baklapara, Pilingkata and Khanapara. These areas fall in Cachar, Kamrup Metro and Kamrup Rural districts in Assam and West Khasi Hills, Ri Bhoi and East Jaintia Hills in Meghalaya.Also read | Assam-Mizoram border dispute has origin in British era notificationsSarma said through this, the governments are not trying to redraw the boundary but change the perception about those areas or villages. “If redrawing of boundaries is necessary, we will recommend that to Parliament,” he further said.The new panels will have five members each, including a cabinet minister of each state, besides bureaucrats, Sarma said, adding that local representatives may be part of a committee. Members of both the panels will visit the sites, interact with civil society members and complete discussions within 30 days.Earlier, in a tweet, Sarma said the meeting is the biggest deliberation in this direction in recent times and he hoped it will come out with a common agenda of strengthening the long standing friendship between Assam and Meghalaya.Hopeful that after this meeting we will be able to come out with a common agenda of strengthening the long standing friendship between Assam & Meghalaya and continue contributing to the development of India.Many senior ministers of both sides, CS & senior officials joined. 2/2 pic.twitter.com/ZnxOvXpewoOn Thursday, Assam reached an agreement with Mizoram to withdraw forces from all disputed border areas and work towards lasting peace in the first meeting between the two states since an unprecedented gunbattle last week killed six policemen and injured 41 others.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-meghalaya-cms-meet-to-discuss-border-row-panels-to-submit-reports-soon-101628242366542.html
06-08-2021||India||Health minister meets Biological E MD; briefed on progress of its Covid-19 vaccine||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday held a meeting with officials from Biological E Limited, including its MD Mahima Datla. The Hyderabad-based firm is working on a made-in-India vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “Met Ms Mahima Datla, MD of Biological E Limited, who briefed me on the progress of their upcoming Covid-19 vaccine, Corbevax. I assured all the government support for the vaccine,” Mandaviya tweeted.Met Ms Mahima Datla, MD of @Biological_E, who briefed me on the progress of their upcoming #COVID19 vaccine, Corbevax.I assured all the Government support for the vaccine. pic.twitter.com/QzRohNalheThe pharmaceutical firm’s anti-Covid shot, Corbevax, is likely to be launched by September-end, and is currently undergoing phase 3 clinical trials. The vaccine is based on the RBD protein sub-unit platform, with Biological E expected to filed an application for emergency use authorisation (EUA) with the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) by the end of the current month.Also Read | Biological E likely to launch its Covid-19 vaccine by September-end: ReportBiological E will supply 300 million doses of Corbevax to the Central government by December, as announced by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) in June. Also, while the efficacy of the vaccine is not yet known, experts say it is likely to be as effective as the vaccine candidate of Novavax, as the two are based on a common platform. According to Novavax, its shot demonstrated 100% protection from moderate and severe Covid-19, and has an overall efficacy of 90.4%.Also Read | Biological E’s vaccine efficacy same as Novavax: Government panel chiefOf the four vaccines approved by the DCGI, only Bharat Biotech International Limited’s Covaxin is an indigenous jab. Another home-made vaccine candidate is ZyCoV-D, developed by Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila, for which the company submitted an EUA application on July 1. The other three vaccines approved by the drugs regulator are Covishield, Sputnik V and Moderna’s mRNA technology-based shot. On Friday, Johnson & Johnson, too, applied for emergency use approval of its single-dose coronavirus vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-meets-biological-e-md-briefed-on-progress-of-its-covid-19-vaccine-101628241967120.html
06-08-2021||India||Opp doesn’t want to hear health MoS because she’s an adiwasi: Health minister||Minister of health and family welfare Mansukh Mandavviya on Friday accused the Opposition of being casteist for not allowing MoS Dr Bharti Pawar to speak. Pawar was constantly interrupted by the Opposition’s protest in Lok Sabha.“Dr Bharti Pawar comes from a tribal community, she is a woman who has studied till MBBS. Today, for the first time, she is replying on behalf of the ministry but the Opposition does not want to listen to an ‘adivasi’ minister of state. They are insulting a tribal woman,” said Mandaviya in the Lok Sabha.After the health minister’s statement, Pawar replied to the question posed by BJP leaders Sunil Kumar Singh and Ranjeet Singh Hindurao Naik Nimbalkar on institutional deliveries.Also Read | Opposition leaders join farmers for ‘Kisan Sansad’ at Jantar MantarShe said the rate of maternal mortality rate has fallen from 122 per 100,00 live births in 2014-15 to 113 per 100,000 in 2019-20. She reiterated the government’s commitment towards ensuring safe childbirth and motherhood for every woman.Later, responding to Mandaviya’s charge, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, “This government stoops every day to distract, divide and divert the collective attention of the nation from the real issues to a polarising narrative. Modi will go down in the history of India as the most divisive leader.”Congress leader Akhilesh Pratap Singh said the health minister’s remark is an irresponsible one. “Everyone knows how BJP treats women, it is not hidden,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opp-doesn-t-want-to-hear-health-mos-because-she-s-an-adiwasi-health-minister-101628241538472.html
06-08-2021||India||Opposition leaders join farmers for 'Kisan Sansad' at Jantar Mantar||Opposition leaders from the Congress and other parties joined protesting farmers at Jantar Mantar in Delhi on Friday to express their support to their agitation and take part in the ongoing ‘Kisan Sansad’. This is the first organised visit of Opposition leaders to the farmers’ protest site.Around 200 farmers have been camping at the Jantar Mantar for the ‘Kisan Sansad’ (farmers’ parliament) since July 22 when the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament began. This is an extension of the months-long agitation that they have been holding along the borders of Delhi seeking a repeal of three Central farm laws.Also read | All-women brigade holds Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar today The farmers are protesting against the laws passed last year that allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of commodities for future sales, and set new rules for contract farming.#WATCH | Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other Opposition leaders reach Jantar Mantar, Delhi to extend support to farmers in their protest against farm laws by raising slogans with a placard 'Save Farmers, Save India' pic.twitter.com/VMyi4ShlYoAmong the parliamentarians who reached the Jantar Mantar are Congress’ Rahul Gandhi, Mallikarjun Kharge and Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut. The Trinamool Congress, Bahujan Samaj Party and Aam Aadmi Party, did not join the Opposition forces in their protest against the farm laws at Jantar Mantar. The leaders were seen raising slogans and holding placards ‘Save Farmers, Save India’.Gandhi said all opposition parties have gathered "here (Jantar Mantar) to extend their support the farmers against the 'Kala Kanoon' (black laws)" Also read | How innovative protests make their mark this Parliament sessionThe leaders came in a bus from Parliament where both Houses were adjourned following a din over the Opposition’s demand to raise issues like the farmers’ protest, Pegasus snooping controversy and so on."We want a discussion over Pegasus, but they (Centre) are not letting it happen. (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi has intercepted every Indian's phone," he further said at the venue.Earlier in the day, a meeting was held in the chamber of Kharge, the Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, wherein it was decided the Opposition leaders would join the protesting farmers.Last week, Gandhi had reached Parliament on a tractor, marking his protest against the three contentious farm laws during the monsoon session. The Wayanad MP was seen entering the Parliament area through Vijay Chowk, flanked by other Congress MPs from Punjab and Haryana like Deepender Hooda, Ravneet Singh Bittu and Pratap Singh Bajwa.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-leaders-join-farmers-for-kisan-sansad-at-jantar-mantar-101628237500078.html
06-08-2021||India||WHO S-E Asia region has administered at least half a billion Covid vaccine doses||At least half a billion doses of Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines have been administered in WHO South-East Asia Region, with a majority of doses administered in India alone, said World Health Organisation (WHO) on Friday, adding more vaccine doses were becoming available and countries were scaling up efforts to rapidly expand coverage amid recurrent surge in cases.“Countries across the region are making unprecedented efforts to reach more and more people with life-saving Covid-19 vaccines demonstrating their commitment to contain the pandemic at the earliest. We must continue these and also, stringently implement public health and social measures,” said Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director, WHO South-East Asia Region.As of August 6, 618.5 million doses have been administered. As many as 146 million people have received two vaccine doses and are fully vaccinated.Also Read | Johnson & Johnson applies for approval of its single-dose Covid vaccine in IndiaThe maximum– 489 million doses– have been administered in India that reached 8.6 million people on day one of its reinvigorated campaign in June.According to Singh, Covid-19 vaccines are an important tool in fight against the pandemic as they are effective, even against the variants of concern, in preventing severe disease, hospitalisation, and death.WHO data shows, Indonesia, which was the first in the region to launch Covid-19 vaccination drive, has administered 71 million doses, followed by 18 million doses in Thailand.Sri Lanka has administered 13 million doses and has been consistently reaching out to 500,000 people per day with Covid-19 vaccination, recently.Bangladesh is scaling up vaccination, and also preparing to vaccinate Rohingya refugees in Cox’s Bazar.Bhutan has achieved a coverage of 70 per 100 population with first dose and 62 per 100 population with two doses of Covid-19 vaccine, the highest in the region so far.Maldives has vaccinated half its population with two doses and nearly 60 per 100 coverage with one dose of Covid-19 vaccine.Nepal has vaccinated more than 70% of its health and frontline workers and elderly population with at least one dose of the vaccine.Thailand has vaccinated 84% of their health workforce.Timor-Leste has vaccinated almost a quarter of its 100 population with one dose.Commendable efforts are being made by countries. With more doses available in recent weeks through Covax, all possible efforts need to be made to expand Covid-19 vaccination coverage even further, the regional director said adding that nearly 90% of all vaccine doses available in the region have been utilised.“Countries in the region are administering Astra Zeneca, Covaxin, Janssen, Moderna, Sinopharm, Sinovac, Sputnik V and Pfizer following emergency use authorization being granted by their national regulatory authorities,” said the WHO statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-s-e-asia-region-has-administered-at-least-half-a-billion-covid-vaccine-doses-101628237098171.html
06-08-2021||India||Magnitude 3.2 earthquake rocks Morigaon in Assam||An earthquake measuring 3.2 on the Richter Scale struck Morigaon in Assam at 12:46pm on Friday, the National Center for Seismology (NCS) said. The agency, monitoring seismic activity, said that the epicentre of the earthquake lay at a depth of 10km from Morigaon."Earthquake of Magnitude: 3.2, occurred on 06-08-2021, 12:46:48 IST, Lat: 26.44 & Long: 92.42, Depth: 10 Km ,Region: Morigaon, Assam, India," tweeted the National Center for Seismology.Earthquake of Magnitude:3.2, Occurred on 06-08-2021, 12:46:48 IST, Lat: 26.44 & Long: 92.42, Depth: 10 Km ,Region: Morigaon, Assam, India for more information Download the BhooKamp App https://t.co/5x2eQXf6cq pic.twitter.com/lUeIWGmJZ7No reports of damages or casualties in the incident have yet been received. The exact extent of damages in the Assam earthquake is not clear, either.Assam has witnessed frequent earthquakes over the recent months. The most recent quake, measuring 5.2 on the Richter Scale, struck Goalpara last month. The epicenter of the quake was located 71km north of Tura in Meghalaya.The NCS categorises the area as seismically 'very active', associated with Hazard zone V with collisional tectonics where the Indian plate subducts beneath the Eurasian Plate.In a written reply to the Lok Sabha last month, Union minister of Earth Sciences Dr Jitendra Singh said that 59 per cent of the total land territory in India is prone to earthquakes of various intensities. However, only 11 per cent of the country has been categorised as zone V, technically the most seismically active regions.Around 18 per cent of India is categorised as zone IV, 30 per cent in zone III and the rest of the territory has been categorised under zone I, based on the seismic activity.As many as 965 earthquakes of magnitude 3 and above were recorded in 2020, the central government had said earlier this year. Several cities in Assam fall under the seismically active zone V, including Guwahati and Tezpur, according to the written reply posted by the Union minister at the Lok Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magnitude-3-2-earthquake-rocks-morigaon-in-assam-101628235660067.html
06-08-2021||India||Armed groups in N-E regrouping, says NGO; police reject claim||Armed insurgents group are regrouping in the northeast region, including the Garo Hills of Meghalaya, North East Dialogue Forum (NEDF), a northeast-based group dealing with conflict situations and human rights in the region has claimed. In a letter to Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma, the NEDF said regrouping of armed groups in Meghalaya, and the security situation in the north eastern states are matters of concern. The police, however, has debunked the claim and stated that few recent incidents were cases of some locals going astray and trying to make a quick buck. “We have credible information that armed groups in Garo Hills, Meghalaya, are regrouping and reorganising themselves and that members of such armed groups are moving in many parts of Garo Hills armed with sophisticated weapons,” Dr PBM Basaiawmoit, Consultant NEDF. Also Read | Hat trick for St. Anthony’s Shillong; Tops class 12 arts stream as wellHe pointed to the August 1 incident in which Meghalaya Police recovered a cache of explosive materials along the Umling-Patharkhmah Road in Ri Bhoi District bordering Assam as an indicator. The NEDF warned that with disputes prevailing in almost all bordering areas of Assam with its neighbours i.e; Meghalaya, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and the NSCN (I-M) expressing anguish that the 2015 framework agreement with the Centre not being implemented, violence may erupt in the region again. However, Meghalaya director general of police R Chandranathan denounced the NEDF claim and said it was just some people out to make quick money. Even as he confirmed the August 1 haul where police arrested one person and seized 23 gelatine stick class-2 explosives (2.875 kg), 24 non-electric detonators and 9m safety fuse from Umdu village in Ri-Bhoi district, the police chief said, “We are aware of what is going on and from time to time, we succeed, like in the Ri-Bhoi recovery which was part of an ongoing investigation in which two persons were arrested in Tura on July 23.” Interestingly, during investigation, the arrested persons revealed their plan to use the explosives as improvised explosive devices in Garo Hills. “We are ever prepared...with so much unemployment and this pandemic, misguided youngsters tend to go astray. They’re just petty criminals who have nothing to do but create mischief. Still, we are not taking anything for granted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-groups-in-n-e-regrouping-says-ngo-police-reject-claim-101628235237882.html
06-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: TMC to meet poll body today over Bengal by-elections and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.TMC to meet poll body today as Mamata awaits bypolls to continue as CMA team of Trinamool Congress functionaries will meet the chief electoral officer of West Bengal on Friday to request him to hold by-elections to seven assembly seats in the state. One of the seats awaiting bypolls is the Bhabanipur constituency from where chief minister Mamata Banerjee will contest to retain her chief minister’s post. She had lost the tightly fought Nandigram seat to her aide-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikary. Read More'IB, CBI not helping judiciary at all': SC issues notice in Dhanbad judge death caseThe Supreme Court on Friday issued a notice to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the suo motu case over the death of an additional district and sessions judge in Jharkhand's Dhanbad, who was fatally knocked down by a vehicle on July 28. Read MoreArms, ammunition recovered from Samba in J&K; Pak drone suspectedSecurity forces on Friday morning recovered a consignment of arms and ammunition, probably dropped by a Pakistani drone, from a seasonal rivulet in the border district of Samba in Jammu & Kashmir. Read MoreCanadian PM wants Covid-19 vaccination to be mandatory for all govt employeesAs the Canadian province of Quebec announced that it will introduce Covid-19 “vaccine passports”, the country’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau supported the move and said he’s exploring the idea of making it compulsory for all government employees to get a jab against the disease. Read MoreMedium and heavy passenger EVs increased to 1,356 units till date: Nitin GadkariThe number of medium and heavy passenger electric vehicles has increased from 124 in 2018 to 1,356 to date, said the union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari in Parliament. He also said that number of electric vehicles, registered for transport of cargo has increased from 6,246 in 2018 to 27,645 to date. Read MoreIndia vs England: 'Momentum will keep swinging' - Inzamam-ul-Haq speaks on Virat Kohli vs James Anderson battleEvery time India face England in a Test series, there is always a conversation about the battle between pacer James Anderson and India captain Virat Kohli. Anderson, despite being nearly 40 years old, is still one of the best proponents of swing bowling to this day. And Kohli is regarded as one of the best batsmen in the modern-day and age. Read MoreTara Sutaria and Aadar Jain celebrate his birthday in Alibaug, check out luxurious villa they rentedActors Tara Sutaria and Aadar Jain are in Alibaug for the weekend. The couple has rented a luxurious holiday villa with a few of their friends and have been sharing pictures from the getaway. On Thursday the travel party celebrated Aadar's 27th birthday at the Villa Magnolia in Alibaug. Read MoreOrca beached at a shore in Alaska gets help from good SamaritansIn an amazing rescue attempt, a beached orca was successfully saved by a group of good Samaritans and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) from a rocky shore in Alaska. The 13-year-old whale found itself beached after a high tide and was spotted by some people on a boat. Read MoreAlia Bhatt makes casual weekend look bold, fashionable in marigold organza capeWear it in pastels or maximalist prints, capes are an unquestionably chic alternative to the average wool coat and with their powerful, alluring, and a little mysterious style, they seemed to win over Bollywood diva Alia Bhatt too. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-tmc-to-meet-poll-body-today-over-bengal-by-elections-and-all-the-latest-news-101628233579364.html
06-08-2021||India||UNSC meeting: Focus on Taliban violence in Afghanistan||The massive spike in violence by the Afghan Taliban and the role of the group’s sponsors and supporters will be in focus when the UN Security Council meets under the Indian presidency on Friday to discuss the situation in Afghanistan. The closed meeting on Afghanistan is the first item on the agenda of the Security Council for Friday. The Afghan government expects the body to take up two pressing issues – stopping the Taliban’s campaign of violence and attacks and taking forward the stalled Afghan peace process. The meeting, to be held at 10am New York time (7.30pm IST), will consist of a briefing and consultations on the latest developments in Afghanistan. India, which holds the rotating presidency of the Security Council for August, has consistently called for an immediate cessation of violence and a comprehensive ceasefire while steps are taken to advance the intra-Afghan dialogue to find a political settlement. An announcement about the Security Council meeting was made two days after Afghan foreign minister Mohammad Haneef Atmar called his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on Tuesday and sought an emergency session of the UN body to discuss ways to halt the Taliban’s violence and atrocities across Afghanistan. Also Read | Taliban’s strategy switch is in response to US strikes: ReportThe meeting was arranged following consultations with the five permanent and nine other non-permanent members of the Security Council, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. Though some efforts were made to gauge the possibility of adopting a resolution on the situation and the Taliban violence, the people said this might not be among the outcomes of the meeting. Afghanistan’s partners will seek to pressure the Taliban and its supporters in Pakistan, but the feeling is that China, a permanent member of the Security Council, will step in to counter any move critical of Pakistan. According to an Indian assessment, supply lines for the Taliban from the Pakistani side continue to be open and the group continues to get logistics and other support from Pakistan’s military establishment. There have been several reports of large caches of ammunition and new weaponry being found at Taliban bases captured by Afghan forces. During a briefing for foreign envoys in Kabul on Tuesday, Atmar had referred to the continuing links between the Taliban and groups such as Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP). Atmar said Taliban attacks were being carried out in “direct collusion with more than 10,000 regional terrorists” from LeT, TTP, al-Qaeda, Ansarullah, Jundallah, East Turkestan Islamic Movement and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan. The Afghan side is hoping the UN Security Council meeting will focus on the Taliban’s violation of commitments under the 2020 agreement with the US through the group’s ongoing campaign of violence and attacks, and the support being provided to the group by the Pakistani side. “There is a need for pressure on the Taliban and their sponsors to reduce the violence. It is clear who is backing the violence and supporting the Taliban,” one of the people cited above said. The Security Council will meet days before two more crucial meetings on Afghanistan to be held in Qatar. Russia has convened a meeting of the “extended troika”, which includes China, the US and Pakistan, in Doha on August 11, while Qatar will host another meeting between the Afghan side and its regional and international partners this month. Afghan ambassador Farid Mamundzay, while welcoming the UN Security Council meeting, thanked India for playing a “lead role as UNSC President”. “Convening an emergency UN Security Council Session on Afghanistan is a positive development. UN & international community must play a greater role to stop the unfolding tragedy in [Afghanistan] due to violence & atrocities by terrorists,” Mamundzay tweeted. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said India will share its vision and perspectives on Afghanistan during the meeting. “We are closely monitoring the evolving security situation in Afghanistan and we continue to call for an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unscmeetingfocus-on-taliban-violence-inafghanistan-101628234818156.html
06-08-2021||India||Johnson & Johnson applies for approval of its single-dose Covid vaccine in India||Johnson & Johnson, the 134-year-old American pharma conglomerate, has now applied to the Central Drug Standard Control Organisation of India seeking emergency use approval of its single-shot vaccine. Earlier, the company had applied for a trial but as the Centre has now done away with the provision of trial for reputed and recognised vaccines, the Centre asked the vaccine maker to directly apply for approval. J&J then withdrew its earlier application and, in a statement issued on Friday, the company informed that on August 5, the company submitted its emergency use approval application."This is an important milestone that paves the way to bringing our single-dose COVID-19 vaccine to the people of India, and the rest of the world, through a collaboration with Biological E. Limited. Biological E will be an important part of our global supply chain network, helping to supply our Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine through the extensive collaborations and partnerships we have with governments, health authorities and organisations such as Gavi and the COVAX facility," the company said in a statement.If J&J's vaccine gets approval in India, it will be the second foreign-made vaccine to be approved in the country, after Moderna.J&J's vaccine developed by Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson comprises one shot and is found to have 85.4 per cent efficacy against severe disease and 93.1 per cent against hospitalisation.The US FDA authorised Johnson & Johnson’s single-dose Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use in February 202. Now, the single-shot vaccine is approved in several countries.What has apparently stalled Moderna to export vaccines to India is the issue of legal indemnity as both Moderna and Pfizer had sought this legal cover in India. According to the latest developments, Pfizer has not allowed for emergency use approval and Moderna has got the approval but is stuck with the indemnity issue. If J&J's application is cleared, it will be the first among these three major pharma companies in the US to send vaccines to India. Legal indemnity might not be an issue as Biological E is the local partner of J&J."The EUA submission is based on topline efficacy and safety data from the Phase 3 ENSEMBLE clinical trial, which demonstrated our single-shot vaccine was 85 per cent effective in preventing severe disease across all regions studied, and showed protection against COVID-19 related hospitalization and death, beginning 28 days after vaccination," J&J said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/johnson-johnson-applies-for-approval-of-its-single-dose-covid-vaccine-in-india-101628234289806.html
06-08-2021||India||Karnataka digs up roads on Kerala border to stop people from coming amid Covid 3rd wave fear||Even after imposing strict travel restrictions on people from Kerala, the inflow of people crossing the state border on foot or on two-wheelers remains unhindered as police officials find it humanly impossible to stop every people from coming and that's why earthmovers have been deployed at specific border areas to dig up the road so people from bordering villages, bikers can't cross over, reports said. The work has begun on Monday which also faced the resistance of the local people. As Karnataka police deployed an earthmover on the Kotekar-Mariashram church road bordering Kasaragod in Kerala. Kasaragod Congress leader said the area where the digging was going on is in Kerala and that's why they protested.The sudden rise of Covid-19 infections in Kerala has spread fresh apprehension in Karnataka as Karnataka too is witnessing a spike since the last week of July. The case positivity rate in the state is around 1.10 per cent far below the danger mark, but the state government has already extended some Covid-19 restrictions. The bordering districts of Dakshin Kannada are at greater risk, while Bengaluru authorities have also imposed night curfew and Section 144 till August 16.This is not the first time that Karnataka and Kerala are clashing over border restrictions. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said in the state Assembly that according to the orders issued by the Union home ministry, states should not close their borders. Kerala DGP Anil Kant contacted Karnataka DGP over border restrictions.There are 12 check posts in Karnataka-Kerala border where proper checking of entry with negative RT-PCR report can be done. People are coming to Karnataka frm Kerala through unmanned areas and that's why the number of Covid-19 infections in Dakshin Kannada is proportionately higher than Bengaluru, though the population is less, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-digs-up-roads-on-kerala-border-to-stop-people-from-coming-amid-covid-3rd-wave-fear-101628233096410.html
06-08-2021||India||Arms, ammunition dropped by Pak drone recovered from Samba in J&K||Security forces on Friday morning recovered a consignment of arms and ammunition, dropped by a Pakistani drone, from a seasonal rivulet in the border district of Samba in Jammu & Kashmir. Authorities said the place where the consignment was dropped is just 2km from the zero line on Indo-Pak international borderWestern Command, Indian Army, tweeted on Friday afternoon, “Own vigilant troops #RisingStarCorps spotted Drone activity near the IB in #Samba at early hours today. Search of the area resulted in recovery of arms and ammunition.@adgpi.”Samba district police chief, SSP Rajesh Sharma, said, “Army’s JAK LI along with police launched a search operation in Babbar Nullah in Rajpura area this morning from where two pistols, five magazines, 122 rounds of ammunition and a silencer were recovered.”Also Read | Jammu & Kashmir delimitation commission receives 290 suggestionsOfficial sources said the consignment was packed properly in polythene.Intelligence and security agencies are probing whether LeT could be using this modus operandi.On July 23, Jammu and Kashmir Police claimed they shot down a Pakistani drone carrying a five-kg Improvised Explosive Device (IED) in Kanachak area of Akhnoor sector in Jammu district.Drones have been repeatedly spotted in the region since June 27 when one was used to target the Indian Air Force base in Jammu with explosives. The explosives left two personnel injured.Own vigilant troops #RisingStarCorps spotted Drone activity near the IB in #Samba at early hours today. Search of the area resulted in recovery of arms and ammunition.@adgpi pic.twitter.com/XzlvR1djxq||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arms-ammunition-recovered-from-samba-in-j-k-pak-drone-suspected-101628232897780.html
06-08-2021||India||TMC to meet poll body today as Mamata awaits bypolls to continue as CM||A team of Trinamool Congress functionaries will meet the chief electoral officer of West Bengal on Friday to request him to hold by-elections to seven assembly seats in the state. One of the seats awaiting bypolls is the Bhabanipur constituency from where chief minister Mamata Banerjee will contest to retain her chief minister’s post. She had lost the tightly fought Nandigram seat to her aide-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikary.Senior party leader and education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Thursday the team will meet the CEO “tomorrow and urge him to expedite the process of holding by-polls to five assembly seats and fresh elections to two others".A traditional Trinamool seat ever since 2011 when Banerjee stormed to power overthrowing the 34-year-old Left Front government, the Bhabanipur seat was won by the chief minister’s aide Sovandeb Chattpadhyay in the last election held in May. He will vacate the seat for the by-election to make way for Banerjee as the latter has to get elected within six months (November) of taking over as the chief minister.The Trinamool leadership had earlier met the Election Commission in Delhi over the matter, but the poll panel is yet to make any commitment on the election, mainly citing the pandemic situation. The ruling camp has argued that if an eight-phase election could be held amid the peak of the second wave of the coronavirus disease, there was no reason to delay the bypolls at a time when there has been a significant fall in fresh cases in the state. Adhikari has been saying that if trains cannot run due to the pandemic, elections too should be postponed.The poll body is reportedly making arrangements to hold the byelections in the state, but no date has been finalised yet. Banerjee and her party have often accused the commission of being partial towards the saffron camp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/trending/tmc-team-to-meet-ec-today-as-mamata-awaits-by-election-to-hold-on-to-cm-s-chair-101628231481849.html
06-08-2021||India||'IB, CBI not helping judiciary at all': SC issues notice in Dhanbad judge death case||The Supreme Court on Friday issued a notice to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the suo motu case over the death of an additional district and sessions judge in Jharkhand's Dhanbad, who was fatally knocked down by a vehicle on July 28.During the hearing, the court also remarked: "There is a new trend to malign the judiciary when favourable orders aren't passed in favour of high-profile people. The IB (Intelligence Bureau) and CBI aren't helping the judiciary at all. When judges complain, they don't respond."Attorney General KK Venugopal has been asked to assist the top court on Monday when the matter will be heard next.Last month, the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) had demanded an independent CBI probe into the death of the additional district judge (ADJ), Dhanbad. “This is an attack on judicial independence. If a judiciary has to remain independent, judges have to be safe," SCBA president and senior advocate Vikas Singh had said. “This matter should be probed by CBI as local police can be complicit.”CJI Ramana, who specially took up the case, had assured the SCBA president that the matter will be taken up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ib-cbi-not-helping-judiciary-at-all-sc-issues-notice-to-cbi-in-dhanbad-judge-death-case-101628231753318.html
06-08-2021||India||MP govt to distribute free ration in bags with PM, CM photos tomorrow||Madhya Pradesh state government will spend about ₹16 crore in distributing ration bags with pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Anna Utsav scheduled for August 7. The state government will distribute 10kg ration: 5kg free under Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana and another 5 kg for Re 1 in a bag. These bags have cost the state government ₹13.90 each. The state has 48.1 million beneficiaries and ration bags will be distributed to 11.5 million families via 25,435 public distribution system (PDS) shops. The bags have pictures of the PM and CM on one side and a special message from the PM on another side, said an officer of MP civil supplies corporation on the condition of anonymity as he is not authorised to talk to media. Also Read | MP floods: 2 dead, PM Modi reviews situation with CM Chouhan“The scheme will go on till November as per the announcement made by the PM Narendra Modi and CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan but the bags will be distributed once only,” the officer said. However, the Opposition raised questions on spending extra money on getting specials bags made. “Free ration is being distributed since April last year so why has the BJP-led government decided to distribute ration bags now? This is nothing but a move to clean the image which was hit during the second wave of Covid-19. They are trying to make people feel as if they are doing some favour by providing free ration. They are misusing power for their branding,” said MP Congress committee spokesperson JP Dhanopia. However, food and civil supplies minister Bisahulal Singh said, “We are working according to the will of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to help the poor. We can’t see anyone starving so we are going to organise Anna Utsav.” He added that the objective behind distributing bags is to popularise the scheme. “PM Narendra Modi doesn’t need branding. He is already popular among common people,” he added. In 2018, the BJP-led state government then stoked a controversy by introducing tiles with pictures of the CM and PM to fit in the houses being constructed under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. After a furore, they withdrew the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-to-distribute-free-ration-in-bags-with-pm-cm-photos-tomorrow-101628231697773.html
06-08-2021||NA||Monsoon session LIVE updates: Both Houses of Parliament adjourned till Monday||The Parliament convened on August 6 (Friday) to pass key bills for this monsoon session. Both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have been facing clamour from the opposition regarding the 'Pegasus' project media report. Today, Members of the Parliament at the Rajya Sabha were seen streaming into the well of the House, raising slogans of "Disclose Pegasus". The Rajya Sabha was later adjourned till 12 noon amid continuous sloganeering from the opposition.Follow all the updates here:Opposition leaders gather at Parliament, head towards Jantar Mantar to join farmers' protest#WATCH | Opposition leaders raise slogans against 'farm laws' and 'Pegasus' on their way to Jantar Mantar, Delhi to join farmers protest pic.twitter.com/QsE7CD8OQiCongress leaders Mallikarjun Kharge, Ambika Soni, Gaurav Gogoi; Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut, RJD's Manoj Jha, DMK's T Siva, and others board a bus from near Rakabganj Gurudwara for Jantar Mantar to join farmers in their protest against the Centre's farm laws. Rahul Gandhi gathers at Gate No. 1, Parliament, for marching towards Jantar MantarLok Sabha adjourned till MondayMonsoon Session of Parliament | Lok Sabha adjourned till 11am on 9th AugustLok Sabha passes Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021Lok Sabha passes the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021Finance minister speaking in Lok Sabha on Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman starts speaking in Lok Sabha on the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021. "Keeping up the commitment of BJP that we don't believe in the retrospective application of tax, we are fulfilling that word by bringing this amendment," says FM SitharamanRajya Sabha adjourned till MondayMonsoon session of the Rajya Sabha adjourned till 11am on August 9Rahul Gandhi in Parliament, to strategise with opposition leadersRahul Gandhi arrived in the Parliament earlier in the day to strategise with opposition leaders over the remaining period of the Parliament monsoon session.Lok Sabha speaker urges opposition to not disrupt House proceedingsLok Sabha Speaker Om Birla urges Opposition MPs to not disrupt House proceedings, adjourns the House till 12 noonRajya Sabha adjourned till 12pmRajya Sabha adjourned till 12 noon due to continuous sloganeering by Opposition MPsRajya Sabha: Opposition MPs stream into well of House clamoring over Pegasus reportMonsoon Session | Opposition MPs in Rajya Sabha stream into the well of House over 'Pegasus Project' media report, raise slogans of 'Disclose Pegasus'||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-live-updates-friday-august-6-2021-101628229448339.html
06-08-2021||India||L-G launches J&K film policy in presence of Aamir Khan, Rajkumar Hirani||J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha on Thursday launched Jammu & Kashmir’s Film Policy-2021 in Srinagar in the presence of actor Amir Khan, filmmaker Rajkumar Hirani, and producer Mahaveer Jain.“I invite filmmakers from across the world to explore the beauty of J&K. At the same time, also avail a host of incentives, besides world-class facilities,” he said.Officials said the government has set up single window clearance mechanism; prepared equipment, location and talent directories, besides offering a host of incentives for filmmakers coming to the UT. The policy will facilitate an overall growth of film industry in the region; setting up of Jammu & Kashmir Film Development Council; a website for talent pool and shooting destinations; development of shooting locales, infrastructure for film screening; revival of closed cinema halls; upgrade of cinema halls; setting up of multiplexes and cinema halls; destination marketing; J&K film festival; and restoration and preservation of J&K films.Also Read | Mortal remains of BSF jawan killed in Tripura consigned to flames in Panipat“The new policy also aims at maximising the potential of promising local talent and creating livelihood opportunities. The policy has been drafted after consultation with experts and in-depth study of similar policies of other states/UTs. Suggestions of renowned personalities of the film industry have also been incorporated,” said the L-G.Sinha said to assist in film shooting, they have manpower of more than 1,500 trained artists which will also provide an opportunity to the local talent. “There are hundreds of unexplored places which we are developing with the requisite facilities and the best local artists,” he said.Film producer Mahaveer Jain announced his next film to be shot in J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lg-launches-j-k-film-policy-in-presence-of-aamir-khan-rajkumar-hirani-101628228037427.html
06-08-2021||India||'Spirit of New India': PM Modi cheers up women's hockey team after Olympics bronze miss||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday encouraged the Indian women's hockey team after the girls lost following a valiant fight in the bronze medal match against Great Britain at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.The Indian women's hockey team scored three quick goals to take lead in the match and put the Rio Olympics gold medalists on the backfoot. But Britain bounced back in the fourth quarter and won the match 4-3.WATCH: How the Odisha Model to Boost Hockey Powered India's Olympic DreamsPrime Minister Modi, taking to his official handle on Twitter, said: "We narrowly missed a medal in Women’s Hockey but this team reflects the spirit of New India- where we give our best and scale new frontiers. More importantly, their success at #Tokyo2020 will motivate young daughters of India to take up Hockey and excel in it. Proud of this team."We narrowly missed a medal in Women’s Hockey but this team reflects the spirit of New India- where we give our best and scale new frontiers. More importantly, their success at #Tokyo2020 will motivate young daughters of India to take up Hockey and excel in it. Proud of this team."We will always remember the great performance of our women’s hockey team at Tokyo 2020," the Prime Minister continued, "They gave their best throughout. Each and every member of the team is blessed with remarkable courage, skill, and resilience. India is proud of this outstanding team."Not just the Prime Minister, eminent personalities from all across India pitched in their words of encouragement for the Indian women's hockey team after the heartbreaking bronze snub."Heartbreak!!! But all reasons to hold our heads high," said Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan, who played the role of the women's hockey team coach in the film 'Chak De India!' 14 years ago. "Well played Indian women's hockey team," he said, "You all inspired everyone in India. That itself is victory."Notably, this is India's best-ever showing at the Olympics yet. Before this, India featured only twice in the women's hockey event at the multi-sports programme. While they had finished in the fourth position in 1980 as well, they had not qualified for the tournament and competed in a six-team round-robin format.The India women's hockey team qualified for the Olympics for the first time in 2016 when they finished 12th out of 20 teams. However, they managed to finish fourth this time, shattering all earlier records and showcasing their rise over the years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spirit-of-new-india-pm-modi-cheers-up-women-s-hockey-team-after-olympics-bronze-miss-101628223087663.html
06-08-2021||India||At least 820 million people in country can access Internet: Govt in Parliament||Addressing the query on the status of the Digital divide in the country, the government on Thursday said that 825 million people are able to access the internet in the country. It also added that to address the divide between the rural and urban India, the government has provided 157,383 gram panchayats with high-speed internet infrastructure.The electronics and the information technology ministry was responding to a question in Rajya Sabha by Trinamool MP Derek O’Brien on whether “the Government has estimated the latest level of internet penetration or any such proxy”.Also Read | Govt moves to disallow MPs question on Pegasus in ParliamentHe had also asked that “whether there exists a digital divide between rural and urban India at present” and if it does, “(what were) the steps being taken to address this gap?”In response, minister of state for electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar said, “As per Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) as on 31st March 2021, there are 82.53 crore (825.301 million) internet subscribers in the country.”The minister said that over 302 million people were able to access the internet in rural India while over 502 million people accessed the internet in urban India.He also added that with a “specific objective” to increase the internet access in rural India, the government has implemented BharatNet project in all the gram panchayats and villages of the country. As on July 1, a total of “157,383 gram panchayats have been made service-ready with high-speed internet/ broadband infrastructure”.He also added that until Wednesday 5,25,706 kilometers of the optical fiber has been laid down across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-820-million-people-in-country-can-access-internet-govt-in-parliament-101628224377404.html
06-08-2021||India||Passing out parade of IPS probationers today, 144 officer trainees to take part||The Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy (SVPNPA) in Hyderabad is set to hold the passing out parade of the 72nd batch of the Indian Police Academy (IPS) probationers on Friday. Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai will be the chief guest at the event, according to an official release.Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week virtually interacted with the IPS probationers, who are about to graduate from the academy. PM Modi called for the need to do away with the negative perception of police among people while highlighting their role including in the fight against terrorism and underlining the need for better conduct.As many as 144 trainee officers, including 33 women officers, of the police academy, will be participating in the passing out parade, SVPNPA director Atul Karwal told news agency PTI. Out of the 34 foreign probationer trainees this time, 10 are from Nepal Police, 12 from Royal Bhutan, seven from the Maldives Police Service and five are from the Mauritius Police Force, according to the director of the academy.This year both the top positions have gone to two women officers -- Ranjeeta Sharma and Shreya Gupta. Ranjeeta Sharma, of the Rajasthan IPS cadre, was dubbed the best all-around probationer and will be receiving the Prime Minister's baton and the home ministry's revolver.On the other hand, Shreya Gupta of the Tamil Nadu cadre was adjudged as the second-best all-around probationer, according to the SVPNPA director. She will be receiving the Bhubanananda Misha Memorial Trophy.The police academy parade this year will see the maximum number of officer trainees allowed to two states -- Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Both states have each been accorded four trainees each.Complimenting the officer trainees for successful completion of training, the SVPNPA director said the training involved 15 weeks of foundation course training and 30 weeks of Phase-I of Basic Course. This was followed by 28 weeks of District Practical Training at respective cadres/states and 29 weeks of Phase-II of Basic Course at SVPNPA, the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passing-out-parade-of-ips-probationers-today-144-officer-trainees-to-take-part-101628217594845.html
06-08-2021||India||India's fresh Covid tally at 44,643 with single-day rise of over 2,000 cases||As many as 44,643 fresh cases of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease were registered in India in the last 24 hours pushing the cumulative tally to 3,18,56,757. This is the third straight day when the country saw more than 40,000 new cases being registered, while there has been a rise in over 2,000 cases from Thursday's figures when 42,982 were recorded. According to the latest update from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, India’s active Covid-19 figures now stand at 4,14,159 constituting 1.29 per cent of the total infections. The daily positivity rate now stands at 2.72 per cent. This has remained below three per cent since the last 11 days.So far, India has seen 4,26,754 deaths from the viral disease, including 464 loss of lives recorded in the last 24 hours. The fatality rate has now touched 1.34 per cent. Also, 41,096 patients recovered from the virus during the same period, taking the total tally of discharges to 31,015,844, the updated bulletin read. With this recovery rate is now at 97.37 per cent.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said 47,65,33,650 samples have been tested for the virus since the pandemic hit the country. Of these, 16,40,287 tests were conducted on Thursday.Meanwhile, 57,97,808 vaccine doses were administered against the virus during the day. This pushed the total count of jabs to 49,53,27,595 as part of the nationwide vaccination drive launched earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-fresh-covid-tally-at-44-646-with-single-day-rise-of-over-2-000-cases-101628220613341.html
06-08-2021||India||Widespread rain likely over MP, Odisha, parts of NW India till August 9||Widespread rain is likely over Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand, Bihar and parts of northwest India till August 9, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). A low pressure area is lying over central parts of north Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood. It is likely to become less marked during the next 24 hours. However, the associated cyclonic circulation is likely to continue for subsequent 48 hours over the same region.The monsoon trough is passing through Bikaner, Jaipur, centre of low pressure area over central parts of north Madhya Pradesh, Varanasi, Patna, Bankura and thence southeastwards to northeast Bay of Bengal. It is likely to shift close to the foothills of the Himalayas by August 10.Also Read | Delhi weather: Cloudy sky with a chance of light rain todayUnder the influence of these weather systems, widespread rainfall is very likely over Madhya Pradesh during the next five days; widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls is very likely over Odisha and Jharkhand, Bihar till August 9; widespread and heavy rain is very likely over northeastern states till August 9 with enhanced rainfall activity from August 10. Isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Assam and Meghalaya during the next five days; over Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh till August 9. Widespread rainfall is also likely over Uttarakhand and West Uttar Pradesh during the next five days with isolated heavy rainfall over these areas during the same period. Isolated to scattered rainfall is very likely over Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Jammu & Kashmir till August 9 with isolated heavy rainfall also likely over East Rajasthan on August 6 and subdued rainfall likely to continue till August 10 except over northern parts of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand where rainfall is likely to sustain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-likely-over-mp-odisha-parts-of-nw-india-till-august-9-101628222096716.html
06-08-2021||India||Surging new cases, a blockade on NH; Mizoram going through worst Covid phase||Mizoram, with a population of just over 1 million, has been reeling under Covid-19 with 600 to 800 new cases every day. A blockade of NH-306 on the Assam side following border clashes between the states on July 26 has only made matters worse for the state. The state, which has been under lockdown since April 20 to check spread of the pandemic, has over 13,000 active cases at present. The blockade by Assam residents has prevented entry of essential items, including medicine and goods for oxygen plant of Zoram Medical College (ZMC) in Aizawl. Mizoram health and family welfare minister Dr R Lalthangliana recently tweeted, “Consignment of Covid-19 test kits and life-saving medicines destined for Mizoram are being blocked in Assam...I urge the Centre to intervene.” The tweet was retweeted by Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga as well. Also Read | More severe Covid variant may strike, says top US expertAccording to the department of health of Mizoram, the state recorded more than 18,000 fresh cases in July this year and the first week of August is showing a rising trend. On Thursday 1,088 new cases were recorded found which included 167 children. Mizoram has 13,065 active cases and 28,861 people have so far recovered from the infection. According to state immunisation officer Dr Lalzawmi, more than 633,000 people have been vaccinated. The state has one RT-PCR centre in ZMC which collects sample from other districts of the state. ZMC principal Dr John Zohmingthanga said, “We are running out of medicine and other essentials due to the economic blockade in Assam. We are upgrading our oxygen plant from 300 LPM capacity to 1,000 LPM because the number is increasing and more people require oxygen. But essentials are stuck on Assam side...We have developed the infrastructure in past one year but now, we don’t have empty bed for new cases.” This year, the hospital has 307 Covid beds, including 34 ICU beds, against 140 last year. In June this year, 48 people died and in July, 52 people died due to the virus. The infection is increasing, according to the officials of the health department. Meanwhile, the lockdown has hit the small business the hardest. A woman vegetable vendor said, “We are selling produce such as bamboo shoots which stays fresh for a week or more. We prefer selling these because due to the lockdown, we get lesser time to sell.”Additionally, the economic blockade has reduced the quantity of wares as well because common people are not travelling from Assam anymore. Ministers from both Assam and Mizoram attended a meeting in Aizawl on Thursday to solve the border dispute but could not reach a solution to the economic blockage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surging-new-cases-a-blockade-on-nh-mizoram-going-through-worst-covid-phase-101628221316719.html
06-08-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9am: Cloudy sky with a chance of light rain in Delhi today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi weather: Cloudy sky with a chance of light rain todayDelhi is likely to witness a cloudy sky with the possibility of light rain on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The weather office has predicted “light to very light” rainfall over the next few days with “break monsoon-like conditions” likely to set in from mid-next week. Read moreUS families sue Deutsche Bank, Standard Chartered, accuse them of aiding terrorism in AfghanistanFamilies of US soldiers and civilians, who were killed or severely wounded in Afghanistan, have sued some of the world’s largest banks, including the Deutsche Bank, Standard Chartered and Danske Bank, for helping terrorists carry out their attacks. Read moreSpiral movie review: Chris Rock's silly Saw reboot swears by stupidityGaudily directed, poorly performed, and egregiously ignorant of its weighty themes, Spiral: From the Book of Saw is a missed opportunity that not only scoffs at the older films in the franchise, but also bungles its attempts to win new fans. Read more'There were at least two or three misunderstandings': Laxman identifies 'pattern' in India batsman's untimely dismissalsIndia began Day 2 of the first Test against England really well, with their opening pair of Rohit Sharma and KL Rahul adding 97 runs for the first wicket. Read moreBritish DJ Rob da Bank’s name turns into meme, he reacts with this tweetThe name of a British DJ was recently turned into a meme after he appeared for an interview. Read moreAssam, Mizoram ministers meet after July 26 border clashes: What was discussedAssam & Mizoram governments held talks to resolve the border dispute. This was the first meeting between both states since July 26 border clashes. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-cloudy-sky-with-a-chance-of-light-rain-in-delhi-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101628217134059.html
06-08-2021||India||Maharashtra CM appeals for restraint as state records 6,695 new cases||Addressing the growing resentment among restaurant owners and shopkeepers in those districts where Maharashtra government has not relaxed the lockdown, Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has appealed for restraint. He also said the government is considering various options over resuming local train travel for the general public.This was against the backdrop of the state recording 6,695 new cases on Thursday, along with 120 deaths, taking the total number of cases to 6,336,220.Thackeray said all the decisions will be made with the intention to safeguard people’s lives due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. He stressed that the Covid-19 situation across the state has not fully improved as some districts are still showing large number of cases.Also Read | Sharad Pawar invites Amit Shah to visit sugar industry institute in PuneSpeaking at the inauguration of a municipal ward office in Bandra, Thackeray said, “The lockdown isn’t permanent. When will the local [trains] start? We are considering the options. Like we have given relaxation for shops and establishments, other districts will also get them. But we will keep our responsibilities [towards people] in mind and then provide the relaxations.” Thackeray said he could address the state through social media on these issues soon.Meanwhile, there were 217,905 tests done on Thursday, while the number of recoveries clocked 7,120.The total number of active cases in Maharashtra stands at 74,995, while the total number of deaths since the outbreak last year has reached 133,530.Of the active cases, Pune tops with 14,974, followed by Sangli with 7,863, and Satara with 7,516.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cm-appeals-for-restraint-as-state-records-6-695-new-cases-101628217776701.html
06-08-2021||India||IMD's yellow alert for today, forecast of heavy rain on weekend. Details here||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued several rainfall alerts for a number of states across the country, predicting heavy to very heavy downpour till August 9. West Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand, Bihar, and certain states of northeastern India feature in the list of states which may see heavy rain in the upcoming days, according to IMD, while widespread showers are also expected in parts of Madhya Pradesh during the same period.IMD has issued a yellow alert for the Gangetic West Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha, Nagaland, Meghalaya, and Tripura, predicting heavy rains accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning in these parts for Friday, August 6. Owing to the current trends in monsoon, the same alert has also been issued for Madhya Pradesh and western Uttar Pradesh. Parts of coastal Karnataka and Kerala are also expected to witness a heavy downpour today.West Bengal has been witnessing incessant rains since early Thursday morning, as major sections of the city remained waterlogged, adding to the troubles of commuters braving the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related inconveniences for work. Odisha and Jharkhand are set to witness a similar downpour on Friday, according to the met department, while Bihar will see heavy rains over the weekend.As far as the northeastern states are concerned, the met department has predicted fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls till August 9 (next Monday) with "enhanced rainfall activity" from the following day. Assam and Meghalaya are expected to witness isolated rainfall activity over the next four days, while the same is likely to occur over Nagaland, Tripura, Mizoram, and Manipur on Friday stretching over to the weekend.Meanwhile, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, and Jammu & Kashmir are likely to see isolated scattered rainfall activity till August 9, with a chance of heavy falls over eastern Rajasthan on Friday. Moreover, rainfall is likely to sustain with subdued activity over most parts of northern Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand till August 10, the met department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weather-update-on-friday-august-6-imd-yellow-alert-today-heavy-rain-forecast-details-101628212869735.html
06-08-2021||India||Govt moves to disallow MP's question on Pegasus in Parliament||The Centre sought to disallow in the Rajya Sabha, a question seeking details on whether the government entered into a contract with Israeli cybersecurity firm NSO Group, at the centre of a global controversy over the misuse of its Pegasus spyware to hack phones of journalists, activists and politicians, stating that “the ongoing issue of Pegasus” is subjudice after “several PILs have been filed in the Supreme Court,” according to officials aware of the development and documents reviewed by HT.The Centre wrote to the Rajya Sabha secretariat earlier this week seeking that a “Provisionally Admitted Question”(PAQ) asked by CPI MP Binoy Viswam scheduled to be answered on August 12 in the upper house, not be allowed.“I have been informed informally that my question was disallowed but I am yet to get a formal response... the Government is misusing Rajya Sabha rules and taking an alien stand on truth. They must face questions on the issue of the Pegasus,” said Viswam.In his “Provisionally Admitted Question”(PAQ), reviewed by HT, with the subject ‘Government of India MoU with Foreign Companies,’ Viswam asked: “Will the Minister of External Affairs be pleased to state (a) the number of MoUs Government has entered into with foreign companies, the details sector-wise; (b) whether any of these MoU’s with foreign companies has been in order to curb terror activities through cyber security, the details of the same; and (c) whether Government has entered into a MoU with NSO Group in order to curb terror activities through cyber security across the nation, if so, provide details thereof?”In the letter sent to the Rajya Sabha secretariat requesting that the question not be allowed, the Centre said: “It would be noted that Part (a) to (c) of PAQ seeks to know about the ongoing issue of Pegasus owned by NSO Group. On this issue, several PILs have been filed in the Supreme Court, making this issue subjudice.”It added: “According to Rule 47 (xix) of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Council of States (Rajya Sabha), dealing with admissibility of questions, an admitted question “shall not ask for information on matter which is under adjudication by a court of law having jurisdiction in any part of India”.According to the Rajya Sabha website, the admissibility of notice given by Members in respect of questions in Rajya Sabha is governed by Rules 47-50 of Rules and Procedure and Conduct of Council of States (Rajya Sabha). As per Rule 47 sub section ( xix) the following are the conditions of admissibility of a question: “It shall not ask for information on a matter which is under adjudication by a court of law having jurisdiction in any part of India.”“It is mentioned in rule 47, sub rule 2 that matters that are subjudice are not admitted in the house,” said RS secretariat media advisor to the chairman AA Rao.The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international investigative consortium reported that the phones of Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 numbers from around the world that were potentially targeted by the Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. NSO says its software is sold only to government customers. The Indian government has neither confirmed nor denied that it used Pegasus and has ruled out any illegal surveillance.PDT Acharya, a former Lok Sabha general secretary said: “There have been occasions when the speaker decided that if the matter is of great public interest, even if it is subjudice, the House can discuss it... there is no external pressure on the house. The house has imposed the restriction on itself and this position has changed over a period of time... ‘subjudice’ as such has lost much of its rigour. The house has been as such liberal and they look at the importance and public interest.” “You cannot mechanically apply the rule to all subjudice matter. If public interest demands there should be discussion in the house.”“Questions submitted by MPs go through two levels of scrutiny to check that they comply with the rules of Parliament. First, the parliament secretariat makes sure that the questions that MPs are raising conform with the parliamentary guidelines. The ministry answering the question also checks the adherence to rules for the questions...,” said Chakshu Roy, head of Outreach, PRS Legislative Research. “In the budget session, out of the 330,00 questions that MPs submitted, approximately 2,000, that is about 6%, were disallowed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-moves-to-disallow-mp-s-parliament-question-on-engaging-nso-101628209883453.html
06-08-2021||India||Power cuts in Bengaluru: These parts will see disruption from today||Power supply will be affected in some parts of Bengaluru between 10am and 5pm on Friday due to the scheduled maintenance work at Bannerghatta Road, the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited (BESCOM) has said. The areas where power supply will be affected are Gollahalli, Jalli Machine, Kalkere, Laxmipura, Sakalavara, Hullahalli, Chinnappana Palya, CK Palya, PSPB School, Tulip Gate and Hullukasavanahalli village.Power supply will also be affected between 9am and 5pm on August 7 and 8 due to work in Dommasandra, said the electricity supply board.The areas which will experience power disruption are Dommasandra, Katriguppe, TC Halli, Neriga, Janthagondanahalli, Nekkundi, Halasahalli, Ramanayakanahalli, Kommasandra, Thippasandra, Gonigattapura, Chikkanahalli, Dasarahalli, Kuguru, Madanahalli, Kammanahalli, Chambenahalli, Kallahalli, Ittanguru, Sompura, Chambenahalli Main Road to Sarjapur Main Road, Chowdadenahalli Circle to Sompura, Trinity, Kristal Confident, Kuthaganahalli, Doddathimmasandra, Kugur, Madappanahalli, Banahalli, Adithya Homes and surrounding places.The city faced a power cut from July 26 to July 31 between 10am and 5pm due to the installation of the new MEI switchgear of Bank-1 and Bank-2 at 66/11kv Austin Town Sub-Station.The areas that were affected were Victoria Layout, Palm Grove Road, Agaram, Viveknagar, Sonnenahalli, Vannarpet. Austin Town, Anjaneya Temple Street, KSRP Quatrus, Lindon street, Palm Grove Road, Xavior Layout, YG Palyam, Air Force Hospital, Domlur, Lifestyle, Campbell Road Junction, Richmond Road, Rudrappa Garden, Austin town, Neelasandra, Bazar Street, RK Garden, Rose Garden and ORC road,an official release from the electricity board said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-cuts-in-bengaluru-these-parts-will-see-disruption-from-today-101628206681496.html
06-08-2021||NA||Breaking news: 50% Americans fully vaccinated against Covid-19, announces White House||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Himachal Pradesh makes negative RT-PCR report mandatoryHimachal Pradesh government has made mandatory negative RT-PCR report or full vaccination for visiting temples in state during 'Shrawan Ashtmi Navratras' from August 9-17: Official order50% Americans fully vaccinated against Covid-19: White House50% American citizens fully vaccinated against Covid-19, announces White House.Maharashtra logs 5539 new Covid-19 cases and 187 deathsMaharashtra records 5539 new Covid-19 cases, 5859 recoveries and 187 deaths. Cumulative infection tally rises to 6,341,759 including 6,130,137 recoveries and 133,717 deaths.Goa makes Covid-19 certificate mandatory for visitorsThe positivity rate of new Covid-19 cases in Goa stands at 1.8 to 2%. A negative RT-PCR report or a vaccination certificate (both doses) is mandatory to visit Goa. We'll put down new SOPs in view of the upcoming festivals: Pramod Sawant, CMSchools in rural Maharashtra to open on August 17, announces ministerWe will reopen schools for students from class 5 to 8 in rural areas from August 17. In cities, we'll reopen class 8 to 12 while following Covid-19 protocol: Varsha Gaikwad, Maharashtra education ministerJD(U) workers gather in Patna to welcome new national president Lalan SinghBihar: A huge crowd of JD(U) workers and leaders gather at the party office in Patna to welcome Lalan Singh, who was recently elected as the party's national president. pic.twitter.com/YCAwqDFUW1Huge crowd of JD(U) workers and leaders gather at the party office in Patna to welcome Lalan Singh, recently elected as the party's national president.Election Commission registers Rashtravadi Vikas Party as political partyElection Commission of India registers Rashtravadi Vikas Party as a political party under section 29A of Representation of the People Act, 1951, with effect from August 4th, 2021.Tamil Nadu extends lockdown by two weeksTamil Nadu government extends lockdown by two more weeks with existing restrictions. School classes from 9 to 12th will re-open from September 1st with 50 percent occupancy following SOPs. All religious places will be closed for public on Friday, Saturday and Sunday.Kerala reports over 19,000 new Covid-19 casesKerala reports 19,948 new Covid-19 cases, 19,480 recoveries and 187 deaths. Active cases rise to 178,204 while test positivity rate at 13.13%.Kerala govt dismisses govt employee from serviceKerala Govt dismisses from service a govt employee, Kiran Kumar, after his wife allegedly died by suicide upon being tortured by him for dowry. Kumar was working as Assistant Motor Vehicle Inspector in Motor vehicle department. He was found guilty in a departmental inquiry and is presently in jail.Rahul Gandhi to visit J&K on August 9 and 10: ReportsCongress leader Rahul Gandhi will visit Jammu and Kashmir on 9th and 10th August. He will be in Srinagar on 10th August where he will inaugurate the party headquarters of J&K unit of Congress party: ReportsIndia-China disengage in Gogra, says ArmyDisengagement in Gogra in eastern Ladakh complete after 12th round of talks with China, announces Army.Karnataka CM announces night curfew in state"Night curfew and weekend curfew will continue in districts bordering Kerala and Maharashtra. Night curfew will be imposed across the state from 9pm to 5am. We have given directions to the police to strictly monitor it," announces Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai.Afghan govt's media head assassinated, say policeHead of Afghan government media department assassinated, reports AFP quoting police.Delhi reports 44 new Covid-19 cases and 5 deaths44 new Covid-19 cases, 41 recoveries and five deaths in Delhi. Cumulative infection count reaches 1,436,623 including 1,411,042 recoveries, 25,065 deaths and 516 active cases.EAM meets new Iran presidentLooking forward to working with his team.A warm meeting with President Ebrahim Raisi after his assumption of office. Conveyed the personal greetings of PM @narendramodi. His commitment to strengthening our bilateral relationship was manifest. So too was the convergence in our regional interests.Assam-Meghalaya hold talks on boundary disputeAssam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma hosts Meghalaya counterpart Conrad Sangma in Guwahati for second chief ministerial-level talks on inter-state boundary dispute.Delhi Police strengthen security in Red Fort area ahead of I-DayAhead of Independence Day 15th August, Delhi Police strengthen security near Red Fort-Chandni Chowk area, put blocks of large containers to barricade the area pic.twitter.com/fWSBnIGkLNAhead of Independence Day on 15th August, Delhi Police strengthen security near Red Fort-Chandni Chowk area, put blocks of large containers to barricade the area.BSF thwarts smuggling bid along India-Bangladesh border, seizes 25 kg cannabisThe Border Security Force (BSF) on Friday foiled an attempt of drug smuggling and seized 25 kg cannabis, which was being smuggled from India to Bangladesh.2 terrorists killed in J-K's RajouriTwo terrorists neutralised in a joint operation by security forces and police in a forest area of Thanamandi, Rajouri; operation underway:16 Corps, Indian Army.Let us be careful for another 6 months or so: Dr. Soumya Swaminathan, WHO chief scientistPeople should maintain all Covid protocols for some more time. This isn't the time to let down your guard. Let us be careful for another 6 months or so. By then, if vaccination coverage is very high then things should start improving: Dr. Soumya Swaminathan, WHO chief scientist.Rockets fired towards Israel from southern LebanonRockets fired towards Israel from southern Lebanon, reports Reuters citing security officials.China pledges 2 billion vaccines globally through year's endChinese President Xi Jinping pledged 2 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines would be supplied to the world through this year, increasing China's commitment as the largest exporter of the shots.Opposition leaders join farmers' protest at Jantar Mantar in DelhiCongress leader Rahul Gandhi and other Opposition leaders reach Jantar Mantar, Delhi to extend support to farmers in their protest against farm laws by raising slogans with a placard 'Save Farmers, Save India'.TN CM hails Indian women's hockey team's performanceTamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Friday lauded the Indian women's hockey team for their "undaunting efforts till the end" in the Tokyo Olympics and said their performance is no less than those that resulted in a medal.J&J applies for emergency use authorisation of its single-dose Covid vaccine in IndiaJohnson & Johnson applies for emergency use authorisation of its single-dose Covid vaccine in India.Khel Ratna Award will hereby be called Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award: PM ModiI have been getting many requests from citizens across India to name the Khel Ratna Award after Major Dhyan Chand. I thank them for their views.Respecting their sentiment, the Khel Ratna Award will hereby be called the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award!SC refers to incidents of judges being threatenedSupreme Court refers to incidents of judges being threatened, asks states to file status report on security they are providing to judicial officers.China seeks to control Covid-19 flare-upChina recorded another 80 locally transmitted cases of Covid-19 on Friday, as the country seeks to control its widest flare-up since the original outbreak with a combination of lockdowns, mass testing and travel restrictions.Six, including pilot, killed in crash of Alaska sightseeing planeSix people were killed on Thursday when a sightseeing plane crashed in a mountainous area of southeast Alaska, officials said, leaving no survivors.SC rules in favour of Amazon in Future-Reliance dealSupreme Court holds Singapore's Emergency Arbitrator’s order enforceable, rules in favour of Amazon in Future-Reliance deal.China coronavirus cases jump to 101, most in six monthsChina reported 101 Covid-19 infections on Friday, including 21 people who are asymptomatic, the biggest daily increase in more than six months as the delta variant spreads across the country.More needs to be done to restore supply-demand balance in economy: RBIMore needs to be done to restore supply-demand balance in economy; inflationary pressure transitory: RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das.RBI's monetary policy committee keeps repo rate unchanged at 4%RBI keeps interest rates unchanged at 4 pc; to continue with accommodative stance as long as necessary: Governor Shaktikanta Das.2 Pakistani soldiers killed, 4 injured in terror attacks in Kyber, South WaziristanTwo Pakistani soldiers were killed and four other suffered injuries in gun and bomb attacks in Khyber and South Waziristan tribal districts on Thursday.Sensex advances 54.98 points to 54,547.82 in opening sessionSensex advances 54.98 points to 54,547.82 in opening session, Nifty inches 17.50 pts higher at 16,312.10.India logs 44,643 new Covid-19 cases; 464 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia on Friday recorded 44,643 new Covid-19 cases; 464 deaths in last 24 hours.We will always remember the great performance of our Women’s Hockey Team at Tokyo 2020: PM ModiProud of this team. We'll always remember the great performance of our Women’s Hockey Team at Tokyo 2020. We narrowly missed a medal in Women’s Hockey but this team reflects spirit of New India. Their success at Tokyo 2020 will motivate more daughters to take up Hockey: PM Modi.Indian women's hockey team finishes 4th at Olympic GamesIndian women's hockey team finishes 4th at Olympic Games, loses 3-4 to Great Britain in bronze medal play-off.Cloudy sky with a chance of light rain in Delhi todayDelhi is likely to witness a cloudy sky with the possibility of light rain on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The weather office has predicted “light to very light” rainfall over the next few days with “break monsoon-like conditions” likely to set in from mid-next week.IMD's yellow alert for today, forecast of heavy rain on weekendThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued several rainfall alerts for a number of states across the country, predicting heavy to very heavy downpour till August 9.Property Cell of Mumbai Police Crime Branch summons actress Sherlyn ChopraProperty Cell of Mumbai Police Crime Branch has summoned actress Sherlyn Chopra asking her to appear before it for questioning today in connection with the porn film production case in which businessman Raj Kundra was arrested: Mumbai Police.China dismisses Republican report on origin of Covid-19China dismissed Republican lawmakers report which accused Beijing of one the 'greatest cover-ups in human history' over the origins of Covid-19, reported Daily Mail.Delhi HC to hear former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain's bail plea in riots caseThe Delhi high court will on Friday hear former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain's fresh bail plea in northeast Delhi riots of 2020.RBI to announce its bi-monthly monetary policy review todayThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will announce its bi-monthly monetary policy decision on Friday.CNN fires three employees for coming to work unvaccinatedCNN has fired three employees who violated company policy by coming to work unvaccinated against the Covid-19 virus.Delhi Metro's Pink Line segment to be opened todayThe Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will inaugurate the missing link of the Pink Line, connecting Mayur Vihar Pocket-1 and Trilokpuri on Friday.Power cuts in parts of Bengaluru on August 6, 7, 8There will be disruption in power supply in some parts of Bengaluru between 10am and 5pm on Friday due to scheduled maintenance work at Bannerghatta Road, according to the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited (BESCOM).13 Taliban terrorists killed, 8 injured in Afghan air force airstrikesAt least 13 Taliban terrorists were killed and 8 injured in airstrikes conducted by the Afghan Air Force (AAF) in Taleqan city of the country's Takhar provincial center on Thursday, informed the Afghanistan Ministry of Defense.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-6-2021-101628206249563.html
06-08-2021||India||Is Covid-19 holding back the economy or demand?||GDP data for the quarter ending June 2021 will be released on August 31. But most high frequency indicators suggest that the Indian economy managed a V-shaped recovery after the disruption of the second wave. The question at hand is not whether the economy has come back to the level where it was before the second wave of Covid-19. It is when the economy will regain pre-pandemic levels.There are two things which stand in the way of a holistic economic recovery: pandemic related restrictions preventing mobility, and therefore restoration of economic activities; and lack of aggregate demand due to incomes lost during the pandemic. To be sure, it need not be an either-or choice between these two sources of economic headwinds, as the two can coexist. Here are four points which can put this question in context.1. Has economic recovery slowed down of late?The answer depends on which indicator one is looking at. The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI), which surged from 62.9 in the week ended May 30 to 86.3 in the week ended June 27, seems to have lost momentum mid-July onwards.NIBRI reached 96.4 in the week ended July 18 but has fallen marginally for two consecutive weeks and it was at 95 in the week ended August 1.Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) for manufacturing clocked an impressive 55.3 last month. July 2021 was the first time when PMI manufacturing recorded an increase in employment since the pandemic began. But PMI for services was at 45.4, making July the third straight month of contraction in services activity. A PMI value less than 50 entails a contraction in economic activity compared to the previous month.Services have a bigger share in Gross Value Added (GVA) than manufacturing. The share of services in GVA was 55.6% and that of manufacturing was 17.1% in 2019-20, the year before the pandemic struck. This means that a revival in services activity is crucial to boosting GDP growth.The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of RBI has projected a growth rate of 18.5% and 7.9% in the quarters ending June 30 and September 30. There was a contraction of 24.4% and 7.4% in the June and September quarters in the last fiscal year.2. Is a rise in Covid-19 cases slowing down recovery?Not necessarily. It is true that seven-day average of Covid-19 cases has reversed its falling trajectory in India in the last two weeks. But this does not mean that the entire country is witnessing a resurgence in Covid-19 cases.This is best seen by looking at India’s Covid-19 trajectory after excluding Kerala’s caseload.Once this is done, the pandemic situation in the rest of the country looks healthier. The seven-day average of daily new cases in India was 40,595 on August 4. This comes down to 19,986 if Kerala is excluded. More importantly, the number of cases excluding Kerala is still falling, not rising.3. Is a slow pace of vaccination preventing restoration of mobility?This is highly unlikely. By large most restrictions on mobility which were imposed during the second wave of infections have been removed. So there are no policy impediments to recovery.It could also be argued that there is a voluntary inhibition in getting out, and people are waiting for vaccination to reach a critical level. This also seems unlikely. A comparison of mobility levels and vaccination progress by states shows very little correlation.Some states are wild outliers – Bihar has the lowest share of population to have been vaccinated, but its mobility levels are the highest. The situation is the opposite in Kerala.4. This makes the question of demand an important oneWhat if people do not have the means to spend like they used to before the pandemic? Evidence of the economic recovery being profit rather than wage-led, a squeeze on labour earnings, and movement of workers from high productivity to low productivity sectors, makes this eminently possible.If true, this can create a vicious circle in the economy, where low demand destroys jobs and incomes, which then further depresses demand.Whether or not this is happening right now will only be known when the GDP numbers for the September quarter are released in November . However, findings of the latest round of RBI’s Consumer Confidence Survey (CCS), which will be released on August 6 will offer an insight into the state of consumer demand.Two data points will be of special interest in the CCS results: current perception on income levels and non-essential spending. The latter is important given the argument that rise in prices of essential commodities such as edible oil and petrol-diesel have put a squeeze on household budgets.RBI’s monetary policy committee (MPC), would have had a look at the results of CCS and other forward-looking surveys before everyone else, and it remains to be seen whether it keeps the June projection of 9.5% GDP growth unchanged or not in its Friday announcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-covid-19-holding-back-the-economy-or-demand-101628197117942.html
06-08-2021||India||Twitter not engaged in anti-national work: Govt||Twitter has not engaged in any anti-national activity and no FIR has been filed against the social media company as the “public order” and the “police” are state subjects, the central government said on Thursday.The Centre was responding to a question posed by Congress Rajya Sabha MP Dr Amee Yajnik on “whether organizations like Twitter had acted against the rules in recent times” and, if they had, what action did the government take against them.She also asked whether Twitter was engaged in any “anti-national work” or has any FIR been lodged against the microblogging site by the government.In his reply, Minister of State for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar invoked the newly introduced Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, which took effect from May 26, 2021.“Complaints reported against Twitter are dealt with by the respective Law Enforcement Authorities of States/Union Territories. MeitY (Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology) is not involved in the filing of any FIR against Twitter.”On a question about Twitter’s engagement into any “anti-national work,” the minister said: “No such action of Twitter is brought to the notice of MeitY.”The central government’s statement comes as Twitter has been in the eye of controversy over the past few months. On May 21, it labelled a tweet by Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Sambit Patra “manipulated media” prompting a Delhi Police investigation. The special cell of Delhi Police questioned Manish Maheshwari, managing director of Twitter in India, in late May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-not-engaged-in-anti-national-work-govt-101628193669054.html
06-08-2021||India||Confusion reigns in Kerala over revised Covid norms||Thiruvananthapuram: A day after the Kerala government announced its revised Covid-19 regulations making vaccination and RT-PCR negative test reports mandatory for shoppers and employees to access shops and markets, confusion prevailed across the state on Thursday, when it reported another high caseload. On Thursday, 163,376 samples were tested for Covid-19, of which 20,040 turned out to be positive with a test positivity rate of 13.49%. The active cases rose to 177,924. Kerala also reported 117 new deaths, taking the toll to 17,328, according to the state health department bulletin. In the last 24 hours, the overall Covid-19 cases reported in the country stood at 42,982, which effectively means the state’s share was more than 50%, health ministry statistics show. Besides, the state also accounted for slightly over the fifth of 533 deaths reported across the country on Thursday. As cases continue to surge, the state government announced a fresh set of pandemic control guidelines on Wednesday, much to the dislike of the trader community, which said the new norms will invite more troubles rather than solving their woes. Confusion reigned supreme at many places on Thursday and agitated traders asked the government to provide enough vaccine before enforcing such rules. “In the guise of minimising our trouble, the government perked up our difficulties,” said MK Chandran, a trader in Chala market in Thiruvananthapuram. According to the new guidelines, only persons who have taken at least one dose of vaccine before two weeks, or who are in possession of RT-PCR negative certificate taken 72 hours before or who are in possession of Covid-19 positive results more than a month old, will be allowed inside shops, banks and other establishments. This is applicable to both workers as well as visitors. Many banks reported thin attendance on Thursday. The Congress-led Opposition staged a walkout from the legislative assembly on Thursday, saying health minister Veena George’s announcement in the assembly and the chief secretary’s order on new regulations were contradictory. Leader of opposition VD Satheesan said the minister’s announcement in the assembly on Wednesday neither mentioned about mandatory vaccine nor RT-test certificate. “The government’s move to make these certificates mandatory to enter shops will add to the woes of the trading community and it will give more space to law-enforcement agencies to trouble them,” he said. Questioning the merit of the new guidelines seeking vaccination certificates, Satheesan pointed out that only 42.12% of the state’s population has received vaccine. He said the police were on a “fine spree” and new regulations will lead to a “fine raj”. However, the minister insisted that everyone will have to follow new restrictions in the light of rising cases in the state. Rejecting the charges of the opposition, George said, “We need strict measures. What the government has announced was accepted norms in virus-hit areas. There is no difference between what I read in the House and later came as an order.” Later, opposition members stormed out of the assembly saying her explanations were not satisfactory. After many flaws were detected in home isolation, the government has also decided to strengthen grassroots Asha and health workers to enforce quarantine strictly. The central team that visited the state also expressed reservations over the lax home quarantine. The latest genome study conducted by the Institute of Genomic and Integrative Biology (IGIB) Delhi has shown highly infectious Delta variant playing havoc in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/confusion-reigns-in-kerala-over-revised-covid-norms-101628193415127.html
06-08-2021||India||No condition to make me minister in Bommai cabinet: BY Vijayendra||Bengaluru Karnataka BJP vice president and son of former chief minister BS Yediyurappa, BY Vijayendra on Thursday said that his father had not tried to place any conditions to make him a minister in the new cabinet.“One thing is clear that even suggesting that BS Yediyurappa made a condition to make me a minister while giving his resignation is a black mark on his career,” Vijayendra said on Thursday.He said that it would “wrong” on Vijayendra’s part to even be an aspirant for a post in the cabinet as he was not an MLA or an MLC.The statements come a day after chief minister Basavaraj Bommai got 29 members inducted into his cabinet with no deputy chief ministers.People aware of the developments said that Yediyurappa is keen to placate his sons before he does eventually retire from politics after nearly five decades. One son, BY Raghavendra, is the member of Parliament from Shivamogga and Vijayendra is the state vice president.Vijayendra was also accused of running a parallel administration under the aegis of his chief minister father, which had been one of the major causes for discord and dissent within senior members of the party.Bommai on Wednesday had said that BJP national president JP Nadda had spoken to Yediyurappa and party general secretary incharge of Karnataka, Arun Singh, had spoken to Vijayendra on the latter’s possible entry into the government.There is also speculation that Vijayendra is likely to be fielded from the vacant Hangal assembly bypoll seat that fell vacant after the death of senior leader CM Udasi.Vijayendra, people aware of the developments said, is interested in the Old-Mysuru region where the BJP has limited representation and have to make inroads if the party has any hopes of returning to power on its own in 2023.Vijayendra has been closely linked to Varuna constituency, the former seat of Siddarmaiah that is currently represented by his son Dr Yathindra.One senior BJP leader, on the condition of anonymity, said that Vijayendra has been given enough preference and any further consideration of post has to be based on what he brings to the table and not only because he is the son of Yediyurappa.Vijayendra, one his part is now attempting to replicate his father by undertaking a state-wide tour ahead of the 2023 elections. Yediyurappa is also hopeful that Vijayendra is the seen as not just his political heir but also accepted as the leader of the dominant Lingayat community, believed to be the single largest caste group in the state.The BJP is trying to inorganically grow in the old-Mysuru region and have managed to rope in N Mahesh, the former minister and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) partyman. Mahesh is the sitting legislator from Kollegal in Chamarajanagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-condition-to-make-me-minister-in-bommai-cabinet-by-vijayendra-101628193354927.html
06-08-2021||India||Karnataka top cop bars officers from attending events hosted by criminals||Bengaluru: Following reports of the links between police and criminals, the Karnataka police chief has issued strict instructions forbidding police personnel to part take in events organised by those with criminal backgrounds. The order issued by the DG and IGP Praveen Sood on August 1, also instructed police officers not to organise celebrations like birthdays, wedding anniversaries and parties in police stations. According to senior officers, the circular was issued after the department received several complaints against police personnel inviting individuals with a criminal background for birthdays, wedding anniversaries, welcome and send-off events in police stations. Photos of such celebrations have also made their way on to social media, causing embarrassment to the department. DG and IGP Sood. in his order, also directed police officers and staff to verify the antecedents of persons or institutions before participating in the events hosted by them. If police personnel want to organise celebrations they should get permission from the higher authorities and it should be exclusively for the department officers or staff, he ordered. As per the guidelines, the police have been asked to revoke any friendly equation with people with a criminal background. “The police stations or other police offices are deemed public places. Hence, it is advised not to conduct any programmes like birthdays, weddings and anniversaries. On receiving any invitation for a public event, the police should do a background check about the organiser. The police can attend programmes related to awareness, curb crime or anything related to traffic. It is also advised for the police to stay away from any welcome or send off parties held during promotions or transfers,” the circular stated. It further added that no outsider should be entertained inside police stations and money should not be collected from the public for celebrations. “Police personnel must not forcefully collect money from the general public or from the staff for functions without the knowledge of senior officers,” the circular added. In Bengaluru city, the department had ordered the transfer of police officers who were found to have links with criminals. In an interview with the HT on July 14, Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant had said, “For the first time, we have ordered a general transfer of all ranks from sub-inspectors and below. You will not find any policemen who has served for five years or more in any police station anymore. A massive exercise is underway with more than 3,000 officers getting transferred.” He added that those officers found to have links with criminals have been reprimanded. “In the case of policemen having links with criminals, we have given them marching orders. In Vivek Nagar police station we have already removed four police officers following reports of their links with criminals. Similarly, in Cottonpet police station, four have been giving marching orders and five others will be removed during this general transfer,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-top-cop-bars-officers-from-attending-events-hosted-by-criminals-101628193234265.html
06-08-2021||India||ED raids properties of K’taka Congress MLA and former legislator in IMA case||Bengaluru: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday conducted searches at properties associated with Congress MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan and former MLA Roshan Baig in connection with the I-Monetary Advisor (IMA) Ponzi scam case. The IMA scam pertains to ₹4,000 crore collected by IMA Group from over 100,000 gullible investors in the name of providing attractive returns on investment. The raids are underway in multiple locations in Bengaluru since Thursday morning. According to officials in the know of the developments, the searches are being conducted by officers from New Delhi. So far, searches are underway at the two residences of Baig in Shivajinagar, and at the Chamarajpet residence of Khan, apart from the offices of National Travels, a firm he owns. The Congress accused the ruling BJP of using the central agencies to target leaders of Opposition parties. Several of Khan’s supporters and Congress workers wearing black bands gathered near Khan’s residence where searches are on and shouted slogans accusing the ruling BJP of targeting party leaders and questioned as to why the central agencies were not probing saffron party leaders allegedly involved in corruption. “The ED raid on former minister Zameer Ahmed Khan is politically motivated and an attempt by BJP to intimidate leaders from Opposition parties. I strongly condemn this undemocratic act of BJP to use institutions like ED, IT, etc,” senior Congress leader and Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly Siddaramaiah said. Condemning the searches, state Congress chief D K Shivakumar said it is an attempt to harass Khan, who has the capacity to face it legally, as he accused the central agency of discrimination by targeting only Opposition leaders. “About one-and-a-half to two years ago, the ED had issued him (Khan) notice and questioned him and he had told me that he had answered all the queries. When such is the situation, it is my feeling that raids were not required. Probably this is to harass him, but I’m confident that he will come out clean within the framework of law,” he said. Questioning as to why central agencies were not probing allegations against BJP leaders, Shivakumar claimed things are being done to their (BJP leaders) own benefit. “Is everyone in the BJP clean? Are their businesses and transaction pure...there is a lot of discrimination (by central agencies),” he alleged. Responding to the allegation, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said that allegations are the usual slogan of Congress party leaders to cover their misdeeds. “I’m neither an ED nor IT officer to answer all this. Congress people have become experts on ED and IT, they have experience. Who are they (the Congress) ask why someone was raided? Whatever raids have taken place today (Thursday) will be scrutinised in the court. They conduct raids only based on relevant information,” he said. On April 27, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had filed a supplementary charge sheet against former Karnataka minister Baig in connection with the IMA Ponzi scam case. Baig was the minister for urban development in the Congress-led state government between 2014 and 2018. The CBI named the then MD of IMA Group, Mohammed Mansoor Khan, the company, Baig’s company Daanish Publications, and others in the charge sheet. “It was alleged that the accused former minister received several crores of rupees from IMA funds for election expenditure. It was further alleged that the accused was also utilising the said funds for day-to-day expenditure, including salaries of employees of his firm. It was also alleged that the accused has spent the funds for various social and cultural activities in his constituency to increase his popularity,” read a statement from CBI. While Zameer Ahmed Khan was questioned by ED and other agencies regarding his property transaction with IMA founder Mohammed Mansoor Khan, he has not been charged by any agency till date. IMA was an investment banking company run by Mohammed Mansoor Khan, who claimed it was a Sharia-compliant operation run on Islamic principles, which took huge deposits primarily from members of the Muslim community. When IMA stopped paying dividends in March 2019, investors lodged complaints with the police, and in June 2019, the Karnataka government set up an SIT to investigate the more than 51,500 complaints that had been filed by investors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-raids-properties-of-k-taka-congress-mla-and-former-legislator-in-ima-case-101628193175209.html
06-08-2021||India||Uphill task for Bommai as challenges pile up beyond politics||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister Basvaraj Bommai has barely a year to go before the state goes into poll mode for 2023 elections, leaving him a very small window to deal with dissent, show progress and circumvent all challenges that have piled up over the last two years during the tenure of former chief minister BS Yediyurappa. In reality, there has been over three years of non-performance as politics trumped development or governance even in the HD Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S)-Congress coalition government. Bommai, analysts said, has a huge task on his hands if he wants to be seen as a long-term bet for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and not just an interim choice. The chief minister is betting big on the Mekedatu balancing reservoir-cum-drinking water project that shows resilience and commitment not to back down against the threats of Tamil Nadu over Cauvery river water, which strokes emotions on both sides of the border. “Tamil Nadu has always made a political capital of inter-state water dispute,” Bommai said on Thursday. The Tamil Nadu unit of the BJP have begun protests against the proposed Mekedatu project. Bommai said that he will appraise the union leadership on the issue and will follow through to get the detailed project report approved. The chief minister, who has served as water resources minister for five years since 2008, has been keen to get Karnataka’s long-pending irrigation projects back on track. In his very first visit to Delhi after taking office, he pursued the Centre to make all major irrigation projects including Mekedatu, Kalasa Banduri, Yethinahole, Upper Krishna and Upper Bhadra projects to be taken up as national projects. He also takes over as Chief Minister just at a time when Covid-19 is again rearing its ugly head in the state with neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra witnessing a surge in Covid-19 infections. Yediyurappa had to deal with floods the very month he took over as chief minister but was lucky did not to face the Covid-19 pandemic problem then. However, Yediyurappa presided over affairs during two waves of the pandemic. Bommai has the additional burden of the floods, pandemic, setting right the economy and containing dissent within the party after Wednesday’s cabinet formation. A significant number of core-BJP legislators have been left out of a Cabinet which appears to be composed again only of those wanted by Yediyurappa, Hindustan Times reported on Wednesday. Supporters of Shrimant Patil, who was among the 17 who defected to the BJP in 2019, held protests in Kagwad on Thursday. Several other seniors have been left out of the Cabinet and with just four vacancies remaining out of the total 34 portfolios, it remains to be seen how Bommai and the high command placate dissidents to ensure the saffron outfit comes back to power in 2023 on its own. There is also a challenge to repair the image of brand Bengaluru, which has taken a beating as a Covid-19 hotspot and a city with one of the poorest infrastructure in the country, despite being one of the most industrious. Almost every single road in Bengaluru is in tatters and the rains are making it harder for people to resume normalcy after being locked in their homes for months due to the pandemic. Analysts said that perhaps the biggest challenge for Bommai is to try and step out of Yediyurappa’s shadow and not be seen as a puppet or “rubber stamp”. There is also the sword of corruption hanging on several BJP legislators including Yediyurappa, his son BY Vijayendra and other family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uphill-task-for-bommai-as-challenges-pile-up-beyond-politics-101628193114905.html
06-08-2021||India||India protests, summons Pakistan diplomat over temple attack||India on Thursday summoned the Pakistani charge d’affaires to protest a mob attack on a Hindu temple in Pakistan’s Punjab province and to call for steps to ensure the safety of minorities.On Wednesday, hundreds of people vandalised the temple at Bhong village in Rahim Yar Khan district and blocked a nearby highway after a nine-year-old Hindu boy, who had been accused of urinating in an Islamic seminary, was granted bail by a local court.Images and video footage of the desecration of the temple were widely shared on social media platforms by people in both countries. Pakistan’s Supreme Court Chief Justice Gulzar Ahmed took cognisance of the incident on Thursday after parliamentarian Ramesh Kumar Vankwani, the patron-in-chief of the Pakistan Hindu Council, met him to discuss the temple attack.Pakistan’s Supreme Court is set to take up the temple attack on August 6, and the chief justice directed the chief secretary and police chief of Punjab province to appear for the hearing along with a report on the incident.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing that Pakistani charge d’affaires Aftab Hasan Khan was “summoned and a firm protest was lodged, expressing our grave concerns at this reprehensible incident and the continued attacks on the freedom of religion of the minority community and their places of religious worship”.The Indian side called on Pakistan to “ensure the safety, security and well-being of its minority communities”.Bagchi said the Indian side had taken note of disturbing reports on social media of the “violent mob attack” on the Ganesha temple in Punjab province.“The mob attacked the temple, desecrated the holy idols and set fire to the premises. In addition to attacking the temple, the mob also attacked surrounding houses belonging to the Hindu community,” he said.Bagchi contended that incidents of “violence, discrimination and persecution against the minority communities, including attacks on places of worship, have continued unabated in Pakistan”.He added, “Within the last year itself, various temples and gurdwaras have been attacked, including the Mata Rani Bhatiyani Mandir in Sindh in January 2020, Gurdwara Sri Janamsthan in January 2020, and a Hindu temple in Karak in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in December 2020.”These incidents, he said, were occurring at an “alarming rate” while Pakistan’s state and security institutions have “stood by idly and completely failed in preventing” attacks on minorities and their places of worship.India and Pakistan often trade charges of attacks on each other’s minorities, reflecting the current downturn in bilateral relations.Following a complaint from a Muslim cleric, police in Bhong village registered a case under the Pakistan Penal Code on July 25 against a Hindu boy for allegedly urinating in the seminary.Reports said local Hindu elders had offered an apology to the seminary’s administration and pointed out that boy was a minor and mentally challenged. After a local court granted bail to the boy, unidentified men incited local residents of Bhong to start a protest on Wednesday.Videos posted on social media platforms showed men with sticks and iron rods smashing the glass doors, windows and lights of the temple and desecration the idols.Some reports suggested an old dispute between Hindu and Muslim groups in Bhong was the real reason for the violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-protests-summons-pak-diplomat-over-temple-attack-101628192755270.html
06-08-2021||India||Parliament nod to bill barring strikes in all Essential Defence Services||The Parliament on Thursday passed a Bill that allows the government to prohibit strikes and lockouts in units providing essential defence services. The Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021, was cleared by Rajya Sabha after Lok Sabha passed it on August 3.It was introduced in the lower house on July 22 to replace an ordinance promulgated in June.The ordinance was issued after the Union Cabinet, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, cleared the corporatisation of India’s main producer of weapons and military equipment, the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB), to boost its efficiency and competitiveness in a long-awaited reform in the country’s defence manufacturing sector.The ordinance made it illegal for the employees of the OFB to go on strike. The factories controlled by the board employ at least 70,000 people who were against the move to corporatise it.Speaking in Rajya Sabha, defence minister Rajnath Singh said, “It is being said that Bill denies the right to peaceful protest. I want to clarify that this bill does not, in any way, deny the right to peaceful protest… We want to improve the autonomy of the ordnance factories and increase their efficiency.”Essential defence services include units or undertakings involved in the production of goods or equipment required for defence. Also, the government can declare any service as an essential defence service if its termination affects the production of defence gear or maintenance of defence equipment.Under the bill, the government may prohibit strikes, lockouts and lay-offs to protect the country’s sovereignty and integrity. Those violating the prohibition order can be punished or fined, or both.The OFB, which controls 41 ordnance factories, will be split into seven government-owned entities that will produce ammunition and explosives, vehicles, weapons and equipment, troop comfort items, opto-electronics gear, parachutes and ancillary products.Ordnance factories are currently engaged in the production of tanks, armoured personnel carriers, mine-protected vehicles, bombs, rockets, artillery guns, anti-aircraft guns, parachutes, small arms, clothing and leather equipment for soldiers.Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said, “There are many precedents in this House and breaking all these precedents, new precedents are being set. The Bill brought by the defence minister is on the additional agenda and this was not supposed to come up today for discussion. But the way there is a ruckus in parliament… They are taking advantage of this situation... and they are getting this Bill passed in some way. This bill is very important. I request you (chair) to send it to a select committee where it will be reviewed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parl-nod-to-bill-barring-strikes-in-all-essential-defence-services-101628189935088.html
06-08-2021||India||2 die while cleaning drain in Telangana||Two workers died of asphyxiation while cleaning a drain in Telangana on Tuesday barely days after the Centre told Parliament that there have been no deaths due to manual scavenging in the country in the last five years.The incident occurred late at night at Padmavathi Colony in Sahebnagar of LB Nagar division, which falls under the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits.Police identified the victims as Shiva (25) and Ananthaiah (45) and said both belonged to the Scheduled Castes. But Ananthaiah’s body had still not been retrieved even 40 hours after he had slipped into a manhole and despite rescue efforts by police, fire brigade and Disaster Response Force teams. Two earthmovers were digging up a narrow pipeline at the time of filing of this report.B Yellaih, who is a contractor employed by GHMC, had hired the two men for the corporation’s desilting work. He allegedly made them enter the manhole around 10:30pm without any protective gear.Later, GHMC issued a release in which it said that the contractor was not working according to the prescribed rules of sanitation, which do not allow any cleaning work to be carried out after 6pm. The corporation added that the contractor also did not notify them about the desilting work.Vanasthalipuram assistant commissioner of police K Purushotham Reddy said Yellaiah has been booked under the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013, and Section 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code based on the complaint by the relatives of the deceased. “The accused is yet to be arrested. Further investigation is underway,” he added.In 2017, the Telangana government had introduced around 70 units of ‘mini sewer-jetting machines’ in a bid to end manual scavenging in Hyderabad. These compact machines could be taken even to narrow lanes without difficulty.“We have four machines in the zone. But we do not know why the contractor asked the men to get into the manhole. We will know the details only after questioning him,” said A Maruthi Diwakar, GHMC deputy commissioner of LB Nagar zone.But the corporation staff didn’t quite buy the argument of the authorities. K Saraswathi, the president of the Safai Karamchari Andolan in Telangana, said the GHMC cannot shrug off responsibility by solely blaming the contractor. “A case should also be filed against commissioner D Lokesh Kumar. The families of the deceased have to be compensated,” she said.Saraswathi elaborated on the compensation argument and said Shiva’s widow is eight months’ pregnant and Ananthaiah is survived by his 40-year-old widow and both women need support.The 2013 law against manual scavenging says: “No person, local authority or any agency shall engage or employ, either directly or indirectly, any person for hazardous cleaning of a sewer or a septic tank.”The Act says the first violation will attract imprisonment of up to a year or a fine of ₹50,000, or both. Subsequent violations will attract imprisonment for up to two years or a fine of up to ₹1 lakh, or both.On Wednesday, the Union government told Parliament that 941 people died while cleaning sewers and septic tanks in the last two decades. It also reiterated the July 28 statement of Union social justice minister Ramdas Athawale in Parliament that there were no deaths due to manual scavenging in the last five years.The government distinguishes manual scavenging — the caste-based practice of people cleaning human excreta by hand — from the cleaning of sewers even though experts say that the latter is just an extension of the now-banned practice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-die-while-cleaning-drain-in-telangana-101628189934680.html
06-08-2021||India||Confusion reigns in Kerala as govt preps to implement new pandemic norms||A day after the Kerala government announced revised Covid-19 regulations making vaccines and RT-PCR tests mandatory for shoppers and employees, confusion prevailed across the state even as it reported another high with 22,040 new cases. When 1,63,376 samples were tested 20,040 were found positive with a test positivity rate of 13.49%. The state also reported 117 deaths taking the toll to 17,328. The number of active cases also rose to 1,77,924. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 42,982 positive cases with Kerala’s share being more than 50%, health ministry statistics show. Out of 533 deaths, the state reported 117. With fresh cases increasing manifold, the government had announced a new set of pandemic control guidelines but traders said the new norms will invite more trouble rather than solving their woes. There was chaos and confusion at many places and agitated traders asked the government to provide enough vaccines before enforcing such rules. “In the guise of minimising our trouble the government hiked our difficulties,” said M K Chandran, a trader in Chala market in the state capital. According to the new guidelines, only those who have taken at least one dose of the vaccine before two weeks, or who are in possession of RT-PCR negative certificates taken 72 hours before or who are in possession of Covid-19 positive results more than a month old, will be allowed inside shops, banks and other establishments. This is applicable to both workers as well as visitors. Many banks reported thin attendance on Thursday. The Congress-led opposition staged a walkout from the assembly on Thursday saying health minister Veena George’s announcement in the assembly and the chief secretary’s order regarding the new regulations were contradictory. Opposition leader VD Satheesan said in the minister’s announcement in the assembly neither a mandatory vaccine nor RT-PCR test certificate was mentioned. The government’s move to make these certificates mandatory to enter shops will add to the woes of the trading community and it will give more space to law-enforcement agencies to trouble them, he said. But the minister insisted that all would have to follow the new restrictions in the light of the rising cases in the state. However, the opposition leader said only 42.12% of the population had received vaccines and how could the government insist on certificates. He said the police were on a “fine spree” and new regulations would lead to a ‘fine raj’. The minister though rejected the charges of the opposition. “We need strict measures. What the government announced was accepted norms in virus-hit areas. There is no difference between what I read in the house and the one which later came as an order,” she said. Later opposition members stormed out of the assembly saying her explanations were not satisfactory. After many flaws were detected in home isolation, the government has also decided to strengthen grassroot Asha and health workers to enforce quarantine strictly. The central team that visited the state also expressed reservations over the lax home quarantine. The latest genome study conducted by the Institute of Genomic and Integrative Biology (IGIB) Delhi shows the highly contagious Delta variant is playing havoc in the state. Many experts said the volume of cases is worrying not the depth of the infection. They further added that hospitals are not witnessing unusual rush despite the high rate of infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/confusion-reigns-in-kerala-as-govt-preps-to-implement-new-pandemic-norms-101628189877349.html
06-08-2021||India||Opposition likely to protest against the three farm laws at Jantar Mantar||More than 14 Opposition leaders on Friday will discuss a plan to go to Jantar Mantar to protest against the three contentious farm laws and express solidarity with the farmers, who have been camping there since July 22.The Opposition’s move is aimed at widening the ambit of their protests in Parliament, two MPs said. If the plan goes through, it will be the first organised visit of opposition leaders to the farmers’ protest site.Around 200 farmers have been camping at Jantar Mantar since July 22 to hold what they have called a “Kisan parliament’ (farmers’ parliament), a protest against three contentious farm laws timed to coincide with Parliament’s ongoing monsoon session. The farmers are protesting against the laws passed last year that allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of commodities for future sales, and set new rules for contract farming.Also read | Pegasus issue continues to rock monsoon sessionHannan Mollah, one of the key organisers of the ‘Kisan parliament’ at Jantar Mantar, said: “Political leaders are welcome. But they can’t speak from our forum. This is a rule we have adhered to throughout our protests.” “We are putting up a gallery tomorrow morning so that they can sit comfortably and listen to us.”For the Opposition, which has been attempting to block proceedings in Parliament over the Pegasus snooping row, farm laws, and the spiraling fuel prices, a joint visit to Jantar Mantar will add a novelty value to their otherwise repetitive protests and demands during the session. It will also be an opportunity for the Opposition to showcase their unity outside Parliament.On Thursday, 19 Opposition leaders put out a joint statement blaming the stalemate in Parliament to an “arrogant” and “obdurate” government.But it is still a work in progress. At their meeting on Thursday, there was a discussion on improving their coordination in Parliament.“We told all parties that their leaders have to come down to the Well during our protests. It can’t happen that Congress, Trinamool, and Left leaders will be in the Well while lawmakers from NCP or other parties would speak from their seats,” said a senior leader.The opposition parties have demanded a debate on Pegasus with Union home minister Amit Shah’s reply.Government managers have not accepted the demand, arguing that the Union IT minister has already made a statement on the topic in both Houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-likely-to-protest-against-the-three-farmlaws-at-jantar-mantar-101628189875640.html
06-08-2021||India||Pegasus: Government says they 'destroy' the interception records 'regularly'||The communications ministry has said that the government has no records of telephone interceptions since these are “destroyed regularly”, a disclosure that comes at a time when opposition leaders have been seeking answers from the government over allegations that Indians were targeted with a mobile spyware known as Pegasus.Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas, who earlier moved the Supreme Court on the Pegasus snooping issue, filed a question for the Ministry of Communication in which he sought details of “number of persons whose telephones were intercepted from 2016 till today.”Brittas also asked the government whether Indian telegraph act “facilitated the telephone interception of individuals by the government” and in case it was factual, he had sought the “year-wise details” about these interception attempts by the government.Responding to Brittas, minister of state for communications Devusinh Chauhan had said that “such records are not maintained” by the government as they are “destroyed regularly” as required by the law.“As informed by Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the records pertaining to lawful interception are destroyed regularly as per provisions contained in Sub-rule 18 of Rule 419A of the Indian Telegraph (1st Amendment of 2014) Rules, 2014 and Sub-rule 23 of Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Interception, Monitoring, and Decryption of Information) Rules, 2009. Such records are not being maintained by MHA,” the minister told Brittas.A Gazette notification dated February 4, 2014 suggests an amendment to the Indian Telegraph Act with the subrule 14 under the above-mentioned notification in the Gazette saying: “Records pertaining to such directions for interception and of intercepted messages shall be destroyed by the relevant competent authority and the authorised security and law enforcement Agencies, every six months unless these are, or likely to be, required for the functional requirement.”The minister also added that there were provisions for the government as per Indian Telegraph Act’s Section 5(2) and Information Technology Act’s Section 69 to intercept phones “lawfully.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-government-says-they-destroy-the-interception-records-regularly-101628189874004.html
06-08-2021||India||Modi slams Oppn for ‘insulting’ Parliament||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday attacked the Opposition for stalling Parliament proceedings and accused them of insulting the House for “their self-interests”.The PM’s remarks come against the backdrop of the opposition parties protesting in both Houses and disrupting listed business since the monsoon session began on July 19.The Opposition , including the Congress, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), has demanded a discussion and a reply from the PM or home minister Amit Shah on the potential use of Pegasus spyware against politicians, journalists, activists and judicial officials.“Some people want to stop the country’s growth by not letting Parliament run smoothly. However, these people don’t know that the country has set about on an irreversible path of development and progress,” the PM said while interacting with the beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), a food security welfare scheme, in Uttar Pradesh via video conferencing.Modi termed the repeated disruptions as “anti-national”.Also read | Pegasus issue continues to rock monsoon session“The great people of this country cannot become hostage to such selfish and anti-national politics. No matter how much these people try to stop the development of the country, this country is not going to stop. They are engaged in stopping the proceedings of Parliament but 130 crore ( 1.3 billion) people are engaged in not allowing them to stop the country,” he said.Stating that those disrupting Parliament were not concerned about the country’s growth, Modi said, “They are not concerned about what the country wants, what it is achieving or how it is changing. These people are hurting both the spirit and the time of the country for their selfish reasons. They are continuously insulting Parliament of India for their self-interests,” he added.This is the second time in as many days that Modi has condemned the Opposition for disrupting Parliament. At a meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) parliamentary party on Tuesday, Modi said the Opposition was insulting “democracy, constitution, Parliament and the people” by disrupting both Houses and asked party lawmakers to display restraint so that the dignity of Parliament is maintained.During the interaction on Thursday, the PM also accused previous governments of exploiting Uttar Pradesh, which goes to polls next year, for political gains but doing little to fuel its development.“People always knew and said that the road to power at Delhi passes through Uttar Pradesh but earlier none thought it fit to think that the state could also fuel the country’s growth. UP’s identity that was previously limited to politics, is changing now as big ticket infra projects, industries and investments have started coming to the state,” he said.Praising the Yogi Adityanath government for changing the state’s image, Modi said: “Under Yogi ji, UP’s image is changing. The common man, the poor aren’t scared anymore and confident that the government is with them.”He added that the state government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic helped save many lives. The state government earlier battled criticism, from experts, Opposition parties and even some BJP leaders, for its handling of the second wave of Covid-19.“Can you even think what would have happened in UP, where even common cold, fever played havoc, had this Covid-19 happened about five years earlier? But today, nearly 5.15 crore (51.5 million) vaccine doses have been administered in the state as a safeguard against the pandemic.”Hitting back, Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav said: “It’s beyond comprehension as to what do the prime minister or the home minister praise UP chief minister for. During the Covid time deaths happened in a manner that spaces in cremation ground fell short. There was crisis of beds, oxygen, medicine. There was black marketing of drugs and injections. Unplanned lockdowns threw life and livelihood in crisis. There was large scale migration.”The PM announced that the food security welfare scheme PMGKAY will be extended till Diwali as he applauded the UP government for ensuring the benefits of the programme reached those in need.“The way Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana is being implemented in the state defines the new Uttar Pradesh,” he said, adding that during previous regimes, food grains meant for the poor were looted. In an official statement, the state government said that 150 million people have been provided free ration under the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-slams-oppn-for-insulting-parliament-101628189817975.html
06-08-2021||India||If reports are correct, Pegasus snooping row very serious: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to seek a response from the Union government on a clutch of petitions that demanded a court-monitored independent investigation into the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens using Israeli Pegasus spyware and to identify the entities responsible for this.“Let somebody appear for the Union of India to accept notice in the matter,” a bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana said. The court fixed August 10 as the next date of hearing and told the petitioners to serve copies of their pleadings on the Union government to ensure that a law officer remains present in the court on the day.“You please serve copies of the petitions on the Union government. The matter has gotten complicated with too many petitions. Some have challenged the vires of the Information Technology law also. Let someone appear on behalf of the Centre and then we will see,” the bench, which also included justice Surya Kant, told the lawyers appearing for the petitioners.During the hour-long proceeding, the bench said the allegations were serious in nature if the reports are correct and posed three questions to the petitioners.Also read | Modi slams Oppn for ‘insulting’ ParliamentThe first was why they came to the court after a gap of almost two years since the first reports on the use of Pegasus spyware were out way back in May 2019. This is a reference to WhatsApp revealing then that NSO’s software had been used to send malware to more than 1,400 phones.The second question was on whether any of the petitioners lodged a first information report or a criminal complaint against alleged illegal interception of their phones.The third related to the existence of any empirical evidence to corroborate the claims of the infractions.The petitioners in the case (through independent petitions) are advocate ML Sharma; Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas; the Editors Guild of India (EGI); journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar; journalists Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, Rupesh Kumar Singh, Ipshita Shatakshi, SNM Abdi, Prem Shankar Jha; and civil rights activists Jagdeep S Chhokar and Narendra Mishra.The row erupted on July 18 after an international investigative consortium reported that the phones of many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 that were potentially targeted by Pegasus, Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. According to this consortium, Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning a phone into a pocket spy.NSO says its software is sold only to government customers after vetting by Israeli authorities. The Indian government has neither confirmed nor denied that it used Pegasus and has repeatedly ruled out any illegal surveillance in India.“No doubt the allegations are serious in nature if the reports are correct. Except for the petition by the Editors Guild of India, most of the other petitions are based only on media reports. There have to be some verifiable reports etc before we entertain it,” the bench told senior lawyer Kapil Sibal, who was representing Ram and Kumar and led the submissions on behalf of the clutch of petitions.CJI Ramana further asked Sibal: “These reports about the software came to light in May 2019. I don’t know why there is an urgency now. I don’t know why there was no serious concern about this issue. Why has this issue suddenly cropped up after two years? Still, we are not saying anything against it. The petitioners are resourceful persons, reputed journalists. They should have done something more.”As Sibal sought to point out that several details regarding the spyware and the extent of interception were not known earlier, justice Ramana went on to enquire: “Some people claim their phones were intercepted. You know that there are provisions to file criminal complaints for violation of the Telegraph Act. We don’t find anything in these petitions that they approached anybody for filing criminal complaints.”Bombarded with posers reflecting reluctance on the part of the bench to admit the matter, Sibal sought to rely on a finding of a California court. He referred to the Facebook-owned WhatsApp’s suit against NSO in a California court in which the judge held that the surveillance using Pegasus was done at the behest of the government.“There is already a ruling now that this (technology) infiltrates into our lives without our knowing. Then what it does it hears, surveys every minute of our movement. It is an assault on privacy, human dignity, and the values of our republic, as it infiltrates into the backbone of our nation’s internet system,” argued Sibal.At this, the CJI replied: “I have read it in one of the petitions that NSO clarified it sells software only to the vetted governments and then it is for the government to decide how to use it… Also, N Ram’s petition says that the California court has said some of the Indian people’s phones were also tapped. But that doesn’t seem to be correct.”Sibal accepted that there could be some mistake in the petition but emphasised that the EGI has listed 37 specific cases of infiltration.Ram later clarified on Twitter that his petition did not claim anything to the effect.On being asked by the bench if purchase of Pegasus by a ‘government’ will also include a state government, Sibal retorted that his understanding was that only the central government could buy the spyware.“This is also something you haven’t answered. Why after two years? The reports came out in May 2019 but you didn’t come then,” the CJI further asked.Sibal replied: “We have come to know about the extent of surveillance only now. This morning we learned about some officers of this court and a mobile number of a member of the judiciary in the list. How could we file the petition before?”Justice Ramana retorted: “Truth has to come out. We don’t know who all were there.”Senior advocate Meenakshi Arora, appearing for CPI (M) MP John Brittas, informed the bench that a question was raised in the parliament on the use of Pegasus in November 2019 when the then IT minister, Ravi Shankar Prasad, made a statement that there was no unauthorised interception.“Madam Arora. We have a simple question. If you know your phone was hacked, you have the remedy of filing an FIR. Why didn’t you do that? There was no effort to file a criminal complaint,” said the bench.Representing activist Jagdeep Chhokar, senior advocate Shyam Divan submitted that his client’s phone was on the surveillance list. “This wasn’t a case of simple hacking. For a private citizen to find out that a spyware has been turned against him by his own government is like a State waging a war against its own citizens,” contended Divan.But the bench replied: “That is not the issue. We want a clarification whether your client has filed any complaint or not.” Divan replied in the negative.Senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi, appearing for SNM Abdi and Prem Shankar Jha, said that this was not a case of individual surveillance but was a matter of huge dimension where a foreign company is involved.And senior advocate Arvind Datar, representing Rupesh Singh and Ipsa Shatakshi whose names also figure in the database, argued that the investigation was a must because there was no other way for a citizen to know the truth.“Today there are 300 people named. We don’t know how many more will be in the list tomorrow. Who will protect the privacy of citizens of the entire country if not this court?” he added.As advocate ML Sharma, who was the first petitioner in the case, sought to argue his petition, the bench expressed its displeasure at the manner in which he had filed his plea. “Do you have anything except newspaper clippings in your petition? Do you want us to collect materials for you?” it asked Sharma.The bench also noted that Sharma made Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a party to his petition. “You’ve impleaded some individuals as parties to your petition. We can’t start issuing notices just like that to everyone,” it told the lawyer, who said he would be deleting the name of PM Modi as a party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-reports-are-correct-pegasus-snooping-row-very-serious-sc-101628189816222.html
06-08-2021||India||This July was 6th warmest since 1901, says IMD||July 2021 was the sixth warmest July on record in India since 1901 with a mean temperature of 28.52 degrees Celsius — 0.55 degrees above normal — according to the climatological data maintained by India Meteorological Department, Pune.It was the third warmest July when minimum temperatures are considered and eighth warmest in terms of maximum temperatures.The mean temperature is calculated as the average of maximum and minimum temperatures for the month.This July was marked by extremely warm nights almost all over the country except peninsular India which recorded above-normal rains in July. Climatological data between 1901 and now also indicates that four of the five warmest Julys on record have been in the past decade, indicating a rising trend in temperatures in recent years.There was a 7% rain deficiency in July over the country with a 26% deficiency over east and northeast India, 7% deficiency over northwest and central India, but 27% excess rain over peninsular India. The monsoon covered most of the country by June 19 except parts of Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab. After that, the monsoon entered a “break” phase till July 11. OP Sreejith, head, climate monitoring and prediction group, IMD Pune, said high minimum and maximum temperatures in July are linked to deficient rain and a long dry spell.The warmest July recorded was in 2019, logging a mean temperature of 28.65 degrees Celsius, 0.68 degrees above normal; the second warmest July was in 2015 recording a mean of 28.63 degrees Celsius; the third was in 1987 with a mean of 28.61 degrees C; the fourth in 2014; and the fifth in 2020.In terms of minimum temperature, it was the third warmest with a minimum temperature of 24.88 degrees C, 0.56 degrees above normal. The highest was recorded in 2019 at 24.91 degrees C; the second highest in 1903 at 24.89 degrees C; and the fourth and fifth highest minimum temperatures were recorded in 2014 and 2015, respectively.The average maximum temperature this July was 32.16 degrees Celsius, 0.54 degrees above normal and the eighth warmest on record. The highest July average maximum was recorded in 1987 at 32.53 degrees C, 0.91 degrees above normal. The next highest was in 2015 at 32.45 degrees C.“Temperatures were high because clouding was less in the first half of July. Rain picked up in southern parts of the country in July. Many factors may have contributed to a warm July, including the climate crisis. In recent years, temperatures are high and creating records,” said a senior meteorologist from IMD who did not wish to be named.El Nino years are normally linked to very warm summers in India. This year, however, El Nino and Southern Oscillation (ENSO)-neutral conditions prevailed. Had it been an El Nino year, along with such break monsoon features, it could have been much warmer, scientists said.ENSO is a periodic fluctuation in the sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.ENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rain, floods, and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, whilst La Niña has the opposite effect. In India, for example, El Nino is associated with drought or weak monsoon while La Nina is associated with strong monsoon and above-average rains and colder winters.“There were heatwave conditions over many parts of northwest India early in July. The minimum temperature was high from the beginning. Heatwave conditions were reported from Rajasthan, Haryana and Delhi NCR. Rainfall was less due to break monsoon, so temperatures soared,” explained Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting company.Average minimum temperatures in July were the second highest on record over northwest India at 24.42 degrees Celsius, 0.87 degrees above normal while over central India they were the highest at 25.18 degrees Celsius, 0.46 degrees above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-july-was-6th-warmest-since-1901-says-imd-101628189696357.html
06-08-2021||India||Kishor resigns as Punjab CM’s adviser ahead of polls||Chandigarh: Months before the state assembly elections, poll strategist Prashant Kishor on Thursday resigned as principal adviser to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, saying he was taking a “temporary break” from an active role in public life. The political strategist’s decision also came amid talks of his likely induction into the Congress at national level. In a letter to the chief minister, Kishor said he has not been able to take over the responsibilities as his principal adviser in view of his decision to take a temporary break from active role in public life.“Since I am yet to decide on my future course of action, I write to request you to kindly relieve me from this responsibility. I take this opportunity to thank you for considering me for this position,” he said. Kishor, or ‘PK’, as he is often called in political circles, and his agency, Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), had worked with the Congress in Punjab in the 2017 assembly polls with Singh as the state unit chief. He was also the brain behind the ‘Coffee with Captain’ and ‘Punjab da Captain’ that had worked well for the party.On March 1 this year, the chief minister had appointed Kishor as his principal advisor and given him the rank and status of a cabinet minister. Kishor was paid a token honorarium of ₹1 per month, but was entitled to a fully-furnished government residence and camp office, executive class travel, official vehicle, medical facilities and secretarial staff as admissible to a cabinet minister. During his term as principal advisor to Singh, Kishor held meetings with the party’s first time MLAs and top officials of the state government to gather feedback on the ground realities before he turned busy to work for Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress and M K Stalin-led Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in the West Bengal and Tamil Nadu elections, respectively. Following TMC and DMK’s victory in May, Kishor announced his retirement from election management work and said he would leave the poll strategy business to others in his company. On his appointment in Punjab, he said, “If you help someone win an election, it is nothing if they offer you a principal adviser or adviser’s post. They always like you to be by their side because it suits them. It is for me to decide whether I want to do that or not. I am telling you that I am not doing this work for anybody anymore”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kishor-resigns-as-punjab-cm-s-adviser-ahead-of-polls-101628188915173.html
06-08-2021||India||Nagaland assembly adopts 3-point resolution to resolve border row with Assam||The Nagaland legislative assembly on Thursday held a marathon discussion on the recurrent border issue with neighbouring Assam and adopted a three-point resolution to pursue the settlement of the decades-long dispute.The development comes in the backdrop of recent tensions along the border area between the two states that de-escalated after a chief secretary-level meeting signed an agreement on July 31 to pull their respective forces from the disputed area immediately.The state assembly, after a lengthy deliberation on the matter listed under ‘urgent public importance’, resolved to approach Union home minister Amit Shah to ensure maintenance of status quo agreed between the two states in letter and spirit in the disputed area until the issue is settled. The legislators advocated that the border dispute should be amicably settled outside the court by the two state governments, by involving the local communities from both sides.The House also unanimously decided to constitute a select committee led by chief minister Neiphiu Rio and comprising 10 members including the two MPs from Nagaland – KG Kenye and Tokheho Yepthomi – as invitees, to examine all aspects of the Assam-Nagaland border issue and submit its report within three months.The two states that share over 500-kilometre stretch of inter-state border have been engaged in off-and-on confrontations since 1963. Numerous attempts made by the two state governments in the past to resolve the persistent issue have failed and Assam took the matter to the Supreme Court. The apex court also attempted to resolve the dispute amicably through mediation in 2010, but the report submitted by the mediators was rejected by both states.Then Supreme Court in 2015 ordered both states to file the list of their witnesses along with their testimonies in the form of affidavits with the court’s registrar. But it is reported that the progress is stalled because of the ongoing pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-assembly-adopts-3-point-resolution-to-resolve-border-row-with-assam-101628188437215.html
06-08-2021||India||Protests, celebrations in J&K on 2nd anniversary of revocation of Art 370||An alliance of Kashmiri parties vowed to continue fighting for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s “legitimate rights” on Thursday as sporadic protests marked the second anniversary of the scrapping of the region’s special status and statehood and Bharatiya Janata Party celebrated the day by holding rallies.The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) -- which is pushing for the restoration of the region’s special status -- held a meeting at the residence of National Conference (NC) chief Farooq Abdullah. Members of the alliance are NC, Peoples Democratic Party, Communist Party of India (Marxist), J&K Awami National Conference, and the J&K People’s Movement.“The alliance reiterated our resolve to continue our struggle for restoration of our legitimate rights,” CPI(M) leader and spokesman of the PAGD, MY Tarigami, told reporters after the meeting.On August 5, 2019, the central government effectively revoked Article 370 which gave special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, and bifurcated the region into two territories- Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.Despite tall claims of the [central] government, the situation since August 5, 2019 is worsening day by day,” Tarigami said. A senior leader of the alliance, who was part of the meeting, said that alliance leadership unanimously agreed that even after a landmark all-party meeting by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi on June 24, no confidence building measure was initiated by the Centre.BJP MARKS DAYTerming it a historic day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that since the revocation of Article 370, there has been “unprecedented peace and progress” in J&K.“It is only on 5th August, when 2 years ago, the country further strengthened the spirit of Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat. On August 5, by removing Article 370, every citizen of Jammu and Kashmir was made full participant of every right, every facility,” the Prime Minister’s Office tweeted.The BJP celebrated the day by holding Tiranga rallies and hoisting the national flag across J&K.J&K BJP chief Ravinder Raina said that the move brought peace in Jammu and Kashmir.“Article 370 was a wall of hatred that had held the people of Jammu in Kashmir in the chains of slavery. Because of article 370 terrorism was born in Jammu and Kashmir and it killed many innocent people...And the central government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has indicated many development projects here,” Raina was quoted as saying to news agency ANI.In Jammu, led by J&K Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president, Arun Dev Singh, hundreds of BJP workers marched carrying the Tricolour and shouting slogans of “Vande Mataram” and “Bharat Mata Ki Jai”.PROTESTS IN KASHMIRAfter the PAGD meeting, Peoples Democratic Party chief Mufti, accompanied by several party leaders and workers, took to the streets and shouted slogans to condemn the August 5, 2019 decision.Shops and business establishments remained shut in most parts of Srinagar even as a section of traders alleged that police were forcing them to keep their units open. Only shops dealing with essentials such as medicines and vegetables chose to continue with their businesses during the day.While shops in several areas of the city, including the Lal Chowk city centre, were closed, those in other areas such as in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district and parts of Budgam, Ganderbal and Kupwara were open. Vehicular movement also remained partially affected.“I saw policemen calling on shopkeepers and even picking the locks of closed business establishments,” a resident of Lal Chowk said on condition of anonymity.Markets in Residency Road, Hari Singh High Street and Goni-Khan in and around Lal Chowk mostly remained shut for the day.“Despite police coercion, I have not opened my shop. Article 370 was a safety net for Jammu and Kashmir. It’s revocation means we are vulnerable now,” a trader at Srinagar’s Jehangir Chowk said, wishing not to be named.“The situation throughout Kashmir valley remained peaceful and no any untoward incident was reported from any place. Besides, markets and transport also witnessed normal activities as all the types of shops remained open and public/private transport was plying normally across the valley,” said J&K police in a statement, released late on Thursday night.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-celebrations-in-j-k-on-2nd-anniversary-of-revocation-of-art-370-101628188435484.html
06-08-2021||India||Goa businessman abducted for ransom rescued, five held||The Goa Police on Thursday arrested five people for kidnapping a plywood businessman and demanding a ransom of ₹1 crore from his wife for his release, Goa Director General of Police Mukesh Kumar Meena, said. Naveen Patel, the 30-year-old businessman, was kidnapped from his shop at Thivim, within the jurisdiction of the Colvale Police Station in North Goa and later taken to an abandoned building where he was blindfolded and held while the kidnappers waited for the ransom. His wife filed a complaint on Thursday morning claiming that her husband had been abducted and she had received a call for ransom.Patel was kidnapped from his shop by one Birendra Kumar, 26, a native of Bihar and Nishant Mogan, 22, a native of Mangalore who posed as customers seeking to buy plywood but later locked Patel in his shop and threatened him with a gun and a knife on August 4. The kidnappers then placed a call to his wife using a stolen phone and sought a ransom of ₹1 crore. “After investigation we found the location of Birendra Kumar and Nishant and the two were picked up and thoroughly interrogated and they revealed that the trader was in an unused building. He was blindfolded, was threatened and they were asking for money. The police teams identified and detained three other accused. There were a total of five men who were involved and they will be prosecuted based on the evidence against them,” Meena said.Manjunath Baiganoor, 28, Sujit Kesarkar and Subhash Bhosle, 51, who were guarding the kidnapped businessman, were also arrested.Mogan was earlier an employee of Patel and used to work in his shop thus knew his former employer’s family members as well. “Were we not to act, his life could have been in danger,” Meena said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-businessman-abducted-for-ransom-rescued-five-held-101628188315182.html
06-08-2021||India||Two killed as men go on shooting spree in Bihar||At least two persons were killed and two others were injured after two unidentified men on a motorcycle went on a shooting spree at Maharajganj in Siwan district of Bihar on Thursday afternoon, police said.Maharajganj is about 140km away from Patna.The incident took place at around 3pm when the miscreants arrived at Ramprit More and started firing indiscriminately before speeding away.“It is not clear who the assailants were and why they fired randomly at the people,” Maharajganj sub-divisional police officer Polastu Kumar said, adding that a search was underway for the accused.“The motive behind the act is yet to be ascertained,” Kumar added.Eyewitnesses claimed that the assailants first shot one Mohammad Arman Mansoori, who died on the spot. They later shot another youth, Sudama Yadav, who was declared dead on arrival at Sadar Hospital in Siwan.The assailants then shot at another man who was identified as Ashok Patel, a resident of Raghunathpur. Another man, Manish Kumar of Ragarganj, was also injured in the incident and taken to Sadar Hospital.“They were shooting whoever they were looking at. Sometimes, they were shooting in the air. The young man riding the pillion had three pistols. Everyone was running for cover. I saw three people fall after being shot,” Mohammad Yusuf, who was with Mansoori at the time of the incident, said.Siwan superintendent of police Kumar Abhinav said a team of forensic experts was present at the spot to collect samples and a probe was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-killed-as-men-go-on-shooting-spree-in-bihar-101628188194462.html
06-08-2021||India||Pegasus issue continues to rock monsoon session||It was a day of cut and thrust in the Rajya Sabha, with lawmakers from the Opposition bringing up the Pegasus snooping issue and the contentious farm laws, while they were debating a bill introduced in the House. The day was partially washed away on account of protests by the Opposition, and also saw an exchange between defence minister Rajnath Singh and Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge.The Opposition’s strategy -- a response to the government’s unwillingness to have a structured debate on the Pegasus controversy, the farm laws, and high fuel prices -- came on a day Prime Minister Modi said at an event that the Opposition was scoring “self-goals”, criticising them openly for the second time in three days. Earlier in the week, the PM said the opposition parties were insulting Parliament.The Opposition’s behaviour was a clear intent of their resolve on raising the three issues -- and analysts said it does not bode well for legislative business, although the government has been able to pass key laws amidst the din in both houses of Parliament.Their strategy saw frequent arguments with the Chair and trouble escalated when defence minister Rajnath Singh brought The Essential Defence Services Bill for approval of the Upper House. When Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh cited House rule no. 110 to disallow CPI(M)’s Elamaram Kareem from speaking on Pegasus, a furious Opposition started protesting and received unexpected support from TRS lawmaker K Kesava Rao.Also read | Modi slams Oppn for ‘insulting’ ParliamentRao told Harivansh, “You have the right to regulate the time. You can’t give me a scripted speech and tell me to read it. I can speak sense and nonsense in this House. It is my right. Now when Kareem is talking about defence and about the secrecy of defence, Pegasus can also be mentioned.”Kareem also argued that Pegasus is related to defence and security.RJD MP Manoj Jha too, mentioned Pegasus, prompting Harivansh to intervene, but the Trinamool Congress cited freedom of speech of the Constitution.There was also an exchange between Singh and Kharge, with the Congress leader claiming that the former said he would try and resolve the issue after his return from Tajikistan.“If there was a proposal from the government about a meeting whether it is the parliamentary affairs minister or Rajnath Singh, we are ready for the discussion,” Kharge added.Singh denied having given any assurance. He said, “I want to make it very clear; I gave no such assurance to Mr. Kharge. However, I called him and requested that there should be peace in the House, that the House should function normally and that all important issues should be discussed.”The government also hit out at the Trinamool Congress (TMC) for an attempt by some of the suspended MPs to enter the House after it was adjourned on Wednesday.Speaking to media, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said the TMC MPs should apologise for their conduct in the House because while trying to force their entry into the chambers, they caused injury to a female security guard of Parliament.Joshi also tweeted, “Owing to hooliganism of TMC members, a lady security guard in the Parliament got injured yesterday. This is highly condemnable.” The Chair also made a reference to this incident in the morning.The minister added: “Instead of apologising, (TMC leader) Derek O’Brien is alleging that he was denied entry, post-adjournment. Members of TMC should adopt a better behaviour.”Opposition lawmakers maintained that the Chair was not allowing them to put forth their views while speaking on a bill or during discussion. They alleged that when they referred to any issue which is not directly linked to the bill or topic being discussed, their mikes were being muted.“It was the Opposition’s strategy to raise issues that we have been wanting to speak about in the house. For instance if there is a discussion on the defence bill, it involves national security as does the Pegasus snooping controversy,” said Manoj Jha of the RJD.Two bills were introduced in the Lok Sabha -- one seeking to do away with contentious retrospective tax provisions and another on setting up a central university in Ladakh. Rajya Sabha passed the Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-issue-continues-to-rock-monsoon-session-101628188073958.html
06-08-2021||India||After SC nudge, Centre works on app to settle road accident claims||An online platform accessible throughout India to victims of road accidents, tribunals, police and insurance companies for ensuring speedy disposal of compensation cases will soon be a reality.Nudged by the Supreme Court, the Union government is in the process of developing an online application where victims of road accidents could register their claims while the police could upload accident reports on the platform. The insurance company will respond to the claim petitions and the accident reports on this platform, hastening the entire process.On Tuesday, a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy took note of a submission by additional solicitor general Jayant Sud, representing the Centre, that all 26 public and private insurance companies in the country have agreed to the idea of having a common online application.The ASG called it a “very positive development”, assuring the bench that the government was committed to making the app functional as soon as possible so as to fasten accountability on all authorities in motor accident cases while cutting delays in disbursing compensation to the victims.The bench expressed satisfaction at the progress made in developing the common app and gave the Union government two months more to ready it.During the hearing, the court lamented that motor accident cases remain pending for several years even though the family may need the financial support immediately. “You give a person ₹10 lakh after 10 or 15 years. What’s the point? He never had it when he needed it the most,” rued the bench.Adjudicating a compensation case, the court had on March 16 issued a slew of directions to facilitate the process of disbursement of damages to the victims of road mishaps as well as for expediting the matters before the motor accident claims tribunal.Aiming at expediting the entire process on disbursement of compensation in motor accident cases and laying down a uniform practice throughout the country, the bench had directed that the police shall send a detailed accident report involving death or injuries to a person in a road crash to the tribunal and the insurer through email within three months of the incident.A claimant, the bench said, could also email the application for compensation with supporting documents to the insurer at the same time, following which the insurer shall email their offer of settlement and the tribunal will finally pass an award.“Each tribunal shall create an email ID peculiar to its jurisdiction for receiving the emails from the police and the insurer as mentioned above. Similarly, all insurers throughout India shall also create an email ID peculiar to the jurisdiction of each claim tribunal,” ordered the court, adding that these email IDs will be displayed prominently by all the authorities concerned for public information.At the same time, the bench had also noted that Tamil Nadu and Delhi were already operating online platforms for submission of accident reports by the police. “Each state having an independent online platform for submission of accident reports, claims and responses to claims, will hamper efficient adjudication of claims, especially where the victim of the accident is not a resident of the state where the accident has occurred. Therefore, the central government shall develop an online platform accessible to the tribunals, police authorities and insurers throughout India,” the court had directed In March.On Tuesday, the bench further asked all states to comply with its previous directives and asked the ASG to submit a report in this regard where further directions are required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-sc-nudge-centre-works-on-app-to-settle-road-accident-claims-101628187835076.html
06-08-2021||India||Halting Taliban attacks focus of UNSC meeting under Indian presidency||The United Nations Security Council meeting on Afghanistan to be held under the Indian presidency on August 6 is expected to focus on stopping the Taliban’s campaign of violence and attacks and ways to take forward the stalled Afghan peace process.India’s ambassador to the UN, TS Tirumurti announced the meeting, which will consist of a briefing and consultations on the latest developments in Afghanistan, in a tweet on Thursday. India holds the rotating presidency of the Security Council for August.The move came two days after Afghan foreign minister Mohammad Haneef Atmar called his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on Tuesday and sought an emergency session of the Security Council to discuss ways to halt the Taliban’s violence and atrocities across Afghanistan.“UN #SecurityCouncil will meet on Friday, 6th August, under Indian Presidency to discuss and take stock of the situation in #Afghanistan,” Tirumurti tweeted.The meeting was convened following consultations with the five permanent and nine other non-permanent members of the Security Council, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.The Afghan side is expecting the meeting will focus on the Taliban’s violation of commitments under the 2020 agreement with the US through the group’s ongoing campaign of violence and attacks, and ways to give a nudge to the Afghan peace process that has been stalled for months, the people said.“There is a need for pressure on the Taliban and their sponsors to reduce the violence. It is clear who is backing the violence and supporting the Taliban,” one of the people cited above said.“Also, there is no tangible progress in the peace process because of the Taliban’s intransigence. It is costing Afghanistan in terms of lives, infrastructure, revenues and the gains made in the past 20 years,” the person added.Though there was some talk of a possible resolution on the situation and the Taliban violence, the people said this might not be among the outcomes of the meeting. While Afghanistan’s partners will try to pressure the Taliban and its supporters in Pakistan, the feeling is that China, a permanent member of the Security Council, will step in to counter any move that is critical of Pakistan.Avinash Paliwal, associate professor in the department of politics and international studies at SOAS University, said: “The UN Security Council has its own dynamics, but to have India as president at this point in time is the last thing Islamabad and the Taliban would have wanted. There will be a lot of ‘stock-taking’ in the coming weeks and the Taliban won’t like most of it.”Afghan ambassador Farid Mamundzay welcomed the meeting and thanked India for playing a “lead role as UNSC President”.“Convening an emergency UN Security Council Session on Afghanistan is a positive development. UN & international community must play a greater role to stop the unfolding tragedy in [Afghanistan] due to violence & atrocities by terrorists,” Mamundzay tweeted.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said India will share its vision and perspectives on Afghanistan during the meeting. “We look forward to productive deliberations on this issue,” he told a regular news briefing.“We are closely monitoring the evolving security situation in Afghanistan and we continue to call for an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire,” he added.Atmar’s phone call to Jaishankar on Tuesday coincided with an attack by a team of Taliban suicide attackers on the residence of defence minister Bismillah Mohammadi in Kabul. The attack triggered an intense hours-long clash between the attackers and security forces that left eight people dead and 20 more injured.There was no Indian readout on the phone conversation, though a statement from the Afghan foreign ministry quoted Jaishankar as saying it was important to hold a meeting of the Security Council to seek the “immediate cessation of human rights abuses and the establishment of lasting peace” in the region.Atmar had on Tuesday briefed the envoys of several countries, including India, on the security situation and the collusion between the Taliban and groups such as Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). The Pakistani envoy was not present at this briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/halting-taliban-attacks-focus-of-unsc-meeting-under-indian-presidency-101628186695412.html
06-08-2021||India||Million homes in parched Bundelkhand to get tap water by year-end, officials say||Ram Chandra, a 70-year-old villager from Mahoba in Bundelkhand -- a rocky, impoverished region dividing Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, is anxiously biding his time to see a dream become reality by the year-end: a water source at his doorstep.“Just last week officials told us we can hope to get water right in our homes by December. We have been waiting all our lives for water,” Chandra said over the phone.Water availability is scarce in at least one half of the country, but perennially drought-hit Bundelkhand’s crisis has been severe enough to force waves of outmigration from the area over the past decade.Several dozens engineering teams in the parched region, spanning 69,000 sqkm, are busy laying pipes, finishing construction of overhead tanks, levelling high grounds and sealing off deep groundwater holes. This is part of a massive project under the flagship Jal Jeevan Mission, a national programme to connect every household in rural India with functioning drinking water taps by 2024.Also Read | At least 100K villages got tap water supply within 2 years: Jal Jeevan MissionThe Bundelkhand leg of the Jal Jeevan Mission comprises 467 piped drinking water schemes under 32 projects. Of these, 43 are surface water-based schemes and 424 are ground water-based.Authorities overseeing the water mission said nearly 1.11 million rural homes covering a population of 7.2 million people will have access to 24/7 treated tap water supply by 2021-end.Nature has been unkind to Bundelkhand region, spread over 13 districts of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. It had faced a non-stop seven-year drought between 2003 and 2010.“Nearly 2 million (20 lakh) people are gone. They work as labourers in other states. What to do? How can one live without water?” said Diwan Parihar, a local social activist.These current scope of the water projects will benefit 2,608 gram panchayats (village-level administrative units) in seven districts of Bundelkhand.Nearly 820 million people in 12 major river basins of the country face “high to extreme” water stress. Getting to a water source is a long haul in rural India. According to a National Sample Survey Organisation survey, in Jharkhand, it takes women 40 minutes one way, without taking into account the waiting time. In Bihar, it’s 33 minutes. Rural Maharashtra clocks an average of 24 minutes.The piped water mission, launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019, aims to change this drudgery. The programme has entered a critical stage, as officials race to meet the deadline amid the disruptive Covid pandemic.Work on Bundelkhand’s water supply network, officials said, carried on despite the pandemic.“The UP government has completed about 80% work of water treatment plants in various districts of Bundelkhand, including Jhansi and Mahoba. The construction work is almost complete in more than 50% of our plants,” said principal secretary Anurag Srivastava in a text message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/million-homes-in-parched-bundelkhand-to-get-tap-water-by-year-end-officials-say-101628160952903.html
06-08-2021||India||Assam, Mizoram to withdraw forces; travel advisory dropped||Assam and Mizoram agreed on Thursday to withdraw forces from all disputed border areas and work towards lasting peace in the first meeting between the two states since an unprecedented gunbattle last week killed six policemen and injured 41 others.After the meeting, Assam withdrew a travel advisory issued on July 29 asking its citizens to avoid its neighbouring state. Mizoram condoled the death of the six Assam Police personnel in the July 26 showdown.The meeting came roughly a week after the Centre brokered an interim agreement, under which the states agreed to withdraw their police forces and allow central paramilitary troops to be deployed at the four-km disputed stretch till a permanent solution is found.“Representatives of governments of Assam and Mizoram agree to take all necessary measures to promote, preserve and maintain peace and harmony amongst the people living in Assam and Mizoram, particularly in the border areas,” a joint statement issued by both governments said.The meeting, held at Aizawl Club, was attended by Assam urban developmentminister Ashok Singhal, border protection minister Atul Bora and home secretary GD Tripathi. From Mizoram’s side, home minister Lalchamliana, revenue minister Lalruatkimaand and home secretary Vanlalngaihsaka were present.“Both the state governments agree to maintain peace in the interstate border areas and welcomed deployment on neutral force by the government of India in this regard. For this purpose, both the states shall not send their respective forest and police forces for patrolling, domination, enforcement or for fresh deployment to any of the areas where confrontation and conflict has taken place between the police forces of the two states during recent times,” the joint statement added. This would include all areas along the Assam - Mizoram border.Ministers of both states said there will be more discussions at a higher level to draw a permanent solution to the border dispute issue. Chief ministers of both the states may meet in the near future, and top officials from bordering districts will discuss the issue on a monthly basis, they added.“Considering the present situation on the border, we initiated peace talks between Assam and Mizoram. This is just the beginning, we need to work more on this issue to draw a permanent solution...Assam will withdraw the travel advisory,” said Bora after the meeting.But there was no concrete solution on border demarcation between the two states or ongoing economic blockade of Mizoram by some Assamese groups. Mizoram has alleged that stocks of medical and essential supplies are dwindling due to the blockade of an arterial highway running through Assam.Assam districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164.6km-long border with Mizoram’s Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit districts. The decades-old border dispute stems primarily from a difference in perception. Mizoram goes by an 1875 border agreement but Assam follows a 1933 demarcation.The police forces of the two states fought a pitched gun battle at a disputed border in southern Assam on July 26, in which six Assam policemen died. Assam claimed Mizoram police opened fire on its forces who objected to a road being constructed by Mizoram on a patch of forested land it claims. Mizoram claimed the land belongs to it.The BJP rules Assam and the Mizo National Front, a part of the BJP-led North East Democratic Alliance, is in power in Mizoram. The tensions abated last week after central intervention.Tripathi read the joint statement after the meeting that welcomed steps taken the Union home ministry.“The governments of Assam and Mizoram welcome and agree to take forward the initiatives taken by the ministry of home affairs, government of India and hon’ble chief ministers of Assam and Mizoram to remove tensions prevailing around the interstate borders and to find lasting solutions to the disputes through discussions,” said the statement.The ministers avoided questions on the demarcation of the interstate border and the blockade. When the journalists asked Lalchamliana questions on the subject, Bora intervened and said, “We are trying to bring peace, do not ask questions which can hamper this initiative. We have just started a discussion which is going to have several layers.”On the killing of police personnel, he said, “Forget the past, we are heading towards a new phase of border peace.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-mizoram-ministers-meet-in-aizawl-today-to-resolve-border-dispute-101628152072265.html
