07-08-2021||India||18 of 29 K’taka ministers retain portfolios; BSY’s Cabinet-rank facilities remain||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday allocated portfolios to 29 newly inducted cabinet ministers, with 18 of them retaining the ministries they had in the previous BS Yediyurappa government.Basavaraj Bommai took oath as the new chief minister of Karnataka on July 28. The 61-year-old leader was elected by the Karnataka BJP legislature party as its new leader to succeed outgoing chief minister BS Yediyurappa.While the CM kept the key portfolios of finance, Bengaluru development and cabinet affairs, debutant ministers secured plum portfolios -- Araga Jnanendra (home), V Sunil Kumar (energy, Kannada and culture) and BC Nagesh (primary and secondary education, and Sakala department).Significantly, defectors from the Congress and the Janata Dal Secular (JDS) in 2019, have retained their portfolios -- K Sudhakar (health and family welfare), BC Patil (agriculture), ST Somashekar (cooperation), Byrati Basavaraj (urban development), K Gopalaiah (excise), and Shivaram Hebbar (labour) retained the posts. However, two of the leaders — Srimant Patil and R Shankar — did not make it to the cabinet, but have been promised other posts, said BJP officer-bearers in the know of the developments.Five of the ministers in the previous cabinet -- Govind Karjola, B Sriramulu, CC Patil, Murugesh R. Nirani, and Shahikala Jolle -- have been allocated new portfolios, while another five -- V Somanna, Umesh V Katti, JC Madhuswamy, Anand Singh, and N Nagaraju (MTB) -- have been allocated additional ones.Lone woman minister in the cabinet, Shashikala Jolle, has been made in-charge of Muzrai, Wakf & Haj. She was women & child development minister in the Yediyurappa cabinet and had faced corruption allegations.The portfolio allocation has also given rise to some amount of disgruntlement, with ministers Anand Singh and Nagaraju openly expressing their displeasure. Singh, who has been allocated ecology, environment, and tourism portfolios, said: “I didn’t ask for this portfolio. Whatever request I made at the party forum has not been considered. I’m planning to meet the CM. I will request him to reconsider my request.” Nagaraju, who defected from the Congress to the BJP, has threatened to take serious action if his portfolio is not changed. He has retained the municipal administration portfolio, but has been given the additional charge of Small Scale Industries and Public Sector Industries.“Previous CM BSY and present CM Basavaraj Bommai have not kept their word. I am not happy with the allotted portfolio. Will take a call in this regard in 2-3 days,” he said in a Twitter post. Downplaying the disgruntlement among his cabinet colleagues, the chief minister said he will speak to them and sort out the issue. “I will call and talk to him. He is my good friend.” Later speaking to reporters in Hubballi, in response to a question on the portfolio Singh desired, the CM said, “Naturally everyone will have desire (for certain Ministries), it cannot be made public...everyone can’t get the portfolio they ask for.I will talk to him.” On giving key posts to debutants, Bommai said, it is with an intention to bring in new changes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-of-29-k-taka-ministers-retain-portfolios-bsy-s-cabinet-rank-facilities-remain-101628359987975.html
07-08-2021||India||Surge in Covid-19 cases adds to Kerala’s financial woes||Amid the high number of Covid-19 cases, frequent lockdowns and stringent regulations, signs of fatigue and weariness are visible on the tottering economy of Kerala. Whether it is the fatality rate, vaccination, tracking and testing and surveillance the state is way ahead but its daily caseload is quite high and the test positivity rate has remained in double digits for more than a month baffling experts. Kerala is grappling with an unusual situation-- it is struggling to strike a balance between saving lives and protecting livelihoods. The situation is complex in some of the densely-populated districts like Malappuram where the average TPR is above15 per cent. The state is also witnessing a spate of suicides—a majority are small-time traders and farmers. Desperation is quite visible as Covid-19 cases continue to rise and many say the government’s packages are cosmetic in nature. “My kidney and liver are intact. They are up for sale,” a street vendor put up a board recently in Thiruvananthapuram and a bus owner pasted a notice on his stationary bus that it is for sale for scrap in Kozhikode-- such scenes are not rare in Kerala these days. In the last two months the state witnessed more than 30 Covid-19 induced suicides. ‘On sale’ boards before shops are a regular sight. Two days ago the government was forced to take a re-look at its pandemic control measures as cases went up manifold and the Centre also started demanding answers. But these measures aggravated the crisis rather than solving it, the ground situation shows. “How long do we have to suffer like this?” This is the most heard question in markets, tourist spots and other places. And nobody has any answer to offer. According to new regulations, shoppers and employees at shops and malls will have to show their Covid-19 certificates and many agitated traders have threatened to close down their establishments. “We can’t remain lax now. We have taken strict measures in view of a possible third wave,” said state health minister Veena Geroge justifying the recent regulations. “We expected a soothing balm from the government but we got brickbats. Many traders have committed suicide. If the situation remains like this you can count on more suicides,” said merchants’ association leader T Nasaruddin blaming the government. “The government is not pragmatic in its approach. It goes by the advice tendered by bureaucrats. Its ears are not on the ground,” said opposition leader V D Satheesan criticising the government’s knee-jerk reactions. On Saturday, the state recorded another spike reporting 20,367 new Covid-19 cases with a test positivity rate of 13.35% after 1,51,523 samples were tested, according to the data released by the health ministry. It also reported 139 deaths taking the total number of fatalities to 17,654. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 38,628 cases-- the state’s share is more than 60%. And the countrywide TPR is 2.21 per cent. Out of 4,12, 153 active cases the state’s share is 1,78, 166. “Going by the case trajectory it will take two more weeks for cases to subside in the state,” said a medical expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surge-in-covid-19-cases-adds-to-kerala-s-financial-woes-101628352667279.html
07-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi’s account 'temporarily locked': Congress after Twitter denies move||Rahul Gandhi’s Twitter account has been "temporarily locked”, Congress said after the social media company denied the opposition party's claim that his handle was "temporarily suspended”. "The account has been temporarily locked," the Congress tweeted and tagged its older post.A Twitter spokesperson said Rahul Gandhi’s account has not been suspended and continues to be on the service. The company's spokesperson also said that when an account is suspended, Twitter removes it from a global view. This comes after the social media company removed his post that revealed the identity of the relatives of a minor who was raped and murdered. "Shri @RahulGandhi's Twitter account has been temporarily suspended & due process is being followed for its restoration," the Congress tweeted from its official Twitter handle. "Until then, he will stay connected with you all through his other SM platforms & continue to raise his voice for our people & fight for their cause. Jai Hind!" the party said in its earlier post.Shri @RahulGandhi’s Twitter account has been temporarily suspended & due process is being followed for its restoration. Until then, he will stay connected with you all through his other SM platforms & continue to raise his voice for our people & fight for their cause. Jai Hind!Earlier this week, Rahul Gandhi tweeted a photograph of him meeting the family of the nine-year-old girl, who was killed following an alleged sexual assault. A message from Twitter read that the tweet had violated its rules.The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) asked the Delhi Police and Twitter on Wednesday to take action against Gandhi over the photo. The child rights body said it violated the Juvenile Justice Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.Gandhi met the girl's family on Wednesday and assured his support. "Parents' tears are saying only one thing -- their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path to justice,” Gandhi tweeted in Hindi and posted the photo of his meeting with the girl's relatives.The girl from a Dalit family in Purani Nangal village near Delhi Cantonment was found dead in a local crematorium on Sunday night. A 55-year-old priest and three of his associates accused of the crime said the girl died of electrocution while fetching water from a cooler. But her family alleged that the suspects hurriedly cremated the body after raping her.The four accused have been booked under sections pertaining to rape, murder and threatening charges, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Prevention of Atrocities Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-s-account-temporarily-locked-congress-after-twitter-denies-move-101628350963493.html
07-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Planning to relax more Covid curbs in Maharashtra, says CM and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Planning to relax more curbs, call on local train travel soon: Maharashtra CMMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday the state government is planning to bring in more relaxations in the ongoing restrictions imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) but utmost caution is needed at this step. Read moreDr Aasha Goel murder case: 18 years on, trial yet to startAround 18 years after the murder of Dr Aasha Goel, her family is still awaiting the trial of four accused including one of her brothers and her maternal uncle. Read more'How will you...?': Kamal Nath questions MP govt over response to floodsFormer Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath on Saturday questioned the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led government over its response to the current flood situation in the state, also cautioning it that “this is not the time to play politics.” Read moreSherlyn Chopra says Raj Kundra ‘misguided’ her into shooting porn: ‘He even told me that Shilpa Shetty likes my videos’Sherlyn Chopra alleged that Raj Kundra ‘misguided’ her into thinking that ‘semi-nude and porn’ shoots were normal. She even claimed that he told her that his wife Shilpa Shetty liked her pictures and videos. Read more'It's unbelievable': Neeraj Chopra reacts after historic gold at Tokyo OlympicsReacting for the first time after winning a historic gold medal in men's javelin throw event at the Tokyo Olympics, India's Neeraj Chopra said 'it feels unbelievable.' Chopra's gold medal on Saturday was special in more ways than one. Read more34% of Indians do not use dating apps because they are afraid of scammers, Kaspersky report revealsKaspersky has conducted a global survey where it asked people about dating apps and their experiences with it. According to the survey results, most people do not use dating apps because they are scared of scammers. Read moreShanaya Kapoor steps out in ₹2k sporty outfit, pink Balenciaga bagShanaya Kapoor, the daughter of Sanjay and Maheep Kapoor, has become quite a celebrity even before her Bollywood debut and the young star kid is often in the news, be it for her sultry Instagram posts, dance videos or her fashionable outings in the city. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-planning-to-relax-more-covid-curbs-in-maharashtra-says-cm-101628348048553.html
07-08-2021||India||In Karnataka, 18 ministers retain portfolios from earlier Yediyurappa cabinet||Three days after they were sworn in, the 29 cabinet ministers in Karnataka got their portfolios. Eighteen ministers in the Basavaraj Bommai cabinet have retained the portfolios they held in the Yediyurappa government. In a significant move, ministers who had defected from the Congress and JDS two years ago to facilitate the BJP retained their previous portfolios. Ministers K Sudhakar (health and Family Welfare), BC Patil (Agriculture), ST Somashekar (Cooperation), Byrati Basavaraj (Urban Development), K Gopalaiah (Excise), and Shivaram Hebbar (Labour) retained their posts, even though there were concerns about them losing their portfolios in the new government. Two of the defectors— Srimant Patil and R Shankar —did not make it to the Bommai cabinet. Both leaders have been promised other posts. First time minister Araga Jnanendra was appointed as the Home Minister, the portfolio held by Bommai in the previous government. Another first-time minister V Sunil Kumar has been allocated Energy and Kannada Culture department, while BC Nagesh, who is also a first-time minister, has been allocated Primary and Secondary, and Sakala, portfolios. Five ministers have lost the old portfolios they held in the previous government and have been allocated new portfolios. These ministers are Govind Karjola, B Sriramulu, CC Patil, Murugesh R. Nirani, and Shahikala Jolle. Five Ministers -- V Somanna, Umesh V. Katti, J.C. Madhuswamy, Anand Singh, and N. Nagaraju (MTB) -- have been allocated additional portfolios. Some ministers have expressed displeasure over the portfolio allocations. Anand Singh, who has been given Ecology, Environment, and Tourism portfolios, said he would be meeting the Chief Minister. “I didn’t ask for this portfolio. Whatever request I made at the party forum has not been considered. I’m planning to meet the CM. I will request him to reconsider,” said Singh. Another minister and turncoat MTB Nagaraj has threatened to take serious action if his portfolio is not changed. Taking to Twitter, MTB Nagaraj has said that he is unhappy with the portfolio allocated to him. “Previous CM BSY and present CM Basavaraj Bommai have not kept their word. I am not happy with the allotted portfolio. Will take a call in this regard in 2-3 days,” Nagaraj tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-karnataka-18-ministers-retain-portfolios-from-earlier-yediyurappa-cabinet-101628347685746.html
07-08-2021||India||Chosen for gotra: Noida techie duped of ₹60 lakh on email promise of 12.5 million pound inheritance||A Noida-based software engineer has been duped of ₹60 lakh and the entire episode unfolded over a few mails in 2019. The Uttar Pradesh Police have finally solved the case and three men have been arrested from Bareilly.According to the UP police, Tarun Varshney, the victim, received a mail on January 8, 2019, from some 'Advocate Bruise Eddie'. In that mail, he was informed about the death of some Braj Varshney, who apparently died in a car accident in London in 2015. Braj Varshney had 12.5 million pound which, as the mail said, would be given to Noida's Tarun Varshney because the gotra matched. The email said that he was chosen because of his surname. About 50 per cent of the money would go to advocate Eddie, who apparently sent the mail.After this first email in 2019, Tarun Varshney started receiving several emails from IDs like United Kingdom attorney, Netix Bank London, asking him to complete the formalities to get the wealth. So far, he was not asked for any money, Police said, explaining how the fraud took place.Then Tarun Varshney received a mail confirming that the money has been transferred to the Reserve Bank of India and he was asked to pay customs duty registry service, legal heir charge, foreign currency exchange etc. These mails came from an ID that claimed to be of the foreign currency exchange department of Dehradun. These miscellaneous charges amounted to ₹60 lakh which the engineer paid to 25 different bank accounts.The investigation of Noida's cybercrime department led the probe to Bareilly where the conning racket was busted and Akeeluddin, Anees Ahmed and Asleem Khan were arrested. The trio has been running this racket for the past two years. Those 25 bank accounts, belonging to them, have been frozen with ₹13 lakh remaining in those accounts, police said.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chosen-for-gotra-noida-techie-duped-of-rs-60-lakh-on-email-promise-of-12-5-million-pound-inheritance-101628339514539.html
07-08-2021||India||Railways invites bids for hydrogen fuel-based technology for diesel-run trains||The Union ministry of Railways announced on Saturday it has invited bids for hydrogen fuel cell-based technology which, it said, will be used to determine whether diesel-run trains can be operated by using hydrogen instead. The technology will be tested on the Diesel Electric Multiple Unit (DEMU) on the Sonipat-Jind section of the Northern Railway, the ministry noted in its statement.“The retrofitting of diesel-powered DEMU and converting it into hydrogen fuel-powered train set will not only save the cost to the tune of ₹2.3 crore per year by converting from diesel to hydrogen, but will also save carbon footprint worth 11.12 kilo tonnes per annum and particulate matter worth 0.72 kilo tonnes per annum,” the statement read. It further said that once this pilot project is implemented successfully, hydrogen fuel can be used to run all the rolling stock which is scheduled to operate on diesel fuel after electrification.The project will initially see two DEMU rakes being converted based on hydrogen fuel cell power moment. Later, two hybrid narrow gauge locos will be converted as well. Once the conversion is done, the train will be powered by hydrogen fuel. “The bidding for hydrogen fuel cell-based DEMU will begin on September 21 and close on October 5. A pre-bid press conference will take place on August 17,” the statement informed. Hydrogen fuel, it said, is the greenest mode of transport as hydrogen can be produced by eletrolysing water from solar energy.According to the Railways ministry, very few countries are currently using this technique. One rake is currently undergoing trials in Germany while officials in Poland, too, are separately testing this technology on a rake, the ministry said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-invites-bids-for-hydrogen-fuel-based-technology-for-diesel-run-trains-101628337614663.html
07-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Fatigue, weakness common post-Covid complaints received, says AIIMS Patna and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Fatigue, weakness most common post-Covid complaint received by AIIMS PatnaA 27-year-old software engineer was hospitalised at Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on July 15 after he complained of blackouts, weakness and dizziness while attending to normal chores at home, for several days after his discharge from a hospital in Bengaluru after recovering from Covid-19 earlier. Read more.Do you care for people like you do for cows: Gujarat high courtThe Gujarat high court has asked the district magistrate of Gir Somnath whether the administration takes equal care for the people of the area as it does for the cows, Livelaw reported. The bench of Justice Paresh Upadhyay made this comment on Friday while he was hearing a case where the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) has been invoked against a man for allegedly tying up cattle in such a manner that it could not drink water. The district magistrate passed a detention order which the accused challenged in the court. Read more.Covid-19: Ocugen says Covaxin under 'active review' in CanadaOcugen, Bharat Biotech’s partner for the US and Canadian markets, has said that the Hyderabad-based firm’s anti-Covid shot, Covaxin, is under “active review” of Canadian health authorities. The application for vaccine's emergency use authorisation (EUA) in Canada was made on June 30, while the process of data submission and documentation was done between July 15 and 20. Read more.UK, Spain, UAE: Countries that have eased travel restrictions for IndiansFollowing diplomatic push, several countries have now eased travel restrictions on passengers from India. In this week, the United Kingdom, the United Arab Emirates and Spain have relaxed their international travel rules for Indians and people travelling from India. While these relaxations do not mean that every Indian can fly to these destinations, some Indians will be allowed to travel. Read more.Tokyo Olympics: Bajrang Punia wins bronze medal in men's 65kg wrestlingIndian wrestler Bajrang Punia on Saturday won the bronze medal after defeating Daulet Niyazbekov of Kazakhstan in the men's freestyle 65kg category. The second seed, who faced a crushing 5-12 defeat to Azerbaijan's Haji Aliyev in the semifinals, redeemed his campaign as he earned India's sixth medal of Tokyo 2020 with a clear 8-0 victory in the bronze medal bout. Read more.New MG Gloster seven-seater Savvy variant to be launched in India on August 9MG Motor India has announced that it will launch a new seven-seater Savvy variant of the Gloster SUV on August 9. Currently, the Savvy variant is available only in a six-seat layout. The new seven-seater trim is expected to be more affordable than the existing six-seat Savvy variant. Read more.Sonam Kapoor says she, sister Rhea Kapoor were ‘bullied’ by some men in Bollywood while making AishaSonam Kapoor said that she and her sister Rhea Kapoor were ‘bullied’ by some men in Bollywood while making Aisha. While Sonam played the titular role in the film, Rhea made her debut as a producer with it. Read more.Ananya Panday will make your jaws hit the floor in ₹22k plunging neck velvet dressBollywood actor Ananya Panday may only be a few films old in the industry, but she has already made an indelible mark with her fashion choices. Most recently, Ananya has been sharing style bombs with back-to-back pictures of herself slaying bold prints and quirky statements. The Student of the Year 2 actor also featured on the cover of Cosmopolitan India's August issue, and today, she unveiled another look from the shoot. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-fatigue-one-of-common-post-covid-issues-says-aiims-patna-101628333129244.html
07-08-2021||India||All you need to know about National Handloom Day||National Handloom Day has been celebrated on August 7 every year since 2015 to commemorate the Swadeshi Andolan that began in 1905 on this very day. The first National Handloom Day was marked by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Chennai. In the Mann Ki Baat episode aired on July 25, PM Modi talked about the importance of handlooms and extending support to artisans and weavers to boost the industry, specifically the production of khadi by the Bhunkar community and its consumption. "Please buy handloom products from rural areas," the Prime Minister urged his listeners.PM Modi reiterated himself on Saturday during an online interaction and tied up his vision for the handloom sector with that of the vocal for local initiative. “Khadi, which was once forgotten, has become a new brand today. Now that we are going on a new journey towards 100 years of independence, we have to strengthen that spirit of Khadi for independence. For a self-reliant India, we have to be vocal for the local,” he tweeted.Why is National Handloom Day celebrated?National Handloom Day is celebrated to mark the beginning of Swadeshi Andolan on August 7, 1905. This movement encouraged Indians to wear clothes woven by indigenous communities by their hands and to denounce foreign-made apparel.“On this day, we honour our handloom-weaving community and highlight the contribution of this sector in the socio-economic development of our country. We reaffirm our resolve to protect our handloom heritage and to empower the handloom weavers and workers financially and instil pride in their exquisite craftsmanship,” the government said in a statement.How will National Handloom Day be celebrated this year?The Union ministry of textiles will be celebrating National Handloom Day this year with a national level handloom expo at Dilli Haat in the national capital that is scheduled to run from August 1 to August 15.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman participated in the National Handloom Day celebrations in Ponduru village of Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh and laid the foundation for the Khadi Artisans Group Workshed.Sitharaman also handed over a cheque of ₹18 lakh for Andhra Fine Khadi Workers Development Association to empower artisans. To honour the spirit of the country’s resilient handloom industry PM Modi asked citizens to move forward with the message of “nation first always”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-you-need-to-know-about-national-handloom-day-101628327787223.html
07-08-2021||India||In Bihar’s Katihar district, mosque washed away by River Ganga||A mosque at Babla Banna village in Katihar district was washed away by strong currents of the River Ganga on Friday. This is the second such mosque which was washed away by the river within a week.“We saw our mosque being washed away by the river Ganga helplessly,” said Md Izhar of the village adding, “Erosion here is very sharp, and several houses are facing the threat of erosion in our village.”“A week ago too, a mosque was washed away by the strong currents of the River Ganga at Yusu Tola,” he said.Amdabad circle officer Anil Kumar Santoshi said, “Despite anti-erosion work undertaken, the threat of erosion is quite sharp this time. Over six villages are facing the threat of erosion.” Amdabad has been erosion-prone and so far, four government schools (three middle schools and one primary school) dozens of houses besides hundreds of acres of arable land have been washed away by the Ganga in the last five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bihar-s-katihar-district-mosque-washed-away-by-river-ganga-101628335444473.html
07-08-2021||India||'Navaneeta Seva': Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams announces initiative to promote indigenous cow breeds||Andhra Pradesh’s Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has announced the launch of a new initiative called “Navaneeta Seva” for the promotion and protection of indigenous cow breeds, Times of India reported on Saturday, quoting TTD Specified Authority chairman and Executive Officer Dr KS Jawahar Reddy. The decision was taken on Friday during the authority’s maiden meeting, which took place under the chairmanship of Dr Reddy.“As part of our divine mission to save indigenous bovine, we discussed three important tasks. Two of these were protection and promotion of indigenous cow breeds, and promotion of organic farming with cow products,” Dr Reddy said in his address to the media after the conclusion of the meeting which was held at Annamayya Bhavan in Tirumala.Dr Reddy, an IAS officer who is also the chairman of Andhra Pradesh’s Covid Command Centre, then explained what “Navaneeta Seva” is. “At least 20 kilogram of cow ghee is needed daily to prepare naivedyams, or food offerings, for Lord Venkateswara at the Tirumala Temple. At least 1000-1200 litre of milk is also required for this. The service, in which devotees, too, can participate, will be introduced using milk procured from indigenous cow breeds. Various philanthropists from across the country have expressed willingness to donate cows to us, while one donor has already donated 25 cows from the Gir breed for this novel initiative,” he elaborated, according to TOI.“We have also held negotiations with experts from Tirupati’s SV Veterinary University for an agreement on breeding policies, feed mixing, and embryo transfer technology to promote such breeds,” the official, who took over as Specified Authority chairman in June, said further.The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams is an independent trust which is responsible for the management of various temples in Andhra Pradesh, including the Triumala Venkateswara Temple.(Also with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navaneeta-seva-tirumala-tirupati-devasthanams-announces-initiative-to-promote-indigenous-cow-breeds-101628332737928.html
07-08-2021||India||What is Eta variant of Covid detected in Karnataka?||A case of Eta variant of Covid has been confirmed in Karnataka's Mangaluru this week, though the case is not new, reports have said. Four months ago, a person coming from Dubai was found Covid positive. His sample was sent for genome sequencing, the result of which has been confirmed on Thursday. This variant is not a new variant in India.Here is all you need to know1. According to World Health Organization, Eta was first documented in December 2020. WHO does not have the name of any one country as the place where this variant was first documented.2. On March 17, 2021, Eta has been designated as a variant of interest.3. Mizoram in July this year had reported one case of Eta variant.4. Reports said this variant is different from all other variants as it has both E484K and F888L mutations.5. This is also not the first occurrence of Eta variant in Karnataka, health officials have said.6. Eta is not a variant of concern yet and continues to be a variant of interest along with Iota, Kappa and Lamda, while Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta continue to be the variants of concern.The new finding does not add to the concerns of the third wave in the state as this is an old case, the result of which has come recently. Karnataka is witnessing a resurgence of Covid-19 cases since the last week of July. It has already put restrictions in place and has intensified border checking as bordering Kerala is experiencing a sudden rise in the number of daily Covid-19 cases. The positivity rate in the state is below 2 per cent but the reproductive value of the infection in the state is 1.2, which indicates that every 100 infected people in the state are spreading the infection to another 120 people during the infectious period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-eta-variant-of-covid-again-detected-in-karnataka-101628332715796.html
07-08-2021||India||Vaccine administration rising every month, 134.5 million doses given in July: Health minister Mandaviya||Union health minister Manuskh Mandaviya said on Saturday that the administration of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is gaining pace in India and pointed out that 134.5 million doses were administered in July.“India is going strong in the fight against Covid-19. Charting a path to ‘SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine’, vaccine administration is rapidly increasing every month. July saw a remarkable daily average of 43.41 lakh doses and a total of 13.45 crore doses,” Mandaviya tweeted.Also Read| India gets 5th Covid-19 vaccine as Johnson & Johnson's candidate gets approvalAccording to the Union health ministry’s data till 7am on Saturday, authorities have so far administered 501,009,609 vaccine doses and 390,041,560 people have received the first dose and the remaining 110,968,049 have got the second one and are fully vaccinated.Health minister Mandaviya's comments come a day after the country’s vaccination coverage crossed the 500 million mark on Friday, which was also the 203rd day of the inoculation drive that started on January 16 this year. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the Centre hopes to build on these numbers and ensure that citizens are vaccinated under the “Sabko Vaccine Muft Vaccine” movement.India is going strong in the fight against #COVID19Charting a path to #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine, vaccine administration is rapidly increasing every month.July saw a remarkable daily average of 43.41 lakh doses and a total of 13.45 crore doses pic.twitter.com/FAPJv5kGHO“India’s fight against Covid-19 receives a strong impetus. Vaccination numbers cross the 50 crore mark. We hope to build on these numbers and ensure our citizens are vaccinated under #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine movement,” Modi wrote on the microblogging site on Friday.Also Read| India's Covid vaccination coverage tops 500 million; PM, health minister commentMandaviya also tweeted about the milestone on Friday and mentioned the number of days it took to reach the 500-million mark.Currently, the vaccination drive is on for all citizens above the age of 18 and they are receiving doses of either Serum Institute of India’s (SII’s) Covishield, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin or Russia-made Sputnik V. American pharmaceutical company Moderna Inc has also been granted approval for its Covid-19 vaccine “Moderna”, which will be imported by Cipla. And on Saturday, another American company, Johnson & Johnson, was granted approval for emergency use of its single-dose shot in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1345-mn-covid-19-vaccines-administered-in-july-says-health-minister-101628330216621.html
07-08-2021||India||CM promises job to Sushila Chanu, lone Manipur player in women’s hockey team||Even though the Indian women’s hockey team lost to Great Britain 3-4 in the match for the Bronze Medal in Tokyo Olympics, Sushila Chanu Pukhrambam, one of the midfielders in the team, who hails from Manipur, will be given a suitable government job and cash award, the chief minister said.Manipur chief minister Biren Singh assured Chanu during a video call conversation shared on his social media account on Friday, and said, “Spoke to Sushila Chanu right after I landed in Imphal. We may have narrowly missed the bronze medal today but the team’s, as well as Sushila’s performance in Olympics Women’s Hockey has been exemplary.”In the video call chat, Biren Singh, a footballer turned politician also informed Sushila that a suitable post will be created in the Youth Affairs & Sports department for her besides a cash reward of ₹25 lakh, as announced earlier.Responding to a suggestion by Sushila, former captain of the Indian women’s hockey team, for further development of hockey in Manipur, Biren said, “We’re also planning to set up astroturf pitches for hockey at all district headquarters of the state.”Stating that the Indian men’s team’s victory in the bronze medal match and the women’s team entering the semi finals of the Olympics were remarkable, he also asked Sushila Chanu, the Indian team’s backbone in the midfield, to convey his congratulations to the rest of the team for their splendid performances, saying, “I appreciate the team, really proud of you, you’ve made the nation proud.”When asked about her feelings, 29 years old Sushila, who had led the national team in the Rio Olympics in 2016, said, “We have lots of players in Manipur including Olympians. Since hockey has become a popular game, I wish to develop both men’s and women’s hockey in our state.”Of the 19 Olympians the state has produced since the Los Angeles Olympics in 1984, seven are from hockey alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-promises-job-to-sushila-chanu-lone-manipur-player-in-women-s-hockey-team-101628329685845.html
07-08-2021||India||Do you care for people like you do for cows: Gujarat high court||The Gujarat high court has asked the district magistrate of Gir Somnath whether the administration takes equal care for the people of the area as it does for the cows, Livelaw reported. The bench of Justice Paresh Upadhyay made this comment on Friday while he was hearing a case where the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) has been invoked against a man for allegedly tying up cattle in such a manner that it could not drink water. The district magistrate passed a detention order which the accused challenged in the court.Charged of cruelty were invoked against the man who was accused of not taking proper care of the cows.While hearing the case, the judge remarked that protecting cows is alright and asked whether similar care is being taken for children and other people. According to reports, this is not the first time that the court asked these questions. In its June 28 order, the court asked a similar question but no reply came. Now the court has again asked the same questions and gave the district magistrate time till August 13 to reply."Opportunity is granted to the detaining authority, to file reply inter alia mentioning therein, whether the care which is claimed to have been taken on behalf of the State for gauvansh in the present case, similar care is being taken for citizens in the area under his jurisdiction. If any such reply is filed by the detaining authority before the next date of hearing, that shall also be taken into consideration by this Court while recording the final order. Until that exercise is done, the petitioner needs to be protected. Further execution of the impugned detention order therefore needs to be suspended," the order read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-you-care-for-people-like-you-do-for-cows-gujarat-high-court-101628329111784.html
07-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Ocugen says Covaxin under 'active review' in Canada||Ocugen, Bharat Biotech’s partner for the US and Canadian markets, has said that the Hyderabad-based firm’s anti-Covid shot, Covaxin, is under “active review” of Canadian health authorities. The application for vaccine's emergency use authorisation (EUA) in Canada was made on June 30, while the process of data submission and documentation was done between July 15 and 20.Also Read | Covid-19: Covaxin submits documents for emergency use authorisation in Canada“We have submitted everything that was needed for submission in Canada. All I can say is that the vaccine is under active review of Health Canada. On the specific timeline and approval clock, we can’t give you that at this stage,” Shankar Musunuri, chairman and chief executive officer of Ocugen, was quoted as saying on Friday. On July 30, both Health Canada and Public Health Agency of Canada informed that the review was “under way.”Also Read | Covaxin stares at an uncertain US launchIn June, the United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) rejected Covaxin’s EUA application, and sought more data on clinical trials of the vaccine. Afterwards, Ocugen announced it would only apply for full approval for the shot in the US market.Also Read | Why was Bharat Biotech's Covaxin not approved in US? Here's what we know so farBharat Biotech announced final phase 3 trial results for Covaxin in July, claiming that it was found to be 77.8% effective against mild and moderate Covid-19 cases. The corresponding figures for asymptomatic Covid-19 cases, severe cases and against Delta variant were 63%, 93% and 65%, the company noted in a statement.Also Read | Bharat Biotech says completed final analysis for Covaxin, claims 77.8% efficacyCovaxin is among five Covid-19 vaccines which have received approval in India, but is the only indigenous shot to have been approved thus far. The other four are Covishield, Sputnik V and the respective vaccine candidates of Moderna and Johnson & Johnson. The J&J shot is the latest to have been cleared for use in the country.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-ocugen-says-covaxin-under-active-review-in-canada-101628328295627.html
07-08-2021||India||Undertrial prisoner escapes from Covid ward of Odisha hospital||Days after two Covid patients died in a government hospital in Odisha under mysterious circumstances, an under-trial prisoner who had tested positive for the disease allegedly escaped from the Covid ward of another government hospital on Saturday.Officials said Mirata Singh of Nayagarh district, who was arrested on charges of cannabis smuggling and lodged in Baliguda sub-jail last month, was found missing from his bed at the Covid ward of MKCG Medical College and Hospital in Berhampur on Saturday morning.“Two police personnel who had accompanied Singh to the hospital were guarding the prisoner. We have informed the police regarding the custody break. The CCTV footage will be examined on how he managed to escape,” said Prof Santosh Kumar Mishra, superintendent of the hospital.Singh was admitted to the Covid ward at the hospital on July 31 after he tested positive. After a week-long treatment, he recovered and was about to be discharged. Police have launched a search for the escaped prisoner.This week, a 73-year-old Covid patient was found dead in the toilet of government-run SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack while a 25-year-old Covid patient at the same hospital died by suicide after jumping from the fourth floor of the hospital. Police are still probing both the deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/undertrial-prisoner-escapes-from-covid-ward-of-odisha-hospital-101628327524005.html
07-08-2021||India||UK, Spain, UAE: Countries that have eased travel restrictions for Indians||Following diplomatic push, several countries have now eased travel restrictions on passengers from India. In this week, the United Kingdom, the United Arab Emirates and Spain have relaxed their international travel rules for Indians and people travelling from India. While these relaxations do not mean that every Indian can fly to these destinations, some Indians will be allowed to travel.The United Kingdom has moved India from the 'Red' to 'Amber' list which means fully vaccinated Indians will not have to be quarantined for 10 days. But before travelling to the UK, vaccinated individuals too will have to take tests -- three days before the scheduled travelling date and then on or before day 2 after reaching the destination. Now, Covaxin and Covishield are not recognised by the UK government. So how does moving India from the Red to Amber list help? Unvaccinated Indians will have to quarantine for 10 days. They will have to take a Covid-19 test on or before day 2 and then again on or after day 8.Etihad to resume flights from 5 Indian cities from August 7India was on the Red List of the UK, going by which no Indians were allowed to visit the UK directly from India. Now, Indians are allowed in the UK but Indians may not get the waiver for the vaccinated individuals since UK has not recognised Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik V.The change will be effective from August 8.Spain has opened the doors for fully vaccinated Indians. Covishield is a recognised vaccine in Spain. Indian travellers must have a Schengen visa or apply for a Spanish visa, the new advisory said. Only the Delhi centre to process visa applications has opened.The United Arab Emirates have allowed people to fly from India but they have to fall into specific categories, identified by the UAE authorities. UAE residents, students, professionals working for UAE government agencies are allowed to travel back to the UAE from India. Transit passengers with negative RT-PCR reports are also allowed to travel from India. In the wake of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India, the UAE barred all flights from India. It even disallowed UAE residents stuck in India to come back, as only diplomats were allowed to fly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-spain-uae-countries-that-recently-eased-travel-restrictions-for-indians-101628324969484.html
07-08-2021||India||India gets 5th Covid-19 vaccine as Johnson & Johnson's candidate gets approval||Johnson & Johnson's single-dose vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was on Saturday granted approval for emergency use in India. The American pharmaceuticals company had applied to the Central Drug Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on August 5 seeking emergency use approval for its single-shot vaccine.In a statement issued on Saturday, the company said, "We are pleased to let you know that on 7th August 2021, the Government of India issued Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) for the Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 single-dose vaccine in India."The CDSCO approval comes as an important milestone for India. With an eye on a potential third wave of the pandemic, the central government has now granted EUA to a total of five Covid-19 vaccines.India has so far administered the Covishield, Covaxin, and Sputnik V vaccines. Mumbai-based pharmaceuticals company Cipla has also been granted approval to import the Moderna vaccine, which has shown 95 per cent efficacy against the coronavirus disease. With the latest approval of Johnson & Johnson's candidate, India has now paved the way for the single-dose vaccine to be available for people of the country.Johnson & Johnson made the EUA submission based on "topline efficacy and safety data from the Phase 3 ENSEMBLE clinical trial," a company statement said. The trials showed that the single-dose Covid-19 vaccine was 85 per cent effective in preventing severe cases of coronavirus disease across all the regions that were studied.Moreover, the vaccine also demonstrated protection against Covid-19 related hospitalisation and death, beginning 28 days after vaccination. "This is an important step forward in accelerating the availability of our Covid-19 vaccine to help end the pandemic,” read the statement issued by Johnson & Johnson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-gets-5th-covid-19-vaccine-as-johnson-johnson-s-candidate-gets-approval-101628323218504.html
07-08-2021||India||India prioritised the poor during Covid-19: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with the beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday, where he talked at length about his government’s strategy to prioritise the poor in the nation’s battle against coronavirus pandemic. The address took place through video conferencing.“India gave the first priority to the poor, in its strategy to combat the crisis due to coronavirus. Be it Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana or Pradhan Mantri Rozgar Yojana, we thought about food and employment of the poor from day one itself,” PM Modi said.The Prime Minister also claimed that as many as 80 crore Indians got free ration during the pandemic, of which five crore people were from Madhya Pradesh. "Not just wheat, rice or pulses but over 8 crore poor families were even provided free gas cylinders during the lockdown. Over 20 crore women received around ₹30,000 crores directly in their Jan Dhan bank accounts," the Prime Minister stated.Also Read: India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage tops 500 million; PM Modi, Union health minister commentDescribing the coronavirus pandemic as the biggest disaster faced by humanity in the last 100 years, he urged people to continue wearing masks, sanitise their hands, and abide by social distancing measures to check the spread of the virus. He made it a point to ask the beneficiaries he was interacting with about the various government schemes, besides Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, that they have benefitted from.PM Modi also reiterated his call for ‘vocal for local’ initiative with a special focus on Khadi, and urged Indians to buy handicraft items during the festive seasons to encourage the craftsmen working in this sector. “Khadi, which was once forgotten, has become a new brand today. Now that we are going on a new journey towards 100 years of independence, we have to strengthen that spirit of Khadi for independence. For a self-reliant India, we have to be vocal for the local,” the Prime Minister said.He also praised Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan for his efforts at tackling the flood situation in the state, and added that all necessary help has been provided to the state government to help them tackle the floods. "Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and his entire team are going to the spots and carrying out rescue and relief operations. Be it NDRF, Central forces, or Air Force, all facilities are being provided to the State government for help in this situation," he said during the interaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-prioritised-the-poor-during-covid-19-pm-modi-101628323521656.html
07-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Raj Kundra's plea against arrest rejected by Bombay HC and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bombay high court rejects Raj Kundra’s plea against arrest, remand in porn caseThe Bombay High Court on Saturday rejected the pleas, filed by actor Shilpa Shetty’s businessman husband Raj Kundra and his associate Ryan Thorpe, challenging their arrest and police remand in the case of alleged production and publishing of pornographic content. Read MoreExperts suggest measures for flood mitigation in BiharWith Bihar perennially battling floods in one part and drought in the other, experts from Nepal, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Roorkee, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Lucknow on Friday suggested different measures, including integrated flood management, intra-state interlinking of rivers, development of wetlands, silt management etc. Read MoreTaliban enforce Sharia in Ghazni, Pak plays double and Afghanistan in fluxMilitary situation continues to be fluid in Afghanistan with government security forces waged in a fierce battle with Taliban all over the country and Pakistan playing a double game of facilitating peace and simultaneously supporting the war effort of the Sunni Pashtun Islamic fundamentalist group. Read More‘Well played Aditi’: PM Modi, President Kovid laud Aditi Ashok’s performance at Tokyo Olympics 2020Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday lauded Indian golfer Aditi Ashok for showcasing commendable skill and resolve during the ongoing Tokyo Olympics 2020. Read MoreThe Empire trailer: Hotstar brings Bhansali-level scale to small screen 'in India's biggest show', watchHotstar on Saturday debuted the first trailer for its upcoming period epic series, The Empire, based on the book Empire of the Moghul: Raiders from the North by Alex Rutherford. Read MoreVolvo postpones XC40 Recharge launch in India to early next year; defers bookingVolvo Car India has informed that the launch of its first fully battery-powered offering - XC40 Recharge SUV, has been postponed to early next year due to a global shore of semiconductor chips. Read MoreShweta Tiwari in classic white blouse and beige pants shows how to wear statement sleevesTelevision star Shweta Tiwari knows how to glam up our weekends with her fashionable looks. Read MoreHiker resting in wildlife crossing structure sleeps through bear encounter. See picsThe organisation CSKT Wildlife Management Program recently took to Facebook to share about an incident that has now created a chatter online. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-raj-kundra-s-plea-against-arrest-rejected-by-bombay-hc-and-all-the-latest-news-101628319510847.html
07-08-2021||India||Mukul Roy says 'BJP will win', corrects it; Son explains faux pas||Trinamool Congress leader Mukul Roy who switched camp after the West Bengal Assembly election results on Friday said the saffron party will win the by-election in the state. It was a slip of the tongue which Roy realised as soon as he uttered the words and clarifying he said that he actually meant Trinamool."The BJP will win convincingly in the assembly by-polls. It will win in Tripura. There is not an iota of doubt in that," Roy who was with the BJP for four years said. "The 'Maa Mati Manush' party (TMC) will remain the winner here and open its account in Tripura as well. BJP will be nowhere in the state. They will be decimated. Mamata Banerjee will continue to helm Bengal," he said as he rectified himself.Seven assembly seats in West Bengal are slated to go to by-elections including the Bhabanipur constituency which Mamata will have to win to retain her chief minister's post as in the assembly election, she lost Nandigram to BJP's Suvendu Adhikari.While the BJP leaders have pounced on the opportunity and said that Roy had unwittingly blurted out the truth, his son Subhrangshu Roy, who also made a comeback to TMC along with his father, said that his mistake has been blown out of proportion. Expressing concern over Mukul Roy's health, Subhrangshu said his father has been forgetting things since his wife's death. Mukul Roy's wife died in July in a private hospital in Chennai after suffering a heart attack. She had recovered from Covid but was suffering from post-Covid complications.After that, Mukul Roy has been diagnosed with depression and a chemical imbalance in the body, Subhrangshu said to a news channel.Apart from the by-elections in the state, Trinamool Congress is also gearing up for elections in Tripura for which Prashant Kishor's I-PAC has been camping in the state."Mukulda has betrayed his voters in Krishnanagar North. He has lost his credibility. But he has spoken the truth. The truth has perhaps come from his mouth as he is under tremendous mental stress," BJP spokesman Shamik Bhattacharya said, as quoted by PTI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukul-roy-says-bjp-will-win-corrects-it-son-explains-faux-pas-101628320088195.html
07-08-2021||India||10 things to know about Covid-19 R-value in India and its states||Reproduction or reproductive number, known as the R-value of Covid, has become a closely followed measurement across the world and in India. It is a scientific concept which is the average number of new infections generated by one infected individual during the entire infectious period. One infected person is able to spread the SARS-CoV-2 infection to over 200 persons, but R factor is the real number of how many people are being infected from one affected person. The Union health ministry this week raised alarm over the R factor of eight states which are more than the national average.Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, Bengaluru have Covid R-value over 1, reveals study. What it means10 things to know about R-value and what in an increasing trend of R-value1. India's R-value, according to the health ministry data published this week, is 1.2. This means 100 infected people in India are infecting around 120 people.2. As it is a mathematical concept, the value is dynamic. It reflects changes every week.3. R-value of 1 and below is considered safe as that means that 100 people are infecting either the same number of people or less. This is an indication that the number of new infections is not more than the number of existing infections.4. The United States, Canada, Australia also have an R-value of 1.2 which explains why there is a global rise in the number of new Covid infections, which is being seen as the tip of a fresh wave.5. According to health ministry data, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Lakshadweep, Tamil Nadu, Mizoram, Karnataka, Puducherry and Kerala have high reproductive numbers.6. Nagaland, Meghalaya, Haryana, Goa, Jharkhand, Delhi, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra have a reproductive value of 1.7. States which are reporting a higher R-value are also reporting an increasing trend that is the transmission of the infection to more and more people are taking place at a fast rate.8. Decreasing trend suggests that though the R-value might be 1, the potency of transmission from one infected person to another is slowing down. This may happen if there are local restrictions, Covid appropriate behaviour etc.9. For example, Maharashtra and Delhi both have an R-value of 1. But in Maharashtra, it showed decreasing trend, while in Delhi, it was stable.10. The transmission and its rate is crucial to indicate the rise and fall of a wave. It also indicated the chances of mutation of a strain as the more transmission happens, the virus gets more chances to mutate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/increasing-trend-in-covid-r-value-what-does-it-mean-10-things-to-know-101628314414913.html
07-08-2021||India||Goa’s Mormugao Port slashes charges to promote container service||In a bid to encourage container traffic, the Mormugao Port in Goa is offering steep discounts to any container feeder operator wishing to start services from the port after the lone operator decided to discontinue its service. The cessation of the container service has triggered fear of disruptions in industrial and manufacturing activities in Goa due to increased export and import costs involved in use of other ports.“Container Agent M/s Maersk Line had declared to its customers to stop taking container bookings from MPT Goa. On further enquiry it was learnt that the only container feeder vessel operator from MPT Goa, M/s Sima Marine will discontinue the container vessel’s call at MPT Goa,” MPT said in a statement.The MPT, among other benefits, is offering 100% concession on vessel related charges (VRC) including pilotage, port dues and berth hire as an inaugural discount for the new operator’s first call, and 50% concession on VRC from the second call onwards, besides also promising priority ousting with 24-hour’s notice unlike the 48-hours ousting notice needed currently and 50% concession on the ousting charge.“Based on discussion with all stakeholders and after identifying the key barriers for the feeder operators and container agents, a decision was taken to grant substantial discounts to any new feeder operator commencing the service at MPT Goa. Some additional discounts were also agreed to for the container vessels for the next three months for the sea food export season,” the Port said in a statement.The concessions will be reviewed further after the first three months of the fishing export season.The Port has received interest from global shipping container company MSC India that seeks to start a container feeder service for its own export-import container business.Owing to the low volumes of containers handled at the port, Goa’s Mormugao Port relies on a feeder service to larger ports like Mumbai, where they are then loaded on to larger container vessels and shipped out.“This issue cannot be addressed only by the port but is also for the industry association and trade chambers in Goa to reflect upon. Apart from the adequate volume challenge, there is also a need for a reliable and efficient shore crane (Harbour Mobile Crane) at MPT Goa. The port has decided to address this issue in a short time frame probably through the Sagarmala funding route or any other suitable means,” said the Mormugao Port.The Port has, however, cautioned that the discounts alone will not lure container operators. “The only way to guarantee a regular and sustainable container service at Goa is by giving the operator a substantial volume, at least to a level that lends critical mass and then no container line or vessel operator will ignore Goa for container trade and abruptly stop the service.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goas-mormugao-port-slashes-charges-to-promote-container-service-101628312823313.html
07-08-2021||India||Twitter takes down Rahul Gandhi's tweet that disclosed rape victim's identity||Twitter has taken down Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s tweet that revealed the identity of the relatives of a minor who was raped and murdered. The tweet that showed a picture of Gandhi meeting the family members of minor girl showed as 'no longer available' on the microblogging website for violating its rules. A click on the tweet led to a message that read: "This tweet violated the Twitter rules."Posting a picture of his meeting with the minor's family earlier on Wednesday, Gandhi had tweeted in Hindi: "Parents' tears are saying only one thing -- their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path to justice."The action from Twitter comes after the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) had asked the Delhi Police and the microblogging site to take action over Gandhi posting the photo of the girl's family. The commission said that it violates the Juvenile Justice Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo in a tweet said that the child rights body took action after taking cognisance of reports which said that the Congress leader “sabotaged” the identity of the minor rape victim by posting the photograph of her parents on the microblogging site.Gandhi met the minor girl's family members earlier on Wednesday and asserted them that he is with them on the path to justice and "will not back down even an inch".Meanwhile, a Delhi-based lawyer Vineet Jindal ha filed a complaint in Delhi Police against Gandhi for allegedly disclosing the rape victim's identity, reports news agency ANI.In his complaint, Jindal stated that Gandhi from his Twitter handle @RahulGandhi shared his own photo along with the parents of the victim, which becomes discloser of the identity of the minor girl.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-takes-down-rahul-gandhi-s-tweet-that-disclosed-rape-victim-s-identity-101628310218629.html
07-08-2021||India||'Multifaceted genius': Rabindranath Tagore remembered on his 80th death anniversary||India marks the 80th death anniversary of the great Bengali polymath Rabindranath Tagore on August 7, a date which is known in West Bengal and Bangladesh as 'Baishe Srabon', solemnly marking the day when the poet and playwright passed away. Tagore, the first non-European person to win a Nobel Prize in Literature, was known for reshaping the structural framework of Bengali literature and music, along with other Indian art forms with the advent of modernism in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.Tagore not only composed India's national anthem "Jana Gana Mana" but also composed Bangladesh's "Amar Shonar Bangla" anthem. In addition to that, he is also believed to have inspired the national anthem of Sri Lanka.On Tagore's 80th death anniversary, the nation's leaders took to their official handles on Twitter to observe the day with solemn remembrance.My respectful tributes to the poet extraordinaire, Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore on his Punya Tithi today. He was a multifaceted genius- a philosopher, social reformer, educationist, playwright, painter & composer. #RabindranathTagore pic.twitter.com/JBAGjPgHSeRemembering India's great thinker and idealist Rabindranath Tagore Ji on his death anniversary. A true patriot whose contribution in art, literature and as a social reformer will continue to inspire the coming generations. pic.twitter.com/p6Bc7vSVFiMy humble tribute to Nobel laureate, polymath, and composer of our National Anthem Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore on his death anniversary. He would continue to inspire generations through his enduring literary masterpieces. pic.twitter.com/fWTNxIJR9eRabindranath Tagore was born to Debendranath Tagore and Sarada Devi on May 7, 1861, in the Jorasanko mansion of Calcutta. He lost his mother at the young age of 14, later travelling across India with his father. On returning, Tagore completed a set of major works by 1877, one of them being a long poem in the Maithili style of Vidyapati.Tagore, at the age of 17, enrolled at a public school at Brighton in East Sussex, England. He briefly studied law at University College London, but again left school. It was then that he started studying the works of William Shakespeare and was inspired by English, Irish, and Scottish folk tunes. Wanting to reconcile European novelty with Bengali traditions, Tagore returned to his homeland in 1880 and continued his literary career.In 1913, Tagore was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature for his translated work of poetry, 'Gitanjali: Song Offerings', published a year prior. He was also awarded a knighthood by King George V in 1915, but the poet later renounced it following the Jallianwala Bagh massacre.A combination of Tagore's life experiences gave us the gift of his immense talent in poetry, prose, songwriting, and art. From mystical romanticism to patriotism, Rabindranath Tagore left no stone unturned in the realm of artistic expression.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/multifaceted-genius-rabindranath-tagore-remembered-on-his-80th-death-anniversary-101628308489685.html
07-08-2021||India||Boy among 2 injured in suspected grenade attack in Jammu’s Ramban||A 16 year old boy was among the two injured in a suspected grenade attack on the office of a construction company in Banihal area of Jammu’s Ramban around 11 pm on Friday, a police officer said and added it was too early to call it a terror attack.‘The entire area has been cordoned off by the police and the army. A search operation has been launched,” said an official.A grenade is suspected to have been lobbed at a construction site of MG Construction Company at Gund in Banihal at 11.15 pm on Friday night resulting in minor injuries to a boy and an employee. They were admitted to the sub-district hospital in Banihal, the official quoted above added.The injured were identified as Gopal Sharma, 35, son of Rattan Lal of Udhampur and 16-year old Mohammad Aquib, who was standing outside a nearby Madarsa where he studied, when the blast took place.An under-construction office of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) district president Mohammed Salim Bhat and the Madrasa were also close to the area of explosion, resulting in the window panes of the Madrasa getting damaged, officials said.Soon after the incident, Ramban’s police chief PD Nitya (SSP), sub-divisional police officer (SDPO), sub divisional magistrate (SDM) and others reached the spot and a joint search operation was launched by the police, military and paramilitary forces.According to people aware of the developments, eyewitnesses said they heard a stone-like object fall on the shed of the company building before the blast.The SSP said a thorough probe will be conducted before arriving at any conclusions.“A mysterious explosion took place. Only after a thorough probe can we say something on it because being a construction site explosive material may have been kept there,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boy-among-2-injured-in-suspected-grenade-attack-in-jammu-s-ramban-101628310662819.html
07-08-2021||India||India's daily new Covid-19 cases fall to 38,634; active cases stay above 400,000-mark||India recorded 38,628 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 31,895,385 while the death toll climbed to 4,27,371 with 617 daily fatalities, according to Union health ministry update on Saturday.India’s active Covid-19 figures now stand at 4,12,153, according to data released by the ministry at 8am. The national Covid-19 recovery rate improved to 1.30 per cent, it stated. The number of active cases fell by 2006The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 31,055,861, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it said.The total number of vaccine doses administered so far has reached 501 million under the nationwide vaccination drive.Over 23 million balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states, Union Territories and private hospitals which are yet to be administered, the health ministry said on Friday. More than 511.6 million vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through all sources and 20,49,220 jabs are in the pipeline, it added.The Covid-19 vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and Union Territories for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. The new phase of universalisation of vaccination commenced from June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-new-covid-19-cases-fall-to-38-634-active-cases-stay-above-400000mark-101628297476924.html
07-08-2021||India||Ladakh administration eases restrictions on 'protected areas', issues new order||The Ladakh administration has removed restrictions for 'residents of the protected area' to visit other protected areas, news agency ANI reported. In an order, the Ladakh home department removed the need to get a permit for visiting those protected areas, according to ANI."....In the aforesaid identification documents to be issued to the residents of the Protected areas, the concerned Superintendents/ Deputy Superintendents, shall also specify the Protected areas lying in other Tehsils/ Districts which the holders of the said documents may visit for bona fide purpose without any permit," said an order issued by Lieutenant Governor of Ladakh, RK Mathur.Earlier on Friday, Mathur launched Ladakh Police's tourist wing to deal with the issues faced by the tourists visiting the Union Territory.The personnel will also ensure environment-friendly activities by the tourists, according to officials."A balance between assisting the tourists and adherence to legal aspects will be the key element defining the successful operation of this new tourist police wing," the Lieutenant Governor said on the occasion.He also said that with the help of technology, the new wing of the police will handle rescue missions and other medical emergencies faced by tourists.The new wing will be trained suitably to be able to create a flawless communication system with various tourism agencies, civil administration, health department and other stakeholders for effective coordination in the face of an emergency, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-administration-eases-restrictions-on-protected-areas-issues-new-order-101628308782448.html
07-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Shops, cinema halls to function daily from today in Bihar and all the latest news||Unlock 5 in Bihar: Shops to function daily from today; cinema halls reopenIn view of recent improvement in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation, Bihar is set to ease the restriction further, starting today. Read MoreRaj Kundra’s anticipatory bail plea to be heard today by a Mumbai courtBusinessman Raj Kundra, who is currently in judicial custody after being arrested on July 19 on charges of producing pornographic content, has an anticipatory bail hearing scheduled for Saturday at a Mumbai sessions court. Read MoreOdisha farmer dies by suicide over loan burden, failed cropA 45-year-old farmer in western Odisha district of Sambalpur died on Friday, two days after he consumed insecticide, allegedly due to crop failure and his poor harvest selling for very low price, said his family. Read MoreIndia vs England: Anil Kumble reacts after James Anderson surpasses him to become third-highest Test wicket-takerOn Friday, James Anderson added to his legacy by becoming the third-highest wicket-taker in Test matches. Anderson, on Day 3 of the first Test match between India and England in Nottingham, dismissed set batsman KL Rahul for 94 to go past Anil Kumble's tally of 619 wickets. Read MoreYo Yo Honey Singh breaks silence on wife's 'odious' allegations of domestic violence, asks fans not to draw conclusionsRapper Yo Yo Honey Singh has broken his silence on the domestic abuse and infidelity accusations levelled against him by his wife Shalini Talwar. Read MoreSidharth Malhotra shares his intense early morning workout in new post, Kiara Advani reactsBollywood actor Sidharth Malhotra is gearing up for the release of his upcoming film Shershaah with his rumoured girlfriend, Kiara Advani. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-shops-cinema-halls-to-function-daily-from-today-in-bihar-and-all-the-latest-news-101628305563514.html
07-08-2021||India||Uttarakhand announces ₹25 lakh cash reward for hockey star Vandana Katariya||Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami has announced a cash reward of ₹25 lakh to Vandana Katariya, a member of the India women's hockey team that participated in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics this year.Vandana became the first Indian woman hockey player to score an Olympic hat-trick, at the July 31 match where India beat South Africa 4-3 to keep quarterfinal hopes alive.Vandana scored in the first, second, and fourth quarters of India's last match in Pool A of the Tokyo Olympics to etch her names in the history books.Also Read | Tokyo Olympics: Indian women's hockey team shows they belong to the grand stage"We are proud that Uttarakhand's daughter Vandana Katariya made an unforgettable contribution to India's great performance in women's hockey at the Tokyo Olympics," the chief minister said. "In recognition of this, she would be given a cash reward of ₹25 lakh."An attractive new sports policy will soon be introduced in the state that will help nourish budding talent in different games, he added.Also Read | Sports awards should be named after sportspersons, says Maj Dhyan Chand’s sonVandana has played for the women's hockey senior national team in more than 200 international matches and was also part of the team that won a bronze medal at the 2014 Asian Games.Although the Indian women's hockey team lost the bronze medal match against Great Britain after putting up a valiant fight at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, this was, overall, Team India's best-ever showing at the Olympics yet. Before this, India featured only twice in the women's hockey event at the multi-sports programme. While they had finished in the fourth position in 1980 as well, they had not qualified for the tournament and competed in a six-team round-robin format.The India women's hockey team qualified for the Olympics for the first time in 2016 when they finished 12th out of 20 teams. However, they managed to finish fourth this time, shattering all earlier records and showcasing their rise over the years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-announces-rs-25-lakh-cash-reward-for-hockey-star-vandana-katariya-101628304801103.html
07-08-2021||India||Odisha farmer dies by suicide over loan burden, failed crop||A 45-year-old farmer in western Odisha district of Sambalpur died on Friday, two days after he consumed insecticide, allegedly due to crop failure and his poor harvest selling for very low price, said his family.45-year-old Kaibalya Rohidas, a farmer at Kudagunderpur village of Sambalpur district was under severe mental stress due to the losses he had suffered following crop failure. “My father produced two quintal paddy in the last Rabi season, but he could sell only 45 kg of his produce at [the] Minimum Selling Price (MSP). He suffered a huge loss amounting to ₹1.5 lakh as he had to sell the remaining paddy stock at a very cheap price, causing him huge mental distress,” alleged his son Dasarath Rohidas.The son said his father’s stress was compounded since he had to return an outstanding loan of at least ₹72,000 taken from a cooperative society to buy a power tiller.Following the farmer’s death, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Kuchinda, Nauri Nayak, visited the Rohidas family and assured that his loan will be waived-off and the family will be paid an ex-gratia of at least ₹10 lakh.“Many farmers suffered crop losses this season due to unexpected rains. Many farmers had to resort to distress selling of paddy. Kaibalya may have taken the extreme step under mental stress,” said Nayak.Dhankauda’s block development officer (BDO) Basant Hati said the farmer’s death will be inquired into to establish the exact reason.In February this year, a 50-year-old farmer from coastal Bhadrak district died by suicide after being pressurised by a non-banking finance company and a self help group that had loaned ₹50,000 to his family. The farmer’s family could not repay the loan due to the economic stress caused by the coronavirus pandemic.Last year, Odisha agriculture minister Arun Sahoo told the state Assmebly that 38 farmers had died by suicide in the state between 2016 and 2019. While 16 farmers ended their lives in 2016-17, 20 took the extreme step in 2017-18 and two in 2018-19. There is no government report on the number of farmer suicides in 2019-20 and 2020-21.The National Crime Record Bureau, which for the first time in 2014 published the statistics for farmer suicides, had said that bankruptcy or indebtedness and family problems were major causes of suicides among male farmers. In case of female farmers’ suicides, farming-related issues were the main cause followed by family problems and marriage-related issues, it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-farmer-dies-by-suicide-over-loan-burden-failed-crop-101628304302829.html
07-08-2021||India||PM Modi tells heads of Indian missions to ensure local goes global||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the government’s decision to get rid of retrospective taxation reflects India’s commitment to deliver on promises and sends a clear message to all investors about the opening up of new possibilities. Addressing a virtual meeting with heads of Indian missions and other stakeholders from the trade and commerce sector, Modi urged officials to take advantage of new opportunities created by changes in global supply chains in the post-Covid-19 era. The meeting, the first of its kind, was joined by commerce minister Piyush Goyal and external affairs minister S Jaishankar. The theme for the meeting, as outlined by Modi, was “Local goes global – Make in India for the world”. Referring to the importance of stability in doing business, he said the decision by India to get rid of retrospective taxation shows the government’s commitment and consistency in policies. “It sends a clear message to all investors that, moving forward, India is not only opening doors to new possibilities but the decisive government of India has the will to fulfil its promises,” he said. The government on Thursday introduced a Bill in Lok Sabha to prevent the income tax department from raising tax demands retrospectively, a move that attempts to end long-pending disputes with foreign firms such as Vodafone Plc and Cairn Energy Plc that together involve a sum of more than ₹20,000 crore. The move was seen as investor-friendly, and seeks to bring to an end messy litigation and arbitration, especially with Cairn, which has resulted in the company staking claim to India’s overseas assets. Modi said that the celebration of the 75th Independence Day is an opportunity to build a clear vision and roadmap for India that includes the country’s export ambitions. As the world shrinks due to physical, technological and financial connectivity, new possibilities are being created for the expansion of India’s exports. Modi stressed the importance of strengthening exports to regain India’s old share of the global economy. He urged stakeholders to focus on taking advantage of new opportunities created by changes in the global supply chain following the pandemic. As the country moves towards “Atmanirbhar Bharat”, one of its goals is to increase exports manifold by accessing the global supply chain. “While encouraging competition and excellence, we have to prepare global champions in every sector,” he added. Modi listed four factors that are crucial for increasing exports. Manufacturing has increased and has to be qualitatively competitive, while the problems of transport and logistics should be removed jointly by the Centre, states and private stakeholders. The government should work with exporters, and the international market for Indian products has to be expanded. He stressed the role of states in achieving export targets, implementing reforms, attracting investments, ensuring ease of doing business and creating last mile infrastructure. The central government is working closely with states to minimise the regulatory burden to increase export and investment, he added. Export targets can be achieved only through a holistic action plan. With almost half of India’s exports going to only four major destinations and engineering goods, gems and jewellery, petroleum and chemical products and pharmaceuticals accounting for 60% of exports, there is a need to find new destinations and new export products, he said. The event was also joined by secretaries of more than 20 departments, state government officials, and members of export promotion councils and chambers of commerce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-tells-heads-of-indian-missions-to-ensure-local-goes-global-101628302202881.html
07-08-2021||India||India-UAE flights to resume from more cities today. Check travel guidelines here||In what comes as a piece of good news for passengers looking to fly to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) from India, more flight services facilitating travel between the two countries are starting from Saturday (August 7). Etihad Airways, the second-largest airline and flag carrier of the UAE, said earlier this week that flights to Abu Dhabi from a number of Indian cities will be resuming from August 7. More such flights will begin on August 10 (Tuesday) from three additional cities, the airline said.The UAE has not completely lifted the travel restriction on India, which means that not everyone will be allowed to fly to the country. Only UAE citizens and transit passengers from India are now allowed to travel to the UAE.The UAE has lifted the transit ban for travellers from six countries, including India, travelling from and to the country amid the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Besides India, the ban has been lifted for Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Nigeria, and Uganda.India-UAE flights: All you need to knowBetween August 7 (Saturday) and August 9 (Monday), Etihad Airways will operate India-UAE flight services from the international airports at Chennai, Kochi, Bengaluru, Trivandrum, and New Delhi. Starting next Tuesday, the airline will also resume similar flight services from three additional cities - Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, and Mumbai.Notably, flights from India to cities in the UAE such as Sharjah and Dubai had already started earlier this week on Thursday (August 5). Two flights, operated by the UAE airlines Air Arabia and Emirates (one service each), departed from the Cochin International Airport in Kerala in the early hours of Thursday.Air Arabia flight G9-426 departed to Sharjah at 3:50am with 69 passengers on board while Emirates operated EK 531 to Dubai with 99 passengers. The flight departed at 10.30am.India-UAE flights: Covid-19 guidelinesAccording to the new travel guidelines issued by the UAE, Indians who own resident visas and are fully vaccinated in UAE and completed 14 days after the second dose will be permitted to enter the UAE on acceptance of their registration with either the GDRFA (General Directorate of Residency and Foreigners Affairs), Dubai, or the ICA (Federal Authority of Identity and Citizenship), UAE.In a tweet, UAE's National Emergency and Crisis Management Authority (NCEMA) said, "These categories include those with valid residency permits who have received full vaccination doses in the UAE and 14 days have passed since receiving the second dose and who have vaccination certificates approved by the official authorities in the country."Once in Abu Dhabi, all travellers will have to undergo mandatory quarantine for 10 days. Additionally, the travellers will have to wear a medically-approved tracking wristband, provided by the airport authorities, during the quarantine period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiauae-flights-to-resume-from-more-cities-today-check-travel-guidelines-here-101628297936337.html
07-08-2021||India||Tejas Express set to be back on track from today||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has announced that the Ahmedabad – Mumbai and Lucknow – New Delhi Tejas Express trains will resume operations from Saturday.According to the IRCTC, train number 82901/82902 Ahmedabad – Mumbai – Ahmedabad and train number 82501/82502 Lucknow – New Delhi – Lucknow will run four days a week - Mondays, Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. The passengers can book tickets on the IRCTC website irctc.co.in or IRCTC Rail Connect app.The Railways had halted the operations of Tejas Express amid the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.The New Delhi-Lucknow Tejas express was launched in October 2019. It was the first train to be fully operated by the IRCTC. It takes over six hours to complete the journey in each direction. The train offers various modern facilities to passengers along with a rail travel insurance of ₹25 lakh free of cost.The Ahmedabad-Mumbai route was started in January 2020. It has two executive class chair cars, each having as many as 56 seats as well as eight chair cars, each having capacity of 78 seats. High-quality food and beverages are provided to passengers on board, which are included in the ticket fare. Each coach of this train is equipped with RO water filter in addition to the packaged water bottle. The passengers of this train too are provided with rail travel insurance of up to ₹25 lakh.The coaches of Tejas Express are equipped with smart features for passenger safety and comfort. The smart coach aims to provide world-class facilities to passengers with the help of intelligent sensor-based systems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tejas-express-set-to-be-back-on-track-from-today-101628294681829.html
07-08-2021||India||Bihar schools for Classes 9-12, colleges, coaching institutions to reopen today||Schools in Bihar are reopening for Classes 9 to 12, along with colleges and coaching institutions from Saturday. Chief minister Nitish Kumar announced the news of educational institutions reopening with 50 per cent capacity on his Twitter handle on Wednesday.According to state government, the crisis management committee will assess the situation and is most likely to open schools in Bihar from Class 1 to 8 after August 15. The committee, in its meeting chaired by Kumar, formulated certain guidelines under 'Unlock 5', including making schools operational with 50 per cent attendance for students above Class 9 from Friday.The state's health department has said that it will make special arrangements for vaccination of adult students, teachers and staff of the educational institutions. The education department will also collaborate with the Bihar state disaster management authority to give information about Covid-19 friendly behaviour like social distancing and wearing of masks so that children and parents can be made aware.Here are the latest guidelines:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-schools-for-classes-9-12-colleges-coaching-institutions-to-reopen-today-101628293663028.html
07-08-2021||India||Social media must be used to wipe out negativity, spread awareness: UP CM||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday slammed the opposition for spreading negativity, lies and hate on social media. The remarks were in reference to the opposition protest on various issues, which has led to suspension of business in Parliament's monsoon session.Adityanath said that social media is a powerful tool which must be used to spread awareness and positivity rather than spreading fallacious information."Social media has become a powerful instrument of democracy. It must be used as a weapon to counter fake news and statements immediately in order to avoid conflicts that are made up to satisfy selfish motives," the chief minister said while addressing a workshop of Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) IT and social media cell in state capital Lucknow on Friday.Emphasising on the important role social media can play in good governance, the BJP leader said that it is the fastest growing form of media which is also the fourth pillar of a democratic nation. He said that social media should be used in a way to build a better interactive bridge between the government and the citizens.Adityanath asked the party's social media team to highlight the achievements of the BJP-led government."Social media connects people at ground level. So, in order to spread awareness, videos of people who have availed benefits of government schemes must be uploaded to promote them further," he stated.Targeting people who show Uttar Pradesh in bad light, Adityanath further asserted that the opposition leaders, desperate to regain lost political ground, are solely engaged in political stunts to topple the efficient working of the government instead of educating and making people aware of issues in reality."Those who are presenting themselves as 'well wishers' of farmers and are disturbing the peace of the nation must know that over 45 lakh sugarcane farmers in UP have been paid a record cane price payment of more than ₹1,40,000 crore," said the CM adding that, "We must work as a team and make people aware of our achievements through social media to put an end to fake statements."Lashing out at the opposition for creating fake scenarios on social media, the chief minister asked people to be more alert and cautious of what they read and share.Yogi also said that people should first check when they receive a news on social media before forwarding it to others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-media-must-be-used-to-wipe-out-negativity-spread-awareness-up-cm-101628294344609.html
07-08-2021||India||Opposition leaders accuse Centre of ‘selectively using’ House channels||Several Opposition leaders slammed the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday for “selectively using” official Parliament channels to display different sets of visuals on screens inside the chambers and outside, saying that it amounts to “suppression of dissent, and censorship”.Former information and broadcasting minister Manish Tewari alleged that the Lok Sabha Television, which airs proceedings of the House, was “censoring” content in a “concerted effort to squelch dissent in the supreme legislative institution”. “Lok Sabha TV is not the property of a particular political party, it must show proceedings in (an) unbiased manner. The selective focusing of the camera is (the) worst form of censorship,” the Congress MP tweeted.“Whenever the opposition raises an inconvenient issue, the mic is switched off. This is a concerted effort to squelch dissent in the supreme legislative institution. It is not only censorship, but it subverts both democracy and rule of law,” he added.Terming the alleged move as “the height of censorship”, he said: “Lok Sabha TV cameras show one thing inside the house on giant TV screens in the Chamber and absolutely another thing on the Lok Sabha TV Channel. As former Union I&B minister, it is preposterous the way a supposedly autonomous institution is behaving.”Tewari’s claims came days after Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien first pointed out the alleged difference in visuals from the House on August 3.Shiromani Akal Dal MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Friday said: “Even the Lok Sabha TV is used for a political purpose... Today they even went to the extent of playing a trick on the MPs where TV screens inside the House showed our protests but what the public sees did not show it.”HT reached out to a Parliament official but could not get a response till the time of print.A former LSTV official familiar with the matter, however, said the issue was raised at least twice before, once during the Congress’s tenure with reference to the Telangana Bill and then in 2019 under the BJP government.Besides, the official added, the channel does not control the cameras in the chambers. “What the MPs see on the screens in the chambers is not what is telecast outside,” the official said. The protests that take place on the floor of the House, said the official, are generally avoided. “Moreover, the proceedings can be stopped from being telecast any moment by the Speaker or the Chair.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-leaders-accuse-centre-of-selectively-using-house-channels-101628288461941.html
07-08-2021||India||Help create markets for Indian exports, PM urges missions abroad||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday urged Indian missions abroad to help create new markets for Indian exports exploiting the opportunities created by the economic churn due to the pandemic including the setting up of new and resilient supply chains.Noting that Indian exports were currently about 20% of India’s GDP, the PM expressed the view that this was not commensurate with India’s economic size and manufacturing capacities. “When India is working towards the goal of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self reliant India) one of its goals is to increase the share of Indian exports in the global supply chains,” he told 200 Indian ambassadors and envoys besides members of commercial and economic wings of missions and consulates.The comments came as government data showed that India exported goods worth a record $35.2 billion in July, signalling that the rapid economic recovery in key western markets was increasing demand for Indian products. The government has set a merchandise exports target of $400 billion for FY22 and $1 trillion in the next five years.“We have to make sure that in keeping with international demand, we gain access to markets so that our businesses scale up their capacities to meet these demands,” he said at an event attended by more than 13 Union ministers and senior officials of the 30 ministries.To boost exports, Modi said, manufacturing had to be scaled up with special emphasis on quality of products, transport logistics’ bottlenecks cleared at all levels, the government — both at the central and state levels — need to work closely with Indian businesses and missions need to identify more destinations for Indian products.“When these four factors come together, then only India’s local products will go global,” he said.To the envoys, Modi said they should ensure that 75 new products from India find a market in the countries they are posted in to mark 75 years of Indian independence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/help-create-markets-for-indian-exports-pm-urges-missions-abroad-101628287747653.html
07-08-2021||India||Live-in relationships cannot be at cost of nation’s social fabric: Allahabad HC||Observing that “live-in relationships cannot be at the cost of the country’s social fabric”, the Allahabad high court recently dismissed a plea by a married woman seeking protection from her husband who was allegedly interfering in her relationship with another man.c noted on July 29 while rejecting the plea filed by the woman and her live-in-partner, and imposing a fine of ₹5,000 on them. The court refused to give any protection to the petitioners as, it observed, that doing so would amount to “indirectly giving assent to such illicit relations”.In her petition, the woman alleged that she was tortured by her husband and was forced to start living with her partner. She added that her husband recently barged into the house of her partner and tried to disrupt their peaceful life.The court said that if her husband barged into the house, a criminal complaint can be filed against him but “none law abiding citizen who is already married under the Hindu Marriage Act can seek protection of this court for illicit relationship...”The high court however, clarified: “We hold that we are not against granting protection to people who want to live together irrespective of the fact as to which community, caste or sex they belong to.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/livein-relationships-cannot-be-at-cost-of-nation-s-social-fabric-allahabad-hc-101628287422517.html
07-08-2021||India||2 terrorists killed in Rajouri encounter: Cops||Two terrorists were killed in a gunfight with security forces in Thannamandi area of Jammu & Kashmir’s Rajouri district early on Friday, police said.“An encounter has started in Pangai village in Thanamandi area of Rajouri. Three to four (terrorists) are expected to be trapped,” said additional director general of police Mukesh Singh. Later, the army confirmed that two terrorists were killed in an exchange of fire. “We feel they (terrorists) have moved from Kashmir to this side,” he said, adding that two of them are foreigners.Singh said security forces were tracking a group of terrorists in the forest belts of the Rajouri district for the past one month. “Today, we got inputs from Thanamandi, resulting in an encounter in the forest belt.”Firing started as soon as security forces zeroed-in on the location of the terrorists, said officials familiar with the matter.Suspected Pak drone drops arms, ammunitionMeanwhile, security forces on Friday recovered a cache of arms and ammunition, dropped by a Pakistani drone, from the border district of Samba. “Own vigilant troops #RisingStarCorps spotted Drone activity near the IB in #Samba at early hours today. Search of the area resulted in recovery of arms and ammunition.@adgpi,” Western Command, Indian Army tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-terrorists-killed-in-rajouri-encounter-cops-101628286007339.html
07-08-2021||India||SC upholds Singapore court order on Future-RIL deal||In a major victory for e-commerce giant Amazon, the Supreme Court on Friday ruled that Future Group is bound by an emergency award that restrains it from a $3.4 billion sale of retail assets to Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL).A bench of justices Rohinton F Nariman and BR Gavai held that the Singapore-based Emergency Arbitrator (EA) award, passed in October 2020, was enforceable under Indian arbitration law, and will bind the Kishore Biyani-led group of companies to pertinent agreements with Amazon.“A party cannot be heard to say, after it participates in an Emergency Award proceeding, having agreed to institutional rules made in that regard, that thereafter it will not be bound by an Emergency Arbitrator’s ruling,” said the bench, while allowing the petitions filed by Amazon, which is engaged in a legal wrangle with RIL for domination of the Indian retail market.In its 103-page judgment, the top court noted that “it cannot lie in the mouth of a party to ignore an Emergency Arbitrator’s award by stating that it is a nullity when such party (Future Group) expressly agrees to the binding nature of such award from the date it is made and further undertakes to carry out the said interim order immediately and without delay.”The case was about Future’s decision to sell its assets to Reliance; Amazon contended that it violated the former’s 2019 contract with it. The Singapore EA agreed, restraining Future from going ahead with the deal, even as it went about the arbitration proceedings. The top court’s order upholds that ruling.Underlining that the Future Group agreed to the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) Rules and participated in the proceedings before it, the bench held that no party can turn around after losing and say that the award is a nullity or coram non judice (not before a proper judge) when there is nothing in the Arbitration Act which interdicts an Emergency Arbitrator’s order.The court, referring to a body of Supreme Court judgments, accepted Amazon’s argument and said that an Emergency Arbitrator’s award will be a valid award within the contemplation of the Arbitration Act, and has to be held as an order under Section 17(1) of the Act (for passing interim reliefs).An Amazon spokesperson said: “We welcome the verdict of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India upholding the Emergency Arbitrator’s award. We hope that this will hasten a resolution of this dispute with Future Group.”Future Group said that it has remedies available in law, which it will exercise. “FRL intends to pursue all available avenues to conclude the deal to protect the interests of its stakeholders and workforce,” said a Future Group’s spokesperson, adding they were awaiting the decision of the arbitral tribunal on the emergency award.Meanwhile, rejecting the argument of the Future Group that an emergency award is outside the ambit of Section 17 of the Arbitration Act and an Emergency Arbitrator cannot be construed as an “arbitral tribunal”, the bench highlighted that there is nothing in the Act that prohibits contracting parties from agreeing to a provision providing for an award being made by an Emergency Arbitrator.The court pointed out that Amazon and Future Group have not bypassed any mandatory provision of the Arbitration Act by agreeing to the SIAC Rules and the award of the Emergency Arbitrator. The court also refrained from entertaining submissions by Future Group on “third parties” being affected in enforcement proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-upholds-singapore-court-order-on-future-ril-deal-101628280663056.html
07-08-2021||India||Opposition joins farmers’ protest at Jantar Mantar||Leaders of 13 Opposition parties attended the farmers’ protest at Jantar Mantar against three controversial farm laws on Friday as disruptions and protests continued to rock Parliament for the 14th day with the Opposition sticking to its demand for a debate on the Pegasus phone hacking controversy.Around 200 farmers have been camping at Jantar Mantar since July 22 to hold what they call a ‘kisan parliament’ (farmers’ parliament) to demonstrate against the three central laws that sparked protests in food bowl states immediately after being passed last year.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said at the site, “You all know what is happening in Parliament. We want to talk about the Pegasus in Parliament but they (government) are not allowing the issue of Pegasus to be raised.”He blamed Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “(PM) Narendra Modi has snooped inside every Indian’s phone,” he said.The former Congress chief also announced that the Opposition parties came to Jantar Mantar “to support farmers from all parts of India”.“Nothing can be worked out through a discussion. These laws need to be repealed,” he said.The visit to the protest site, as reported by HT on Friday, however, was not without some underlying tensions in the Opposition ranks. Trinamool Congress (TMC) sent three MPs to Jantar Mantar at 10 am, about two hours before Gandhi and other leaders met the farmers.A senior TMC leader said their schedule was fixed last Tuesday while another leader suggested that TMC would maintain distance from any event seen to be “led” by Gandhi. In the morning meeting where Gandhi was present, Mamata Banejree’s party sent representatives but not their floor leaders.The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Samajwadi Party, Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, Indian Union Muslim League, Revolutionary Socialist Party, National Conference and Loktrantrik Janata Dal were present at Jantar Mantar, apart from the Congress.The monsoon session of Parliament has been washed out by protests and disruptions by Opposition parties over the alleged snooping row, controversial farm bills and rising petrol prices, among other issues.In the Lok Sabha, Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury cautioned the government that they are just “tenants” and “power and money” won’t last forever. He added that from the beginning of the session, the Opposition wanted to debate the three farm laws and the price rise.Junior minister for parliamentary affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal retorted and said that, “Even the government wanted these debates but you (the Opposition) are not allowing us.”With no end to logjam in sight, the government added four more bills, including a Constitutional amendment, in its agenda. It also wants to clear bills to create national commission for homeopathy and national commission for Indian system of medicines.The most important among them is the 127th Constitution Amendment Bill 2021, which was cleared by the Union Cabinet earlier this week and aims to restore the power of states to identify backward castes, effectively bypassing a recent Supreme Court verdict that triggered protests in several states.The amendment would require two-thirds majority in both Houses of Parliament of those present and voting.Government managers said that two senior ministers Pralhad Joshi and Piyush Goyal are in talks with the Opposition to pass the bill. In the Business Advisory Committee meeting, the Congress leaders raised doubts on how the government can ensure that the Houses would be in order—a requirement to pass constitutional amendments. In the BAC, TMC leaders walked out protesting hurried passage of bills without any parliamentary scrutiny.The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international investigative consortium reported that the phones of Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 numbers from around the world that were potentially targeted by the Israeli firm NSO Group’s phone hacking software.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-joins-farmers-protest-at-jantar-mantar-101628280039211.html
07-08-2021||India||Bonhomie after Assam-Mizoram talks yet to reflect at border points||SILCHAR: Ministers and high-level officials of Assam and Mizoram attended an important meeting at Aizwal on Thursday to find a peaceful solution to the border dispute, the first meeting between top functionaries of the two states after the July 26 firing. “Forget the past, we have initiated a discussion to draw a permanent solution on the border dispute between Assam and Mizoram. This is a new beginning,” said Assam’s border security minister Atul Bora said.The two states also agreed not to send their security forces to the disputed areas where neutral forces have been deployed by the central government. Assam also immediately withdrew its travel advisory which asked residents not to travel to Mizoram. But more than 24 hours after the meeting, people are unable to travel through the border areas between Assam and Mizoram. Central forces deployed along the border said they don’t have permission to allow people to cross over in their private vehicles. On Friday, many people were seen walking across the state border but no private vehicles were allowed to operate from either side.Vinay Kumar Saini, assistant commandant, CRPF stopped Carolyne Pachuau, an official in Mizoram’s Kolashib district, when she tried to help a group of people to travel across the border.“We have orders from the higher authority that no private vehicle without a valid permission from their respective district administration or state government can cross the border at this moment. However, we are allowing people with valid documents to cross the border area if they can walk,” the CRPF official told Carolyne Pachuau.Vinay Kumar, who is studying to join a public sector bank, said he walked almost four kilometres to cross Assam-Mizoram border. Along with some of his friends Vinay Kumar, a native of Madhubani in Bihar, is trying to reach Aizawl to write a bank recruitment exam.“We knew that tension is prevailing in the border areas for some days, but we took a chance. The exam will be held on its scheduled date and we are lucky enough to cross even after trekking for more than four kilometres.”Kalyan Ray, a resident of West Bengal, a construction worker with the railways in Mizoram, said he and 10 other co-workers also walked across the border on Friday afternoon.“We had to walk a few kilometres from Kolashib district of Mizoram to Assam’s Lailapur to cross the border because vehicles are not allowed to move,” Ray said.The Mizoram government blames Assam for blocking the road.“We are welcoming the common people of Assam to come to Mizoram. There is no fear or risk. Even the common people are willing to come but Assam government is using its police to man the economic blockade which is prevailing since July 26. During the meeting yesterday, both the states assured that there will be no blockade, but it is unfortunate that Assam is not keeping it’s promice,” Mizoram chief secretary Lalnunmawia Chuaungo told HT: Assam officials deny the charge.Superintendent of police of Assam’s Cachar district, Ramandeep Kaur said officials are trying to convince people not to be afraid to go to Mizoram and plan to conduct meetings with the civilians at border areas in this regard.“Assam government has withdrawn it’s travel advisory yesterday and from our side, nobody is being stopped to travel to Mizoram. Some vehicles are coming from Mizoram side as well, but on Thursday, some locals attacked a vehicle at Lailapur. In order to convince the people, we are going to conduct public meetings in the border areas, which will start from tomorrow.The Cachar administration has deputed seven executive magistrates to strengthen security arrangements along border at Khulichera area under Sonai Circle on Friday and publicised their phone numbers so that people who face any problem can call them.Cachar deputy commissioner Keerthi Jalli also issued an announcement, declaring that the magistrates will take appropriate steps to deal with law and order situation.On the Mizoram side, people including officials suggest there was a gap between the agreements reached between leaders of the two states and the situation on ground.Carolyne Pachuau said camps were build at multiple locations such as Saihapui V, Buarchep, Aitlang, Chuvel, Jauphai/Bhairavi, Phainum, Medli, Mamit and Thinglun even after July 26.“If we look at the names of these places, they all are named in Mizo language. On July 26 Assam police captured our camp which resulted in the unfortunate killing of their six officials. They are still trying to do the same which has angered the common people of Mizoram. It is natural that they will try to save their land from Assam,” she said.On Friday evening, four vehicles carrying eggs to Mizoram were vandalised in Assam. Local residents said they will not lift the blockade till Mizo security forces are withdrawn from their posts till Vairengte auto stand. Police officials rushed to the spot but did not give any details. A police officer incharge of Dholai police station said they were not sure if the incident was linked to the economic blockade.Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma appealed on Twitter not to block movement of goods and people. “While we stand committed to protect our constitutional boundaries, I would appeal to our people to allow movement of good to Mizoram,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bonhomie-after-assam-mizoram-talks-yet-to-reflect-at-border-points-101628280061118.html
07-08-2021||India||Does RBI’s MPC resolution point to stagflation threat?||The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India has kept the policy rate unchanged at 4% and decided to maintain an accommodative monetary policy stance. These decisions are on expected lines. RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das also unequivocally expressed the central bank’s resolve to aid economic recovery.“The Reserve Bank remains in ’whatever it takes’ mode, with a readiness to deploy all its policy levers – monetary, prudential or regulatory. In 7 parallel, our focus on preservation of financial stability continues. At this juncture, our overarching priority is that growth impulses are nurtured to ensure a durable recovery along a sustainable growth path with stability”, Das said.These statements notwithstanding, the fine print of the MPC resolution does underline worrying trends, including a stagflation (low growth and high inflation) threat for the economy.1. Monetary Policy Committee’s growth projections are unchanged, yet betray pessimismThe latest MPC resolution has retained the GDP forecast for 2021-22 at 9.5%, which was projected in the June meeting. However, a look at the quarterly projections suggests that the MPC members are more bearish on the economy than they were a couple of months ago. Here’s why. In its June meeting, MPC projected GDP growth rate to be 18.5%, 7.9%, 7.2% and 6.6% in successive quarters (June 2021, September 2021, December 2021 and March 2022) of the current fiscal year.The latest projections have upgraded the June projection to 21.4%. This shows that the MPC believes that the second wave of Covid-19 infections did not do as much economic damage as was expected.The reason annual GDP growth has remained unchanged at 9.5% is that the growth projections for second, third and fourth quarter have been revised downward between the June and August meetings. The MPC resolution does not elaborate on the reasons for this. But this is most likely because of demand-side damage.2. There is a significant upward revision in the inflation forecast, with a clear blame on petroleum taxesWhile RBI continues to maintain that the current inflation phase is transient and driven by supply-side issues, the actual picture could be more complicated. Consider fuel prices, for instance.The price of India’s crude oil basket (COB) was $69.7 per barrel on August 5. However, petrol was selling at ₹101.84 per litre in Delhi, a level it did not reach even when COB price crossed $100 in the past.The reason for this disproportionate increase in petrol-diesel price is high central and state taxes – Union excise duty and state VAT contributed ₹32.9 and ₹23.5 per litre to the price of petrol in Delhi.With no significant let up in crude prices even after the OPEC+ deal, the MPC resolution has put the onus of controlling inflation on centre and states cutting taxes on petroleum products.“With crude oil prices at elevated levels, a calibrated reduction of the indirect tax component of pump prices by the Centre and states can help to substantially lessen cost pressures”, the resolution says.3. Is it time to question assumptions about India’s potential growth rate?That the pandemic has disproportionately affected labour (in the labour-capital binary) and the informal sector (in the formal-informal binary) is by now well accepted.Whether at all and to what extent the unequal burden of the pandemic will hurt growth prospects is a question on which there is less unanimity. While one set of economists such as Neelkanth Mishra from Credit Suisse believe that the damage could be minimal because India’s growth was always driven by the top of the pyramid, many others have been pointing out potential headwinds to aggregate demand from the squeeze on incomes of the poor, who have a larger marginal propensity to consume – consumption per unit increase in income – than the rich.This debate is extremely relevant in judging the efficacy of monetary policy as a growth booster as pointed out by Pranjul Bhandari, Chief India Economist at HSBC Securities and Capital Markets India in a research note dated August 2.“Monetary policy is a countercyclical tool. It plays an important role in closing the output gap. But it is not a driver of potential growth. The RBI would be well served to think carefully about when the output gap will likely close and start gradual tightening prior to that since transmission takes time in India”, she wrote.The International Monetary Fund defines output gap as “an economic measure of the difference between the actual output of an economy and its potential output”. Potential output is defined as “the maximum amount of goods and services an economy can turn out when it is most efficient—that is, at full capacity”. In monetary policy parlance, potential output is also taken as the limit which can be reached without stoking inflation.Bahndari highlighted the threat of a reduction in potential output in a research note in May itself. “We were already worried about the scars that the first wave of the pandemic would leave behind – a weak financial system and rising inequality. We had estimated them to drag down India’s post-pandemic potential growth by 1ppt to 5%. We worry that these scars may deepen further with the second wave”, she wrote.When read with the fact that India’s growth rate was below 6% even in the pre-pandemic year, there is all the more reason to worry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/does-rbi-s-mpc-resolution-point-to-stagflation-threat-101628276435768.html
07-08-2021||India||No roads between Kerala and Karnataka dug up: Dakshina Kannada DC||The Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada district Rajendra KV on Friday denied reports that the district administration had dug up roads near the Kerala-Karnataka border to block the entry points from neighbouring Kerala’s Kasaragod district to prevent unchecked ingress amid fear of Covid third wave. Rajendra told HT that strict instructions have been given to officials not to block the traffic between the two states. He, however, added that the district administration will continue strict vigil across the border and continue to demand RT-PCR reports. AKM Ashraf, a member of the Kerala Legislative Assembly, representing Manjeshwaram, a town on the Karnataka Kerala border, too confirmed that none of the roads between Karnataka and Kerala have been blocked. He, however, added that on Monday, Karnataka police deployed an earthmover to dig a trench on the Kotekar-Mariashram Church Road near Thalappady check post. “It was stopped after residents protested. We haven’t heard of anything after that,” he said. DC Rajendra said he has not received any report of roads being dug up. “If anyone faces any such instances of roads being blocked, they can contact us. There are clear instructions not to stop a vehicular movement. However, those who want to enter Karnataka will have to produce an RT-PCR test report,” he said. For the residents of Kasaragod in Kerala, Mangaluru city in Dakshina Kannada is a lifeline. Even though Mangaluru and Kasaragod are on either side of a map, they are closely knit, say local residents. “Mangaluru, which is referred to as Mangalapuram in Kerala, is the closest city to Kasaragod. From anywhere in Kasaragod, Mangaluru is just 10-50 km away. At the same time, the closest city in Kerala, Kannur, is more than 100 km away,” said Prakash Manjeshwar, a resident of Manjeshwaram, in the northern tip of Kasargod. The residents in and around Kasaragod have been thronging Mangaluru for decades for health care services at the speciality hospitals and for education. “Kasaragod doesn’t have many good hospitals, schools or colleges. So Mangaluru is the only option for us. People in and around Kasaragod had struggled a lot during the initial days of the lockdown when the Karnataka authorities restricted travel, especially for those with medical conditions,” said Krishna Kishore, who runs a business in Mangaluru and lives in Kasaragod. As per the Karnataka government orders, those travelling regularly to Karnataka for work have to take the RT-PCR test once in seven days, while for others, the report can’t be older than 72 hours. “We are very clear that anyone coming to Dakshina Kannada for medical emergencies will not be stopped at any cost,” said Rajendra. However, Kishore added that even the requirement for the RT-PCR test is causing trouble. “First of all, it is very difficult to get an RT-PCR test done in Kerala because of the rise in cases. Over that, it costs a lot of money. For many of us, paying for a test every week is very costly. Especially, since our businesses were close due to the recent lockdown,” he said. Rajendra, however, argued that the district administration doesn’t have a choice but to impose such restrictions. “While the positivity rates in all other districts in Karnataka are coming down, it is going up only in Dakshin Kannada. We can’t find any other reason for this spike other than interstate travel. We are not stopping essential travel such as medical treatment or work. But we can’t have people coming to Mangaluru to visit malls and do other non-essential work. So, the checks will continue,” he said. Meanwhile, according to a health bulletin released by the Dakshina Kannada district authorities on Wednesday, 411 positive cases were reported and the positivity rate stood at 4.07%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-roads-between-kerala-and-karnataka-dug-up-dakshina-kannada-dc-101628276880634.html
07-08-2021||India||ED searches not related to IMA scam: Cong MLA||Congress MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan said on Friday that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) conducted searches at his residence to get details about his house, including its cost, claiming that the action was not related to the ₹4000-crore IMA Ponzi scam.ED searched Khan’s house on Thursday that continued for hours, fuelling speculations that it could be related to his alleged role in the IMA scandal. The ₹4,000-crore scam pertains to money collected by IMA Group from over 100,000 investors in the name of providing attractive returns on investments.“At around 7.30-8 am (Thursday) ED officials came. They had come in connection with getting information about my house. They asked as to when the land was purchased, when the house was constructed and account for it. I have given all the information to them. I told them that white money has been used for construction of the house,” Khan told reporters in Bengaluru.The MLA from Chamrajapet in Bengaluru said officials had taken one of his brothers to the bank to get transaction details, adding that they were “satisfied” with the responses.Khan, however, said the ED officials have told him that he should report to them whenever they seek more information. He denied that he was served any notice.The raids had sparked off a war of words between the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress, with the latter accusing the Centre of misusing investigative agencies to target political rivals.Khan has a palatial house near the Cantonment railway station that took seven years to be constructed. The house was among the places that were searched.On April 27, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had filed a supplementary charge sheet against former Karnataka minister R Roshan Baig in connection with the IMA Ponzi scam. Baig was the minister for urban development in the Congress-led state government between 2014 and 2018. The CBI named the then MD of IMA Group, Mohammed Mansoor Khan, the company and Baig’s company Daanish Publications, among others, in the charge sheet.“It was alleged that the accused former minister received crores of rupees from IMA funds for election expenditure. It was further alleged that the accused was utilising the said funds for day-to-day expenditure, including paying salaries to the employees of his firm. It was also alleged that the accused has spent the funds for various social and cultural activities in his constituency to increase his popularity,” read a statement from CBI.While Khan was questioned by ED and other agencies regarding his property transactions with IMA founder Mohammed Mansoor Khan, he has not been charged by any agency so far.IMA was an investment banking company run by Mansoor Khan, who claimed that it was a Sharia-compliant operation. The company took huge deposits primarily from members of the Muslim community. When IMA stopped paying dividends in March 2019, investors lodged complaints with the police. In June 2019, the Karnataka government set up an SIT to investigate around 51,500 complaints that had been filed by investors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-searches-not-related-to-ima-scam-cong-mla-101628276761852.html
07-08-2021||India||Karnataka to resume physical classes for 9th, 10th and Pre Uni post August 23||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister Basvaraj Bommai on Friday said that offline classes for 9, 10 and pre-university students would commence from August 23, raising apprehension among parents and other groups amid fears of an imminent third wave of Covid-19 in the state.“It was decided to commence the 9th, 10th and pre-university classes from August 23rd and based on the Covid situation in the state, a decision regarding reopening of primary schools and 8th standard would be taken by the end of August,” said a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO), attributing it to Bommai.“We have decided to conduct classes on alternate days. Guidelines on Covid norms that need to be followed during the reopening of schools would be issued,” the chief minister added.The decision by the state government comes at a time when there has been a trend of rising infections from across the state. Karnataka has been firm in blaming those coming in from Kerala and Maharashtra for the rising cases while across the state, including state capital Bengaluru, people continue to move around freely with no masks, social distancing or any other precautions.Just two days back, there were hundreds of people gathered in Raj Bhavan for the swearing in ceremony of the newly inducted ministers, chanting slogans and brushing against each other to get a glimpse and picture of their favourite leaders.Bommai said that the administration will review the intensity of the imminent third wave of infections and take a call on reopening physical classes for classes below 8th grade at the end of the month.On Friday, Karnataka reported 1,805 new infections, taking the active caseload to 24,328, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.The positivity rate stood at 1.11% while 36 more deaths took the toll to 36,741 and fatality rate to 1.99%, data shows.Bengaluru reported 441 new infections and 434 discharges taking its active caseload to 8,560.However, Karnataka’s testing rate remains at around 1.30 lakhs (RT-PCR), indicating that the state may not have been taking enough precautions to prevent a third wave.The shortage of vaccines has also weighed on the state’s management of the pandemic.Karnataka has so far administered 3,23,42,625 doses of vaccines of which the first and second dose account for 2,51,84,304 and 71,58,321 respectively, according to information on Cowin portal. There were 1,81,824 doses administered on Friday. From a high of administering over 7.68 lakh doses of vaccines on August 2, the numbers have dipped to 2.33 lakhs, 2.59 lakhs and 1.63 lakhs since then, data shows.Bommai said that strict action and measures will be taken in border districts to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state.He added that there would be a weekend curfew imposed in the border districts of Karnataka, which includes districts like Belagavi, Bidar, Vijayapura and Kalaburagi that share a border with Maharashtra. Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Mysuru and Chamarajanagar will also have weekend curfews that share a border with Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-resume-physical-classes-for-9th-10th-and-pre-uni-post-august-23-101628276700776.html
07-08-2021||India||Three decades on, justice eludes Dalits of Tsunduru||An hour’s drive from Tenali town in coastal Andhra Pradesh, Tsunduru is an idyllic village ringed by fields of lush paddy. But a few steps brings the visitor face-to-face with a nondescript mound of black soil overgrown with shrubs and heaps of garbage – a reminder of the village’s grisly history.Clear the weeds and the graves present themselves, eight of them, next to each other with a board in the background that says: “Johar, Tsunduru Dalitha Mrutha Veerulaku” (A tribute to the Dalit martyrs of Tsunduru). Below this, a question for the visitor in Telugu: If all the killers are innocent, who is responsible for this carnage?This makeshift memorial, known as Raktha Kshetram (Place of Blood), stands testimony to one of the worst anti-Dalit massacres since Independence. Early in the morning on August 6, 1991, members of the Reddy and Kapu communities allegedly attacked the local Mala community, a Dalit sub-caste, with sticks, axes, knives and weapons.Dalits fleeing into the nearby forests were chased, thrashed, their limp bodies stuffed into gunny bags and dumped into the Tungabhadra canal that flows through the village. A team from the local police station allegedly stood by and watched as the Dalitwada (colony) was attacked. Eight men died on the spot, and three more succumbed to their injuries later, including one who allegedly was fired on by the police.The gory crime sent shockwaves across a country at the cusp of liberalisation and an entire generation was jolted. But back at Tsunduru, the besieged Mala community braced themselves for a long fight, coming together to build a movement from the ground up and determined to not let caste hostility stilt their economic and social progress.Thirty years have passed since. Today a new generation of Dalit people is leading the surge: The 750-odd Mala families have their children in schools and colleges, and many have moved to nearby cities of Tenali, Guntur and even Vijayawada.“The Dalits in the village have come a long way in the last 30 years and are living with their heads held high, but the wounds are yet to heal. They continue to rage unless we get the final justice,” said 47-year-old Jaladi Moses, whose father Jaladi Mathaiah and uncle Jaladi Immanuel were among the eight killed.Many of the young Dalit men and women have found employment in government services, as clerks, teachers, officers, bank officers and even software engineers. Shielded from the everyday discrimination that their parents and grandparents took granted for, they have flourished and built a life for themselves. With the money and the confidence of an assured job, many Mala families have built houses and clean roads and sewage.The rundown Dalit colony has now transformed into a separate panchayat by the name of Ambedkar Nagar, a statue of reformer and drafter of the Constitution, BR Ambedkar, towering over their roofs –in itself a signal of the defiance and new-found confidence.“The 750-odd Dalit families, who used to work as agriculture labourers and tenant farmers in the fields of upper-caste people, have all been given agriculture lands to the extent of half-acre to one acre, besides houses in the surrounding villages,” said Suresh, a local Dalit leader.A key source of power in India is politics, and often dominant caste communities feel secure in the sizeable political representation.But in Tsunduru, Dalits have also become politically active. And what has helped them is Vemuru assembly constituency, of which Tsunduru is a part, is reserved for scheduled castes, and now represented by YSR Congress MLA Merugu Nagarjuna. Any person in the locality, even if they are dominant caste, has to go him for any work – a source of pride for the local Mala community.There is also a perceptible change among the Dalit youth, as majority of who are well educated and employed. “In the past, there used to be two-glass system in tea stalls and restaurants (one glass for the forward castes and the other for the Dalits). We never used to walk on their streets with footwear. But now, the youth go to restaurants and sit beside the upper caste people,” Moses said.The Mala community in Tsunduru was able to galvanise the entire state for their legal fight. The legal team received contributions from every corner of the state and the case became a landmark in the state’s civil liberty history, with protests held in many cities including the capital Hyderabad. Much of this work was done by senior advocate and Dalit activist Bojja Tharakam, who died in 2016.The locals were helped by the state government, which has made sub-plans for scheduled castes, making separate budgetary allocations that cannot be transferred to other departments. In addition, land has been assigned to many SC families without the years-long delays that are common in other states, and a network of residential schools, junior and degree colleges exclusively for Dalit students has helped spread education among the community.“Dalits in Tsunduru were successful in making the incident a national issue. Dalit organisations and social activists from across the country visited the village and created awareness. The government was forced to set up a residential school and junior college in the village, as a result of which more and more Dalits have become educated. Today, almost 80 per cent of the Dalits in Tsunduru are educated and work as teachers, lecturers, bank officers, government employees and even software engineers. This was possible only because of the sustained struggle by the Dalits,” Suresh, the local activist, said.But prosperity hasn’t completely erased old fault lines. A road through the middle of Tsunduru divides the Dalit settlement from that of the dominant castes. “The boundary remains even now,” added Suresh.The dominant castes say they have moved on. “It was one of those unfortunate happenings. Why do you want to rake it up again?” was the response of an upper caste man, whose father was one of the people named in the chargesheet as an accused.The fate of the legal case continues to roil older men and women in the Mala community. Many of them say they were witnesses to the carnage and continue to struggle with the trauma. “The police gunned down my younger son in front of my eyes, just because he raised his voice against the killings. My wife has become mentally disturbed. What pains us is that the court had acquitted the police who killed my son,” said K Raja Rao, son of Anil Kumar, in whose memory the Dalits constructed a stupa adjacent to his house.Local villagers say the immediate dispute was triggered by a skirmish in the local cinema hall: A Dalit boy’s feet had touched a Reddy woman; the village condemned this and clamped a boycott of the Mala community, a majority of who are Christian. Tensions rose over the next few days, culminating in the killings of August 6.Sustained advocacy over the next three years prompted the administration to set up a trial court specially constituted for the Tsunduru massacre and trial began in December 1994. Out of the 219 people from the Reddy and Kapu communities who were charged with murder and under the SC/ST prevention of atrocities act, 33 persons died during the course of the 13-year trial. The trial court gave its judgement in July 2007, sentencing 21 accused to life imprisonment and 35 to one-year simple imprisonment.The accused challenged the special court verdict in the Hyderabad high court, which acquitted all of them in 2014 after hearing the case for nearly seven years, citing insufficient evidence. During the course of this prolonged trial, prominent lawyers and human rights activists such as K G Kannabiran, K Balagopal and B Chandrasekhar died of ill-health.“We moved the Supreme Court, which stayed the HC order. The case is still confined to the courtroom,” said senior lawyer Y Koteshwar Rao, who was one of the advocates fighting the case for the Tsunduru victims. The case is still pending in the Supreme Court.Anger simmers in Tsunduru over the fate of the trial. “The high court acquitted the accused on technical grounds – such as lack of clarity on the timing of the deaths, delay in lodging of complaint to the police, inconsistencies in the deposition of witnesses. But eight Dalits were killed; who killed them?” Moses asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-decades-on-justice-eludes-dalits-of-tsunduru-101628274961856.html
07-08-2021||India||Curbs extended, case rise worries experts||Chief minister M K Stalin has announced further extension of lockdown for two weeks in Tamil Nadu, owing to marginal rise in Covid-19 cases in the state. The chief minister held a meeting with medical experts following which, the decision was made. Religious places will remain closed from Friday to Sunday while schools for Class 9 to 12 can reopen from September 1 with 50 per cent capacity, the chief minister said. Tamil Nadu reported 1985 new cases on Friday, taking the total positive cases to 37,494,317. On an average more than 155k people are being tested across the state. The fatalities increased to 34,260 in the state after 30 new deaths were reported.Given the erratic increase in new cases, the state government also empowered district collectors to impose localised restrictions such as closing down markets and other crowded public places. “About five days ago we issued an alert to district officials to not take the increasing cases lightly even if it is marginal,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “After 69 days of continuous decline we are seeing a mild upward trend now. The test positivity rate is concerning for us in at least 19 districts.” The government has found sources of infections coming from big markets and streets adjacent to it, hospitals and weddings and funerals where norms aren’t followed. “Several people from other states have come to private hospitals for treatment since we have opened up and they’re staying in mansions which are dense and increasing the spread,” said a senior civic official in Greater Chennai Corporation who did not wish to be named.Cases are marginally rising in Tamil Nadu which is worrying the state and experts alike. Tamil Nadu is among the eight states where the R-naught factor is on the rise, the Union government said earlier this week. The R-naught value, which is the average number of people who can contract the infection from one person, is more than one in 18 districts out of the 37 districts in Tamil Nadu. After chief minister M K Stalin held a meeting with experts on Friday, the state extended its lockdown by two more weeks, imposing closure of religious places from Friday to Sunday. But schools from classes 9 to 12 can reopen from September 1 with 50% capacity.Tamil Nadu was only 3 fresh cases short of touching the 2000 mark a day ago. For the past week, cases have risen by 50 or 80 new infections each day. Chennai is usually the hotspot and peaks before the rest of the state but this time the capital city second with 196 cases on Thursday behind Coimbatore district which is reporting the most number of new cases with 220 cases on Thursday.“If the cases are consistently increasing it means the R-naught is above one,” says deputy director of National Institute of Epidemiology, Dr Prabhdeep Kaur who was also part of the chief minister’s meeting. “We don’t know yet if this a temporary increase due to local clusters or a general transmission. That pattern will be clearer in a week.” The expert panel has advised the government to strengthen surveillance, detect clusters and improve testing in the western and central regions of Tamil Nadu.The state has also increased vigil along the districts and points bordering Kerala which has still not weathered the second wave. Those who want to enter Tamil Nadu from Kerala have to submit either a negative RT-PCR test or evidence of double dosage of vaccination. “We are focusing on increasing vaccine coverage. It may be the only way to prevent another wave,” the health secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curbs-extended-case-rise-worries-experts-101628274841102.html
07-08-2021||India||A Krishna river swells, officials sound flood alert for Vijaywada||Residents living in and around the banks of the Krishna river are at a major risk of inundation as a first flood warning has been issued due to heavy discharge from the Prakasam Barrage here on Friday, 0officials said. The warning was issued after a crest gate of Dr KL Rao Sagar Pulichintala Project on the Krishna river, located upstream of the barrage, collapsed on Thursday. Consequently, a large quantity of water from Pulichintala was released downstream. The first flood warning was issued at noon on Friday at the Prakasam Barrage when outflow crossed 450k cusecs. All the 70 gates of the barrage have now been lifted to let out the surplus water, an official said. Around 3:30 am, the officials lifted the crest gates of Pulichintala to release surplus water downstream. Gate No. 16 collapsed as the welding holding it to the dam structure gave away. Taking stock of the situation and explaining the damage caused at Pulichintala, Andhra Pradesh minister for water resources, P Anil Kumar Yadav, said, “It all happened in a blink of an eye. Repair works of the 16th gate have been taken up on a war footing and we expect the alternative stop-lock arrangement will be in place soon after the water recedes downstream. At present, flood discharge is 600k cusecs downstream of the project. The full reservoir level of Pulichintala is 45 TMC, and repairs can be done only after the water level is below 10 TMC.” The officials also lifted 14 other crest gates of Pulichintala to release floodwater downstream. The minister and the officials felt that it was unfortunate that such a huge quantity of water had to be released into the sea as there is no other alternative. However, they are confident that water in the project will be replenished in the coming days with more inflows from upstream as the monsoon season is only halfway.An NDRF team of 24 personnel have joined hands with Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) to evacuate residents of Bhupesh Gupta Nagar, Taraka Rama Nagar, Ranigari Thota and other areas in Krishna Lanka of Vijayawada city.The VMC officials visited the colonies and alerted the people to move to the Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation Stadium where a rehabilitation centre has been arranged. They made arrangements to provide food, drinking water and other facilities to the displaced families. However, most families were resisting shifting to a rehabilitation centre due to fear of theft. The residents say they are habituated to floods and will take shelter on the Karakatta (flood bank) for two to four days till floodwater recedes. The officials tried to convince the residents that there is a fear of major inundation as over half a million cusecs of floodwater is being released. The VMC also arranged 11 tractors to evacuate people to the stadium, and staff has been deployed to raise awareness among the residents on the flood threat. Meanwhile, work of the installation of stop-lock arrangements commenced on Friday afternoon and using a heavy crane, iron plates were being inserted into the groves at sluice number 16, where the flood gate broke and washed away. Project senior engineer Ramesh Babu said that the water level has to decrease to 37 metres. “Only at that point, the stop lock gate fitting works can be started. It takes 10-15 hours to fit the gate,” he explained. On the other hand, the government has constituted a committee with retired engineers to identify the reasons leading to the accidents and also to assess project safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-krishna-river-swells-officials-sound-flood-alert-for-vijaywada-101628274781621.html
07-08-2021||India||Telangana health dept slams politicians for spike in Covid cases||Telangana’s director of public health G Srinivasa Rao on Thursday censured political leaders of all hues for violating protocols by holding rallies and public events for an impending bypoll, amid a sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases. Without naming any political party in particular, Rao said that the second wave of the pandemic is not yet completely under control and urged politicians to act in a responsible manner. “All of a sudden, political activity has increased in the state. Rallies, padayatras and public meetings are being planned everywhere. Political leaders and parties have the right to do so, but they should also have certain responsibilities. When they call for a procession or padayatra, are their followers taking precaution?” he said.Huzurabad assembly constituency in Karimnagar district is awaiting bypolls following the resignation of former health minister and Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leader Eatala Rajender in June this year. Rajender was removed from the state cabinet in May after allegations that firms owned by his family indulged in land grabbing across the state surfaced against him. Eatela refuted all allegations and later quit the TRS to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).While the Election Commission of India is yet to make any announcements on the bypoll, leaders across party lines have begun holding political meetings and events across the district. The official’s outburst came at a time when the district is witnessing an unusual spike in Covid-19 cases for the past few days. “Are political leaders, party workers and people following Covid-19 norms? Leaders don’t wear masks while speaking in public. This can lead to spread of the virus,” he said. Reacting to Rao’s remarks, TRS MLC Bhanu Prasad said, “Yes it is a fact that cases are rising in Karimnagar but we are requesting cadres and also other parties to follow all Covid norms.”The Congress, however, was sceptical of Rao’s warning. “He is less of a health executive and more of a political executive. He is the one who is preempting that the third wave will hit only in December when the reality is it is almost looming upon us. Why did he not advise chief minister KCR to not ban Bonalu (state festival) gatherings last week? When KCR went around in his hometown, did he say anything? There is a political motto in all his statements,” Congress spokesperson Dr Sravan Dasoju said. The BJP too trained its guns on the official. “The fact is, in Telangana, Rao has to come clean on Covid cases in the state everyday before advising political parties. Daily bulletins are not updated and numbers are fudged. He has to adopt a sincere and a non-partisan attitude first. We are in a democractic framework. We don’t have a choice as a political party but to seek mandate from people even during a pandemic. But the BJP will be vigilant and follow all Covid protocols,” BJP spokesperson Krishna Saagar Rao said. Since July 22, Covid-19 cases in Karimnagar have been on the rise. With 61 cases on Thursday, the district recorded the second-highest number of infections as Hyderabad registered 83 cases. The daily caseload in Karimnagar was also the highest among 33 districts on July 26 and August 2. The daily infection count in the district has been ranging from 60 to 75 since July 31.Explaining the consequences of mass gatherings, Dr Ranga Reddy, president of Infection Control Academy Of India, said: “By-elections are a death knell for constituents during a pandemic, whether it is in Telangana or elsewhere in the country. It is unfortunate that no political party is paying heed to Dr Rao’s warnings, including the Telangana chief minister. We doctors are trying relentlessly to break the Covid transmission cycle. Mass gathering will only accelerate the transmissions. Worse, it will exponentially risk the growth of mutations leading to several variants like the delta variant.”On Thursday, the Telangana government sent a team of health department officials to Karimnagar to plan measures for containing the spread of coronavirus and other seasonal diseases. The officials and district administration held a series of meetings with the health staff and medical officers from primary health centres.During a field visit, Rao directed the health staff to conduct 8,000 to 9,000 tests in a day.With a focus on villages with high numbers of infections, medical officers have been asked to spend most of their time visiting such areas to contain the spread and make efforts to bring the case count to zero.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-health-dept-slams-politicians-for-spike-in-covid-cases-101628274780574.html
07-08-2021||India||8-year-old girl’s mutilated body found in Bihar, 12 detained||A day after the mutilated body of an eight-year-old girl was recovered on the bank of the river Ganga in Munger district of Bihar, police on Friday detained 12 people for questioning after forming a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the case. Police said they are yet to get confirmation if the minor was raped.Munger Sadar sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Nandji Prasad, who is heading the SIT, said that one eye of the girl had been gouged out.Munger superintendent of police (SP) Jagunath Jala Reddy said the victim’s body has been sent for postmortem examination to ascertain if she was raped, adding that the report was awaited. The SP said that he has requested the doctors to submit the report at the earliest.“Some people have been taken into custody for questioning. We cannot reveal their identity now,” he added.The girl’s uncle on Friday said, “She had bleeding marks on her private parts. The criminals also gouged her right eye and damaged her left eye. Her nails had blood clotting marks.” He added her hands and feet were fractured.The gruesome murder of the minor, a Class 3 student at a government school, has once again brought spotlight on crime against women in Bihar. The Bihar Police headquarters officials, quoting NCRB’s 2019 data, said Bihar ranks 31 in rape cases and 28th in crime against women.“Munger incident was barbaric and reflected how the crime against women especially minor girls was on the rise in Bihar. The case should be thoroughly probed. In recent few years, there has been a disconcerting trend of rape victims getting killed as the culprits do not want to leave any evidence. The crime cases in the state are alarming,” said Nivedita Jha, a women’s rights activist.According to the police, the girl went missing after she along with her father had gone for fishing on Wednesday afternoon. Her father lodged a missing person’s report the same night.According to the complaint, the girl and her father had gone for fishing in the Ganga. However, the girl left to return home alone around 4pm, but never reached. Her body was found around 5am on Thursday at a secluded spot, barely 300 metres from her house, police said.The SP said a case was lodged in this connection under sections 302 (murder), 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code adding that sections under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act will also be invoked on the basis of the father’s complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8yearold-girl-s-mutilated-body-found-in-bihar-12-detained-101628274720428.html
07-08-2021||India||Marital rape grounds for divorce: Kerala HC||Marital rape, though not penalised in the country, is a valid ground to claim divorce, the Kerala high court said on Friday, upholding a family court’s decision to allow divorce on the grounds of “marital cruelty”.A division bench of justice Mohammad Mushtaq and justice Kauser Edappagath dismissed the appeal of a man who had challenged a family court order allowing his wife’s plea for divorce on grounds of cruelty. The court said that an “insatiable urge for wealth and sex” of a spouse also amounted to cruelty.“In a married life, sex is reflection of the intimacy of the spouse. The evidence given by the woman establishes that she was subjected to all sorts of perversion against her will. Marital rape occurs when the husband is under notion that body of his wife owes to him,” the bench said.Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) defines the offence of rape with the help of six descriptions. One of the exceptions to this offence is “sexual intercourse or sexual acts by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under 15 years of age, is not rape”.Marital rape is not criminalised in India but activists say the exception forces women to suffer sexual violence in their homes. In the past, the Centre has argued that criminalising marital rape may destabilise the institution of marriage.According to the woman, the man is a qualified medical doctor but later moved to real estate business and construction, which was not successful. Facing financial losses, the woman alleged, her husband subjected her to constant harassment for money, due to which her father gave approximately ₹77 lakh to the man on various occasions.In her deposition during cross examination, the woman also accused the appellant of forcibly having sex with her when she was sick, bedridden, and even on the day her mother died. She also deposed that she was subjected to unnatural sex and forced to have sex in front of their minor daughter. Besides, she said he always suspected her fidelity and accused her of having an illicit relationship.“In this case, the insatiable urge for wealth and sex of the husband had forced the wife to take a decision for divorce. His licentious and profligate conduct cannot be considered as part of normal conjugal life. Therefore, we have no difficulty in holding that insatiable urge for wealth and sex of a spouse would also amount to cruelty. The right to respect for his or her physical and mental integrity encompasses bodily integrity, any disrespect or violation of bodily integrity is a violation of individual autonomy,” the court said.The two-judge bench further noted that the concept of family as a “social unit” was gradually “withering away”.“If marriage is seen as a symbol to project status, without reflecting the values the individuals or society would cherish to profess, we may miss the basic concept required for marriage. The concept of family as a social unit is also slowly withering away to recognise the concept of bond created by the individuals. The individuals who were reluctant to separate, fearing social fear, and on the ideal of the sacrament of marriage, have no fear now to approach the court for divorce to establish the free act of will. Matrimonial relationship is all about contentment. When there is harmony at home, that leads to contentment in marriage. The harmony is evolved through mutual respect and trust. The debt of the husband sparked the dispute between him and the wife.”The judges described the case as “a story of the struggle of a woman within the clutches of law to give primacy of choice not to suffer in the bondage of legal tie”:The court further suggested that marriage and divorce must be brought under the secular law. “Individuals are free to perform their marriage in accordance with the personal law but they cannot be absolved from compulsory solemnization of marriage under secular law. Marriage and divorce must be under the secular law, this is the need of the hour. Time has come to revamp the marriage law in our country,” it observed.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marital-rape-grounds-for-divorce-kerala-hc-101628274480429.html
07-08-2021||India||Do you intend to close tribunals, Supreme Court asks Centre amid vacancies||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Union government if it wants all tribunals wrapped up since they are unable to function even otherwise due to massive shortage of manpower, leaving people hapless.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, censured the Centre over huge vacancies in various tribunals across country, effectively crippling their functioning, despite several recommendations made for filling up vacancies in the last two years.“Get instructions from the authorities whether they want to continue with the tribunal or shut them completely...You cannot keep people remedy less. If you don’t want tribunals, just tell us. We will entrust the jurisdiction to the concerned high courts. You cannot have tribunals but not fill up their vacancies,” the bench, which included justice Surya Kant, told solicitor general Tushar Mehta.Mehta, representing the Centre, sought to point out that some delay could also be attributed to a spate of cases pending before the Supreme Court on appointments, service conditions and tenure of the members of the tribunal.But the bench was not impressed with the submission. “Tribunals are creation of statutes and recommendations have been made by the selection committees absolutely in accordance with the statutes but you still haven’t appointed people. These selection committees have judges of this court and some of them made recommendations way back in 2019 but nothing happened,” it retorted.The court told the S-G: “The concern is that we want to know it clearly from you whether you want the tribunals or you want to close them down. The impression that we gather is that the bureaucracy does not want tribunals at all. Just tell us and we will entrust their jurisdiction to the high court once again. It is a very sorry state of affairs.”The bench was hearing petitions by advocate Amit Sahni and the State Bar Council of Madhya Pradesh when it reproached the Union government for delay in filling up more than 200 vacancies across 15 tribunals in the country.Sahni has demanded the constitution of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) appellate tribunal which had not been set up even after 4 years of the GST Act being into existence.“How many years back the GST Act came into force? And for 4 years, you have not been able to create an appellate tribunal. You passed an administrative order to increase the limitation period for filing appeals but you did not create an appellate tribunal,” the bench told Mehta while issuing a notice to the Centre on Sahni’s plea.The MP bar council, on the other hand, challenged the transfer of the jurisdiction of Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT), Jabalpur to DRT, Lucknow due to the unavailability of a presiding officer at Jabalpur. While Mehta submitted that the Centre was willing to transfer the jurisdiction of DRT, Jabalpur to some other tribunal in the same city, the court rejected the suggestion calling it “pure adhocism.”“Decide within a week and convey to us. We are very serious if you don’t do it, we will order the appearance of the top officers to give an explanation. Please don’t invite such a situation,” the bench told the S-G, listing the cases on August 16.According to a list prepared by the court’s registry and read out by the CJI, tribunals across the country are awaiting appointments of 19 presiding officers and more than 100 members each on the judicial and technical side. These tribunals deal with cases of debt recovery, telecom dispute company law, consumer dispute, income tax, custom and service tax, environment protection, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-you-intend-to-close-tribunals-supreme-court-asks-centre-amid-vacancies-101628273340358.html
07-08-2021||India||SC expresses displeasure over filing of bulky petitions||The Supreme Court on Friday chided the practice of filing bulky petitions running into hundreds of pages and wondered if it is being used as a tactic to “terrorise the judges”.“How can someone file 51 volumes of pleadings in one case? Yesterday, we had to engage a lorry to carry this. We don’t want us to hear this matter or what? You are terrorising us by filing 51 volumes in a single case,” a bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana remarked.The court was hearing a clutch of appeals filed against the June 30 judgment of the Bombay high court which had partially upheld the validity of the new tariff order (NTO) issued by Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) in January 2020. The NTO had prescribed price ceilings on the rates charged by TV channels.As a bunch of senior lawyers appeared in the appeals filed by Indian Broadcasting and Digital Foundation and several TV channels, the bench was livid over the sheer weight of the pleadings filed by them.“Before you argue, just tell us why have you filed 51 volumes? Is it because you don’t want us to read anything?” the bench, which also included justice Surya Kant, asked senior advocate Darius Khambata who appeared for one of the petitioners.Khambata responded by saying that there were several petitions listed together but the court was not satisfied with the reply. “You must file small volumes if you want to be heard. File convenience volumes before the next date. We will hear it later,” it told Khambata and other senior lawyers representing the petitioners.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, on behalf of the Union government, said that he would instead file his submissions of “only two pages”. The matter was then adjourned to August 18.Minutes later, the bench came across yet another case with bulky case files. E-commerce giants Amazon and Flipkart had challenged an order of Karnataka high court allowing the Competition Commission of India (CCI) to continue its investigation against them into alleged competition law violations.Even before senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for Flipkart, could commence his submissions, CJI Ramana questioned him for filing copious case papers.“Why are there so many bulky case files? It looks like all of you want to terrorise the judges by filing voluminous paper books. You don’t want judges to come to court having read the files because of their size,” remarked the bench.This case was also adjourned to August 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-expresses-displeasure-over-filing-of-bulky-petitions-101628273160453.html
07-08-2021||India||President invites ministers for high tea||President Ram Nath Kovind has invited the Union council of ministers for a high tea at the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Saturday, days after the Narendra Modi-led government conducted its biggest reshuffle in the council since 2014.The Rashtrapati Bhavan described it as a courtesy meeting. As several new ministers were inducted into the council during the rejig, the President has called all of them together, it said.“This is not the first time that such an event will take place,” a Rashtrapati Bhavan functionary familiar with the development said.On July 7, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inducted 36 new faces into the council and promoted seven junior ministers to independent or Cabinet roles.Modi dropped 12 ministers, including the ministers of health, education, information technology, law, environment and information, and broadcasting in the biggest rejig in the council since 2014 when he first took over as the Prime Minister.The President is likely to give a speech at the event on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-invites-ministers-for-high-tea-101628272980396.html
07-08-2021||India||Qatar special envoy in Delhi to discuss Afghan situation||Qatar’s special envoy for conflict resolution Mutlaq bin Majed Al-Qahtani, who has played a key role in the Afghan peace process, on Friday met the external affairs ministry’s pointperson for Afghanistan to discuss the latest developments in the war-torn country.Al-Qahtani, who holds the official title of special envoy of the Qatari foreign minister for counter-terrorism and mediation of conflict resolution, is currently on a two-day visit to India.He met joint secretary JP Singh of the external affairs ministry’s Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran (PAI) desk and exchanged views on the current situation in Afghanistan and recent developments in the Afghan peace process, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.Al-Qahtani will meet foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Saturday. He also met Sanjay Bhattacharya, the secretary responsible for consular issues and overseas Indian affairs on Friday.The Qatari diplomat’s visit to India comes days ahead of two key meetings in Doha on the situation in Afghanistan. Russia has convened a meeting of the “extended troika”, which includes China, the US and Pakistan, in Doha on August 11. Qatar will host a separate meeting between the Afghan side and its regional and international partners later this month.Various stakeholders are looking to these meetings to help revive the Afghan peace process, which has been stalled for several months, against the backdrop of the Taliban’s violent campaign to capture territory and urban areas, including provincial capitals.In June, Al-Qahtani had confirmed that Indian officials were engaged in talks with the Taliban – a development first reported by Hindustan Times. He told a webinar at the time that he believed the Indian side is engaging the Taliban as the group is seen as a “key component” in any future government in Kabul.He also said that Qatar would not recognise any group that seeks to take Afghanistan by force.India too has opposed any forcible takeover in Afghanistan, saying such a regime would lack legitimacy, and backed calls for an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire and the resumption of negotiations to find a political settlement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/qatar-special-envoy-in-delhi-to-discuss-afghan-situation-101628272200451.html
07-08-2021||India||RBI holds rate, ups inflation projection||The Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) reiterated its commitment to reviving sustainable economic growth even as it raised the inflation projection for the current fiscal year to 5.7%, an increase of 60 basis points – one basis point is one hundredth of a percentage point – compared to the projection in its June meeting.There is no doubt about what RBI thinks is more important at this point in time; RBI governor Shaktikanta Das (he quoted Martin Luther King Jr in his comments) termed inflationary pressures “transitory”, and “driven by adverse supply side factors” and was unequivocal that “at this stage... continued policy support from all aides -- fiscal, monetary, and sectoral -- is required to nurture the nascent and hesitant recovery”.And the policy rate (at 4%) and monetary policy stance have been kept unchanged at 4% and accommodative.The message is clear: RBI thinks growth is a concern, not inflation. It is not an assessment with which all analysts agree, not least because inflation has been stubborn.The MPC resolution also put the onus of bringing down petrol-diesel prices on the Union and state governments through tax reduction. While it has retained its 2021-22 gross domestic product (GDP) growth forecast of 9.5%, it has underlined demand side headwinds to the ongoing economic recovery. Experts have highlighted two facts -- a difference of views within MPC on the question of retaining the accommodative policy stance and the central bank announcing additional variable rate reverse repo auctions (which will take back some of the excess liquidity in the system) -- to argue that the monetary policy will see a gradual normalisation of policy setting and perhaps move in sync with the country’s vaccination programme.RBI will “continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary to revive and sustain growth on a durable basis and continue to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on the economy”, the MPC resolution after its three-day meeting from August 4-6 said. The focus on prioritising the ongoing economic recovery despite high inflation was justified on the grounds of achieving a gradual reduction in inflation. “The approach to inflation is not a cold turkey method, where you slam the economy until it goes limp,” RBI deputy governor Michael Patra said. “It is important to bring that down over time and not immediately.”Patra’s remarks are in line with the MPC’s inflation prognosis. “The current assessment is that the inflationary pressures during Q1:2021-22 are largely driven by adverse supply shocks which are expected to be transitory,” the MPC resolution said.The emphasis on protecting the economy makes sense when read with the MPC’s assessment of the economy. “The outlook for aggregate demand is improving, but still weak and overcast by the pandemic. There is a large amount of slack in the economy, with output below its pre-pandemic level,” the resolution said. While the MPC has increased its forecast for GDP growth in the June 2021 quarter from 18.5% to 21.4%, growth forecasts for the next three quarters of the current fiscal year have seen a downward revision this time. This suggests a weakness in demand going forward.The MPC’s projections are in line with the trend seen in high frequency indicators in the month of July.While Purchasing Mangers’ Index (PMI) for manufacturing showed an impressive jump to 55.3 from 48.1 in June, PMI services remained below the critical threshold of 50, values above which signify an expansion in economic activity, compared to last month. The Nomura India Business Resumption Index has also shown a marginal fall in the last two weeks; from 96.4 in the week ending July 18 to 95 in the week ending August 1.“We think there are some good reasons why RBI should begin to plan a gradual exit (from loose monetary policy). Inflation has been higher than 4% for 21 months and is likely to remain so over the foreseeable future. And monetary policy has its limits in driving growth. It is a countercyclical tool and can help close the output gap, but not drive potential growth,” Pranjul Bhandari, chief India economist at HSBC Securities and Capital Markets, said in a note.“Deputy governor’s comments on growth and inflation indicate that RBI would be patient in withdrawing accommodation. Next steps in the gradual normalisation in October could be further increase in the VRR volume and reduction in 3Q GSAP but a reverse repo hike could be delayed,” Samiran Chakraborty, chief India economist at Citi Research, said in a note.Aurodeep Nandi, India economist and vice president at Nomura, said: “From a head-in-sand approach on higher inflation so far, this policy meeting finally saw some implicit acknowledgement that continued disregard for inflation ultimately comes at the cost of policy credibility and markets eventually exacting higher risk premia. This was reflected in the dissent of one of the MPC members against the accommodative stance, and the RBI’s move to slowly start draining the liquidity swamp.”However, Nandi added, “The policy has tried to tread a tightrope in attempting to differentiate its liquidity manoeuvres from the accommodative policy rate stance, and continuing to insist that inflationary pressures remain temporary and that the growth recovery is still in its nascence.”Uday Shankar, president, Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci), said: “The Central Bank’s indication yet again to continue with the accommodative stance, until necessary, to revive growth is encouraging. This is especially comforting when there was an expectation about the normalisation of the monetary policy. The central bank has thoughtfully navigated the monetary policy through the pandemic. We are confident that the same thoughtfulness will continue in the future especially in view of an anticipated third wave and the continuing softness in the economy.”Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, State Bank of India, said in the SBI Ecowrap: “While the policy strikes a delicate balance between reinvigorating growth and keeping inflation in check, it seems that RBI growth projections being retained at 9.5% is more of a statistical artefact as Q1 growth numbers have been revised upwards, while Q2-Q4 growth numbers have been significantly downgraded. Thus it is clear that the central bank currently foresees recovery as incipient which will likely lose steam as pandemic uncertainties continue to rule the roost. This provides a clear justification for central bank to continue supporting growth till it revives.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-holds-rate-ups-inflation-projection-101628272139681.html
07-08-2021||India||Army, Chinese PLA pull back troops from Gogra||The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have pulled back their forward deployed troops from Gogra, or Patrol Point-17A, which was one of the friction points on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) where forces from both sides were “in a face-off situation” since May last year.The breakthrough came after the 12th round of military talks held in the Ladakh sector last week, the Indian Army announced on Friday, and the disengagement process was carried out on August 4, 5. The development came almost six months after the two armies pulled back their front-line troops and weaponry from the Pangong Tso sector in mid-February after the ninth round of talks.“As per the agreement (reached during the 12th round of talks on July 31), both sides have ceased forward deployments in this area (PP-17A) in a phased, coordinated and verified manner. The troops of both sides are now in their respective permanent bases,” the army said in a statement.As part of the disengagement process, both armies have dismantled temporary structures erected by them along with allied infrastructure, with the actions being mutually verified. “The landform in the area has been restored by both sides to the pre-standoff period (April 2020),” it said.India and China have been locked in a border row for 15 months, a phase that witnessed a deadly skirmish in the Galwan Valley and saw tensions spiral between the rival armies on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso last year. The two armies kicked off talks to cool border tensions in June 2020.“This agreement ensures that the LAC in this area will be strictly observed and respected by both sides, and that there is no unilateral change in status quo. With this one more sensitive area of face-off has been resolved. Both sides have expressed commitment to take the talks forward and resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in the Western Sector,” the statement said.The current agreement removes a flashpoint from one of the areas and should be welcomed, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). “Hopefully, it could provide grounds for further disengagement in other areas. The real test will come when Depsang is discussed, and a breakthrough here could lead to a major de-escalation,” Hooda said.On July 31, top Indian and Chinese commanders agreed to a speedy resolution of outstanding issues on the LAC at the 12th round of talks held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC, with the dialogue focusing on disengagement of rival troops from the remaining flashpoints on the contested border.“As an outcome of the meeting, both sides agreed on disengagement in the area of Gogra. The troops in this area have been in a face-off situation since May last year,” the army said. A joint statement issued after the 12th round described the talks as “a candid and in-depth exchange of views on resolution of remaining areas related to disengagement along the LAC in the Western Sector of India-China border areas.”The latest round of talks was held following the meeting of the Indian and Chinese foreign ministers on July 14, in Dushanbe, and the 22nd meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) on June 25.Problems at Hot Springs and Depsang are yet to be resolved. To be sure, the problems at Depsang predate the current border standoff. “The focus will now be on resolving outstanding issues at other friction points,” said a senior officer.Both armies have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre and the deployments haven’t thinned after the disengagement in the Pangong Tso sector.“The Indian Army, along with Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), is totally committed to ensure the sovereignty of the nation and maintain peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the Western Sector,” the army statement added.The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has been affected in Hot Springs (PP-15). The PLA’s forward presence in Depsang has also hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to PP-10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chinese-pla-pull-back-troops-from-gogra-101628272081793.html
07-08-2021||India||Iran President backs India’s role in Afghan peace process||Iran’s new President Ebrahim Raisi on Friday backed India’s role in the establishment of peace and security in Afghanistan and highlighted the need for a joint plan to elevate relations between Tehran and New Delhi.Raisi, who was formally sworn in on Thursday, made the remarks during a meeting with external affairs minister S Jaishankar, who represented India at the inauguration. Jaishankar tweeted after the meeting that there is “convergence” between the two sides on regional interests.Jaishankar’s two-day visit to Tehran coincided with India walking a diplomatic tightrope in its current role as president of the UN Security Council following demands from Britain and the US for a discussion on a deadly tanker attack off the coast of Oman that has been blamed on Iran.At his meeting with Jaishankar, Raisi stressed the importance of close cooperation and coordination between India and Iran in developing regional peace and stability, according to a statement from the Iranian president’s office.“Iran and India can play a constructive and useful role in ensuring security in the region, especially Afghanistan, and Tehran welcomes New Delhi’s role in the establishment of security in Afghanistan,” Raisi said.The fate of Afghanistan, Raisi said, “must be decided by the Afghans themselves”. He contended that “if the Americans do not sabotage the situation, this issue will be resolved quickly”.Iran attaches “special importance” to extensive relations with India, and there is a need for a “joint cooperation programme” to elevate bilateral ties, Raisi said. “From today on, we should take new and distinct steps in the development of bilateral, regional and international relations with a new perspective,” he said.“By moving in the direction of a joint cooperation programme, we can take steps to bring about different conditions at the level of relations between the two countries in the interests of the two nations,” he added.Raisi said the Iranian government will pursue a policy of developing ties with neighbouring countries and the region, especially India. “There are various sectors, especially in the economic and commercial fields, as well as new technologies, that we should use to promote the level of our relations,” he added.Jaishankar tweeted that he had a “warm meeting” with Raisi, during which he conveyed the personal greetings of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “His commitment to strengthening our bilateral relationship was manifest. So too was the convergence in our regional interests,” he added.Bilateral ties took a massive hit after India stopped importing oil from Iran in mid-2019 because of sanctions imposed by the former Trump administration. At the time, Iran was among India’s top three energy suppliers. Iran has also been upset at the pace of development of Chabahar port by the Indian side. Recent moves by Tehran to develop a railway line to Chabahar and the Farzad B gas field without Indian involvement have not gone down well with New Delhi.However, two visits by Jaishankar have helped give fresh impetus to ties, especially at a time when the two countries have similar interests with regard to the situation in Afghanistan. Jaishankar was the first foreign leader to meet Raisi, then the president-elect, during a stopover in Tehran on July 9 while on his way to Russia.Iran ambassador Ali Chegeni said Jaishankar’s two visits to Iran and meetings with Raisi in less than a month “show the strong will of our leaders to expand bilateral relations and draw a very positive and promising vision”.However, the Indian side will still have to cope with the diplomatic crisis over last week’s drone attack on the tanker Mercer Street, managed by Israeli-owned Zodiac Maritime, that killed two crew members – a Briton and a Romanian.The issue is set to be discussed by the UN Security Council amid claims by Britain and the US that Iran was behind the attack. Tehran has denied any involvement in the July 29 attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iran-president-backs-india-s-role-in-afghan-peace-process-101628272022609.html
07-08-2021||India||Twitter ‘seemingly’ complied with new IT rules: Govt in Delhi HC||Social media company Twitter has “seemingly” complied with the new Information Technology (IT) Rules that came into force from May 25, the Centre told the Delhi high court on Friday but stressed that the government will need time to verify the compliance cited by the microblogging platform in a fresh affidavit.The Centre’s assertion came in response to observation on Twitter’s status by Justice Rekha Palli after the social media firm, in its affidavit, said it has appointed a permanent Resident Grievance Officer (RGO), Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) and Nodal Contact officer (NCO) on August 4 in compliance with the rules.The appointments were made after Justice Palli, on July 28, gave the social media firm one last opportunity to “wholeheartedly” comply with the new IT Rules notified in February this year that sought to put in place a stricter regulatory mechanism that companies like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube will need to abide by.Under the new guidelines that came into force from May 25, significant social media intermediaries - those with 50,000 users or more - were required to appoint a compliance officer “responsible for ensuring compliance with the Act and Rules”, a nodal contact person for 24x7 coordination with law enforcement agencies and a Resident Grievance Officer mandated to deal with complaints to take down offensive content within 24 hours of a complaint.At the July 28 hearing, Justice Palli objected to the company describing the official appointed as RGO and CCO as ‘contingent worker’ and asked Twitter to file a fresh affidavit. “I am not happy with this affidavit anyway,” Justice Palli said.The social media firm’s fresh affidavit, which sought to respond to the court’s concern, clarified that it earlier appointed Vinay Prakash as the Resident Grievance Officer (RGO) and Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) through a third-party contractor, PRO Unlimited India Private Limited. It said that the initial appointment was made through a third party to expedite compliance of the IT Rules since it didn’t have a corporate presence in India.“The appointment was considered contingent because Twitter, Inc. expected to convert the position to a full-time employee as soon as practicable. Twitter, Inc. has since converted Mr Prakash to a full-time employee effective August 4, 2021…..that Mr Vinay Prakash is, and has been since his initial appointment, fully capable of performing the functions of Chief Compliance Officer and Resident Grievance Officer as contemplated under Rule 4(1)(a) and (c),” Twitter said in an affidavit.Senior advocate Sajjan Poovaya, who appeared for Twitter, also told the court that the company has employed Shahin Komath, an Indian resident, as Nodal Contact Person in compliance of section 4(1)(b) of the IT Rules, 2021.When the court remarked that “this means they are in compliance” of the IT Rules, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma for the Centre, responded, “seemingly so”. He said that the Union government is yet to verify the compliance and sought time to do the same.Justice Palli directed that the affidavits be taken on record and posted the matter for further hearing on August 10.During Friday’s hearing, senior advocate G Tushar Rao for the petitioner-lawyer Amit Acharya, objected to one person, Vinay Prakash, being appointed as the RGO and CCO, insisting that this was legally incorrect. This submission was, however, contested by Twitter’s counsel.Petitioner-lawyer Amit Acharya approached the court days after the May 25 deadline ended, complaining that he could not seek action against two alleged offensive tweets by TMC MP Mohua Moitra and journalist Swati Chaturvedi because Twitter hadn’t complied with the rules. His complaint was later disposed of by Twitter saying that the tweets in question were not offensive according to its policies.The delay in compliance with the new IT Rules had triggered a faceoff between the social media company and the government which contended that its failure to comply with the guidelines could cost it the safe harbour protection granted to intermediaries under the IT Act. At the peak of the back-and-forth between the two sides, Twitter criticised the new IT Rules and regulations saying these “inhibit free, open public conversation”. In response, the Centre accused the platform of levelling baseless and false allegations to defame India and dictating terms to the world’s largest democracy.Twitter, in turn, has raised concerns about the safety of its employees in India and flagged intimidation by the police. There have been several instances of confrontation between the social media firm and the government over orders to block access to content and the marking of posts by BJP leaders as manipulated media. On July 22, the union government had informed the Rajya Sabha that even though Twitter was non-compliant with the IT Rules till May 26, it had subsequently appointed an RGO and CCO and submitted its first compliance report in June this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-seemingly-complied-with-new-it-rules-govt-in-hc-101628271723516.html
07-08-2021||India||J&J and Novavax seek approval for vaccines||Two coronavirus vaccine makers, Johnson & Johnson (J&J) and Novavax, announced that they have approached the Indian drugs regulator for emergency approval of their products, raising the possibility of large quantities of doses becoming available over the next months as the country races to inoculate more people to stave off a third wave of Covid-19.Both of the companies have partnered with Indian vaccine manufacturers: Pune-based Serum Institute of India is producing and carrying out trials for Novavax, and Hyderabad-based Biological E is producing doses for J&J.The J&J vaccine has been approved by several western countries and is in use in many of these, while the Novavax dose has shown some of the most promising results in clinical trials.“On 5th August 2021, Johnson & Johnson Pvt Ltd applied for emergency use authorisation (EUA) of its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine to the government of India. This is an important milestone that paves the way to bringing our single-dose Covid-19 vaccine to the people of India, and the rest of the world, through a collaboration with Biological E Limited,” the company said in a statement.Novavax too issued a statement, saying: “Novavax Inc, with its partner, Serum Institute of India Pvt Ltd (SII), today announced that the companies have filed regulatory submissions for emergency use authorisation of recombinant nanoparticle protein-based Covid-19 vaccine candidate. The submissions were made to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) and regulatory agencies in Indonesia and the Philippines”.The Novavax vaccine showed an efficacy rate of 90% in clinical trials but is yet to be approved for emergency use in any country.The J&J vaccine, which has shown 66-72% efficacy in different trials, has been approved by regulators in the US, UK, Europe and the World Health Organization. The company in May applied for a permission to carry out bridging trials – smaller clinical trials that are meant to assess if the findings are similar to larger trials carried out elsewhere. But it withdrew the request last week and filed for emergency approval directly, making use of a change in policy in India that allows coronavirus vaccine makers to do so if they have received approvals by certain regulators around the world.The statement said J&J looked forward to concluding its discussions with the government of India to accelerate availability of its Covid-19 vaccine to help end the pandemic.Experts said J&J’s single dose vaccine could help vastly improve availability. “Yes, single dose vaccine works better; we may need a booster later, but it’s a great addition,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, senior vaccine expert, from CMC Vellore.Representatives of both the vaccine makers’ Indian partners also met top Indian officials on Friday.Union health minister, Mansukh Mandaviya, on Friday met the managing director of Biological E, Mahima Datla, although the two discussed Corbevax, the other coronavirus vaccine Biological E is developing. This dose is in collaboration with the Baylor College of Medicine in Texas.“Met Ms Mahima Datla, MD of @Biological_E, who briefed me on the progress of their upcoming #COVID19 vaccine, Corbevax. I assured all the Government support for the vaccine,” the health minister tweeted.SII chief executive Adar Poonawalla too met Mandaviya as well as Union home minister on Friday. Poonawalla, news agency PTI reported, later said that he expects Covavax (the Novavax dose made by it) to become available for adults by October and for children by the first quarter of next year if all regulatory processes proceed as planned.“…hopeful that for adults Covovax will be launched in October, depending on DCGI approvals… The Covovax vaccine for kids will be launched in the first quarter of the next year most likely in January-February,” news agency PTI quoted Poonawalla as saying following the meeting.Novavax, in its statement, said it and SII have completed the submission of all modules required by regulatory agencies in India, Indonesia and the Philippines for the review, including preclinical, clinical, and chemistry, manufacturing and controls data.“Today’s submission of our recombinant nanoparticle COVID-19 vaccine, the first protein-based option filed with any regulatory agency, represents a major milestone in Novavax transformation into a commercial global vaccine company,” said Stanley C Erck, president and chief executive officer, Novavax||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jj-and-novavax-seek-approval-for-vaccines-101628271723017.html
07-08-2021||India||Won’t accept a govt imposed by force in Afghanistan: UNSC||Members of the UN Security Council on Friday made it clear the world community wouldn’t accept any government forcibly imposed in Afghanistan by the Taliban, even as India called for the dismantling of terror safe havens and sanctuaries in Pakistan.A meeting of the Security Council held under the Indian presidency to discuss the situation in Afghanistan was given a grim briefing on the fallout of the Taliban’s massive campaign of violence and attacks by Deborah Lyons, the UN secretary-general’s special representative, who said the country was at a “dangerous turning point”.Most of the representatives of the 15 permanent and non-permanent members of the Security Council strongly opposed any military takeover of the Taliban and the representatives of France and the US said further exemptions from sanctions on Taliban leaders, especially for travel, would be affected by failure to end violence.India holds the rotating presidency of the Security Council for August and played a key role in organising the meeting on Afghanistan. TS Tirumurti, India’s envoy to the UN, listed the surge in Taliban attacks and violence, including the suicide assault on the home of the Afghan defence minister and the killing of Indian journalist Danish Siddiqui, and said the rapid deterioration of security poses a “serious threat to regional peace and stability”.In an obvious reference to Pakistan, Tirumurti said: “For enduring peace in Afghanistan, terrorist safe havens and sanctuaries in the region must be dismantled immediately and terrorist supply chains disrupted. It needs to be ensured that Afghanistan’s neighbours and the region are not threatened by terrorism, separatism and extremism.”He called for “zero tolerance” for all forms of terrorism, and said it is equally important to ensure Afghan soil isn’t used by terror groups to threaten or attack any other country. “Those providing material and financial support to terrorist entities must be held accountable,” he added.The world community should “decide on actions that would help bring a permanent and comprehensive ceasefire”, and ensure the Taliban “engage in negotiations in good faith, eschew the path of violence, severe ties with al-Qaeda and other terrorist organisations, and fully commit itself towards reaching a political solution”, Tirumurti added.The Indian envoy reiterated New Delhi’s support for an inclusive Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled peace process which leads to a political settlement that protects the gains of the past two decades and preserves the rights of women, children and minorities.The Afghan envoy to the UN, Ghulam M Isaczai, was more scathing in his criticism of Pakistan’s role in backing the Taliban, which he said was being assisted in acts of barbarism by “foreign fighters from trans-national terrorist networks”. The Taliban have launched more than 5,500 attacks since mid-April with support from more than 10,000 foreign fighters representing 20 groups, including al-Qaeda, Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU), East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) and Islamic State.“Importantly, the Taliban continue to enjoy a safe haven in and supply and logistics line extended to their war machine from Pakistan. Graphic reports and video of Taliban fighters congregating close to the Durand Line to enter Afghanistan, fund-raising events, transfer of dead bodies for mass burial and treatment of injured Taliban in Pakistani hospitals are emerging and are widely available,” Isaczai said.“Consistent with the agreement of the leadership of Afghanistan and Pakistan in Tashkent last month, we urge Pakistan to help with removing and dismantling of Taliban sanctuaries and supply lines and establish with us a joint monitoring and verification mechanism to make the fight against terrorism and international efforts for peace effective and credible,” he added.Barbara Woodward, the UK envoy to the UN, said the Taliban must realise there will be consequences if it continues its military offensive. “There can be no military solution to this conflict. For our part, the UK will not recognise a Taliban government that comes to power by force,” she said.The US representative condemned the increase in violent attacks and said: “The Taliban must hear from the international community that we will not accept a military takeover of Afghanistan or a return of the Taliban’s Islamic emirate. The Taliban will be isolated and an international pariah if they choose that path, which would most certainly push the country to further violence and destruction.”The US representative listed five principles for a negotiated and inclusive solution, including inclusive governance, the right of the Afghan people to elect political leaders, protection of human rights, a commitment to counter-terrorism and no safe havens for foreign terrorists, and adherence to international and humanitarian laws.Special representative Lyons said the UN Security Council must issue an unambiguous statement calling for cessation of attacks on cities, and countries in contact with the Taliban’s political commission should insist on a ceasefire and a resumption of negotiations. The exemptions to the UN travel ban on Taliban leaders are for the sole purpose of peace negotiations, and further extension during a review on September 20 “must be predicated on real progress in peace”, she said.Following the statements by the 15 members of the Security Council, the meeting was adjourned for consultations behind closed doors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-accept-a-govt-imposed-by-force-in-afghanistan-unsc-101628271720285.html
07-08-2021||India||A year after Kerala crash, probe report still stuck||A year after an Air India Express plane crashed at Kozhikode in Kerala, killing 20 people including two pilots, the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) is yet to release a preliminary report on the cause of the mishap. Recently, the Centre informed Parliament that the report is likely to be released by the end of August.On August 7, 2020, a Boeing 737-800 aircraft arriving from Dubai overshot the runway at Kozhikode International Airport and broke into pieces, leaving several of 190 people aboard the ill-fated aircraft injured. Immediately after the crash, the government announced that the AAIB, which comes under the civil aviation ministry and has the mandate to investigate serious incidents and accidents involving Indian registered planes, will conduct a formal inquiry into the mishap.Days later on August 13, the AAIB announced the setting up of a five-member team to probe the circumstances that led to the plane crash. In a statement, the bureau said that the investigator-in-charge will complete its inquiry and submit the report within five months from the date of the issue of the order.A year later, the probe is yet to be completed and the cause of the mishaps remains unknown.On August 5 this year, the Centre informed Parliament that the AAIB probe is in “progress” and is likely to be completed by the end of the month.In a written reply to a query in the Lok Sabha, minister of state for civil aviation V K Singh said the final compensation offers had been made to all next of kin of the deceased but none of the “next of kin has sent their acceptance as of date”.According to experts, the findings of any probe report, besides fixing responsibility and accountability, also helps in taking corrective action and measures to prevent similar mishaps in the future.Mohan Ranganathan, former instructor pilot of Boeing 737 specialising in wet runway operations, said: “The preliminary report of an accident is supposed to be out in two weeks. However, there has been no status on it (Kozhikode crash report). The AAIB was asked to submit the investigation report five months after the crash, failing which a two-month extension was given in January but the report is not out yet.”Alleging that the AAIB has always failed to release probe reports on time, Ranganathan said, “Their reports always conclude by pointing out manual errors.”Even in the past, investigators have taken years probing aircraft accidents which, at times, are attributed to both lack of technology and required expertise.Citing the example of the Turkish Airlines’ aircraft accident that took place in Mumbai in September 2011, whose report is still awaited, Ranganathan said, “There cannot be any reason to delay a probe report for ten years. The functioning of the AAIB is very poor and needs immediate improvement.”A Turkish flight, TK 720, from Istanbul with 97 passengers and crew on board had skidded off the runway at Mumbai airport in September 2011. No one was injured in the incident.Echoing Ranganathan’s point of view, a veteran pilot on condition of anonymity said the competence of the investigating board should be strengthened with professionals having vast experience and the reports should be time-bound.“A time-bound investigation in any incident/ accident is required so that when anything has gone wrong, that should be remedied for the future and prevent their recurrence,” he said.The AAIB has a regular workforce of seven safety personnel and an independent panel of 23 pilots and cockpit crew, 12 engineers, four aviation operation experts, two experts each for aviation psychology and aerodrome and one expert each as in-flight safety personnel and air safety investigator.Asserting that Indian investigators are as competent as their foreign counterparts, the pilot said they need to further upgrade their skills through various courses in aircraft investigations.“In the foreign countries or western world, they (investigators) undoubtedly handle it (the probe) much more professionally,” a senior industry expert said, wishing not to be named.“Lots of facts and figures are examined along with factors such as flight safety, fatigue during anincident or accident. These investigators look into all factors, right from the aircraft serviceability to the competent pilots having cleared all medical records,” the expert said.“It is time that we have a more robust aircraft investigation board with more professionals from across fields, and they should be subjected to more aircraft investigation courses,” he added.The expert further pointed out: “There should also be no pressure, if you are an independent board. At times, the findings, irrespective of the nature, can get twisted if the airline involved is going to get a bad name. It shouldn’t matter and it should be a fair and absolutely honest investigation,”“Justice delayed is justice denied. If you take so long to come to a conclusion it’s as if there’s no accountability. There should be a timeline. Or you justify why you are late, so that these issues are addressed to the regulatory authority,” the pilot said.Queries sent to AAIB did not yield a response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/a-year-after-kerala-crash-probe-report-still-stuck-101628271240777.html
07-08-2021||India||Sarma, Sangma agree to resolve border dispute in a phased manner||The Assam and Meghalaya governments on Friday agreed to form three committees to resolve their long pending boundary dispute in a phased manner with the initial focus on the less complicated areas of contention.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Meghalaya counterpart Conrad Sangma, in a meeting in Guwahati, said the committees will be headed by ministers of both the states and will have five members from each side, including Cabinet ministers, bureaucrats and local representatives.“Both governments are clear that we want to resolve the differences between the states. There is a strong political will to find an amicable solution. Both agreed that the disputes should be resolved in a respectful manner,” Sangma said.This is the second meeting between the two chief ministers who earlier met in Meghalaya on July 23 to discuss the issue. While Meghalaya had already made a presentation on their views at the meeting in Shillong, the Assam government did the same on Friday.“The strategy we have decided to follow is to take up the matter in a phased manner. There are areas which are less complicated, some slightly more and some very complicated,” Sangma said.Of the 12 disputed areas, the six which will be taken up for discussion in the first phase are Tarabari, Gizang, Hahim, Boklapara, Khanapara-Pilangkata and Ratacherra. The areas fall under Kamrup, Kamrup (Metropolitan) and Cachar districts of Assam and West Khasi Hills, Ri Bhoi and East Jaintia Hills districts of Meghalaya.The remaining six areas of dispute are Langpih, Khanduli-Psiar, Deshdemoreah, Nogwah, Mawtamur and Borduar.“We don’t have any dispute from the Assam side but the problem arose because Meghalaya claimed certain territories in these 12 locations. When we met in Shillong, we agreed that all disputes can’t be resolved in one go and we need to take them up in a step-by-step manner. Once the six disputes are resolved, we will move on to the others,” Sarma said.“The committees will focus on historical facts, ethnicity, administrative convenience, sentiment of local residents and contiguity. Based on these parameters, they will try to find a way forward. The committees will make joint visits to the areas and submit their reports within the next 30 days,” Sangma said.Sarma and Sangma will also visit some of the disputed areas within the next thirty days, especially Langpih, one of the most disputed of the 12 areas.Based on reports of the three committees, the issue will be taken up at the chief minister’s level for a permanent resolution.“Resolution of the disputes should not require redrawing of boundaries. We believe the disputes are due to problems of perception on both sides. We are attempting to align our perceptions… But if in the process, any redrawing is necessary, the matter will have to be sent to the Centre and it can be done by Parliament,” Sarma said.Meghalaya was carved out of Assam in 1972. Over the years, differences have cropped up regarding the boundary and resulted in skirmishes among various communities inhabiting the border areas.Besides Meghalaya, Assam is also facing border disputes with Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland. Separate suits are pending in the Supreme Court for a resolution to the row with Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland.On Thursday, Assam and Mizoram agreed to withdraw forces from all disputed border areas and work towards lasting peace in the first meeting between the two states since an unprecedented gunbattle on July 26 killed six policemen and injured 41 others.Last week, Assam and Nagaland signed an agreement on maintaining the status quo along the borders.Last month, both Sarma and Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu had said that the two states would try to resolve the border dispute out of court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-meghalaya-agree-to-resolve-border-dispute-in-phases-101628246158822.html
