08-08-2021||India||Patna completes 1 lakh Covid-19 vaccinations in a day, ranks fifth in India||Patna administered 1,36,560 doses of Covid-19 vaccines on Saturday, the highest achieved on the day by any district in India, and also became only the fifth in India to cross the 1 lakh vaccination mark in a single day, officials said. Patna’s contribution was 27% of the state’s achievement of 5,09,447 doses administered on Saturday. “We surpassed Bengaluru (88,327), Ahmedabad (55,988), Mumbai (53,988), Belgaum (49,513), Kurnool (49,203), Surat (48,691), Dehradun (44,495) and Chennai (41,357) in terms of Covid jabs on Saturday,” said Patna’s district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh. “We also earned the unique distinction of joining the elite club of five districts in India to cross the 1 lakh mark of Covid-19 vaccinations in a single day,” he added. Indore, with 2,27,349 doses in a day, tops the list of such districts, followed by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (1,73,960), Bhopal (1,56,137) and Ujjain (1,05,314). Patna has now administered 95% first dose vaccination to its urban adult population and 33% to the rural masses. The district’s first-dose achievement was 53% against the state’s 32%. The district has administered 13,61,533 doses to its 43,49,131 target population so far. Patna had achieved 18% full immunisation against the state’s 6% coverage of the target population of 7.22 crore to have taken both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, said Dr SP Vinayak, Patna’s district immunisation officer. The 17 special vaccination centres in Patna, set up in May and June, had administered 9,02,277 doses of the 13,61,533 doses till Saturday. Of this, the three vaccination centres at the Patliputra Sports Complex, Patliputra Ashok Hotel and the Government Polytechnic College in Patliputra that operate 24x7, accounted for 41% (3,70,845 doses). These three centres are managed by Care India, which provides technical support to the state government in implementation of the health programme. Patna had 262 vaccination sessions on Saturday. “There is no hesitancy anywhere now. People from rural areas are calling up our field officers to know about the availability of vaccines in their respective areas. Now that we have almost saturated the urban areas, we shall turn our attention to vaccination in rural areas from August 10,” said Singh, in response to the vaccine hesitancy in rural areas, which had led to low first-dose coverage (33%). “In addition to the 86 “Teeka Express” or mobile vaccine vans, we have four special vans, which will have vaccinators, data-entry operators as well as artistes to perform “nukkad-natak” or street plays to sensitise people about vaccination in a handful of remote areas where people are delaying taking their jabs. In addition, we will also take help from NGOs working in those areas,” he added. Though chief minister Nitish Kumar has set a target for his officers to complete Covid-19 vaccination in the state by December, Patna hopes to do it before the given deadline, subject to availability of vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patna-completes-1-lakh-covid-19-vaccinations-in-a-day-ranks-fifth-in-india-101628445371412.html
08-08-2021||India||India, UAE carry out naval exercise; deepen military cooperation||India and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) carried out a naval exercise off the Abu Dhabi coast to increase bilateral military cooperation. The Zayed Talwar exercise came amid rising tensions in the Gulf region where a drone attack on a merchant vessel led to the death of a British and a Romanian citizen a week ago. The UK and the US blamed Iran for the attack on the merchant vessel MV Mercer Street, a charge denied by Tehran.During the exercise on Saturday, the Indian Navy deployed warship INS Kochi and two Sea King MK 42B helicopters. The UAE deployed Baynunah class guided missile corvette, Al Dhafra and an AS-565B Panther helicopter.“As part of the exercise, the ships undertook tactical manoeuvres, over the horizon targeting, search and rescue and electronic warfare drills to enhance interoperability and synergy between the two navies,” Commander Vivek Madhwal, the Indian Navy’s spokesperson, told news agency PTI.Madhwal said helicopters practised search and rescue operations during the military drill and passing of targeting data to ships for simulated missile engagement drills.The exercise also came a week after Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria’s visit to the UAE. In December last year, General MM Naravane visited the UAE and Saudi Arabia in a first-ever visit by the head of the Indian Army to the two important Gulf countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-uae-carry-out-naval-exercise-deepen-military-cooperation-101628443058494.html
08-08-2021||India||Mamata wants my party to merge with TMC, says Raijor Dal chief Akhil Gogoi||Raijor Dal chief Akhil Gogoi said on Sunday that he has got an offer from Trinamool Congress (TMC) requesting him to merge his party with them and head its unit in Assam. “They have given a proposal that Raijor Dal should merge with TMC and I should head the party’s unit in Assam,” said the Sibsagar MLA without divulging what would be his party’s stand on the offer. Gogoi had earlier met TMC chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Kolkata. Three rounds of meetings between Raijor Dal and TMC have already taken place. People aware of the development in Gogoi’s party said that they have decided not to merge with TMC. “If we have to remove Prime Minister Narendra Modi from power, a confederation of regional parties will play an important role. Hence under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee, all regional parties of India have to come together,” he added. Gogoi mentioned that Raijor Dal has started talks with Congress to discuss the coming by-polls in Assam and the prospect of opposition parties, except All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) joining hands. “We’ve had initial discussions with Congress. Some of their leaders are saying that they want to part ways with AIUDF, which was part of the ‘grand alliance’ for the assembly polls,” By-polls in at least five seats are to be held in the coming weeks after two newly elected MLAs died due to Covid-19, two Congress MLAs quit the party and joined BJP and former CM and Majuli MLA Sarbananda Sonowal joined the Union Cabinet last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-wants-my-party-to-merge-with-tmc-says-raijor-dal-chief-akhil-gogoi-101628441651503.html
08-08-2021||India||Yediyurappa asks Karnataka CM Bommai to withdraw cabinet rank assigned to him||Former Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday requested that all cabinet privileges that were accorded to him by his successor, Basavaraj Bommai, be taken back after the move triggered a controversy in the state.Yediyurappa wrote to Bommai on Sunday, asking the latter only to give him the same privileges accorded to his predecessors and not any equivalent to cabinet rank. “I request you to provide me only those facilities that are given to an immediate former chief minister and withdraw the order giving me cabinet rank,” Yediyurappa said in his letter to Bommai on Sunday.The controversy erupted on Saturday after Bommai, a known loyalist of Yediyurappa, asked that the latter be given all privileges of a cabinet rank minister even though the 78-year-old is just a legislator after stepping down from the top post on July 26.“They have given Yediyurappa cabinet rank. On one side they talk about austerity measures, reduce expenditure, while committed expenditure is 102%. They (government) say that it has become difficult to pay interest, salaries, pensions and subsidies and on the other hand they are doing this,” Siddaramaiah, former chief minister and leader of the opposition said.He, however, said that it was a good thing that Yediyurappa was giving up the cabinet rank, which has never been accorded to anyone who has held the position in Karnataka before.Bommai tried to show his loyalty to Yediyurappa in more ways than one and meets the latter on a regular basis, indicating that the 78-year-old continues to remain in charge of the functioning of the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-asks-karnataka-cm-bommai-to-withdraw-cabinet-rank-assigned-to-him-101628438051221.html
08-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata asks Akhil Gogoi to head TMC in Assam and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mamata asks Akhil Gogoi to merge his outfit and head TMC in Assam'Akhil Gogoi said an alliance of regional parties under the leadership of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is in the works to challenge the saffron camp in 2024. Read more here.Fully vaccinated people can travel on local trains from August 15: ThackerayFully vaccinated people will be allowed to travel on local trains by registering themselves through an app, Uddhav Thackeray said. Read more here. Bigg Boss OTT premiere LIVE: Karan Johar welcomes Millind Gaba, contestants to wait for a 'connection'Bigg Boss OTT, the 15th season of the reality show, kick-started Sunday evening. Karan Johar welcomed the contestants and fans. Check out Live updates from the premiere. Read more here. A tribal village in Kerala’s Wayanad is India’s first fully vaccinated hamletHome to four primitive tribes, Noolpuzha is the second largest tribal-populated local body in the state and it now flaunts cent per cent vaccination status. Read more here. Delhi schools reopen tomorrow: Here's what happening in other states post-CovidShut since the coronavirus pandemic hit the country for the second time earlier this year, schools across the country are gradually beginning to resume physical classes. Read more here. 'Medals India won made nation proud': PM Modi congratulates Indian contingentAs the Tokyo Games come to a close on Sunday, PM Modi said that India's medal wins at the Games made the nation proud. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mamata-asks-akhil-gogoi-to-head-tmc-in-assam-101628436345975.html
08-08-2021||India||Snake found onboard Mumbai-bound IndiGo flight at Kolkata airport||A snake was spotted onboard an Indigo flight at the Kolkata Airport, leading to commotion all around, according to a report in the Times of India. The serpent was found before the flight was to leave for Mumbai.According to the report, passengers were yet to board the aircraft, which had landed at the airport from Raipur, and was parked at a secluded bay area, when the incident occurred. A baggage handler saw the snake, which was curled around a baggage belt in the plane. The ground staff immediately cleared the area and informed airport authorities who, in turn, informed the forest department. The snake was rescued by forest department officials, who took it away for rehabilitation.The massive reptile, officials said, was a non-poisonous rat snake, which, they speculated, made its way into the plane while baggage was being off loaded from the flight upon arrival from Raipur.The incident took place on August 5. Journalist Tarun Shukla took to Twitter to share a video and a photo of the snake. “Perhaps the snake wanted an IndiGo flight as a belated 15th birthday offer yesterday. Thankfully taken away by the Kolkata forest department. But just look at the speed,” Shukla tweeted on August 6. IndiGo, which is headquartered in Gurugram, commenced operations on August 4, 2006.And when it was inside.. 🐍 pic.twitter.com/1h8L8FdWm7Meanwhile, passengers who were due to board the Mumbai-bound flight, were sent to their destination on another aircraft, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snake-found-onboard-mumbai-bound-indigo-flight-at-kolkata-airport-101628435860470.html
08-08-2021||India||Kerala to enforce new Covid-19 containment rules from August 11||Amid a steep hike in Covid-19 cases, the Kerala government has decided to implement new guidelines from August 11 allowing only those who have taken at least one dose of the vaccine or who are in possession of RT-PCR negative certificates taken 72 hours before to enter shops, markets, banks and tourist spots.This is applicable for both workers and visitors and the state disaster control management authority said it will deploy its personnel in malls and other places to ensure this. Though traders’ bodies and opposition parties opposed the new restrictions, state health minister Veena George justified it saying in critical situations such measures are needed.On Sunday, Covid-19 cases came down to 20,000 after a week. Kerala reported 18,607 cases with a test positivity rate of 13.87 per cent after 1,34,196 samples were tested, said the state health ministry. It also reported 93 deaths taking the total death toll to 17,747. The intensity of the situation in the state can be gauged if compared with national statistics-- in the last 24 hours the country reported 39,070 cases and 491 deaths and out of 4.06,822 active cases the state’s share is 1,76,572.Kerala had announced fresh guidelines on August 4 as coronavirus cases continued to rise exponentially. According to the new guidelines, only people who have taken at least one dose of the vaccine before two weeks, or who are in possession of RT-PCR negative certificates taken 72 hours before or who are in possession of Covid-19 positive results more than a month old, will be allowed inside shops, banks and other establishments. But traders opposed it and asked the government to provide enough vaccines before enforcing such rules.“There are many loopholes. If a person wants to buy two packets of milk he has to take a test costing ₹500 or a vaccine worth ₹600. What about people below 18 years of age? These measures are without any thinking or logic,” said a trader M Pankajan in the state capital. Opposition parties also said such steps will lead to more harassment from law-enforcement agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-enforce-new-covid-19-containment-rules-from-august-11-101628435050804.html
08-08-2021||India||Delhi schools reopen partially tomorrow: Here's what's happening in other states||Schools in the National Capital will reopen partially for classes 10 and 12 from Monday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said in an order on Sunday. An official notification said students can visit schools for admission-related work, including counseling, guidance and practical activities related to board exams.Shut since the coronavirus pandemic hit the country for the second time earlier this year, schools are gradually beginning to resume physical classes with most state governments looking at opening the education sector with Covid-appropriate norms in place, even as attendance has not been made mandatory. As coronavirus cases register a significant drop in most places, here’s what some of the other states have announced so far regarding resumption of offline education after holding several rounds of talks with experts.MaharashtraOne of the hardest hit by both waves of the coronavirus disease, Maharashtra has decided to reopen schools in both rural and urban areas from August 17. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad said offline classes will commence in rural areas for students from classes 5 to 8, while those in cities will be for students from classes 8 to 12.Uttar PradeshWhile a majority of schools in Uttar Pradesh have decided to begin physical classes for classes 9-12 from August 16, some would continue to follow hybrid (both offline and online classes). There are others that would continue only with online education. The decision has been taken by the Unaided Private Schools Association Uttar Pradesh following a government order giving permission for offline teaching for secondary classes (9 to 12) from August 16.KarnatakaIn Karnataka, schools will reopen in two phases. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has said it has been decided physical schools for classes 9 to 12 will start in alternate batches from August 23, with each batch attending classes three days a week.Tamil NaduThe Tamil Nadu government will reopen schools for classes 9 to 12 from September 1 with 50 per cent attendance and strict adherence to measures necessitated to contain the spread of Covid-19.Andhra PradeshSchools in Andhra Pradesh will reopen from August 16. Teachers in the state have already been asked to visit schools on alternate days since July 2021 and students have been allowed to meet the teachers at schools to clear doubts.West BengalBengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said schools and colleges may reopen for physical classes on alternate days after the Durga Puja vacation in November. “However, nothing has been finalised just yet,” Banerjee had said after holding a meeting of the Global Advisory Board, headed by Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee. A senior education department had earlier said that whenever schools reopen in the state, students of higher classes will be the first to start attending offline classes and not those studying in primary classes.RajasthanSchools were initially scheduled to reopen in Rajasthan from August 2, but a government panel has decided against the move. According to reports, the committee members may seek opinion of experts from AIIMS, Delhi, and ICMR before taking any step in this direction.States where schools have already reopened:PunjabSchools for all classes reopened in Punjab began on August 2 on Monday, with physical classes resuming even for primary levels. Attendance was reported more from rural areas while turnout at many private schools was not that high.Himachal PradeshRegular classes for schools in the hill state began from August 3. While students from classes 10 to 12 will have regular classes, those studying classes 5 and 8 have been allowed to come for doubt clearance. A micro-plan has been prepared at the school-level to ensure compliance with Covid-19 norms.HaryanaSchools in Haryana gradually resumed offline classes from July 16 following an order issued by the state government in this regard. While students of classes 9 to 12 were able to attend classes from the same day, those studying in classes 6 to 8 started attending school from July 23.Madhya PradeshSchools in Madhya Pradesh reopened for students of classes 11 and 12 from July 26 with 50 per cent attendance. According to an SOP, on-campus classes for students of classes 11 are being held on Tuesdays and Fridays, while students of classes 12 are going to school on Mondays and Thursdays. Students of classes 9 and 10 began attending school physically from August 5, as per the SOP on Saturdays and Wednesdays, respectively. In all cases, a maximum of 50 per cent attendance has been allowed.UttarakhandIn Uttarakhand, physical classes for students from 9-12 have resumed from August 2, while for students of 6-8 classes, it will begin on August 16.GujaratPhysical classes began in Gujarat’s schools for classes 9 to 11 from July 26 with 50 per cent attendance. Students willing to attend the classes had to submit a consent form signed by their parents. Meanwhile, online classes will also continue, according to the government’s latest order. Schools had already opened for class 12 students in the state on July 15.OdishaIn Odisha, schools resumed for classes 10 and 12 from July 26 with a comprehensive standard operating procedure in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-schools-reopen-tomorrow-here-s-a-list-of-classes-resuming-in-other-states-101628433245055.html
08-08-2021||India||A tribal village in Kerala’s Wayanad is India’s first fully vaccinated hamlet||Noolpuzha in Wayanad district in north Kerala has achieved the distinction of being the first tribal panchayat in the state to be fully vaccinated, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Sunday. In a Facebook post, the CM said special Covid-19 vaccination camps were organised in five schools in the panchayat and nearby areas to provide vaccines to all residents. People staying in remote areas were brought to these schools by vehicles provided by the tribal department. Those who could not reach camps were inoculated in their colonies, the CM said while lauding all involved in the task. For some of the residents who did not have identity cards or Aadhaar, a special provision was made available in Cowin App to register them using the reference of an individual in the same colony, the CM said in his post. Home to four primitive tribes, Noolpuzha is the second largest tribal-populated local body in the state and it now flaunts cent per cent vaccination status. Out of 30,000 people of the panchayat 22.616 are above 18, of them 21,964 have already been vaccinated. Some of the inhabitants who are working in other areas have also been inoculated, a senior officer of the tribal department said. The CM had said earlier the state will a launch a massive campaign from August 9 to 31 to vaccinate maximum people. He said the Union government was asked to provide the maximum doses of vaccines as almost half of the population is not infected by the virus. The state’s low sero positivity rate is another serious concern-- around 50 per cent of the population is still susceptible to the virus, says the latest sero survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-tribal-village-in-kerala-s-wayanad-is-india-s-first-fully-vaccinated-hamlet-101628431690520.html
08-08-2021||India||Mamata asks Akhil Gogoi to merge his outfit and head TMC in Assam||Anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) activist and Raijor Dal head Akhil Gogoi on Sunday said Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee has invited him to merge his outfit with the ruling party of Bengal and help an alliance of regional parties to overthrow the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from power at the Centre in 2024.Gogoi, who was set free a month ago after National Investigation Agency (NIA) court acquitted him of all charges related violence during the anti-CAA protests, said the alliance of regional parties under the leadership of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is in the works to challenge the saffron camp in 2024."We aim to form a confederation of regional forces and project Mamata Banerjee as its leader to remove the Narendra Modi government from power in 2024," he said.The Independent MLA from Assam's Sibasagar said Banerjee had assured him of making him the TMC’s Assam unit president if he merged his outfit, Raijor Dal, with the former.“A decision in this regard is likely to be taken in our party's executive body meeting during the day,” he further said. Gogoi said three rounds of talks between the TMC and Raijor Dal over the issue have already taken place.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-asks-akhil-gogoi-to-merge-his-outfit-and-head-tmc-in-assam-101628429525034.html
08-08-2021||India||PM Modi's video sharing formula for winning more medals in Olympics goes viral||After Neeraj Chopra became the second Indian ever to win an individual gold medal at Tokyo Olympics, a video of Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggesting that Indian Army personnel must be trained for such events is being widely shared on social media.PM Modi's video has gone viral after 23-year-old Neeraj Chopra, who is a subedar with the army, won the first gold medal in track and field in the Olympics on Saturday. He threw a distance of 87.58m in the javelin throw event to win the gold medal.In the video, PM Modi who was then the chief minister of Gujarat, is heard lamenting the fact that despite India’s vast population, the country has struggled to win medals in the Olympics. The Prime Minister, while addressing the students of Fergusson College in Pune, pitched that newly recruited army personnel interested in sports can be trained for the Olympics.“Can a nation of 1.2 billion people not win gold in the Olympics? People often heard lamenting and asking this question every four years when the Games are played. I understand there are issues but have we taken any initiative to link (sports) to our education system? Have we given enough opportunities to our youth?” PM Modi asked the audience.“If only people in the army were given this duty, the newly recruited ones who are interested in sports if trained well can bring 5-10 medals easily,” he added. The video can also be found on PM Modi’s official YouTube channel.Social media users also referred to this video citing the Indian Army’s Mission Olympics Wing behind the success of the Indian contingent at the Tokyo 2020 Olympics. Chopra enrolled with the 4 Rajputana Rifles as a direct entry naib subedar, the army has said. Neeraj Chopra was selected for training at Pune's Mission Olympics Wing and Army Sports Institute soon after he joined the army.The Mission Olympics Wing initiative by the Indian Army to identify and train elite sportsmen in 11 selected disciplines at five Mission Olympics Nodes to excel in various national and international competitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-video-sharing-formula-for-winning-more-medals-in-olympics-goes-viral-101628426526970.html
08-08-2021||India||PM Modi to launch free gas connection with refill and stove ahead of UP polls||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the second version of Ujjwala free cooking gas connection scheme along with “a free refill and a stove” on Tuesday from Mahoba district of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, replicating the success of its first version that had earned immense political goodwill for the BJP in the 2017 UP assembly polls, two people aware of the development said.Under the Ujjwala 2.0, the Union government will distribute about 10 million gas connections this financial year to the poor along with a free refill and a stove, they said requesting anonymity. About five years ago, ahead of the crucial UP polls, PM Modi had launched the first version of the scheme (Ujjwala 1.0) in Ballia, a district in the state on May 1, 2016.Ujjwala 2.0 is also expected to give a free refill worth over ₹800 and a free stove, one of them said. “Earlier under Ujjwala 1.0, only a deposit-free LPG connection was provided to the beneficiary amounting to a financial assistance of ₹1,600, where beneficiaries also had an option to take a loan at zero interest rate from the public sector oil marketing companies for the hot plate (stove) and the first refill,” the person added.The intent of the scheme was announced in the Budget this year. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1 announced extending the scheme to 10 million new beneficiaries in 2021-22. “Ujjwala Scheme which has benefited 8 crores [80 million] households will be extended to cover 1 crores [10 million] more beneficiaries,” she said in her budget speech.Besides the free first refill and a stove along with a deposit-free gas connection, the scheme in its new form will have provision for online application. A migrant family can also get separate gas connections, the person said.“Preference would be given to poor families belonging to the scheduled castes (SCs) and scheduled tribes (STs) and also for families residing in areas with lower LPG [liquefied petroleum gas] penetration than the national or state average,” he said.Applicants will be required to fill a simplified form for know-your-customer (KYC), which would not require any notarized affidavit. Migrants can provide self- declaration if they don’t have proof of address, he said. People can apply online through the dedicated portal or common service centres CSCs, or through local gas agencies belonging to the state-run OMCs – Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL), he added.Ujjwala 1.0, also known as the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) was launched in 2016 to provide only deposit-free LPG connections to the women of poor households.Initially, the target was set to provide 50 million LPG connections with the budgetary provision of ₹8,000 crore over a period of three years starting from FY 2016-17. Subsequently, considering the success of PMUY in providing access of clean cooking fuel and its resultant health, environment and economic benefits, the target was revised to 80 million connections with the total budget of ₹12,800 crore up to FY 2019-20, the second person said.The target beneficiaries were initially selected from the Socio-economic Caste Census of 2011 (SECC Data) and the scope was later expanded to more categories to include deprived women in poor households.“The target to distribute 8 crore [80 million] LPG connections under the scheme was successfully accomplished in September, 2019, seven months ahead of the target date. Implementation of PMUY has resulted in increase in national LPG coverage from 61.9% to 99.99 % as on July 1, 2021,” he said.As there has been a gap of about 18 months since the last connection under Ujjwala 1.0 was given, the petroleum ministry is using the term Ujjwala 2.0 for this phase of the scheme, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-free-gas-connection-with-refill-and-stove-ahead-of-up-polls-101628428030542.html
08-08-2021||India||Covid vaccination certificate now available through WhatsApp. Details here||People who have taken the vaccine against Covid-19 can now get their vaccination certificate on WhatsApp "in seconds", the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Sunday. They can download the vaccination certificate by sending a message on WhatsApp number and get the document immediately, the health ministry said."Revolutionising common man's life using technology! Now get #COVID19 vaccination certificate through MyGov Corona Helpdesk in 3 easy steps. Save contact number: +91 9013151515. Type & send 'covid certificate' on WhatsApp Enter OTP. Get your certificate in seconds," Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya's office posted on Twitter.Also read | States tighten Covid-19 curbs in view of surge in casesThe government began the new phase of its Covid-19 vaccination programme on June 21 and has ramped up the drive by providing more vaccines, advancing the visibility of vaccine availability to states and Union territories for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the supply chain.The Centre has been supporting states and Union territories by providing them vaccines against Covid-19 free of cost and is procuring and supplying 75 per cent of the shots being produced by manufacturers.Also read | India records 39,070 new Covid-19 cases, 491 fatalities in last 24 hoursAccording to government data, India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage crossed the landmark of 500 million on Friday. Cumulatively, 50,68,10,492 vaccine doses have been administered so far across the country, it added.The Union health ministry said on Sunday that more than 523.7 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far and 899,260 doses are in the pipeline.India on Sunday reported 39,070 cases of Covid-19 and 491 related fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking the over tally to 31,934,455 and the death toll to 427,862. There are 406,822 active cases of Covid-19 in the country, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccination-certificate-now-available-through-whatsapp-govt-gives-details-101628423674428.html
08-08-2021||India||Centre set to launch digitized platform to benefit migrant workers||The Union government is likely to launch by next week a digitized platform for migrant workers that will enable authorities to direct state-run benefits to them and intervene during crises. The Supreme Court had, earlier, set July 31 2021 as the deadline to so do. In the summer of 2020, tens of thousands of low-paid workers fled major cities, such as Mumbai and Chennai, under traumatic conditions without much food or money following a stringent national lockdown during the first wave of coronavirus infections. These workers walked down highways to reach their native villages, exhausted. The government wasn’t able to respond with any immediate help because there was no database of who these people were. The then labour minister, Santosh Gangwar, told Parliament in September 2020 that there was no data on how many migrant workers left cities or how many died. The migrant workers’ portal is supposed to address this gap. It is a joint venture between the labour and employment ministry and common service-centres (CSC) run by the electronics and information technology ministry. The platform will allow migrants to register themselves. Registered workers will get a unique ID. The CSCs are points of access to a host of government digital services across the country. There are nearly 400,000 CSCs countrywide. The Supreme Court, while dealing with a case on the plight of unorganized workers, had on June 29 set a deadline of July 31, 2021 to “prepare a mechanism” for registration of unorganized-sector workers. Similar deadlines were issued in 2018 and 2019. Once it goes live, migrants can access the portal at the nearest CSC. “The (unique identity) number can be used to access government schemes and services, irrespective of their place of stay,” an official of the IT ministry familiar with the matter said. Workers in the informal economy are estimated to contribute nearly 50% to the country’s gross domestic product or GDP, a measure of incomes and output. “One is not clear given the humungous task of registration whether this project will be completed in the near future. The first part is registration of course,” said KR Syam Sundar, an economist with the Xaviers Labour Relations Institute, Jamshedpur. According to Sundar, the Supreme Court has been seized with “governments’ apathy in complying with critical procedural requirements concerning unorganized workers over the (past) decade and a half”. Registration of workers could take time because workers will be registered as and when they apply. “But we will launch a big awareness drive so that nobody is left behind,” a labour ministry official said, requesting anonymity. While there are no official estimates of migrant workers, a novel statistical tool developed by former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian had revealed an annual “interstate migrant population of about 60 million and an inter-district migration as high as 80 million” between 2001 and 2011. According to the first official cited above, the portal is similar to a platform launched last month by the Gujarat government for ‘building and construction’ category workers so that they can access the state’s welfare schemes. The Gujarat portal saw a registration of over 100,000 workers within a fortnight of launch, the official said. While the unique identification number allotted to migrants will be similar to the biometric Aadhaar, Aadhaar will not be made mandatory to register on the portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-set-to-launch-digitized-platform-to-benefit-migrant-workers-101628423590133.html
08-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: TMC MP Derek O'Brien shares Opposition's message on Parliament logjam and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Mr Modi, Come listen to us': Derek O'Brien shares Oppn's message on Parl logjamThe TMC MP shared a three-minute clipping with speeches of leaders from several Opposition parties, including the Congress, Trinamool Congress, SP, Shiv Sena and CPI-M. Read more'We challenge you': Congress to Twitter over Rahul Gandhi's locked accountThe party party also tweeted the photograph of Rahul Gandhi meeting the family of the nine-year-old Dalit girl, who died after being raped by a priest and three other men at a crematorium near Delhi Cantonment. Read moreIndia vs England: Michael Vaughan makes cheeky remark as rain delays start of play on Day 5India appear to be the favourites to win the first Test, needing 157 more runs to win on Day 5, with 98 overs left to play and having nine wickets in hand. Read moreNawazuddin Siddiqui rejects astrology, says actors who change spellings of names 'have agenda, are insecure'Nawazuddin said he doesn't believe in astrology, and that the actors who change the spellings of their names must 'hate' what they're called, or must be 'insecure'.Kriti Sanon gives a glimpse of ‘Chubby Sanon’s’ workout to lose 15kgs after MimiHaving not worked out for 3 months to gain weight for Mimi, Kriti Sanon shares a fitness video to reveal how she lost 15 kgs with these exercises at home and at gym. Read moreHow a ticket bought as an act of kindness started a sweet love story. WatchWho doesn’t love to read a good love story? If that statement just made you nod in agreement, then here is a story that will fill your heart will a warm feeling. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-tmc-mp-derek-o-brien-shares-opposition-s-message-on-parliament-logjam-and-all-the-latest-news-101628418592950.html
08-08-2021||India||Manipur lifts day time curfew, imposes night curfew till Aug 22||After imposing total curfew for 21 days to break the chain of Covid-19 infections, the Manipur government lifted the day time curfew in the entire state on Saturday for 15 days till August 22. The night curfew will remain in effect between 6pm and 5am.State chief secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar, also the chairman of the state executive committee of the disaster management authority, issued an order in this regard on Saturday night.“Unavoidable customary and religious rituals can be performed in open sheds by restricting the number of invitees to 20 only,” the order said. “Micro containment zones shall be strictly monitored by dedicated police department teams and health department teams.”The order stated that the fresh cases of Covid 19 infections should be isolated as soon as possible and brought to Covid care centres and the health department should arrange mobile medical teams for regular health check up. It also asked the health department to scale up the vaccination drive, contact tracing and testing by providing additional manpower, mobility support and IEC (information education and communication) advocacy.Earlier, while reviewing the complete curfew which was enforced since July 18, the state cabinet decided to adopt a micro containment zone approach in line with the Central government’s advisories to maintain a balance between the twin objectives of saving lives and livelihood through economic activities.The government also appealed to residents to adopt Covid appropriate behaviour to contain Covid-19 in Manipur.On Saturday, Manipur reported 12 Covid 19 fatalities recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s Covid-19 death toll to 1,640, according to official records.The state also reported 699 new Covid 19 positive cases among the 4,941 samples tested in the preceding 24 hours, taking the infection tally to 103,588, it said. The total number of active cases stands at 8,146.With 908 new recoveries in the last 24 hours, the total number of recovered Covid 19 cases in Manipur reached 93,802, the health department record said. The state’s recovery rate has reached 90.55 %.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-lifts-day-time-curfew-imposes-night-curfew-till-aug-22-101628421130295.html
08-08-2021||India||J&K admin relaxes curbs on gatherings for Independence Day celebrations||The Jammu and Kashmir State Executive Committee (SEC) on Sunday announced temporary relaxations in the number of people to be allowed to attend indoor and outdoor gatherings on the occasion of Independence Day. According to an order signed by state chief secretary and SEC chairman Arun Kumar Mehta, a maximum of 25 people will be permitted to attend gatherings now. "However, this sealing will be temporarily relaxed on August 15 on account of Independence Day celebrations, subject to Covid-appropriate behaviour," the order stated.The SEC has decided to continue with various pandemic containment measures like night curfew and closure of educational institutions across the Union territory till further orders. The night curfew will be enforced in the UT everyday from 8pm to 7am. “There is a need to continue with the existing Covid containment measures in all the districts in view of the uneven trend in the daily cases,” the order read.The SEC further asked deputy commissioners to focus on Covid positivity rates, testing for coronavirus, tracking and treating of infected individuals in the medical blocks under their jurisdictions, with a renewed focus on panchayat-level mapping of cases and effective micro-containment zones in case an unusual spike in cases is noticed. “The three 'T' protocols of testing, tracking and treating, besides vaccination, need to be strengthened in these blocks. The proportion of RT-PCR tests in the total mix should be scaled up, on a best effort basis, to 70 percent or more, excluding travellers,” the order said.The deputy commissioners were directed to pay attention to implementing strict virus-control measures in closed spaces like offices, markets, malls, community halls in case the positivity rate pushes past 4 per cent.Meanwhile, district magistrates were asked to ensure compliance to Covid-appropriate behaviour by constituting joint teams of police and executive magistrates for enforcement of established norms. Those who fail to abide by the norms should be firmly dealt with, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-admin-relaxes-curbs-on-gatherings-for-independence-day-celebrations-101628419911434.html
08-08-2021||India||CBI arrests 5 people in a month for derogatory remarks against judges, judiciary||Two days after a bench headed by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana lamented that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and other agencies “are not helping the judiciary at all”, the agency said it has arrested five people in the last one month for allegedly posting derogatory content on social media against judges and the judiciary. The arrests have been made in an unrelated case, in which a probe was launched by the CBI in November last year on the orders of the Andhra Pradesh high court. Officials who didn’t want to be named said they have also examined a Lok Sabha member – N Suresh and a former MLA – Amanchi Krishnamohan, both belonging to YSR Congress, in the matter to unearth a larger conspiracy. The five people arrested by the premier agency include - Pattapu Aadarsh and Lavanuru Samba Siva Reddy from Andhra Pradesh (arrested on Saturday); Dhami Reddy Konda Reddy and Pamula Sudheer (arrested on July 28) and Lingareddy Rajasekhar Reddy (who was arrested on July 9 on his arrival from Kuwait). “We were monitoring Lingareddy’s movements. The moment he landed in India, the officers took him into their custody,” said one of the officers cited above. CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said – “It was alleged that the accused, by intentionally targeting the judiciary, made derogatory posts on social media platforms against judges and the judiciary, following some court verdicts delivered by the judges of the high court of Andhra Pradesh”. After registration of the case, the CBI traced 13 of the 16 accused named in the first information report (FIR) on various digital platforms, he said. Two accused are said to be based in the US while another person is also abroad somewhere, said a second officer. “We have so far examined 11 out of the 13 accused people and arrested five out of them. Evidence against the remaining six accused is being evaluated for further necessary legal action. CBI is pursuing the case to secure the presence of two other accused said to be abroad for their examination,” Joshi added. Without divulging the date, Joshi added that teams carried out searches at the premises of the accused that led to the information that one of them was allegedly using a passport in a different name. Subsequently, the CBI also got the objectionable posts removed from social media platforms. Joshi said the CBI has sought cooperation through the channels of MLAT (mutual legal assistant treaties) and the Interpol to collect evidence from abroad. The CBI had taken over 12 First Information Reports (FIRs), registered by the Andhra Pradesh Crime Investigation Division (CID) from April to July 2020 on the complaint of the Registrar General of Andhra Pradesh high court, and clubbed all these into one case. According to the CBI FIR, it was alleged in the complaint that key persons who were occupying posts of prominence in the state of Andhra Pradesh, by intentionally targeting the Hon’ble judges, made interviews/posts/speeches attributing motive, caste and corrupt allegations to some of the Supreme Court judges and high court judges in delivering orders/judgements. The CJI, on Friday, rued that judges are not on priority for investigating agencies and that their complaints are not heeded despite specialised agencies like the CBI getting roped in. “In one or two places, the court ordered a CBI inquiry. I am very sorry to say that the CBI has done nothing in more than one year. At one place, I know, the CBI has done nothing. I think we expected some changes in CBI’s attitude. But there is no change in the attitude of the CBI. I am sorry to observe this but this is the situation,” the CJI told attorney general KK Venugopal, who was called by the bench for assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-5-people-in-a-month-for-derogatory-remarks-against-judges-judiciary-101628419329974.html
08-08-2021||India||‘Gaad diya Papa lath’, Neeraj Chopra told father after winning Olympic gold||‘Gaad diya Papa lath’ were Neeraj Chopra’s first words in chaste Haryanvi, uttered over phone to his father Satish Kumar, after winning India’s first ever individual Olympics gold medal in an athletics event on Saturday in Tokyo. ‘Gaad diya lath’, roughly translates into a feat that is hard to undo and it perhaps echoed the sentiment of over a billion Indians after Chopra’s epoch-making moment in Indian sports. “I greeted him and told him that he has done a great job for the country and how people are celebrating his win in India when I spoke to him with the help of some media persons”, his father Satish said on Sunday.Distribution of sweets, dancing and playing of ‘dhol’ (a percussion instrument), amid long queues of vehicles outside his residence in Khandra village in Haryana’s Panipat district, have created a celebratory atmosphere similar to a grand marriage ceremony in which the entire village is participating.The family members are busy in attending guests, especially the media persons, who made a beeline soon after he won the gold in javelin throw with his 87.58m throw in the Olympics event final on Saturday evening.“Desi ghee ka choorma” (a local delicacy prepared in clarified butter) will be ready for Neeraj, when he returns, said his mother Saroj Bala.“Choorma is Neeraj’s favourite, whenever he comes home after a long break, he asks me to prepare choorma, and this time I will again welcome him with choorma as he will be returning with a gold medal,” she added, making no effort to hide her elation.“Most of the time he remains away from home and comes to the village only once or twice in a year. He does not attend even marriages or other important functions in the village,” she said, referring to Chopra’s training schedule mostly keeping him away from home.Saroj added that Neeraj was a very simple and polite man but was very strict about his health and fitness. According to the family members, Neeraj worked a lot on his fitness since his childhood. They said he weighed around 90kgs at the age of 11, when his uncle took him to a gym to lose weight and fat. “In the gym, he met a javelin thrower Jaiveer from Bhinjhol village who asked him to choose Javelin throw as his sport,” said Neeraj’s uncle Bhim Chopra.Bhim said Neeraj could not speak to the family immediately after his win as he was very busy on Saturday but spoke to his father on Sunday morning over phone. “Neeraj spoke to me only for a few seconds and he was very happy and excited,” said Bhim.Neeraj’s family members and villagers are making preparations for his grand reception.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gaad-diya-papa-lath-neeraj-chopra-told-father-after-winning-olympic-gold-101628418670655.html
08-08-2021||India||'We challenge you': Congress to Twitter over Rahul Gandhi's locked account||The Congress on Sunday dared Twitter India to lock its accounts, a day after the social media company locked party leader Rahul Gandhi's handle over a post of his meeting the family of a nine-year-old Dalit girl, who died after an alleged sexual assault. "@TwitterIndia lock our accounts, we challenge you. Nothing will stop us from fighting for justice & exposing the truth," the opposition party posted along with hashtag #मैं_भी_Rahul or I am Rahul.The opposition party also tweeted the photograph of Rahul Gandhi meeting the family of the nine-year-old Dalit girl, who died after being raped by a priest and three other men at a crematorium near Delhi Cantonment.On Saturday, the Congress that Rahul Gandhi’s Twitter account was "temporarily locked" after the social media company denied the party's earlier claim that the leader’s account was “temporarily suspended”.Also read | Twitter takes down Rahul Gandhi's tweet that disclosed rape victim's identity"Shri @RahulGandhi's Twitter account has been temporarily suspended & due process is being followed for its restoration. Until then, he will stay connected with you all through his other SM platforms & continue to raise his voice for our people & fight for their cause. Jai Hind!" the Congress posted on its official Twitter handle. Tagging its previous tweet, the Congress later tweeted, "The account has been temporarily locked."Before this, Twitter took down a controversial post of Rahul Gandhi with the photograph of him meeting the family of the girl earlier this week. The social media company said that Rahul Gandhi's account violated its rules against posting private information.Also read | Nine-year-old girl raped, murdered by a priest and 3 others in DelhiNews agency PTI reported citing people familiar with the matter that some features of Gandhi's account have been temporarily limited. He could browse Twitter and send direct messages to his followers but he won't be able to tweets, retweet, follow, fleet or like, the people cited by PTI said.They added that Twitter has communicated that all the features of the account could be restored in 12 hours once the tweet violating its rules is deleted by him.Rahul Gandhi met the girl's family members on Wednesday and assured them of justice.The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) asked the Delhi Police and Twitter on Wednesday to take action over Gandhi over the post, saying it violates the Juvenile Justice Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-challenge-you-congress-to-twitter-over-rahul-gandhi-s-locked-account-101628417179901.html
08-08-2021||India||'Mr Modi, Come listen to us': Derek O'Brien shares Oppn's message on Parl logjam||Trinamool Congress national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien on Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come to Parliament and hear out the Opposition’s demands as the ongoing monsoon session head towards its last week with very little business carried out so far due to regular disruptions.Sharing a three-minute clipping with speeches of leaders from several Opposition parties, including the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Samajwadi Party, Shiv Sena, Communist Party of India-Marxist, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Rashtriya Janata Dal and Telangana Rashtriya, O’Brien wrote “Mr Modi, Come listen to us”.Also read | Monsoon Session: Here are some of the Bills passed without discussionMost of the MPs can be heard talking about freedom of speech and democracy within Parliament and outside and calling for discussions on pressing issues.“Mr Modi, Come listen to us.” #Parliament @INCIndia@AITCofficial@samajwadiparty@ShivSena @trspartyonline @arivalayam @cpimspeak @RJDforIndia@NCPspeaks @AamAadmiPartyThree minute VIDEO👇 pic.twitter.com/rAnFetlDLHThe Opposition has been seeking discussions and open debates in the Houses of Parliaments on specific issues of the Pegasus snooping controversy, months-long farmers protest, economy and Covid-19 management. However, the government has been blaming the Opposition for the continued logjam and not letting any business to be conducted in Parliament.Also read | Govt moves to disallow MP's question on Pegasus in ParliamentSo far, the PM has attended the ongoing session of Parliament only once when he introduced his new cabinet. However, he was repeatedly interrupted by MPs who raised slogans on rising fuel prices. Modi said he had expected the ministers would be honoured with claps, instead of the din. “But it seems that Dalits, women… OBCs of the country becoming ministers does not go down well with many people sitting here in Parliament, and that is why they are not even allowing their introduction...” Modi said, adding that these newly inducted ministers be considered “introduced”.Also read | Another plate of papri chaat: Derek O'Brien's Parliament update on bills passedWith numbers in favour of the government in both the Houses, the Modi government has managed to pass a number of bills amid the din. O’Brien has been at the forefront of the Opposition’s attack against the government over the issue with regularly tweeting about bills being passed with very little or no discussions. His comments have also drawn the ire of the PM and other Union ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mr-modi-come-listen-to-us-derek-o-brien-shares-oppn-s-message-on-parl-logjam-101628417069847.html
08-08-2021||India||Women officers, who joined ITBP through UPSC, inducted in combat role for first time||In a first, two women officers who joined the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) through the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) held exam, were on Sunday inducted into the force in combat role, joining it as Assistant Commandants (AC). The two officers, Prakriti and Diksha, were part of 42 ACs (General Duty) and 11 ACs (Engineer) who participated in the passing-out parade held at the ITBP Academy in Uttarakhand’s Mussoorie, in the presence of chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami.Prakriti is an electrical engineer, while Diksha’s father serves as an Inspector in the border guarding force. “My father is my role model as he always motivated me,” Assistant Commandant Diksha said."My father is my role model, he always motivated me," says Officer Diksha, daughter of an Inspector serving with the ITBP pic.twitter.com/cRUFnrhCscWomen officers joining the ITBP as officers have served in combat role earlier as well. However, it was only in 2016 when the appointment of women as combat officers through the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) entrance exam conducted by the UPSC was approved.The CAPFs are under the purview of the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA).Sunday’s event also featured the release of ITBP’s first-ever book on its history, titled “History of ITBP.” Vivek Kumar Pandey, spokesperson of the ITBP, said no other book was available on its history before the current publication. “It contains historical achievements of the force since its inception. The book comes in English and reflects different facts and facets about historical developments in the force since its inception,” Pandey said.The ITBP was established in October 1962 in the wake of India’s war with China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbp-inducts-first-women-officers-in-combat-roles-101628415707759.html
08-08-2021||India||Will encourage sportspersons: Major Dhyan Chand’s grandson welcomes move to rename Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award||Decorated Olympian and Indian hockey player Major Dhyan Chand’s grandson, Vishal Singh, welcomed the government’s decision to rechristen the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award, in his honour, insisting that it would encourage all sports personalities. “Renaming the Khel Ratna award to Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna award will encourage sportspersons,” Singh told news agency ANI.“He deserves to be conferred with the Bharat Ratna award,” Singh added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on August 6 that the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award, the country’s highest sporting honour, will be renamed after Major Dhyan Chand, following requests made by people across the country. “Respecting their sentiment, the Khel Ratna Award will hereby be called the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award,” he said in a tweet.Dhyan Chand’s son, Ashok Kumar, too welcomed the move, stating that awards related to sports should be given to sports personalities. “Dhyan Chand belongs to the whole country and hockey is our national game. Sports awards should be named after sportspersons. This Khel Ratna was first named after honourable Rajiv Gandhi but it’s better to name these awards after sportspersons connected with it. Our country and our Prime Minister took notice of this today, because of the increasing popularity of hockey now,” he told Hindustan Times.Congress welcomed the move of renaming the award but accused the government of playing “myopic politics”. "The Congress welcomes that the Khel Ratna Award has been named after the most celebrated sportsperson and hockey wizard Dhyan Chand. We sincerely hope Modi ji should not have used his myopic political motives to drag the name of a celebrated player like Major Dhyan Chand," party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told reporters."Now that a new beginning has been made, we sincerely hope that Modi ji will announce changing the name of Narendra Modi Stadium and Arun Jaitley Stadium and rechristen it after the legendary sportspersons like Milkha Singh, Sunil Gavaskar, Sachin Tendulkar, Kapil Dev, Leander Paes, P T Usha, Mary Kom, Abhinav Bindra and many many others," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-encourage-sportspersons-major-dhyan-chand-s-grandson-welcomes-move-to-rename-rajiv-gandhi-khel-ratna-award-101628412598499.html
08-08-2021||India||Neeraj Chopra: 5 things to know about his career in Army||Neeraj Chopra who secured India's second individual gold in Olympic history at the Tokyo 2020 Olympics has another identity as subedar Neeraj Chopra as he joined the Indian Army in 2016.Here are 5 things to know about Neeraj Chopra's Army career:> In 2016, Neeraj Chopra was inducted into the Indian Army in the sports quota at the rank of Naib Subedar. His parent unit was 4 Rajputana Rifles.> He was selected for training at the Mission Olympics Wing and the Army Sports Institute in Pune. Mission Olympic Wing is the Indian Army's initiative to train promising sportspersons.> Subedar Kashinath Naik, who won the bronze medal at the 2010 Commonwealth Games in javelin throwing, was Neeraj Chopra's trainer.> Neeraj Chopra was also trained under German coach Uwe Horn and won Gold medals for India in the Commonwealth Games in 2018.> From a Naik Subedar, Neeraj Chopra was promoted to the rank of Subedar and received accolades for his contribution to sports. He was conferred with the Arjuna Award in 2018 and the Vishisht Seva Medal, which is a decoration of the Indian armed forces.Neeraj Chopra's feat was a celebratory moment for Pune's Army Sports Institute on Saturday. Army Chief general MM Naravane said the entire Army is proud of his achievement. "Neeraj Chopra has proven that when there is the WILL there is a way. He has done the Armed Forces and the Nation proud like many other Olympians who have created history in TOKYO 2020, chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neeraj-chopra-5-things-to-know-about-his-career-in-army-101628410990392.html
08-08-2021||India||From Go First to Star Air, airlines offer free travel to India's Olympic medalists||A number of Indian airlines, including Go First to Star Air, have now offered free air travel to all sportspersons from the country who won a medal at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. This includes all six medalists, as well as the Team India men's hockey team that won the bronze medal at the multi-sports event. This year is being seen as India's best showing at the Olympics yet, with athletes finishing the campaign with one gold, two silvers, and four bronze medals for the country.Go First, the airline which was earlier known as Go Air, said that it would give free tickets to the Olympic medalists for the next five years. In a statement on Sunday, Go First said it is offering free travel to "all medal-winners for the next five years until 2025" to celebrate India's best-ever haul of seven medals at an Olympics. "A token of appreciation for those who brought us glory at #Olympics2021," Go First said in its statement. "We are happy to offer free travel on our network for 5 years to all medal winners."A token of appreciation for those who brought us glory at #Olympics2021. We are happy to offer free travel on our network for 5 years to all medal winners. #Tokyo2020 #GoFirst @mirabai_chanu @Pvsindhu1 @LovlinaBorgohai @BajrangPunia @Neeraj_chopra1 #RaviDahiya @TheHockeyIndiaThe airlines also tagged the Twitter handles of the Indian athletes who won medals at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.On the other hand, Star Air said that it is offering a lifetime of free air travel for the Tokyo 2020 medal winners. "Star Air congratulates all the Indian Olympic Champions of Tokyo 2020," a tweet posted from the airlines' Twitter handle read.The post included a graphic, showing 'Free Air Tickets' for Indian medalists.Star Air congratulates all the Indian Olympic Champions of Tokyo 2020. @neeraj_chopra1 @BajrangPunia @mirabai_chanu @ravidahiya60 @TheHockeyIndia @Pvsindhu1 @LovlinaBorgohai #OfficialStarAir #WeCare #ConnectingRealIndia #FlyNonStop #FlyWithStarAir #SGGRising pic.twitter.com/SqyAFd7y4MIndiGo airlines had announced earlier on Saturday that it will offer Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, who won the only gold medal for India at the Olympics event this time, unlimited free air travel for one year.In a statement, Ronojoy Dutta, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), IndiGo said, "Neeraj we were all overjoyed to hear about your remarkable achievement. You have made the country proud, and I know all IndiGo employees would be truly honoured to welcome you onboard one of our flights.""With all humility, we would like to offer you free flights on IndiGo for a year. You have shown us what hard work, resilience, and passion can achieve and I am sure you will be a torchbearer for future Indian athletes. Well done, Neeraj," he said.Chopra on Saturday became only the second Indian to win an individual gold in the Olympics, outperforming the field by some distance to immortalise himself as the first track-and-field Games medal-winner for the country.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-go-first-to-star-air-airlines-offer-free-travel-to-india-s-olympic-stars-101628408675421.html
08-08-2021||India||Shiv Sena accuses BJP of double standards in Delhi Dalit girl rape, murder case||Shiv Sena on Sunday said the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party terming Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s visit to the family of the minor Dalit girl-- allegedly raped and killed by a priest and 3 employees of a crematorium in Delhi-- a sham, reeked of double standards as BJP had brought the Parliament to a standstill over Nirbhaya rape and murder case when it was in the Opposition in 2012-2013.Sena’s Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut, in his weekly column ‘Rokthok’ in party mouthpiece Saamana, said it was BJP, which was politicising the visits to the victim’s family and was not being sensitive towards rape victims.“A nine year old girl was raped and then brutally killed. Many leaders like Rahul Gandhi visited the victim’s family. The BJP does not approve of the meetings and calls it a sham. A few years ago BJP, [then] as an opposition party, launched an agitation across the country after the Nirbhaya case and paralysed the Parliament holding the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s government responsible. However, today after nine years, when they are in power, they are shrugging off their responsibility by undermining the incident,” Raut said, reminding that the BJP-led Central government was responsible for law and order in Delhi.Raut was referring to a three-cornered political slugfest in Delhi over the incident between BJP, Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) led by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Raut’s party is ruling Maharashtra in an alliance with the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) after having severed ties with BJP.Raut said that BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra’s defence of the party by citing figures of atrocities against women in Congress ruled states such as Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh was off the mark. “Does that mean that BJP should condone such incidents [in states] where they are ruling just because similar incidents are happening in Congress ruled states,” questioned Raut.Raut also accused the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) of bias for having issued a notice to Twitter India for hosting a picture posted by Rahul Gandhi, in which he is with the suspected rape victim’s family. The NCPCR said the image revealed the identity of the minor’s family members violating provisions of the (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) POCSO Act and Juvenile Justice Care and Protection of Children Act.Raut also said that the Uttar Pradesh government, ruled by BJP stopped Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi from meeting the Hathras rape victim in October 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-accuses-bjp-of-double-standards-in-delhi-dalit-girl-rape-murder-case-101628410389287.html
08-08-2021||India||Covishield, Covaxin mix can give better results, says ICMR||The Indian Council of Medical Research has revealed that a mix of Covishield and Covaxin, the two main vaccines of India's Covid vaccination programme, can actually yield better results, news agency ANI reported. The study was only conducted on 18 people of Uttar Pradesh's Siddharth Nagar, who by mistake received two doses of two separate vaccines. According to the finding of the study which is yet to be peer-reviewed immunisation with a combination of an adenovirus vector platform-based vaccine, followed by inactivated whole virus vaccine was not only safe but also elicited better immunogenicity. Covishield, manufactured by Pune's Serum Institute of India, is the adenovirus vector platform-based vaccine and Covaxin, developed and manufactured by Bharat Biotech and the ICMR, is the whole virus vaccine. Covishield and Covaxin belong to two different types.The study titled ‘Serendipitous Covid-19 Vaccine-Mix in Uttar Pradesh, India: Safety and Immunogenicity Assessment of a Heterologous Regime’ has been uploaded on medRxiv. Under this study, 18 people received two doses of two different vaccines, the reaction of which was compared to 40 receipients of two doses of Covishield and 40 recipients of two doses of Covaxin, news agency PTI reported. The study duration was from May to June 2021, it said.Mixing of vaccines is being discussed globally all studies are in favour of mixing two vaccines to increase the protection against future infection. The subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation has in July recommended a trial of mixing Covishield and Covaxin, which will be conducted by the Christian Medical College in Vellore on 300 healthy volunteers.While that will be a proper clinical trial to investigate the effectiveness of the cocktail of Covishield and Covaxin, the ICMR's study was based on the goof-up that took place in May. There was no immediate adverse impact of the mix-up of the beneficiaries. Now, further study has revealed that the mix-up has actually worked in favour of protection as these people have more protection than those who have received two shots of the same vaccine.The issue of mixing vaccines is sensitive as World Health Organization has warned that individuals should not decide on mixing vaccines. Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul had earlier said that theoretically there is no problem in mixing two vaccines as the second dose in such a case will work as a booster shot. But as the government started its vaccination drive on January 16, it asked health workers to exercise extreme caution to make sure that the beneficiaries receive the second shot of the same vaccine that they received as their first shots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-covaxin-mix-can-give-better-results-says-icmr-101628406840131.html
08-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: NIA raids 14 J&K districts in terror funding case and all the latest news||NIA raids in 14 Jammu and Kashmir districts in terror funding caseThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) is conducting raids at over 45 locations in 14 districts of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday in connection with a terror funding probe, people familiar with the development said. Read MoreBihar Police’s murder probe 'reveals' string of killings planned from Tihar JailThe conspiracy to kill property dealer Nawal Kishore Singh, brother of a Janta Dal Rastravadi (JDR) candidate from Sheohar assembly seat, was hatched in Tihar Central jail, Bihar police said on Saturday. Read MoreUS city left with 6 ICU beds sounds alarm over Covid-19 situationThe US city of Austin sounded an alarm on Saturday using its emergency alert system to inform residents through text messages, emails and phone calls that with just six intensive care unit beds left in the city. Read More'Don’t bowl to him’: Chopra remembers moment when young a MS Dhoni refused his adviceBefore MS Dhoni came to the fore, Team India had tried several wicket-keeper batsmen. However, none of the players could stake their claim in the team as the search continued. Read MoreArjun Kapoor slams news report comparing his and Malaika Arora's wealth, calls it 'sad, shameful' before deletingActor Arjun Kapoor in a now-deleted Instagram Story slammed a news headline comparing his and Malaika Arora's wealth. Read MoreJasmin Bhasin wows Aly Goni in timeless ivory embroidered lehenga set, see picsWhite seems to be the colour of this festive season, and television actor and Bigg Boss 14 contestant Jasmin Bhasin's latest ethnic outfit proves the same. Read MoreTesla confirms production of Cybertruck pickup pushed to 2022Tesla has confirmed that the production of Cybertruck has been pushed to 2022. Read More Japanese dancers groove to Udi Udi Jaye from Shah Rukh Khan’s Raees. WatchMany love the foot tapping song Udi Udi Jaye from the film Raees featuring Shah Rukh Khan and Mahira Khan. Read MoreAstronaut Sirisha Bandla on how 'you often don't see' women of colour in spaceIn the latest edition of The Interview, Indian-American astronaut Sirisha Bandla speaks to Hindustan Times and talks about the gender bias that she thinks exists in the aeronautical field. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-nia-raids-14-j-k-districts-in-terror-funding-case-and-all-the-latest-news-101628405927073.html
08-08-2021||India||‘Documents, digital devices’ seized in NIA raids in J&K terror funding case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday launched raids at 46 locations across several districts of Jammu and Kashmir in connection with a terror funding case, said people aware of the developments.In raids being conducted simultaneously in Budgam, Rajouri, Doda, Kishtwar, Anantnag, Shopian, Ganderbal, Ramban and Baramulla districts, many incriminating documents and digital devices were seized from the premises of the banned Jamat-e-Islami functionaries, they said. Jamaat-e-Islami was banned by the Central government after Pulwama terror attack in 2019 that killed 40 CRPF personnel.NIA officers from Delhi are also taking part in the raids, considered to be one of the biggest crackdowns on JeI functionaries, the people quoted above added.Among others, the houses of Gul Mohammad War in Manigam in Ganderbal, Zahoor Ahmad Rishi and Mehraj-ud-Din Rishi are being raided by the NIA, which is being assisted by the Jammu and Kashmir Police, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the home department officials, they said. NIA is yet to issue a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/documents-digital-devices-seized-in-nia-raids-in-j-k-terror-funding-case-101628407209111.html
08-08-2021||India||'Hope I made Kalpana Chawla proud', says Sirisha Bandla||Sirisha Bandla, who dreamed of going to space as a child, finally fulfilled it last month when she visited the edge of space on board a Virgin Galactic spacecraft with billionaire Richard Branson.The 34-year-old, who is an aeronautical engineer and works at Virgin Galactic, spoke to Hindustan Times' Kumkum Chadha on 'The Interview' about her India connect and what inspired her to pursue her dreams.Bandla also talked about how her dream came true, what her family thought when she went to space and what she wants to do in the future.Here are the excerpts from the interview:'My comfort food is mom's chicken curry'Bandla said she always had this dream of going to space one day. When she visited her grandparent's house in Andhra Pradesh, she would stare at the dark night sky and wonder what lies beyond the stars."When I was around 15-16, my eyesight got pretty bad, past the requirements that were allowed for being an astronaut through Nasa. At that point, I was trying to figure out where I'd go. And around that same time, the contest happened which would award the prize money to a company that could build a reusable spacecraft that could go to space twice. Spaceship One did that. Around the same time, Richard Branson announced that he is creating Virgin Galactic which will open space access for all. I remember thinking that that's just incredible, I can still be an astronaut and I'll be working for Virgin Galactic and that's how I'm gonna get to space," she said.Bandla said she was able to get a job at Virgin Galactic and her flight to space is just a testament to the company's mission. "The company's goal is to open space access for all and fly people from different backgrounds, different geographic regions and cultures to space," she added.When asked about her Indian roots and whether she now enjoys the food in the US, Bandla said, "I do love pizza but my comfort food is my mom's chicken curry and lentil curry."So when did she start dreaming about becoming an astronaut? "I don't know where it exactly manifested. I think it started with me sitting on the roof (at my grandparents' house) and looking out at stars and wondering what's there, what's beyond Earth. I also love science fiction, so that definitely played a part. Star Trek - watching the crew of The Enterprise go into the unknown and make all these discoveries - I think that played a part. I did grow up a few in Houston, very close to the Johnson Space Centre. I was able to visit the space centre, listen to how astronauts described about being in space. All of that combined really instilled in me that I wanted to go and see it for myself."'Went to my husband's office cheering and jumping'Bandla said when she got the news that she had been chosen to go to space, she was really excited. "When I got the news, I ran to my husband's office, cheering and kinda jumping around. He actually had this in the back of his mind that I was going to share some incredible news. He has been hearing me talk about nothing else but space for years and has been so supportive of the journey. He was happy for me," she said."He has been absolutely great in supporting everything that I need to reach my dreams. I have been travelling quite a bit, and these last few weeks, he has been taking care of everything. He has been a part of my ground support crew here on my way to space," Bandla added.'Call came on weekend, I thought something was wrong at office'"When I first got the call, I assumed something went wrong at work because the call came a little bit late, and on a weekend. I picked up the phone and our president asked if I'd be interested in being part of one of the crews that's going to space. Without hesitation, I said yes. He said 'Take some time, think about it'. I said 'Okay, I've thought about it. Yes'," recalled Bandla."It was an incredible news to get and very unexpected at the time. Besides saying yes, I couldn't formulate any other words to encompass my feelings of excitement at that moment," she said further.'Weightlessness incredible experience, we were flying'Bandla said the entire crew had prepared for the launch and described how the hybrid vehicle system worked. "It consisted of an aircraft and a spacecraft. On the day of the flight, both were mated and then it took off together. We got up to about 45,000 feet, and the aircraft released the spacecraft. A few seconds later, the spacecraft started its rocket motor for about 60 seconds. And that's when we felt the booster shot. We felt around three times our weight on that boost. But it was a very comfortable ride," said Bandla."The rocket boost took us to our apogee, and once it shut off, we felt the microgravity environment. It was an environment where Gs were very close to zero. At that point, you feel like you are flying. That's when we unbuckled and were floating around the cabin. I also did a few somersaults, and carried out the science experiment which I was carrying with me. We then looked out of the window and that was really an incredible view and experience in itself," the astronaut said.She said that though the experience was surreal, it made her realise the things that she has as part of her life on Earth. "Looking at the black sky gave me a renewed appreciation of everything I'm seeing on Earth, whether it's the blue sky or the trees on my block when I am walking," said Bandla.'Kalpana Chawla was an inspiration'"I saw Kalpana Chawla's career very early. I looked at what she did to go to space and really tried to model my career. That is the reason I went to Purdue University to pursue aeronautical engineering. So I think she was an inspiration. She was one of the first people that I saw that had the same skin colour that I had and came from the same country. That kind of identity that I shared with her helped reduce mental barriers I had. I hope to do the same for young women who are thinking if they can pursue a career in aerospace," she added."I hope I have made Kalpana Chawla proud. I am sure she inspired many women, that was part of her legacy in addition to incredible technical achievements she's done at Nasa and in her career," said Bandla.Walking on the moonBandla said she really wants to walk on the moon. "Maybe go to Mars too. But I also really believe in the vision of making space available for all. It has changed my life, and I think there's a lot of other people that would like to have that same experience and may think that they do not have the opportunity. I think we're gonna see more change in perceptions when more people go into space, people that are more diverse," she said.'Hope to be a mentor'Bandla also talked about the under-representation of women in the field of space research. She said that just about a 100 women have actually gone to space "and the number of women of colour is even less". The 34-year-old said that she wants to change the situation and be a mentor to women who actually dream about going to space. "The way I got through it was having mentors, especially women that are in the field and have gone through a lot of what I have gone through. I hope to be that mentor for a lot of women. It's one of the biggest piece of advices I give to women - find yourself a mentor."On future missionsBandla said that one of the objectives of the Virgin Galactic mission was to study how future space expeditions can be carried out efficiently. Speaking about the comment of Nasa's Bhavya Lal about finding clean clothes to lessen the burden of space ships, Bandla said these are the issues the entire industry is looking to tackle. "There are a lot of problems that we need to address before we go to farther destinations. Laundry is definitely one of them."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sirisha-bandla-on-her-space-sojourn-india-connect-and-astronaut-dream-101628313299549.html
08-08-2021||India||Why India-UK flight tickets have become so costly||A round trip between New Delhi and London by Air India in general cost somewhere between ₹55,000 to ₹70,000, but the prices skyrocketed just before August 8, the day the UK moves India from the Red list to the Amber list, and thus allowing Indian travellers to visit London. Airfares between India and the UK rose up to ₹4 lakh, as senior IAS officer Sanjeev Gupta pointed out on Twitter on Saturday. Not only Air India, Vistara, British Airways fares in August are also as high as over a lakh.As Air India clarified that its current fare for the Delhi London sector is around ₹1.15 lakh, it was found out that the application programming interface from airlines being consumed by travel portals is fetching the fare of business class in case economy class is not available. But ₹1.2 lakh for a one-way, direct flight is exorbitant.What has led to the price rise?The pent-up demand for travel is being seen as the primary reason for the fare to skyrocket. The UK government placed India under its Red list barring Indians from travelling to the UK in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic in India. Now that India has been moved to the Amber list, Indians are allowed to travel to the UK but will have to follow the home quarantine guidelines even if they are fully vaccinated as neither Covishield nor Covaxin is recognised by the UK authorities. But the relaxation will now ensure that students and professionals can now travel to the UK and can quarantine at home or in any place of their stay.The relaxation has come just at the time when a huge traffic is expected in the Delhi-London line because of the admission session.The airlines do not have an unlimited quota of flights between the UK and India which has pushed the demand. As of now, there are 30 flights permitted between India and the UK per week. Once more flights are added, the situation may ease. From August 18, Air India will operate direct service between Heathrow and Kochi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-india-uk-airfare-has-skyrocketed-as-embargo-on-indian-flyers-got-lifted-101628400111753.html
08-08-2021||India||From cash awards to car: It's pouring rewards for 'golden boy' Neeraj Chopra||It's pouring rewards for Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra after he secured India’s second individual gold medal in the history of Olympic Games with a stellar performance at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. The athlete from Haryana has been honoured by several state governments and private organisations for his achievement.Haryana chief minister ML Khattar said on Saturday that Chopra will get a cash reward of ₹6 crore. Khattar also announced that the 23-year-old will be made head of the upcoming Centre for Excellence in Athletics in Panchkula. "As per our sports policy, Neeraj Chopra will get a cash reward of ₹six crore, a Class-I job and a piece of plot of land at concessional rates, Khattar said.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh announced a special cash reward of ₹2 crore for Chopra. Singh said that it was a proud moment for India and all Punjabis referring to Chopra's family roots in Punjab.The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has announced a cash reward of ₹1 crore for Chopra. Indian Premier League (IPL) franchise Chennai Super Kings also announced a reward of ₹one crore for the athlete. “As a mark of appreciation and honour on his stellar achievement, CSK is awarding Rs. 1 Crore to Neeraj Chopra,” the CSK said in a statement.Indian airliner IndiGo has announced that it will offer unlimited free travel for one year to Chopra. The offer is applicable from August 8, 2021, till August 7, 2022. In a statement, Ronojoy Dutta, Chief Executive Officer, IndiGo said, “Neeraj we were all overjoyed to hear about your remarkable achievement. You have made the country proud, and I know all IndiGo employees would be truly honoured to welcome you onboard one of our flights.”Anand Mahindra, chairman of Mahindra and Mahindra, has announced to give a brand new XUV 700 to Chopra when he returns to India.Realty firm Elan Group's chairman Rakesh Kapoor has announced a ₹25 lakh cash award for Chopra, reported news agency PTI.The Manipur government has announced to award Chopra ₹1 crore. Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh said in a tweet, "On this historic day where India bagged an Olympic Gold medal in an athletic event after 100 years, the Manipur State Cabinet has decided to honour the Javelin throw Gold medalist @Neeraj_chopra1 by extending a reward of ₹1 Crore. Congratulations on this historic win, Neeraj."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-cash-awards-to-car-it-s-pouring-rewards-for-golden-boy-neeraj-chopra-101628395848839.html
08-08-2021||India||PM Modi to release latest instalment of PM-KISAN scheme on August 9||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is all set to release the 9th instalment of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme on August 9 at 12.30pm via video conferencing, an official release from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said. In the latest instalment of PM-KISAN, an amount of over Rs. 19,500 crores will be transferred to more than 9.75 crores beneficiaries.“Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will release the next instalment of financial benefit under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme on 9th August, 2021 at 12:30 PM via video conferencing. This will enable the transfer of an amount of more than Rs. 19,500 crores to more than 9.75 crores beneficiary farmer families,” said the official release.An amount of ₹6,000 is transferred every year to farmers under the PM-KISAN scheme, paid out in four monthly instalments of ₹2,000 each. The money is directly deposited into the bank accounts of beneficiaries. Under this scheme, a total of over ₹1.38 lakh crore has been transferred to farmer families so far. The last instalment of PM-KISAN was disbursed to 90 million farm households in the month of May.Farmers can enrol themselves for this scheme by self-registering through the PM-Kisan portal and common service centres, a network of public-services offices, or by applying at local revenue offices and state’s nodal officers. The responsibility of identifying beneficiaries has been left to the respective state governments, who have to upload necessary data to a centralised public finance management system. This platform auto verifies bank accounts and checks biometric Aadhaar details of beneficiaries sent by states, which are then sent back to the states for signatures.The Prime Minister will also address the nation and interact with the beneficiaries on video conference during the event. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar will also be present, the official release stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-release-latest-instalment-of-pm-kisan-scheme-on-august-9-101628397568681.html
08-08-2021||India||India records 39,070 new Covid-19 cases, 491 fatalities take death toll to 427,862||India recorded 39,070 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 31,934,455, while the death toll climbed to 4,27,862 with 491 daily fatalities, according to Union health ministry update on Sunday.The active cases declined to 4,06,822 in the said time period, according to data released by the ministry at 8am. The national Covid-19 recovery rate improved to 1.29 per cent, it stated. The number of active cases fell by 5331.As many as 17,22,221 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far to 48,00,39,185.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 31,099,771, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it said.The total number of vaccine doses administered so far has reached 500 million under the nationwide vaccination drive.More than 22.9 million balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and union territories and private hospitals to be administered, the Union health ministry said on Saturday.The Covid-19 vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and Union Territories for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. The new phase of universalisation of vaccination commenced from June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-39-070-new-covid-19-cases-491-fatalities-take-death-toll-to-427862-101628383412432.html
08-08-2021||India||Cow dung products made by rural Chhattisgarh women selling online now||Thousands of rural and poor women engaged in making products from cow dung in Chhattisgarh’s Rajnandgaon district have received a fillip with the administration now ensuring that their products reach a wider market through e-commerce platforms, following a rising demand including from other states, said an official.Cow dung products such as manure, cow dung cakes (used as fuel), diyas (lamps) and flower pots made by more than 4,000 women of 354 self-help groups (SHGs) are now available on e-commerce platforms with the help of administration, officials claimed.“Rajnandgaon has become the first district of the state to sell products made from cow dung on online platforms. Till now, manure and other products made of cow dung worth ₹5 crore have been sold to help the women of the district. Online sale, which started a few days ago, has sold products worth ₹1 lakh so far. The aim is to further increase makers' profits by expanding the market leading to increase in production. The online sale has increased in the last few days,” said Taran Prakash Sinha, collector Rajnandgaon.The collector added that around 365 Gauthans or cowsheds are engaged in this work using 66,400 quintals of cow dung procured by the administration under a state government scheme this year.Chhattisgarh had earlier initiated a scheme called ‘Godhan Nyay Yojana’, to buy cow dung from dairy farmers at ₹2 per kg to offer them financial support.“Till now, 53,000 quintals of vermicompost worth ₹1.5 crore, made by women self help groups, have been sold. Earlier, manure was being sold only at the cowsheds, but now it is selling online on platforms such as Amazon due to the increasing demand for manure from other states as well. So far, orders worth lakhs of rupees have been received from Maharashtra, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, West Bengal and other states,” the collector said.Mehtareen Yadav, a woman engaged in Jai Maa Vaishnavi Swayam Sahayata Samuh- a self help group, claimed to have earned ₹8,000 by selling cow dung made products in the last 6 months.“I have been told that the administration is selling our cow dung products online now. We hope we can earn more now,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cow-dung-products-made-by-rural-chhattisgarh-women-selling-online-now-101628394728320.html
08-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Bengaluru sees steady rise in Covid-19 cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bengaluru has 162 containment zones, sees slow but steady rise in Covid casesThe resurgence of coronavirus cases in the southern states, which has become of cause for concern since the last week of July, is slow but steady in Bengaluru, the data of Bruhat Bengaluru Maganagara Palike has revealed. Read MoreUnofficial economic blockade of Mizoram ends following Assam’s interventionHundreds of trucks carrying essential items to Mizoram, stranded in Assam for over 10 days following a deadly clash over a border dispute between the two sides. Read More'Closest neighbour': Pakistan issues statement on India's snub at UNSC meeting on AfghanistanPakistan Foreign Office has issued a statement regretting that it was not invited to the United National Security Council meeting on the situation in Afghanistan, despite being the closest neighbour of the conflict-ridden country. Read More'It wasn't going to last long but India refused to bat': Lloyd reacts to Pant, Rahul's attempt to walk off during rainFormer England cricketer David Lloyd was not pleased with KL Rahul and Rishabh Pant's decision to walk off the ground as passing showers threatened to impact play on Day 3 of the first Test between India and England. Read MoreBigg Boss OTT contestant Zeeshan Khan: 'Everything changed after my bathrobe stunt'Zeeshan Khan proved his candidature for the popular reality show Bigg Boss much before his name was confirmed. Read MoreKiara Advani in ₹79k bralette and skirt set promotes Shershaah with Sidharth MalhotraBollywood actors Kiara Advani and Sidharth Malhotra have been actively promoting their upcoming film Shershaah based on the life of Captain Vikram Batra, who died in the Kargil War and was honoured with the Param Vir Chakra posthumously. Read MorePM Modi dials Neeraj Chopra after Olympic success; rewards rain for golden throwIt is raining rewards on athlete Neeraj Chopra after he won first ever-track and field gold medal. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bengaluru-sees-steady-rise-in-covid-19-cases-and-all-the-latest-news-101628391093836.html
08-08-2021||India||Bengaluru has 162 containment zones, sees slow but steady rise in Covid cases||The resurgence of coronavirus cases in the southern states, which has become of cause for concern since the last week of July, is slow but steady in Bengaluru, the data of Bruhat Bengaluru Maganagara Palike has revealed. On Saturday, Bengaluru reported 357 fresh Covid-19 infections, which was a slight decrease from Friday's number of 441 new infections. Bengaluru's daily rise in Covid-19 infection remains higher than that of Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata.According to the latest Covid bulletin, there are 162 micro-containment zones in the city including over 100 apartments and individual homes being sealed. The number is on the higher side as the civic body has tweaked the rules for containment so that maximum alertness can be exercised in a short period of time. According to the earlier regulations, a micro-containment zone was declared when over 10 Covid-19 cases were reported in an area. Now the number has been reduced to 3.Bengaluru's Mahadevpura has the highest number of micro-containment zones, followed by the east zone.Districts bordering Kerala are on high alert as several fresh infection cases have been reported in the state, which apparently came from Kerala. 100 nursing students from two colleges in Karnataka's Hassan, 182 kilometres from Bengaluru, tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. They were tested after 21 nursing students from Kerala who came to Hassan for an examination were found positive.Bengaluru civic authorities have already tightened restrictions in the city so that this fresh rise seen in the districts does not affect Bengaluru's graph. The R-value in the city is already above 1 which means every 100 infected people in the city are spreading the virus to more than 100 people.Bengaluru Police have imposed Section 144 in the city which bars the assembly of four or more people, which will remain in place till August 16. The night curfew which was from 10pm to 5am has also been extended and it will now start at 9pm. The night curfew timing is for the entire state while some districts will also observe weekend lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-has-162-containment-zones-sees-slow-but-steady-rise-in-covid-cases-101628391538433.html
08-08-2021||India||Unofficial economic blockade of Mizoram ends following Assam’s intervention||Hundreds of trucks carrying essential items to Mizoram, stranded in Assam for over 10 days following a deadly clash over a border dispute between the two sides that resulted in death of 6 Assam cops and one civilian, finally started moving after two Assam ministers convinced the locals to let them go, ending the undeclared economic blockade of Mizoram since the July 26 clash.Several rounds of talks between the local administration of the two states had failed to end the impasse, which was finally lifted after the guardian minister of Cachar district Ashok Singhal and forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya arrived at Lailapur border area on Saturday evening and spoke with the locals, who were refusing to let the trucks pass through Assam.Some vehicles that attempted to move before the deadlock was resolved were vandalised by a group of locals, who pelted them with stones before Cachar superintendent of police (SP) Ramandeep Kaur and officer in charge of Dholai Police Station Shahabuddin rushed to calm them down. However, the horrified truck drivers instantly took a U-turn and started returning towards Silchar.“We cannot forget the killing of 6 Assam police officers so easily. We have suffered enough and we want a permanent solution. We have seen several tweets from both governments talking about peace, but on the ground, nothing has changed. Mizoram did not withdraw its forces from Assam’s land and no action has been taken against the Mizoram cops who killed our cops. We are not against anyone but are demanding justice. We don’t understand why our government didn’t bother talking to us before allowing the vehicles to go,” one of the agitated locals said.It took more than two hours for the ministers and the police officers to convince the locals to allow the vehicles into Mizoram’s territory.“Considering the situation in Mizoram, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sharma asked us to go to the border and make transportation normal. People in Assam are angry and pained because Mizoram police have killed six Assam police officials. But respecting the decision taken by the Assam chief minister, locals allowed the vehicle to move,” Ashok Singhal said.The ministers also appealed to the Mizoram government to take strict action against policemen allegedly responsible for the killing of Assam cops. “We have already appealed to the government of Mizoram to take appropriate action against the police officers responsible for the firing that day. People in Assam are emotional and both the governments have to take necessary steps to convince the people so that they do not rebel.”Assam minister of excise, forest & environment and fisheries, Parimal Suklabaidya said, “ We want justice and if required we will move the Supreme Court of India against this. But as the big brother of Mizoram, we need to make some efforts to bring peace between the two states.”Two ministers, one each from Assam and Mizoram locked horns on Twitter on Saturday evening blaming each other. Mizoram’s minister of state Robert Romawia Royte tweeted saying, “Mizoram bound vehicles & innocent people escorted out from Silchar MZ house by @assampolice were mobbed and vandalised at Lailapur, Assam. Where were the policemen escorting them? Is this another deadly drama?”Ashok Singhal replied saying, “The trucks’ movement started at 9.04 pm today and this tweet is posted at 9.05 pm. What are your intentions dear Minister @robertroyte. Why are you creating hatred among people and derailing the process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unofficial-economic-blockade-of-mizoram-ends-following-assam-s-intervention-101628391248102.html
08-08-2021||India||States tighten Covid-19 curbs in view of surge in cases. All you need to know||With a renewed surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in certain parts of India, multiple states have tightened their respective pandemic-necessitated restrictions. While Karnataka has imposed renewed curbs on the movement of people travelling to the state from Kerala, the existing coronavirus lockdown in Tamil Nadu has been extended by two more weeks.Here's a brief rundown on some of the renewed restrictions imposed across India, with an eye on a potential third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic:Tamil NaduThe Covid-19 lockdown in Tamil Nadu was extended for two more weeks till August 23. The MK Stalin-led state government has proposed to resume physical classes for school students of standards 9 to 11 from September 1. There is also a provision to allow the re-opening of medical colleges in the state from August 16, according to reports.Thermal screening and sanitisation before entering commercial establishments have been made mandatory.KeralaStarting from August 5 (last Thursday), all commercial establishments in Kerala were allowed to operate from 7am to 9pm, from Monday to Saturday. However, not everyone can enter those establishments; only those who have received at least the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, or those who have a negative RT-PCR test report (not more than 72 hours old), or are in possession of Covid-19 positive results more than a month old will be allowed to enter.Shopping alls will function solely for online delivery. Social distancing will be mandatory in religious places and while travelling in public transport.KarnatakaKarnataka has imposed strict restrictions on the movement of people from Kerala, with an eye on the potential third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the inflow of people crossing the state border on foot or on two-wheelers remained unhindered. Following this, earthmovers were deployed at specific border areas to dig up the road so people from bordering villages and bikers cannot cross over.Bengaluru has imposed Section 144 (curfew) till August 16; meanwhile, the existing night curfew will also remain imposed in the area. As many as 12 check posts have been set up along the Kerala-Karnataka border, where people coming in from Kerala are being admitted only after they show a negative RT-PCR test report.MaharashtraMaharashtra issued a fresh 'Break the chain' order earlier this week on Monday, under which the Level-3 restrictions remain effective in 11 districts, including Pune.Religious places, cinema halls, multiplexes, and theatres will still remain closed. The movement of people in the state will also be restricted from 9pm to 5am, according to the new orders. The ban on birthday celebrations, political, social, and cultural events will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-tighten-covid-19-curbs-in-view-of-surge-in-cases-all-you-need-to-know-101628387567877.html
08-08-2021||India||Abhishek Banerjee to rush to Tripura after alleged attack on youth TMC leaders||Trinamool Congress (TMC) national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee said he is rushing to Tripura on Sunday following an alleged attack on the party’s youth front leaders by workers of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday. Three TMC youth leaders, Debangshu Bhattacharya, Sudip Raha and Jaya Dutta, who were visiting Tripura to prepare for assembly polls in 2023 and pose a challenge to the BJP, alleged that their cars were stopped and attacked on Ambassa Road. They also alleged that shots were fired and a TMC office was vandalised at Dharmanagar, Tripura’s second biggest town after Agartala. The alleged attack took place five days after Abhishek Banerjee was shown black flags in Tripura and a BJP worker hit his car with a bamboo stick. Banerjee went to Agartala after employees of I-Pac, the company formed by election strategist Prashant Kishor, were stopped by the local police from leaving their hotel. The BJP denied the allegations on Saturday while the Tripura unit of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), the main opposition force in the state, issued a statement condemning the alleged attack. While Raha and Dutta alleged that they suffered injuries in the face and head, Bhattacharya posted videos on social media that purportedly showed stones being thrown by some youth and a few others who appeared to be wearing uniforms similar to the police. “The attacks took place in the presence of the police. Is there no rule of law in BJP-ruled Tripura?” Bhattacharya said in one of the videos. BJP leaders in Tripura and Bengal rubbished the allegations, dubbing the alleged attack as staged. “TMC believes in the politics of violence. Why will anybody want to hurt TMC leaders in Tripura where they have no significance? This is a drama to draw media attention,” said Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh. “Anybody can come to Tripura to see how the government is performing and replicate the model in Bengal. The BJP was not involved in any attack,” Nabendu Bhattacharya, a BJP leader from Tripura, told a Bengali news channel in Bengal. Abhishek Banerjee reacted on twitter and posted photos of the youth TMC leaders. “The GOONS of @BJP4Tripura have shown their TRUE COLOURS! This barbaric attack on Trinamool workers reveals the ‘GOONDA RAJ’ in #Tripura under @BjpBiplab’s Govt.! Your threats and attacks only prove your inhumanity. DO WHAT YOU CAN.. Trinamool will not budge an INCH!” Banerjee said in his first tweet. In the second tweet he wrote on Saturday night, Banerjee tagged Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb and wrote, “Tomorrow, I am coming to #Tripura to stand by every Trinamool worker who were (sic) brutally attacked by @BJP4Tripura goons today. It is my promise that I shall continue fighting till the very last drop of my blood. STOP ME IF YOU CAN @BjpBiplab! #TripuraDeservesBetter.” On August 3, the BJP alleged that two of its workers were murdered in Bengal by members of TMC a day after Banerjee, while on a day-long trip to Tripura, posted a video showing BJP workers shouting slogans against him and a man hitting his car with a bamboo stick. Although Samik Bhattacharya,the Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson said on August 2 that the attack was uncalled for and BJP workers were not involved in it, the issue snowballed when Udayan Guha, a senior TMC leader from Dinhata in north Bengal’s Cooch Behar district, wrote on his Facebook page that BJP workers and leaders in Dinhata would be “well taken care of” after what happened in Tripura. On Saturday, Guha made a similar statement at a party meeting in Cooch Behar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abhishek-banerjee-to-rush-to-tripura-after-alleged-attack-on-youth-tmc-leaders-101628388847894.html
08-08-2021||India||Kumbh fake testing: SIT sends teams to nab lab owners||The special investigation team (SIT) of Haridwar district police, which is probing the Mahakumbh fake Covid testing case, has sent two teams to Noida and Nainital to arrest the owners of Max Corporate Services that had got the contract from the state government for conducting the tests, officials associated with the probe said.Noida-based Max Corporate Services outsourced the testing to Delhi-based Lal Chandani Labs and Hisar-based Nalwa Labs, among others. They allegedly conducted roughly 100,000 fake tests during Mahakumbh. All three firms have been booked under the Indian Penal Code, disaster management act and epidemic diseases act.The owners of Max Corporate Services, Sharad Pant and his wife Mallika Pant, had earlier sought protection from the Uttarakhand high court from arrest.“After the period of court’s protection ended on August 4, two police teams left for Delhi and Nainital to arrest the accused couple.“Their last phone location was traced to Noida on Friday noon, but after that their mobile phones are switched off,” an SIT officer, aware of the developments, said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kumbh-fake-testing-sit-sends-teams-to-nab-lab-owners-101628387814203.html
08-08-2021||India||Govt sends 2nd team to Manipur for pandemic management||A second three-member multi-disciplinary central team reached Imphal on Friday to aid the state health department in managing the Covid-19 pandemic, officials said.The multi-disciplinary team is headed by Dr L Ashananda, Sr regional director, Regional office of Health and Family Welfare, Manipur. The other two members are Dr Rameshwar, deputy director of National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and Dr Smita Singhal, consultant, microbiologist and nodal officer for Manipur.Speaking to the media on Friday, Dr Ashananda said, “We are here to conduct a similar study on Covid -9 situation as done by the previous team from the Centre to assist the state authority in tackling the situation.”As per the reports, the team will be stationed here for a few days and specifically look at areas. The state is all set to introduce mobile testing van, according to Dr K Rajo Singh, director of the state health services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-sends-2nd-team-to-manipur-for-pandemic-management-101628384092060.html
08-08-2021||India||Covaxin and Covishield against Delta, Delta Plus: What recent studies revealed||As the Delta variant has emerged as the most threatening variant of coronavirus at present, leading to a fresh rise in the number of infections across the world, the efficacy of the vaccines against this variant remains a significant issue to address. All vaccines, including Pfizer, Moderna, Sputnik V, Oxford-AstraZeneca earlier claimed to be effective against Delta. Several studies have been conducted in this regard. This week, the Indian Council of Medical Research has come up with their findings of Covishield and Covaxin, the two main vaccines being administered in India.Here is what they foundAn ICMR study recently revealed Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is effective against Delta Plus, a mutation of the Delta variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus that is driving the resurgent wave of the pandemic across the world. Delta Plus was first detected in India in April 2021 and since it is a variant of Delta, it was classified as a variant of concern. This variant has been found in several other countries.The ICMR study found that the variant, to some extent, neutralised antibody titer in vaccinated individuals but that will not be detrimental for the vaccination programme. Covaxin is effective against Delta Plus, the ICMR study revealed.A similar study conducted by ICMR on Covishield revealed that Covid-19 recovered individuals with both doses of Covishield have higher immunity against the Delta variant. The vaccine induces a robust hormonal and cellular immune response against the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, it has been found.These are real-life studies conducted on people vaccinated either partially or fully.Breakthrough cases where vaccinated people got infected have also been examined in these studies. Delta was considered responsible for the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. The present spike of Covid-19 cases in some states is also attributed to Delta. However, experts have said that the variant alone can not be the reason for a third wave of the pandemic in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-and-covishield-against-delta-delta-plus-what-recent-studies-revealed-101628383361196.html
08-08-2021||India||India moves to UK's 'amber list' today. Here's what it means for travellers||The United Kingdom has announced that it is moving India, which was so far on its high-alert 'red list' for entering England, to the medium-risk 'amber list' from today (i.e. August 8, Sunday). According to foreign travel advice issued by the Government of UK, the changes came into effect from 4am on Sunday, August 8. This means that people travelling from India to the UK will have a relatively easier time than before, with fully vaccinated passengers no longer obligated to adhere to the 10-day hotel quarantine rule.Also Read | UK, Spain, UAE: Countries that have eased travel restrictions for IndiansHere's what the new changes mean for travellers flying to the United Kingdom from India:UK's traffic light systemThe United Kingdom incorporates a 'traffic light' system for international travel, under which there are separate coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related rules and protocols for each of the coloured lists, classifying zones according to the risk they pose:Red listWhen a certain country is on the United Kingdom's 'red list' (like India was till now), passengers from that country cannot freely travel to England. Only British and Irish nationals, or those who hold residency rights in the United Kingdom, are allowed to enter the country from places on the red list. Moreover, British citizens are also advised to not travel to countries on the red list.In the context of quarantine rules, passengers travelling to England from any of the red-listed countries are required to go under quarantine at a hotel for 10 days and take a total of three Covid-19 tests, which includes one before departure from the origin country.Most of India's neighbours, with the exception of Bhutan, are on the United Kingdom's 'red list' for travel. This includes Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, and the Maldives.Amber listCountries on UK's 'amber list' (where India has presently moved to) are categorised as medium-risk zones and passengers can find it relatively easier, as far as travel guidelines are concerned. Although entering England from the amber-listed countries still require a passenger to take three Covid-19 tests in total, the hotel quarantine rule is not mandatory.Passengers from India, which is now on the amber list, can now quarantine at home or a place of their choice for 10 days after arriving in the UK. They will retain the option to 'Test to Release' after five days of quarantine.For passengers from amber-listed countries, the first coronavirus test must be taken at least three days prior to departure. The second is to be taken on the day of arrival or before the second day of stay. The third must be taken on or after the eighth day of stay in the UK, according to the official foreign travel advice. If the said passenger is a UK national, they are also not required to take the eighth-day Covid-19 test.India and Bhutan are currently on the United Kindom's 'amber list' for travel.Green listThere is another category in the United Kingdom's traffic light system for international travel -- the 'green list'. As is apparent from the name, this includes countries in zones that the Government of UK considers relatively the safest in terms of travel amid the Covid-19 situation.Passengers travelling from green-listed countries to England have to take a total of two coronavirus tests. The first one must be taken before entering the UK, while the second has to be taken on before the second day of arrival. The passenger will be asked to undergo quarantine only if the Covid-19 test result returns positive.Click here to read complete instructions and foreign travel advice on the Government of UK's official website for passengers from India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-moves-to-uk-s-amber-list-today-here-s-what-it-means-for-travellers-101628379855608.html
08-08-2021||India||25% dip in TB cases in 2020; experts cite low screening amid lockdown||There was nearly a 25% reduction in the number of tuberculosis (TB) cases reported in 2020 as compared to the previous year, which experts believe was mainly due to Covid-19-related lockdowns and other restrictions that kept people away from healthcare facilities.According to data provided by the Union health ministry in Lok Sabha on Tuesday, India reported 1.8 million TB cases between January and December 2020 as compared to 2.4 million the year before.While India’s first Covid-19 case was reported in January-end in 2020, the infection started spreading only in March that year. A nationwide lockdown was implemented on March 24 to curb the spread of the virus.“During the lockdown, people weren’t able to go and get themselves tested. There was also a lot of fear of exposure to the virus, because of which no one wanted to go to the hospital. Even our staff had faced problems in reaching the centre and the daily testing was reduced,” Dr KK Chopra, director of New Delhi TB Centre, said.Directly Observed Therapy (DOT) is the mainstay of the TB programme where medicines are given under the supervision of a healthcare worker at the health centre. However, during the pandemic, patients were given medicines for one month together to help them continue with their treatment and teleconsultations were held to ensure compliance.All DOTS centres were allowed to give medicines to patients from other states or areas who were stranded in various places during the lockdown. Non-governmental organisations were also roped in to deliver medicines to those who were unable to visit the centres.“We also collaborated with private medical practitioners to collect sputum samples from patients for testing. We were much better prepared during the second wave and are also well-equipped in case of any surge in Covid cases in the future,” Dr Chopra said, adding that more TB cases were gradually reported towards the latter half of 2020.“Covid-19 is an acute infection and there is a lot of fear in people too, prompting them to visit hospitals each time they experience any of the symptoms. People usually do not do that with TB which is chronic. Cross referral of patients from TB and Covid-19 clinics actually helped in detecting more cases,” he said.A drop in TB cases was reported also because out-patient clinics remained shut during and even after the lockdown. “The impact of Covid-19 was seen not only on TB but other diseases as well; the out patient departments or OPDs had stopped running for months together,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.Experts fear that the undiagnosed cases of TB could facilitate the spread of the infection, but wearing of masks by a majority of the population might have an unintended but pleasant impact.“TB is a droplet infection so people wearing masks will prevent the spread of the infection. The current dip in numbers is not because of that – the incubation period of TB is longer – but we will see an impact in the future,” Dr Khilnani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-dip-in-tb-cases-in-2020-experts-cite-low-screening-amid-lockdown-101628378557456.html
08-08-2021||India||PIL in Delhi HC for action against Rahul Gandhi||A plea has been filed in the Delhi high court seeking directions to Twitter and the city police to take action against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for revealing the identity of the relatives of a rape and murder victim in Delhi in a post. The victim was a minor.In the petition, social activist Makarand Suresh Mhadlekar has alleged that Gandhi has violated the provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act and the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act. “Both the acts have provision, which mandate that the identity of a child victim of a crime shall not be disclosed,” it said. HC is likely to hear the plea on August 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pil-in-delhi-hc-for-action-against-rahul-gandhi-101628376904774.html
08-08-2021||India||JD-U will not sit idle waiting for allies; will contest on its own: Lalan Singh||Newly appointed JD (U) national president Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh has made it clear that the party was capable of moving forward on its own and will no longer be waiting for allies. Addressing party workers and later interacting with the media Singh said, “JD-U will no longer be sitting in the hope of allies. The party will fight on its own and try to expand further.” In a statement which is seen as a message to its alliance partner, the BJP, which of late has been sending vibes that it has made Nitish Kumar the CM despite a smaller number of MLAs, Singh said, “If other parties want to partner with us then it is fine. Otherwise, we will fight on our own. And we will win. Look at Arunachal. In the last assembly elections, we fielded candidates on 15 seats and won on seven.” Singh also spelt out his party plan. “We aim to make JD-U a national party and expand further. I’ve held discussions with party leaders in Manipur and UP. We’ll hold discussions with NDA partners. If they don’t make us a partner in these states, we will fight and win the elections alone,” said Singh and added “That is why our party got recognition in Arunachal. Similarly, gradually we will field candidates in other states. Our target is to get recognition in two more states and then get recognized as a national party.” The party national executive held recently had also passed a resolution in New Delhi and expressed its willingness to contest the UP assembly polls in alliance with BJP provided it gets a respectable number of seats or else it would contest independently on no less than 200 seats. The Munger MP also asked party workers to take to the public the work of Nitish Kumar in the last 15 years. “I will also talk to the state president and district president in this regard. The main point of the work done in the department should be conveyed to the public. For this a booklet has also been printed. Now only they should keep taking it to the public. The Chief Minister’s message will reach every household,” he said. Singh also met Chief Minister Nitish Kumar at his residence on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jdu-will-not-sit-idle-waiting-for-allies-will-contest-on-its-own-lalan-singh-101628364727762.html
08-08-2021||India||Former Odisha hockey player languishes in poverty as country celebrates bronze win||The bronze-winning performance of the Indian men’s hockey team at the Tokyo Olympics has certainly rekindled popular interest in hockey, but a 26-year-old former full-back from Odisha who once represented the state in senior national men’s championship has been working as a migrant labourer to make ends meet.Playing for Gangpur-Odisha hockey team (one of the associate teams of Hockey India) in 2013 and 2014 senior men’s hockey championship, Santosh Majhi, a tribal from Lulkidihi village of Sundargarh district stood like a rock defending his team’s goals from the marauding forwards of the opponent teams. But 7 years later, Majhi’s world is far removed from the world of hockey as he migrated to Goa last year to work in fishing vessels for ₹6000 a month.“I have no other alternative than to go out to work. I have no future left in hockey though I would have loved to play,” said Majhi from his home in Lulkidihi village that has produced at least two Olympians Deepgrace Ekka of the women’s hockey team and former Olympian Ignace Tirkey. With at least 7 international players, Lulkidihi is considered as the nursery of hockey in Odisha along with Saunamara village from where former captain of the Indian hockey team, Dilip Tirkey hails.Like most tribal children in Sundargarh district, Majhi took to hockey at the age of 11 when he joined the sports hostel at Panposh. For his daily wage earner father, sports promised a getaway from the drudgeries of life. In the hostel he shone as a defender and played for the Hockey Gangpur team in 2013 and 2014. After leaving the sports hostel in 2015, he played for Paradip Port Trust in All India Major Ports Hockey Championships in 2016, 2017 and 2018, but could not get a job there.Majhi said in 2016, he had tried for a job in the Indian Army through the sports quota, but was disqualified during the medical test over a varicose veins issue. His problems have also been compounded as he could not complete his higher secondary exam in 2016 after suffering a fracture in his hand.Arun Kumar Sahu, a social activist of the area, said it is disturbing to see players like Majhi struggle for a living. “While the state government and the Centre are spending crores for hockey, it would be good to rehabilitate players like him,” said Sahu.Odisha sports secretary Vineel Krishna said though Majhi represented Gangpur Odisha in senior nationals, he did not secure any position. “Though the state government has a policy of giving government jobs to all medallists, He is not eligible for a job as per the notification of the home department,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-odisha-hockey-player-languishes-in-poverty-as-country-celebrates-bronze-win-101628363289767.html
08-08-2021||India||Understanding TN’s resistance to NEET||This September 12, M Chatriyan will be proceeding towards his fourth attempt at the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), a uniform annual entrance examination to gain entry into India’s undergraduate medical courses in the government and private colleges. His desire to become a doctor has kept him trying consistently despite his family’s meagre means to afford such time and expense. This isn’t uncommon in Tamil Nadu, which has one of the highest medical aspirants and doctors in the country. Following a Supreme Court ruling, the NEET became a reality in 2017 in the state. Since then, the state has tried to exempt itself from the exam through an ordinance, inside court halls and negotiations with the Union government, and civil society protests spilt over to the streets, but nothing has worked. Now the state has renewed its fight to be exempted once again since the DMK government took over in May this year. The new government constituted a committee, chaired by Justice A K Rajan, to study the adverse impact of NEET on socially and economically backward students. After submitting the report to chief minister M K Stalin on July 14, Rajan said that a majority among the 86,343 stakeholders in the exercise were against NEET. And the government, as promised in its election manifesto, is working to annul NEET by introducing legislation and obtaining the consent of President Ram Nath Kovind. The staunch resistance to NEET originated from the plight of disadvantaged students like Chatriyan from Tamil Nadu’s hinterlands, who have to compete with urban and affluent students across the country with more access to resources to crack the exam. Like any other exam, NEET is marred by the tragedy of students dying by suicide. Chatriyan is a Dalit student, who hails from the Ariyalur district, which lags in development, and people depend on agriculture and work in cement factories. His family, too, engaged in cashew business from agricultural lands, but after plunging into debt, his parents became coolies when he was a child. A few months after completing his board exams in 2018, in his first attempt, he scored only 99 out of 720. “I didn’t know the answers to questions in NEET,” says Chatriyan. “We didn’t know what to study for the exam. We had no reference books. The school teachers didn’t have any knowledge about the exam, either.” He says that he was misinformed by his friends, who also wrote NEET, that even if they passed theycould get admissions given the quota for SC/ST. The cut off for SC/ST category in NEET is 42% or 147-113 score range. Chatriyan had qualified with minimum marks but it wasn’t enough for admission. This was the case in his two subsequent attempts, but he improved each time scoring 216 and 265. Commercialisation of NEET Only one among Chatriyan’s five friends cleared NEET. That friend lived and learnt at a private institute for a year which helped him get into a private medical college in Coimbatore. Private coaching institutes charge anywhere between ₹2.5 lakh and ₹5 lakh for a single year and some offer crash courses. Tamil Nadu began offering free coaching to government and government-aided school students to prepare for NEET. Last year more than 25,000 students enrolled in this online due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Rajan panel is yet to make its report public but it has noted the turnover of all private coaching centres put together in Tamil Nadu. “It’s a big business but this isn’t solely because of NEET,” a panel member said on condition of anonymity. “Even if NEET isn’t there, these centres will be coaching for some other exam.” According to the Tamil Nadu government’s data submitted to the Madras high court in 2019, only 2.1% who got admitted to all medical colleges that year didn’t have private coaching. Out of this only, 1.5% entered into government medical colleges. Merit or Injustice? Before NEET, Tamil Nadu considered the class 12 board exam as a parameter for admissions to medical colleges. In 2018, Tamil Nadu revised its erstwhile basic state board syllabus and began introducing updated textbooks. An analysis of the NEET question paper, which covers Biology, Chemistry and Physics as multiple choice questions with negative marking, showed that 97% of the questions in 2020 were covered in the updated textbooks. Educationist Jayprakash Gandhi was initially an advocate for NEET and over the years its functioning made him question its purpose. “Before NEET came in, Tamil Nadu students who joined MBBS with just class 12 scores had outperformed other states in the NEET postgraduate (PG) exams. This shows that the argument that NEET produces better quality doctors is false,” says Gandhi. “More than 70% of those writing NEET (UG) are repeaters.” The state has a doctor for every 253 people, a ratio, which is on par with Scandinavian countries and above norms of the WHO. One in eight doctors from India is from Tamil Nadu, based on data from the Medical Council of India provided by former union health minister Harsh Vardhan in the Parliament in 2019. Combined with the social justice politics of the Dravidian movement, the state established educational institutions in every district and its 69% caste-based reservation system made education accessible to its various sections. With a 51.4% gross enrollment ratio (students enrolling in higher education) in 2019-2020, Tamil Nadu is twice the national average (27.1%), and has also surpassed Nation Education Policy’s target of 50% enrollment by 2030. While there was no Common Entrance Test (CET) when professional courses were introduced in Tamil Nadu, a government order in May 1984 established CET for medicine, engineering, agriculture, etc. In 2006, Tamil Nadu appointed a committee to study its impact, based on which the state abolished the CET as it favoured city students who could access private coaching. The same argument has been repeated with NEET. Former health minister and physician in the MG Ramachandran (MGR) cabinet Dr K V Hande is in support of the exam and says it requires the right coaching. “In my view, when the entire country is going in one direction, why should Tamil Nadu be going in a different direction?” asks the 94-year-old. He says if he were the health minister now he would open multiple coaching centres with one in each taluk. Tamil Nadu government presently has 400-odd coaching centres across the state. Suicides Chatriyan lives 10km away from the village of another Dalit teenager, who died by suicide in 2017 after failing in NEET, though she was a school topper with 98%. The girl’s death led to widespread protests across Tamil Nadu. Since then, the word NEET became a symbolised evil and she became the face of the struggle against the exam. Similarly, another student from Ariyalur died by suicide in 2020 after failing to clear NEET twice. More than a dozen students have died by suicide across the state either due to fear of taking the exam or failing the exam. The politics It was in 2010, under the UPA 2 when the country’s medical education regulator the Medical Council of India amended regulations to make way for NEET. It was meant to roll out by 2021 but nationwide protests from states such as Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh delayed the implementation until 2016. Successive chief ministers M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa opposed NEET. It’s in one of the few issues where the two warring Dravidian parties concur. Since there is no data from the NTA on the configurations of medical college admissions, different sections share different data to argue their stance. Dr Ezhilan, Naganathan a physician and DMK MLA from Chennai filed a range of RTIs related to NEET through which he says they found that before 2017, 90% of students who got into government medical colleges were from government schools, government-aided schools or small, private schools showing that the previous admissions method offered opportunities for the most marginalised students to become doctors. The BJP, which is the only party in Tamil Nadu that is pro-NEET, paints a different picture. Only 100 students from government schools got admissions into MBBS for ten years (2007-2017) before NEET, says state BJP general secretary Karu Nagarajan from RTIs and surveys they have collated which Ezhilan says is incomplete information. “It is NEET that’s supporting government students,” Nagarajan defends. Their alliance leader the AIADMK last year during its regime introduced a 7.5% horizontal reservation in medical colleges for government school students who clear NEET. This ensured that government school students got 405 seats in the 2020-2021 academic year as opposed to six seats earlier. “Before NEET poor students were being cheated because those who could afford paid up to a crore under the management quota,” Nagarajan says. Senior advocate and DMK MP P Wilson is confident that the state can avail an exemption within legal provisions. He uses the example of jallikattu (bull-taming traditional sport in Tamil Nadu) which was banned under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 by the Supreme Court but Tamil Nadu brought in an ordinance to allow the sport and the President gave his assent in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/understanding-tn-s-resistance-to-neet-101628361669649.html
08-08-2021||India||NIA raids 7 K’taka locations over 2020 B’luru riots case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday conducted searches in seven locations in Karnataka as part of the investigations into the attacks on the two police stations in Bengaluru’s DJ Halli and KG Halli in August 2020. “Today (07.08.2021), NIA conducted simultaneous searches at 7 locations in Bengaluru City, Karnataka. Searches were conducted at premises of seven absconding charge-sheeted accused persons in RC-34/2020/NIA/DLI and RC-35/2020/NIA/DLI,” read an official statement. During the searches, various incriminating documents and electronic devices were seized from the premises of the absconding accused persons, read the statement. On June 16, the Karnataka High Court granted default bail to 115 people arrested in the case, while keeping on hold a trial court’s order extending the time to complete the investigation by another 90 days, saying it was legally unsustainable. The NIA, after it could not complete the probe within the stipulated 90 days, had filed an application in the trial court for an extension under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), 1967. The trial court allowed extension of further 90 days in November last year and the applications filed by petitioners for default bail were rejected in January this year. Subsequently, Pasha and other accused moved the high court. The HC noted that the application filed by the prosecution requesting an extension of time for completion of the investigation, without notifying the accused, would frustrate their indefeasible right for statutory bail. The riots were triggered by a Facebook post by Naveen P, nephew of Congress MLA R Akhanda Srinivas Murthy from Pulakeshinagar constituency. On August 11 last year, a mob gathered in DJ Halli and KG Halli areas after police sought time to take action over a complaint filed against the post, which was termed derogatory to Muslims, as per the police complaint filed on August 11. Pasha, an accused in the case, had approached the DJ Halli police station with this complaint against Naveen at 7.45 pm on August 11. The attacks began at 9.30 pm and ended in the early hours of August 12 after MLAs and other senior leaders gathered at the spot, according to the FIR. Four people were killed in the riots, according to police. Police filed 68 FIRs in this case. In two FIRs, they invoked sections 15 and 16 (punishment for terrorist activity), section 18 (conspiracy to commit a terrorist act) and section 20 (being members of a terrorist organisation) of the UAPA. This was the largest number of people ever charged under the UAPA for a single incident of violence in Karnataka. The Bengaluru Police slapped the stringiest charges against the accused just days after a fact-finding committee, led by Bharatiya Janata Party leader Aravind Lambavalli, demanded an investigation by NIA. The central agency then took over the investigation into the case on September 11, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-raids-7-k-taka-locations-over-2020-b-luru-riots-case-101628361667882.html
08-08-2021||India||20k new cases raises concerns in Kerala||Kerala on Saturday recorded 20,367 Covid-19 cases with a test positivity rate of 13.35 from the 151,523 samples tested in the last 24 hours, according to the data released by the health ministry, as pressure mounts on a visibly fatigued economy of the state. The state also reported 139 new deaths, taking the total fatalities to 17,654. “Going by the case trajectory it will take two more weeks for cases to subside in the state,” said medical expert Dr N M Arun.The situation is complex in some of the densely-populated districts like Malappuram, where the average TPR is above 15 per cent. The state is also witnessing a spate of suicides, majority of small-time traders and farmers. Desperation is quite visible as cases continue to rise and many say the government’s packages are cosmetic in nature. “My kidney and liver are intact. They are up for sale,” a street vendor put up a board recently in Thiruvananthapuram while a bus owner pasted a notice on his stationary bus that it is for sale for scrap in Kozhikkode -- such scenes are not rare in Kerala these days. In the last two months, the state witnessed more than 30 suicides during the Covid-19 pandemic. ‘On sale’ boards before shops are a regular sight. Two days ago, the government was forced to re-look its pandemic control measures as cases went up manifold. But these measures aggravated the situation than solving any, ground situation shows. “How long do we have to suffer like this? is the most heard question in markets, tourist spots and other places. And nobody has any answer to offer. According to the new regulation, shoppers and employees at shops and malls will have to flaunt their Covid-19 vaccination certificates and many agitated traders have threatened to close down their establishments. “We can’t remain lax now. We have taken strict measures in view of a possible third wave,” said state health minister Veena Geroge justifying recent regulations. “We expected a soothing balm from the government but we got enough brickbats. Many traders have committed suicide. If the situation remains like this, you can count more,” said merchants association leader T Nasaruddin, blaming the government. “The government is not pragmatic in its approach. It goes by the advice rendered by bureaucrats. Its ears are not on the ground,” said opposition leader V D Satheesan, criticising the government’s knee-jerk reactions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20k-new-cases-raises-concerns-in-kerala-101628361666735.html
08-08-2021||India||Yediyurappa’s cabinet-rank facilities, perks to remain: govt||Hours after allowing 18 ministers from the previous government to retain their portfolios, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday ordered that the former chief minister BS Yediyurappa will receive all facilities at par with Cabinet-rank ministers.According to a notification from the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR), these perks will be applicable till the time chief minister Basavaraj Bommai is in office. As per the current protocols, apart from the salaries, a cabinet minister is entitled to a sumptuary allowance of ₹3 lakh per year, house rent of ₹1 lakh per month, fuel allowance for up to 1,000 liters per year, ₹10 lakh for purchase of furniture, vehicle facility with a limit of ₹21 lakh, free telephone connection at home and office among other things. Officials in the know of the developments said that following this notification, Yediyurappa will continue to live in Cauvery, the official residence of the Karnataka chief minister. “Congress-JD(S) government too had tried to give Cabinet-rank status to former chief minister Siddaramaiah. In Siddaramaiah’s case, the coalition government could not do it because it would be a conflict of interest since he was heading that committee (in 2018-19). Despite this, they let him stay in Cauvery. In the case of Yediyurappa ji, there is no such conflict of interest, since he is not holding any other office profit,” said senior BJP office-bearer. A congress spokesperson said that the BJP’s decision to provide cabinet rank to Yediyurappa is a waste of taxpayer’s money. “In their attempt to settle internal party politics, they are wasting taxpayers’ money. When he isn’t part of the cabinet why are they spending lakhs of rupees on him,” asked the spokesperson, who didn’t want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappas-cabinet-rank-facilities-perks-to-remain-govt-101628361606030.html
08-08-2021||India||India approves J&J’s single-dose vaccine||India has granted Johnson & Johnson’s single-dose Covid-19 vaccine emergency use authorisation, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Saturday, making it the fifth vaccine and the second foreign-made shot to be cleared for use in the country.The pharmaceutical company, however, said it was too early to give a delivery timeline for the vaccine. It said earlier on Friday that it applied for emergency use approval. The vaccine will be brought to India through a supply agreement with homegrown vaccine maker Biological E Ltd, J&J has said.“India expands its vaccine basket! Johnson and Johnson’s single-dose COVID-19 vaccine is given approval for Emergency Use in India. Now India has 5 EUA vaccines. This will further boost our nation’s collective fight against #COVID19,” the Union health minister tweeted on Saturday.Apart from the J&J vaccine, the four other Covid-19 shots approved for emergency use in India are Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, the Russian-made Sputnik V, and the Moderna vaccine.“While we look forward to meeting our delivery commitments, it is premature for us to speculate on the timing of our vaccine deliveries,” the company told Reuters.The J&J vaccine, which has shown 66-72% efficacy in different trials, has been approved by regulators in the US, UK, Europe and the World Health Organization. The company in May applied for a permission to carry out bridging trials – smaller clinical trials that are meant to assess if the findings are similar to larger trials carried out elsewhere. But it withdrew the request last week and filed for emergency approval directly, making use of a change in policy in India that allows coronavirus vaccine makers to do so if they have received approvals by certain regulators around the world.In a statement issued on Saturday, the American pharma major said: “We are pleased to announce that on 7th August 2021, the Government of India issued Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) for the Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 single-dose vaccine in India, to prevent COVID-19 in individuals 18 years of age and older.”“This decision was based on topline efficacy and safety data from the Phase 3 ENSEMBLE clinical trial, which demonstrated our single-shot vaccine was 85 percent effective in preventing severe disease across all regions studied, and showed protection against COVID-19 related hospitalization and death, beginning 28 days after vaccination. This is an important step forward in accelerating availability of our COVID-19 vaccine to help end the pandemic,” the company said.The company applied for the grant of emergency use authorisation to the central drugs standard control organisation (CDSCO) on Thursday.“On 5th August 2021 Johnson & Johnson Pvt. Ltd applied for Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) of its single-dose COVID-19 vaccine to the Government of India. This is an important milestone that paves the way to bringing our single-dose COVID-19 vaccine to the people of India, and the rest of the world, through a collaboration with Biological E. Limited,” the company’s India spokesperson said on Friday.The vaccine is developed by the Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson, to prevent the viral infection in individuals 18 years of age and older.Experts have welcomed the approval.“Yes, single dose vaccine works better; we may need a booster later, but it’s a great addition,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, the country’s senior vaccine expert, from Christian Medical College, Vellore (Tamil Nadu).In April this year, the government announced that Covid-19 vaccines cleared for use in western countries and Japan will get fast-track approval in India, throwing open the market for possible imports of Pfizer, Moderna and J&J doses.The accelerated approval applies to doses authorised by the US’s Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the UK’s Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), European Medicines Agency (EMA), Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA) Japan or by WHO.The US FDA authorised J&J vaccine for emergency use in February 2021.(With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-approves-j-j-s-single-dose-vaccine-101628361485430.html
08-08-2021||India||Key report on climate crisis may issue stark warnings||A key document on the state of the climate is on Monday expected to issue stark warnings to world leaders about the climate crisis and its consequences, experts said, in a development that comes after hundreds of scientists and government representatives reviewed the report.The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change will release its ‘Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis’ report on Monday. The 40-page IPCC report, which has been thoroughly reviewed by hundreds of experts, scientists and representatives of 195 governments, including India, has emerged as one of the most significant documents informing political leaders on the state of climate ahead of the UN climate negotiations (COP26) in November.The report is expected to provide the most updated physical understanding of climate crisis impacts – how and why climate has changed, whether it is caused due to human influence; future scenarios like how quickly we are likely to breach the 1.5 degrees C and 2 degrees C thresholds, and what that would mean in terms of extreme weather events such as floods, sea-level rise, and glacial retreat, particularly in the Arctic. The findings will be crucial for India because IPCC will, for the first time, provide a localised outlook, with maps, atlas and others.Over the last couple of monsoon months, India has been facing severe impacts of the climate crisis,including devastating floods in the Konkan region, a spate of cloudbursts and floods in Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, and nearly 100 deaths due to lightning incidents.IPCC was established by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) in 1988 to provide political leaders with periodic scientific assessments concerning climate change, its implications and risks. This time, the IPCC findings will be significant on two counts, according to experts.One is that climate models and statistical methods have improved greatly in the past few years since IPCC’s fifth assessment report in 2014. “The present assessment report (sixth assessment) is based on much improved climate models and also using more observed and paleoclimatic data. Therefore, future projections of the climate could be considered to have reduced uncertainty,” said M Rajeevan, former secretary, ministry of earth sciences. So, we are likely to see more “high confidence” assessments in the report giving people a very realistic picture of how climate change will impact lives.The second reason is because it is widely understood now by the scientific community that we are very close to breaching the 1.5 degrees C global warming threshold. According to highlights of the Global Annual to Decadal Climate Update by the UK’s Met Office and WMO released in May, there is a 40% chance of the annual average global temperature temporarily reaching the tipping point of 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels during the next five years. The findings of the report prompted Petteri Taalas, the WMO secretary general, to warn the world is getting “measurably and inexorably” closer to that threshold.But, nationally determined contributions made by countries are currently woefully short of meeting the Paris Agreement goal of limiting global warming to well below 2 degree C and pursuing efforts to limit it to 1.5 degree C.According to United Nations Environment Programme’s Emissions Gap Report 2020, the world is heading for a temperature rise of over 3 degree C this century. The ambition of various nationally determined contributions (NDCs) will have to be tripled to meet the 2 degree C target and increased by at least 5 times to meet the 1.5 degree C goal and that current pledges under the Paris Agreement are inadequate and could only limit global temperature rise to 3.2 degree C, the report had warned.“The climate plans submitted by more than 90 countries so far will reduce only 2.3 billion tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. What we need is ten times that emission reduction, otherwise our planet will warm by more than 1.5 degree Celsius. IPCC science warns us that even small degrees of average warming can lead to more heatwaves, floods, cyclones, and sea level rise,” said Ulka Kelkar, director of the climate programme at the World Resources Institute.“One of the key takeaways from this report will be whether the mitigation strategies submitted by nations through the Paris Agreement are sufficient to keep the global temperature rise within the 1.5°C or 2°C limits or not. Based on the current commitments and emission scenario, it does not seem so. We have better data and higher resolution climate models since AR5, and they indicate that we might break the 1.5°C limit in the current decade or next and the 2°C during 2040–2060,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-report-on-climate-crisis-may-issue-stark-warnings-101628360167734.html
08-08-2021||India||Cannot link language to a religion, says Allahabad HC||The Allahabad high court has said that any particular language cannot be connected with any specific religion and Urdu as a language can be taught even in areas where there are less Muslim population.Justice Ashwani Kumar Mishra, while hearing a petition filed by one Sanover, an Urdu teacher in a government aided school, said, “Prima facie this court is of the view that any particular language cannot be connected with any specific religion and Urdu as a language can be taught even in areas where there are few Muslims.”“In a secular state it would prima facie not be open to frame such policy and to discontinue a Urdu teacher only because Muslim population is less,” added Justice Mishra.Petitioner Sanover was a Urdu teacher in a government-aided school, but was allegedly removed from services as the Muslim population in the concerned area fell below 20%.Sanover in her petition said there was no complaint against her but she was removed only because of the state government’s policy in respect of the requirement of at least 20% Muslim population in an area for appointment of an Urdu teacher in a school.The court asked the additional chief secretary of the Department of Basic Education to place on record the policy of the state in this regard.The court also asked the state government counsel to apprise it on the issue involved in the petition.The court has fixed August 16 as the next date of hearing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cannot-link-language-to-a-religion-says-hc-101628360047569.html
08-08-2021||India||Police constable killed in Kulgam terror attack||A policeman was killed on Saturday after terrorists opened fire at a police party, in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district, said officials familiar with the matter.“Terrorists in the evening fired indiscriminately on a police party in Kulgam district. One policeman was injured in the attack & attained martyrdom. Area has been cordoned off,” Kashmir police said in a Twitter post.The deceased, identified as police constable Nisar Ahmad, succumbed to injuries while being taken to the hospital, said the official.The attack evoked strong condemnation from political leaders, with J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha terming it a “cowardly’’. “I strongly condemn the cowardly attack on the security force in Kulgam in which our brave police jawan, Nisar Ah Wagay attained martyrdom. Terrorists will never succeed in their nefarious designs, those responsible for such heinous acts shall be brought to justice,” he said.Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti, too, expressed her grief in a Twitter post. “Deeply saddened to hear about the policeman shot dead by militants in Kulgam today. Condolences to his family & may his soul rest in peace,” she said.Ahead of the Independence Day on August 15, the Valley has recorded a spurt in terrorist attacks.On August 5, a grenade blast took place in Old City Srinagar; two days after a cop and a civilian were injured in a suspected terrorist attack in the same area.On June 22, Inspector Pervaiz Ahmad, who worked with the Criminal Investigation Department wing of police, was killed in a terrorist attack near his residence in Nowgam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-constable-killed-in-kulgam-terror-attack-101628360048123.html
08-08-2021||India||Congress alleges Rahul’s Twitter account ‘temporarily suspended’, firm denies||The Congress said on Saturday Rahul Gandhi’s Twitter account was temporarily locked and that it was following due process to restore access, even as the social media company denied earlier reports that the leader’s account was “temporarily suspended”.Earlier in the day, the Congress said Gandhi’s Twitter account was temporarily suspended. “Shri @RahulGandhi’s Twitter account has been temporarily suspended & due process is being followed for its restoration. Until then, he will stay connected with you all through his other SM platforms & continue to raise his voice for our people & fight for their cause. Jai Hind,” the Congress’ official handle posted on Twitter. It, however, clarified later that the account was temporarily locked.“He (Gandhi) was not able to post on his page since morning,” said a Congress functionary familiar with the matter. “That is why the message was put out from the Congress party’s handle,” the functionary added, asking not to be named.According to Twitter, the account was never “suspended” as such an action would entail making the account inaccessible across the globe. HT reached out to the company to check whether the account was temporarily “locked” but did not immediately receive a response. The social media company has a range of enforcement polices for content that violates its terms of service or in response to a properly scoped request from an authorised entity in a country.Saturday’s development came after the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) asked the Delhi Police and Twitter on Wednesday to take action against the leader over a photograph he posted after meeting the family of a nine-year-old girl who was killed after allegedly being raped.The child rights body said the Twitter post violated the Juvenile Justice Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. Gandhi met the girl’s family on Wednesday and assured his support. “Parents’ tears are saying only one thing – their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path to justice,” Gandhi tweeted in Hindi and posted the photo of his meeting with the girl’s relatives. Twitter has restricted the post from public view.According to Twitter’s enforcement page, it can restrict a person who has violated Twitter rules from posting until the tweet in question is deleted. “When we determine that a Tweet violated the Twitter Rules, we require the violator to remove it before they can Tweet again. We send an email notification to the violator identifying the Tweet(s) in violation and which policies have been violated. They will then need to go through the process of removing the violating Tweet or appealing our review if they believe we made an error,” the enforcement page says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-alleges-rahul-s-twitter-account-temporarily-suspended-firm-denies-101628359865988.html
08-08-2021||India||CBI files bank fraud case worth ₹6,833 crore against Kanpur-based firm||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against Kanpur based Shri Lakshmi Cotsyn and its Chairman-cum-Managing Director Mata Prasad Agarwal for cheating a consortium of 10 banks led by the Central Bank of India of ₹6,833 crore, which officials described as one of the biggest banking frauds in recent years.The agency teams on Saturday carried out raids at nine locations including Noida, Roorkee, Fatehpur and Kanpur.Shri Lakshmi Cotsyn, currently under liquidation, used to be the supplier of Walmart for a long time. The company manufactured blended suiting and shirting, quilted fabrics, denim, terry towel, readymade garments, technical textile fabrics etc.CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said – “It was alleged that the company had reported inflated inventory records, auction process was not fairly organized and voluminous sale transactions were carried out with undisclosed related parties. The funds were allegedly siphoned/diverted by the company and these amounts to fraudulent removal or concealment of property etc to prevent distribution among creditors”.He added that the credit facilities granted to the accused was classified as fraud on July 20, 2020.Apart from the CMD, the CBI has named as accused the company’s joint MD - Pawan Kumar Agarwal, director Sharda Agarwal, and deputy MD Devesh Narain Gupta.A forensic audit carried out by Grant Thornton had revealed massive irregularities in the transactions of the company between 2010 and 2018 as well as diversion of public money.The liquidation process for the company is currently on and the latest e-auction notice for the same was published on August 4.HT tried to locate the representatives of the company but contact numbers at its Corporate Office in Noida and Kanpur office weren’t working.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-bank-fraud-case-worth-rs-6-833-crore-against-kanpur-based-firm-101628353925480.html
08-08-2021||India||Deterioration in security situation in Afghanistan is serious, says Jaishankar||External affairs minister S Jaishankar expressed concern at the rapid deterioration of the security situation in Afghanistan while discussing the latest developments in the war-torn country with Qatar’s special envoy for conflict resolution Mutlaq bin Majed Al-Qahtani on Saturday.Al-Qahtani, who holds the official title of special envoy of the Qatari foreign minister for counter-terrorism and mediation of conflict resolution, is visiting India as part of efforts to take forward the stalled Afghan peace process amid a devastating campaign of violence by the Taliban.Following his meeting with Al-Qahtani, Jaishankar tweeted that he had shared the Indian perspective on recent developments in Afghanistan, and the “concerns of the region that I heard during recent interactions”.“Rapid deterioration of the security situation is a serious matter. A peaceful and stable Afghanistan requires that the rights and interests of all sections of society are promoted and protected,” Jaishankar added.Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla also met Al-Qahtani and discussed the Doha peace process on Afghanistan and “concerns over the deteriorating security situation”, according to a tweet from external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi.Joint secretary JP Singh of the external affairs ministry’s Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran (PAI) desk was also present at the meeting between Shringla and Al-Qahtani, who has played a key role in the Afghan peace process. Singh is the external affairs ministry’s pointperson for Afghanistan and had held a separate meeting with Al-Qahtani on Friday.The security situation in Afghanistan has rapidly deteriorated in the wake of the Taliban shifting their violent attacks from rural areas to key cities and provincial capitals such as Herat, Kandahar, Lashkargah, Zaranj and Sheberghan.Since Friday, the Taliban have reportedly captured Zaranj, the capital of Nimroz province that borders Iran, and Sheberghan, the capital of Jawzjan province.The US and the UK have asked their citizens in Afghanistan to leave the country because of the worsening security situation. The embassies of the two countries issued alerts asking their nationals to leave on commercial flights.“If you are still in Afghanistan, you are advised to leave now by commercial means because of the worsening security situation,” said the alert from the British embassy.The US embassy urged Americans to leave Afghanistan immediately, adding that the mission’s ability to assist US citizens is “extremely limited even within Kabul”.Al-Qahtani travelled to India before two key meetings to be held in Doha next week on the situation in Afghanistan. Russia has convened a meeting of the “extended troika”, which includes China, the US and Pakistan, on August 11, while Qatar will host another meeting between the Afghan side and its regional and international partners.The world community is looking to these meetings to help revive the Afghan peace process, which has been stalled for several months as the Taliban have shown no inclination to resume peace negotiations with the Afghan government.In June, Al-Qahtani had confirmed that Indian officials were engaged in talks with the Taliban – a development first reported by Hindustan Times. He told a webinar at the time that he believed the Indian side is engaging the Taliban as the group is seen as a “key component” in any future government in Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deterioration-in-security-situation-in-afghanistan-is-serious-says-jaishankar-101628338024551.html
08-08-2021||India||Income Tax dept launches dedicated emails for taxpayers’ grievances||The Central government has created three dedicated email addresses for income taxpayers to register grievances related to faceless tax assessment, penalty and appeals, the Income-Tax (I-T) department said on Saturday.The three email addresses are samadhan.faceless.assessment@incometax.gov.in; samadhan.faceless.penalty@incometax.gov.in; and samadhan.faceless.appeal@incometax.gov.in, it said.The move is aimed to further improve services in alignment with the taxpayers’ charter, the department said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had released India’s first charter of taxpayers’ rights and duties on August 13, 2020 ahead of the 74th Independence Day.Launching the ‘Honouring the Honest’ platform on August 13 last year, PM Modi said: “This platform consists of major reforms such as faceless assessment, faceless appeal and taxpayers’ charters. The faceless assessment and the taxpayers’ charter have been implemented from today, while the facility for faceless appeal will be available to the people of the country from 25 September, which is the birth anniversary of Deen Dayal Upadhyay ji.”Meeting the objectives of the charter, the I-T department adopted technology-driven faceless schemes to make tax administration transparent and to end overreach by officials.The faceless tax processing system was first proposed by the Prime Minister in 2017 and received a mention in the first budget tabled by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on July 5, 2019. The system enables a random selection of tax cases through artificial Intelligence and machine learning, with reduced discretion of tax officials.The objective of faceless assessment is to completely eliminate physical contact between the taxpayer and the taxman to make tax administration objective, transparent and corruption-free.The faceless appeal was launched by the government on September 25, 2020 to eliminate discretionary powers of the taxman, curb corrupt practices and provide ease of compliance to taxpayers. Under the new system, I-T appeals are being finalised in a faceless manner with the exception of appeals relating to serious frauds, major tax evasion, search matters, international tax issues and matters pertaining to the black money.After implementing faceless assessment and faceless appeal systems on income-tax matters, the government also set up a National Faceless Penalty Centre (NeAC) to have an unbiased and transparent digital faceless mechanism for imposing penalties on tax defaulters. The system provides adequate opportunity to income tax payers to be heard and also have provisions for review on legal and technical grounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/income-tax-department-launches-dedicated-emails-for-taxpayers-grievances-101628326144042.html
08-08-2021||India||Bombay high court rejects Raj Kundra’s plea against arrest, police remand||The Bombay High Court on Saturday rejected the pleas, filed by actor Shilpa Shetty’s businessman husband Raj Kundra and his associate Ryan Thorpe, challenging their arrest and police remand in the case of alleged production and publishing of pornographic content.Kundra was arrested on July 19 and Thorpe, who was employed as the head of department of Information Technology in Kundra’s firm, was arrested on July 20. They are currently in judicial custody.In his petition, Kundra contended that his arrest was illegal as the mandatory provision of issuing notice under Section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) was not followed. He said a number of people were arrested in connection with the pornographic content case and later released on bail before the crime branch officials searched his office on July 19. His petition said he was called by the police to their Byculla office on the pretext of recording a statement but was arrested instead.The petition stated that not only was Section 41A of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) violated by not issuing a notice but the magistrate court also ignored his application opposing his “unlawful” detention by sending him to police remand till July 23.The petition further stated that despite the Supreme Court’s order against arresting and detaining persons accused of offences with punishment of less than seven years due to the Covid situation, the magistrate failed to take cognisance of the highest court’s order and remanded him to custody.Kundra’s petition demanded that the police remand order should be quashed and he should be released.However, taking note of the prosecution’s allegation that the duo had tried to destroy evidence, justice AS Gadkari said the petitioners did not deserve any relief at this point. The court also upheld the magistrate’s decision to remand them in police custody twice.On July 20, Mumbai Police said that Kundra and 10 others had been arrested for alleged involvement in the creation of porn films and publishing them through mobile apps. Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale then claimed that Kundra seemed to be the key conspirator and there was sufficient evidence corroborating that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-high-court-rejects-raj-kundra-s-plea-against-arrest-remand-in-porn-case-101628317383379.html
08-08-2021||NA||Breaking news: Kerala allows reopening of shops in malls from August 11||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered. Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Kerala to allow reopening of shops in malls from August 11Shops in malls will be allowed to open on the same conditions stipulated for opening other shops from 11th August onwards, after making all required precautionary arrangements: Kerala Government pic.twitter.com/F670uCXTEgShops in malls will be allowed to open on the same conditions stipulated for opening other shops from 11th August onwards, after making all required precautionary arrangements: Kerala GovernmentManipur to discontinue Covid-19 curfewManipur State Cabinet has decided to discontinue curfew which was implemented to contain #COVID19 spread and adopt micro containment zone approach, in line with Central Government advisories, to maintain balance with livelihood and economic activities pic.twitter.com/HWeJ95PdGlManipur govt announces lifting of Covid-19 curfew, to adopt micro containment zone approach in line with Union govt's advisories.Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 caseload rises to 6061Maharashtra reports 6061 new Covid-19 cases and 187 deaths, while Mumbai logs 332 fresh infections and five deaths.Weekly markets to open in Delhi: KejriwalWeekly markets are being opened from Monday. These r poor people. Govt is quite concerned about their livelihoods. However, everyone’s health and lives are also imp. I urge everyone to follow Covid appropriate behaviour after these mkts are opened.Weekly markets in Delhi to open from Monday, tweets CM Arvind Kejriwal.Policeman killed as terrorists open fire in J&K's KulgamA policeman died after terrorists fired indiscriminately on a police party in Kulgam, Jammu and Kashmir today evening. The area has been cordoned off: Kashmir Zone PoliceAir India to operate direct flights from Kochi to London from August 18Air India will operate direct flight services from Cochin International Airport to London on Wednesdays, starting from 18th August, says the authority of Cochin International Airport.Delhi's daily Covid caseload rises to 72Delhi reports 72 new #COVID19 cases, 22 recoveries, and one death in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 565Total recoveries: 14,11,064Death toll: 25,066 pic.twitter.com/7qvJ2glHYUDelhi records 72 new Covid-19 cases, 22 recoveries and one death in last 24 hours. There were 44 cases, 41 recoveries and five deaths a day before.1610 new Covid-19 cases and 32 deaths in KarnatakaKarnataka reports 1610 new Covid-19 cases, 1640 discharges and 32 deaths. Total recoveries at 2,855,862 while death toll and active cases at 36,773 and 24,266 respectively.Kerala reports over 20,000 new Covid-19 casesKerala logs 20,367 new Covid-19 cases and 139 deaths. Active cases and death toll at 178,166 and 17,654 respectively.Two people held in Kerala for attacking a duty doctor and a security guard at Thiruvananthapuram's Fort Taluk HospitalPolice in Kerala arrested two people for attacking a duty doctor and a security guard at the Fort Taluk hospital in Thiruvananthapuram, news agency ANI reported. They were held based on the complaint lodged by the doctor Malu Murali.Three persons rescued so far after two-storey building in Delhi's Nand Nagari collapses; 6 fire tenders rushedThe police control room received the call about the building collapse at 1.30am, and the three rescued persons have been shifted to GTB Hospital. Efforts are being made to rescue one more person, who is feared to be trapped under the debris.West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee writes to PM Modi on placing Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, in ParliamentWest Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee writes to PM Narendra Modi to "re-lodge protest against the Union Government's fresh move to place the much-criticized Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 in Parliament" pic.twitter.com/6g8YC6k4DYTaliban captures second Afghan provincial capital, Sheberghan city, reports AFPSP chief Akhilesh Yadav releases party song 'Kaam Hoga' for 2022 Assembly elections in Uttar PradeshLucknow | Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav releases his party's song 'Kaam Hoga' for 2022 assembly polls. pic.twitter.com/epD6ZS1Ot7Philippines records near four-month high in daily Covid-19 casesThe Philippines' health ministry recorded on Saturday 11,021 new coronavirus cases, the highest single-day case increase in almost four months, and 162 additional deaths.EAM S Jaishankar meets Qatar Special Envoy Mutlaq bin Majed Al-Qahtani in New Delhi"Shared the Indian perspective on recent developments in Afghanistan. Also the concerns of the region that I heard during recent interactions," he tweets.58 patients evacuated after LPG leakage at Mumbai's civic run hospitalA total of 58 patients, 20 of them undergoing treatment for coronavirus, were evacuated after LPG leakage was reported at the civic-run Kasturba Hospital in Mumbai's Chinchpokli area on Saturday, an official said.Johnson & Johnson's single-dose Covid vaccine approved for emergency use in IndiaJohnson and Johnson’s single-dose Covid-19 vaccine is given approval for Emergency Use in India. Now India has EUA for 5 Covid vaccines.Typhoon expected to approach Tokyo on the last day of OlympicsA typhoon is expected to approach Tokyo and its neighboring areas from the Pacific on Sunday, the final day of the Tokyo Olympics, reported Kyodo News.Fires rampage through forests in Greece, thousands evacuatedWildfires rampaged through massive swaths of Greece’s last remaining forests for yet another day Saturday, encroaching on more inhabited areas after burning scores of homes, businesses and farms.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla conducts aerial survey of flood-affected Khanpur, Sangod areasLok Sabha Speaker Om Birla conducts aerial survey of flood-affected Khanpur and Sangod areas."Crops have been damaged and some casualties reported. I have instructed the Home Secretaries of Centre, state and more to conduct damage survey. NDRF team deployed," he says.UK PM Johnson won't isolate after staff member's positive Covid testBritish Prime Minister Boris Johnson does not need to self isolate even though a member of his staff on a recent trip to Scotland tested positive for the coronavirus, his Downing Street office said.Ganga rises above danger level in Patna, ghats submergedThe water level of the Ganga River has risen above the danger level in Patna due to incessant rainfall.Indians should buy handicraft items during festival season: PM ModiIndians should buy handicraft items during festival season to encourage people in this sector: PM Narendra Modi.Unfortunate that several districts of MP are facing rain and flood: PM ModiUnfortunate that several districts of MP are facing rain and flood. Lives and livelihood of several people affected. Govt of India &entire nation stands with Madhya Pradesh in these times of crisis: PM at interaction with beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana in MP.PM Modi interacts with beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana in Madhya PradeshPrime Minister Narendra Modi interacts with beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana in Madhya Pradesh, via video conferencing.US now averaging 100,000 new Covid-19 infections a dayThe seven-day average for new daily Covid-19 infections has surpassed 100,000 in the US, returning to levels not seen since the winter surge.Thousands evacuated as floods hit North Korea: state TVMore than a thousand homes were damaged and about 5,000 people evacuated in North Korea after flooding caused by heavy rains, the country's state broadcaster reported, with swathes of farmland also inundated by the deluge.Bombay HC dismisses Raj Kundra, Ryan Thorpe's applications in pornography caseBombay High Court dismisses businessman and actor Shilpa Shetty's Raj Kundra and Ryan Thorpe's applications challenging magistrate court's remand order and seeking immediate release.2nd terrorist arrested in Budgam encounterBudgam encounter: The second terrorist who escaped from the encounter site, after following a lead, has been arrested in Khrew. A pistol and a grenade has been recovered from his possession. The truck driver also arrested: IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar.Indian golfer Aditi Ashok finishes 4th at Olympic GamesIndian golfer Aditi Ashok finishes 4th at Olympic Games after carding 3-under 68 in final round.India reports 38,628 new Covid-19 casesIndia reports 38,628 new Covid-19 cases, 40,017 recoveries and 617 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per Health MinistryTotal cases: 3,18,95,385Active cases: 4,12,153Total recoveries: 3,10,55,861Death toll: 4,27,371Covid vaccine production ramped up to 40 lakh doses per day: MoS HealthTo vaccinate the entire eligible population against Covid-19 as soon as possible, the vaccine production in the country has been increased from 2.5 lakh doses per day to around 40 lakh doses per day, said Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar, Minister of State (MoS) for Health on Friday.Thane district adds 218 Covid-19 cases; seven more dieThane district of Maharashtra has reported 218 fresh coronavirus positive cases, which has pushed its infection count to 5,46,326, an official said on Saturday.30 people infected with Delta variant in NashikAs many as 30 people across Maharashtra's Nashik have been infected with Delta variant of Covid-19, informed Nashik District Hospital on Friday.Brazil reports 1,056 more Covid-19 deathsBrazil has registered 1,056 more Covid-19 deaths in the past 24 hours, raising its national death toll to 561,762, the health ministry said on Friday.Delta worsens in Australia’s biggest cities despite lockdownsThe delta outbreak worsened across Australia’s biggest cities, with cases in Sydney and Melbourne hitting fresh highs for the current outbreak.Mexico's capital on highest Covid alert amid surge in casesMexico City and a half-dozen of the country's 32 states are now on “red” alert as Covid-19 infections rose to their highest level ever.NASA Mars rover fails to collect rock in search of alien lifeNASA's Perseverance drilled into the surface of Mars but failed in its initial attempt to collect rock samples that would be picked up by future missions for analysis by scientists on Earth.Bangladesh Covid-19 deaths exceed 22,000-markBangladesh reported 12,606 new Covid-19 cases and 248 new deaths on Friday, taking the national tally to 1,335,260 and the death toll to 22,150, the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) said.Tokyo reports 4,515 new cases amid Summer Olympics 2020The Tokyo metropolitan government on Friday reported 4,515 new Covid-19 cases while additional 29 people associated with Summer Olympics 2020 were also tested positive.Tejas Express set to be back on track from todayThe Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has announced that the Ahmedabad – Mumbai and Lucknow – New Delhi Tejas Express trains will resume operations from Saturday.1 terrorist killed in encounter in J-K's BudgamOne terrorist killed in encounter in J-K's Budgam. One AK rifle has also been recovered. The operation is still underway.Bihar schools for Classes 9-12, colleges, coaching institutions to reopen todaySchools in Bihar are reopening for Classes 9 to 12, along with colleges and coaching institutions from Saturday.Delhi court to hear Umar Khalid's bail plea in northeast Delhi riots case todayA Delhi court will on Saturday hear the bail plea of former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student leader Umar Khalid, who was arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the northeast Delhi riots conspiracy case.IMD predicts light rainfall in Delhi and adjoining areasThunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over isolated places of Delhi, Khekra, Gulothi, Bulandshahar, Billari, Milak, Bagpat, Chandausi (UP) and adjoining areas during next 2 hours (issued at 04:40 am): India Meteorological Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-7-2021-101628292616969.html
