09-08-2021||India||Odisha farmers stare at possible drought as 21 districts get deficient rainfall||With at least 21 of the 30 districts of Odisha experiencing below average rainfall in the current monsoon season, farmers across the state are worried of a repetition of the drought that swept through the state in 2015 and 2018.Revenue department officials said while nine districts in Odisha received normal rainfall (between -19 to+19 per cent), below-average rainfall was reported in 21 districts. Till August 9, the rainfall across the state has been 484.8 mm, which is 28 per cent less. While Jajpur district has seen the maximum deviation with 57 per cent less rainfall, Puri has seen the minimum deviation from the average expected rainfall.Agriculture department officials said the lack of rain has affected agricultural activities with 19.97 lakh hectare area farmland being sown with paddy till July 31 compared to 25.22 lakh last year. Similarly, the total crop coverage till July end was 35.86 lakh hectares compared to 41.49 lakh hectares last year.State revenue minister Sudam Marndi said the government was hopeful of improvement in rainfall this month. “We are monitoring the situation and are well prepared for any drought-like eventuality. There are still possibilities of rain. Our government is always with the farmers and working towards their betterment,” Marndi said.Odisha had last experienced drought in 2018 in nine districts of the state, most of them from western Odisha where farmers suffered crop losses of 33 per cent and above due to moisture stress in the districts. In 2015, at least 25 of the 30 districts had experienced drought due to an erratic southwest monsoon.Met officials said the erratic rainfall during the current monsoon was the reason for the deficiency. Though as many as four low-pressure systems were formed over the Bay of Bengal, only one could have a good impact on the state. The weather office said the monsoon core zone regions; including Odisha will not witness widespread rainfall in the next two weeks.In Ganjam district, villagers are resorting to frog dance hoping that it will bring rain. In Chikiti block of Ganjam, people are bathing frogs with turmeric water and smearing them with vermillion before tying them to a pole. The villagers believe that the croaking sound of the frogs will lead to rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-farmers-stare-at-possible-drought-as-21-districts-get-deficient-rainfall-101628532856925.html
09-08-2021||India||Need to change in address in Aadhaar card? Check new steps||People seeking to change their address in their Aadhaar card will have to follow a new set of steps as the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) has discontinued its previous guideline. UIDAI was allowing a change in address in Aadhaar cards without any proof of residence but according to a report in HT’s sister publication Live Hindustan the system has been discontinued.UIDAI said in a reply to a Twitter user that people have to provide proof of address or proof of residence now. It said that any one of the 32 mentioned documents can be used to change the address in Aadhaar cards.Follow these steps to change the address in your Aadhaar card:1. Log in to your account using your credentials at ssup.uidai.gov.in/ssup/2. Click on ‘Proceed to Update Aadhaar’3. Enter your 12 digit UID number4. Enter the captcha code5. Click on the ‘Send OTP’ option6. Wait for the OTP to reach the registered mobile number7. Enter the OTP received8. Click on ‘Log In’9. Enter the details of your Aadhaar card10. Out of the list of 32 documents ascertaining proof of address and proof of identity, select 111. Update your address||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-change-in-address-in-aadhaar-card-check-new-steps-101628529808239.html
09-08-2021||India||Goa extends Covid curfew for another week, CM says focus on positivity rate||The Goa government on Monday extended the state-level curfew for another week with the same conditions and relaxations in place to contain the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said the curfew will remain in place as long as the positivity rate does not fall.The country’s tiniest state registered 61 new Covid-19 infections on Monday taking the total tally to 1,71,944, while 148 patients recovered from the viral disease. A health department official said the death toll rose to 3,164 after four more patients succumbed to the infection during the day. Goa now has 896 active cases of coronavirus, he said.On Sunday, the government said the curfew that was supposed to come to an end on August 9 would continue till 7am on August 16. In its last order, the authorities had allowed bars and restaurants to operate at half its capacity till 11pm. Casinos, spas and massage parlours, cinema halls and multiplexes, besides educational institutions continue to remain shut. Gyms and swimming pools have also started functioning with 50 per cent capacity, while indoor and outdoor sports complexes are operating without spectators.Fish markets and stores in shopping malls are also open.(With inputs from agencies)﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-extends-covid-curfew-for-another-week-cm-says-focus-on-positivity-rate-101628527203427.html
09-08-2021||India||5 principles needed for global maritime security, says PM Modi as he chairs UNSC meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday proposed five principles to ensure global maritime security, including responsible connectivity and peaceful resolution of disputes, as he chaired a UN Security Council debate that was joined by Russian President Vladimir Putin and US secretary of state Antony Blinken. India’s presidential statement on maritime security, which contained a tacit reference to China’s aggressive actions in the South China Sea by calling for ensuring the freedom of navigation in accordance with international laws, was adopted by the Security Council despite China holding out till the last minute, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The rotating presidency of the Security Council is held by India for August and this was the first standalone discussion on maritime security by the UN’s highest body. India adopted a consensus building approach by initiating consultations among all Security Council members several months in advance and prepared a concept note that incorporated ideas of all members. Modi, who became the first Indian premier to chair a meeting of the Security Council, called for a cooperative framework to deal with maritime disputes, climate change and natural disasters. He proposed five principles to develop a roadmap for global maritime security in his address in Hindi. The principles are removing barriers from legitimate maritime trade, encouraging responsible maritime connectivity, settling maritime disputes through peaceful means and on the basis of international law, jointly facing natural disasters and maritime threats created by non-state actors, and preserving the maritime environment and resources. Modi highlighted steps taken by India in this context, including creating the maritime information fusion centre, responding to maritime disasters in the region, and settling the maritime boundary with Bangladesh, and said such measures help build cooperation and trust. The debate on maritime security was one of three signature events being organised by India during its presidency of the Security Council – the other two will focus on counter-terrorism and peacekeeping – and the presidential statement was the first outcome document by the UN body on maritime security. The presidential statement has to be adopted unanimously, but the process was not smooth as China held out till the very end because of language related to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), the people cited above said. Indian negotiators helped find language acceptable to all members without dropping the reference to UNCLOS, which the four other permanent members of the Security Council insisted on retaining, the people added. The presidential statement focused on the primacy of international law, noting UNCLOS is the legal framework for all activities in the oceans, including countering illicit activities at sea. It also highlighted the importance of enhancing global and regional cooperation to counter threats to maritime safety and security. The statement promotes safe and secure shipping while ensuring freedom of navigation in line with international laws, and welcomes mutual legal assistance and other types of law enforcement cooperation on transnational organised crime. It calls for strengthening cooperation for maritime security, including against piracy and terrorist activities, as well as against transnational organised crimes. It also seeks enhanced cooperation to protect critical infrastructure, including cross-border infrastructure Blinken, in his address, referred to India’s leadership on issues such as a free and open Indo-Pacific and collaborative efforts such as the maritime fusion centre that has enhanced cooperation among Indian Ocean partners. The freedom of navigation and overflight and unimpeded flow of maritime commerce is critical to security of nations but there are also critical areas where maritime rules are under threat, such as the South China Sea, he said. Without naming China, Blinken said the South China Sea had witnessed dangerous encounters, “provocative actions to advance unlawful maritime claims” and to intimidate and bully states. “When nations ignore or purport to redraw the borders of other nations, whether by land or by sea, they undermine the sovereign equality of member states – a guiding principle of the UN,” he added. China’s deputy permanent representative to the UN, Dai Bing, sought to counter Blinken’s remarks by saying a “few countries are pursuing exclusive regional strategies in Asia-Pacific in an attempt to create and intensify maritime conflict” and weaken regional stability. He opposed the mention of the South China Sea and accused the US of “stirring up trouble out of nothing”. Putin said Russia wants to build productive cooperation with the Indian Ocean Rim Association and Indian Ocean Commission and help ensure security in the Persian Gulf and Atlantic Ocean. He called for a special structure within UN to fight maritime crimes in various regions. Putin respect for sovereignty and settle disputes through dialogue Russia wants to build productive cooperation with the Indian Ocean Rim Association and Indian Ocean Commission, help ensure security in Persian Gulf, Atlantic Ocean united under UN special abilities armed contingents of states, Russia to share experiences of anti-terrorist ops, think about special structure within UN to fight maritime crimes in various regions, supported by member states, Four heads of state and government, including Modi and 10 ministers participated in the debate, including French foreign minister Jean-Yves le Drian and UK defence secretary Ben Wallace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-principles-needed-for-global-maritime-security-says-pm-modi-as-he-chairs-unsc-meet-101628527337014.html
09-08-2021||India||One year after Kerala landslide, survivors move HC for better land, houses||A year after a massive landslide decimated a tea plantation workers colony in Pettimudi in Idukki district killing 70 people, relatives of the deceased on Monday, moved the Kerala High Court with a plea to allot land and houses in proper areas. In their plea they said some of the allotted land and houses were in remote areas without motor-able roads and they needed a proper dwelling which ensured proper commuting and a hassle-free life. The High Court later sent notices to the state government and the Kannan Devan Hill Plantation (KDHP). Most of those who died in the landslide last year were employees working with the KDHP when the tragedy occurred. Survivors want the government to take over “excess land” occupied by the KDHP and distribute them to the landless. After the accident, the Kerala government announced that houses would be built for those hit by the tragedy under the Life Mission project. But many inhabitants said most of the houses were situated in inhospitable locations and they found it difficult to lead a normal life. Tragedy struck Pettimudi on the night of August 6 last year when after incessant rain, a portion of the hill came down destroying a settlement of tea plantation workers. People living in nearby areas got to know about the accident only the next day. Some of the bodies were recovered nearly 14 km away from the landslide site. Only 64 bodies were recovered and last week a special order was issued by the state government certifying that the missing were also dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-year-after-kerala-landslide-survivors-move-hc-for-better-land-houses-101628525716497.html
09-08-2021||India||Latest on CoWin: Foreigners’ registration, Covid vaccine certificate on WhatsApp||India has administered more than 508.6 million vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till 7am on Monday. Of these, a total of 1,611,590 were administered to people in the previous 24 hours. Under the nationwide vaccination drive, started in January this year and the universalisation of the programme in June, anyone aged 18 and above can receive the Covid-19 vaccines. On Monday, the Centre announced that foreign nationals living in India can also get the Covid-19 vaccine by registering on the CoWIN platform as all other eligible people.What is CoWin platform?CoWIN or Covid Vaccine Intelligence Work was introduced by the central government in January when the nationwide vaccination campaign was first launched in the country. It is the platform on which those eligible have to register themselves using their valid identification documents to get Covid-19 vaccines. There is an independent mobile application as well. People can get their vaccination certificates from CoWin, although now the Centre has said that the document can be received on WhatsApp.Is CoWin platform available in other countries?Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed a CoWin Global Conclave last month, wherein as many as 50 countries who showed interest in CoWin were given an opportunity to adopt it. These countries include Canada, Nigeria, Uganda and Mexico among others.At the conclave, PM Modi said technology is “integral” to the fight against Covid-19 and that “luckily, software is one area in which there are no resource constraints.” He cited this as the reason India made its Covid-19 tracing and tracking app open source as it was “technically feasible.” In a statement at the time, the National Health Authority (NHA) said that India is “excited to join hands with the world to win over Covid-19 together with CoWin.”Who’s eligible to register on CoWin?When the nationwide vaccination drive had begun in January, it was open for healthcare workers only and later extended to frontline workers from February 2 onwards. Eventually, the people aged above 60 and above 45 with co-morbidities were also permitted to receive the jabs. In April, the Centre announced that from May 1 onwards, all Indian citizens aged 18 and above will be allowed to get administered the coronavirus vaccine as part of an accelerated phase-3 of the drive. The announcement came after PM Modi chaired a high-level meeting with concerned officials.Can pregnant women and children also register on CoWin?On July 2, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said that pregnant women can now also get vaccinated against Covid-19. Citing the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation's (NTAGI) recommendations, the Centre said that pregnant women can register themselves on the CoWin platform and are also allowed to take jabs by walking in at the nearest Covid-19 Vaccination Centre (CVC).Also Read | Health ministry allows Covid-19 vaccination for pregnant womenHowever, at the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) Parliamentary Meet on July 27, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya reportedly said that India will likely start vaccinating children against the virus from August. Currently, children are not allowed to get administered with Covid-19 vaccines.What is the latest development pertaining to the CoWin platform?According to a statement by the MoHFW, foreign nationals residing in India can also register on the CoWin app to get Covid-19 jabs. “They can use their passport as an identity document for the purpose of registration on the CoWin portal. Once they are registered on this portal, they will get a slot for vaccination,” the health ministry statement read.Also Read | Foreign nationals now eligible for Covid-19 vaccination in India: Health ministryMandaviya also took to Twitter to share the news. “Together We Fight, Together We Win Clapping hands sign Govt has now allowed foreign nationals residing in India to register on the CoWin portal and take #COVID19 vaccine. This will ensure overall safety from the transmission of the virus,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/latest-on-cowin-foreigners-registration-covid-vaccine-certificate-on-whatsapp-101628524255977.html
09-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Petition filed to rename Rajiv Gandhi National Park and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Karnataka residents petition govt for renaming Rajiv Gandhi National ParkThe petition has garnered over 8,000 signatures on Change.org in a very short span of time. The campaigners said, “All deserving citizens should be recognised, not just a few dynastic people.” Read more here.‘Dear Vamika’ gets a shout-out as Anushka Sharma takes fans inside hotel room in LondonAnushka Sharma took to Instagram Stories to share a photo of her hotel room in London. She is there with her husband Virat Kohli and their daughter Vamika. Read more here. India vs England: 'Since that series mindset has changed drastically': Inzamam on recent turning point in Indian cricketIndia vs England: While speaking on his YouTube channel, Inzamam-ul-Haq quipped that the mindset of the Indian players has changed for the better since their series win in Australia. Read more here. Parents’ consent, staggered time among SOPs for students visiting Delhi schoolsThe Delhi government on Sunday allowed these students to visit schools for admission and board examination related activities. Read more here. HT Opinion: A Taliban takeover will hurt PakistanPakistan’s spite for Afghanistan and paranoia about India cloud its judgment. Terror groups have most to gain. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-petition-filed-to-rename-rajiv-gandhi-national-park-101628522963417.html
09-08-2021||India||Here's how a Gujarat petrol pump owner is honouring Neeraj Chopra's golden feat||As a swarm of accolades, felicitations and awards pour in from across the country for Olympic gold medalist Neeraj Chopra, a petrol pump owner in Gujarat’s Bharuch has come up with a unique idea to celebrate the historic win. Ayuub Pathan, the petrol pump owner, has decided to offer free petrol, up to ₹501, to people who share their names with the javelin thrower who brought the first gold medal in Tokyo Olympics 2020 for India.Needless to say, a decent queue was seen at the fuel station with prices of petrol skyrocketing by the day.Gujarat | Ayuub Pathan, a petrol pump owner in Bharuch, offers free petrol, up to ₹501, to people who share their names with Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra."It is our 2-day scheme to honour him. We're entertaining all valid ID Card-holding namesakes of Chopra," he said. pic.twitter.com/PAc43jYw6Q"It is our two-day scheme to honour him. We are entertaining all valid ID card-holding namesakes of Chopra," Pathan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | I slept with the gold medal close to my pillow: Neeraj ChopraMeanwhile, Chopra was the cynosure of all eyes at a grand felicitation ceremony in Delhi that was organised by the government on Monday for the all seven podium finishers at the Olympic as they returned home from Tokyo.Calling their journey an "incredible story of resilience and sporting excellence", Union sports minister Anurag Thakur presented the medal winners with mementos and shawls.Also read | Neeraj Chopra on why he still feels incomplete despite Olympic goldEver since Chopra became the second Indian to secure an individual gold medal in the history of Olympic Games with a stellar performance, the athlete from Haryana has been flooded with prizes and awards by several state governments and private organisations. Besides Karyana and Punjab governments announcing cash rewards worth crores and other honours, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has announced a cash reward of ₹1 crore for Chopra.Indian airliner IndiGo has announced a one-year unlimited free travel offer for Chopra, while Anand Mahindra, chairman of Mahindra and Mahindra, has promised a brand new XUV 700.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heres-how-gujarat-petrol-pump-owner-is-honouring-neeraj-chopra-s-golden-feat-101628522729739.html
09-08-2021||India||Four killed in road accident in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada||Four people, including two minors and a woman, were killed and five others injured when a tractor-trolley in which they were travelling overturned and fell into a pond in Dantewada district, police said on Monday. The deceased were residents of Tetam village and were heading towards Katekalyan to attend an event, police said. “The accident occurred near Tetam when the driver allegedly lost control of the tractor, which was ferrying 30 people. It then fell into a pond, said Abhishek Pallava, Dantewada Superintendent of Police. “Four persons, identified as Kosa Madvi (35), Dasai Kawasi (16), Dinesh Markam (9) and a woman-- Phule Kawasi (40) trapped inside the vehicle and died. Five occupants suffered critical injuries while 14 others sustained mild injuries,” the SP said. The victims have been at admitted to a public hospital in Katekalyan. “As of now, the five people who are seriously injured have been taken to the district hospital and are stable,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-killed-in-road-accident-in-chhattisgarh-s-dantewada-101628521696340.html
09-08-2021||India||Karnataka residents petition govt for renaming Rajiv Gandhi National Park||Two residents of Karnataka’s Kodagu district have launched an online petition seeking a change in the name of Rajiv Gandhi National Park in Nagarahole. Petitioners Naveen Madappa and Vinay Kaypanda have tagged the chief minister of Karnataka, Prime Minister’s Office, Union forest minister and Musuru MP Pratap Simha in their plea and suggested that the national park be renamed after Field Marshal KM Cariappa. The petition said the move would be a befitting honour to the legendary field marshal who belonged to the district.Coming days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Twitter the renaming of Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award after hockey great Major Dhyan Chand, the petition has already garnered over 8,000 signatures on online platform Change.org in a very short span of time. Formerly known as Nagarahole national reserve forest, the named was changed to Rajiv Gandhi National Park Nagarahole "just to appease a particular family and its party", the campaigners said, adding, “All deserving citizens should be recognised, not just a few dynastic people.”Regarding the renaming of Khel Ratna Award, Modi wrote on Twitter, “I have been getting many requests from citizens across India to name the Khel Ratna Award after Major Dhyan Chand. I thank them for their views. Respecting their sentiment, the Khel Ratna Award will hereby be called the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award! Jai Hind!”The latest petition also comes close on the wheels of Karnataka BJP MLA CT Ravi requesting chief minister Basavaraj Bommai to rename Indira Canteens across the state as "Annapoorneshwari Canteen".“Don't see any reason why Kannadigas should be reminded of the dark days of Emergency while they are having food,” he further wrote.Renaming of public spaces and stadiums across the country has turned into a heated controversy with the ruling and BJP and Opposition hitting out at each other over the latest moves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-residents-petition-govt-for-renaming-rajiv-gandhi-national-park-101628519350382.html
09-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh recognises tribal community rights in urban area||In a first, the Chhattisgarh government has recognised the Community Forest Resource (CFR) rights in an urban area and in core area of a tiger reserve.A committee headed by district collector can recognise individual and community rights of tribals over forest land, except core areas of tiger habitat, where prior approval of the forest department is needed. Most of the tribal rights have been recognised in rural areas.This would be the first instance of tribals living in urban areas getting their community right recognised. This means as a community they would have grazing and harvesting rights in the nearby forest. The Forest Rights Act, 2006, provides for individual as well as community forest rights, according to forest officials. Also Read | Shiv Sena accuses BJP of double standards in Delhi Dalit girl rape, murder caseThe officials said tribals living in Nagari, Churiyara and Tumbahara wards of Nagar Panchayat Nagari in Dhamtari district will get community forest resource rights over their 10,200 acres of forests. According to a state government order, the rights recognised in municipal areas are spread over an area of 707.41 hectares for ward sabha Nagari, 678.18 hectares for ward sabha Churiyara and 2,746.742 hectares for ward sabha Tumbahara. The government also recognised the community forest resource rights of five villages over 13,700 acres of forest which is spread within the core area of Sitanadi Udanti Tiger Reserve spanning across two districts of Dhamtari and Gariyaband. The rights recognised in core areas of Sitanadi Udanti area spread over 975.58 hectare for Masulkhoi, 984.92 hectares for Karhi, 551.42 hectares for Joratarai, 1651.725 hectares for Bahigaon and 1389.615 hectares for Baroli. “This is first time in the country that any government is recognising CFR rights under the Forest Rights Act, 2006 for urban areas and core area of any Tiger Reserve. These ward sabhas and gram sabhas would be able to protect, conserve, regenerate and mange the entire forest area falling within the aforesaid traditional boundary” an senior official working with chief minister’s office said. Principal chief conservator of forests Rakesh Chaturvedi said this is an important step for empowering forest dwellers of the state. “Soon, community forest resource rights in other urban areas, where needed, will be recognized by the government,” he said. Saraswati Dhruw, member of Forest Rights committee of ward sabha Nagari said that around 47 meeting were held altogether in order to sensitise people and officials about the existence and process of community forests resource rights in urban areas. “The state government has taken welcome step for providing CFR rights in urban and in other protected areas of the state. We welcome the step and urge the government to give more rights to the tribals and forest dwellers of the state,” said Alok Shukla, conveyner of Chhattisgarh Bachaao Andolan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-recognises-tribal-community-rights-in-urban-area-101628519295981.html
09-08-2021||India||Foreign nationals now eligible for Covid-19 vaccination in India: Health ministry||Foreign nationals residing in India are now eligible to receive Covid-19 vaccination in India, the government announced on Monday.Like other eligible beneficiaries, foreign nationals can also register on CoWin platform to get the shot, and their passport will be considered as the document to verify their identity.“In a landmark initiative to ensure safety from Covid-19, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has taken a decision to allow foreign nationals residing in India to get registered on CoWin portal to take the Covid-19 vaccine. They can use their passport as identity document for the purpose of registration on CoWin portal. Once they are registered on this portal, they will get a slot for vaccination,” said the health ministry in a statement.Office of Union health minister, Mansukh Mandaviya, also tweeted regarding the development.“Together We Fight, Together We Win Clapping hands sign Govt has now allowed foreign nationals residing in India to register on CoWin portal and take # Covid-19 vaccine. This will ensure overall safety from the transmission of the virus,” read the tweet.India started the Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 this year; to begin with, in the first phase, all health care workers were eligible to take the shot that was later extended to front line workers on February 2. Gradually, the facility was extended to citizens above 60 and those above 45 years who suffered from 20-specified co-morbidities.On April 19, the central government announced that it will open up Covid-19 vaccination for everyone 18 years and above from May 1 as part of a liberalised and accelerated phase 3 strategy of Covid-19 vaccination in the country. The decision was taken in a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “A significant number of foreign nationals are living in India, especially in large metropolitan areas. In these areas, the potential of spread of Covid-19 is high due to higher population density. To counter any possibility of such occurrence, it is important to vaccinate all eligible persons,” read the health ministry release. According to the ministry, this initiative will ensure the safety of foreign nationals residing in India. It will also bring down the possibilities of further transfer of infection from unvaccinated persons residing in India, and will also ensure overall safety from further transmission of Covid-19 virus.“As has been said that no one is safe until everyone is safe, so the government is also ensuring that everyone in the country is able to receive the Covid-19 vaccine shot. This is an attempt in that direction,” said a senior central government official aware of the matter, who spoke on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-nationals-now-eligible-for-covid-19-vaccination-in-india-health-ministry-101628518516089.html
09-08-2021||India||Assam CM meets Modi, Amit Shah, other ministers in Delhi to discuss state issues||Two weeks after a violent clash on the Assam-Mizoram border claimed the lives of six policemen and left nearly 50 injured, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi on Monday. Sarma first met PM Modi where the two reportedly discussed the July 26 incident and the border dispute between the two states. They also talked about development and peace in Assam. “Today I called on Adaraniya PM Narendra Modi to apprise him on how our government has been working to steer and scale up Assam’s development journey as envisioned by him. Also briefed him about the Bodo peace process, our war against drugs and implementation of various central schemes,” Sarma tweeted. There was no mention of discussions on the border dispute. Several BJP MPs from Assam didn’t respond to calls. The CM’s office also didn’t divulge details of the meeting with the PM. Sarma also met Shah twice during the day where they discussed a range of issues. Both meetings were held in Parliament. Accompanied by BJP MPs from Assam, the CM met Union minister for culture, tourism and development of north east region (DONER) G Kishan Reddy. Sarma later tweeted that the discussions were on development issues. The CM also called on Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya and discussed Covid-19 management and vaccination strategies. “To seek his guidance on how to intensify Covid-19 management and vaccination strategies, met union health minister Shri Mansukh Mandaviya. Apprised him on how Assam has steered and sustained its fights against the pandemic,” Sarma tweeted later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-meets-modi-amit-shah-other-ministers-in-delhi-to-discuss-state-issues-101628517437062.html
09-08-2021||India||Rains lash Uttarakhand; state reports 53 % more rainfall in last 24 hours||Heavy rains lashed many districts in Uttarakhand, with the state reporting over 53 % more rainfall than the long-term average for previous 24 hours from Monday 8.30am. The state received 18.9mm rain in this period against the average of 12.3mm. Dehradun and US Nagar received heavy rainfall during the 24-hour period. Dehradun recorded 33.9 mm rainfall, with a departure of 111 %, while US Nagar district reported 22.6mm rainfall, with a departure of 254 % from the average. Other districts which reported heavy rainfall were Haridwar (14.8 mm, a departure of 32 %), Uttarkashi (22 mm, 104 % departure), Chamoli (20.2 mm, 96 % departure) and Bageshwar (25.9 mm, 152 % departure) Overall, Uttarakhand has so far received 2 % excess rainfall this monsoon, compared to deficient monsoon last year. Since June 1, the state has reported 721.7mm rainfall against a normal of around 708mm, thus registering a departure of 2 %. Rains continued to disrupt normal life and affected the movement of people in many areas of the state. Many areas reported waterlogging and water level rose in many rivers and rivulets. Also Read | 2022 assembly polls: U’khand BJP may field new faces to replace sitting MLAsIndia Meteorological Department ( IMD ) Dehradun centre has warned of heavy rainfall with intense spells likely to occur at isolated places in Dehradun, Tehri, Nainital, Champawat and Pithoragarh districts. It said there is a possibility of medium or major landslides and road blockages in hills and a significant increase in water level in rivulets and rivers and waterlogging in low-lying areas. Meanwhile, a team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) rescued 35-year-old Bhairaiv Singh who had slipped and injured himself while going for fishing to a local river in Pithoragarh on Saturday night. The team used ropes and a stretcher to rescue the man who originally hails from Nepal. The man was taken to the hospital right after the rescue operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-lash-uttarakhand-state-reports-53-more-rainfall-in-last-24-hours-101628517435884.html
09-08-2021||India||‘Why Bills added to agenda?’ asks Kharge in Rajya Sabha||Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge lashed out at the government on Monday for adding the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the Supplementary list of Business, alleging that this is the government’s way of ensuring hasty passage of Bills. In protest, Congress members walked out of Rajya Sabha.“Is everyone all-knowing? We came prepared to discuss the four Bills listed in the business. How do we have a discussion when the government adds Bills suddenly to the agenda?” asked Kharge.He added that the Opposition has been demanding discussion on Pegasus, inflation and the farm laws, but the government is not allowing discussion on the issues.TMC MP Derek O’Brien also objected to the inclusion of the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Monday’s Supplementary list of Business. The TMC MP demanded an explanation from the government on how 30 Bills have been passed without discussion.He added that only 11% of the Bills passed have been scrutinised by the Parliamentary review committee and that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has not answered any questions on the floor of the House. Responding to the objections from the leaders of the Opposition, Union Minister Prahlad Joshi said the Bills brought in the supplementary list were circulated in advance Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman introduced Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and asserted that the Bill does not forgo our sovereign right of collecting taxes. The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 is a money Bill, which means the Rajya Sabha cannot seek any amendments. The House can discuss and return the Bill to the Lok Sabha.In the monsoon session of the Parliament which commenced on July 19 and is scheduled to conclude on August 13, 18 Bills have been introduced by the government. 10 of these have been passed in both the Houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-bills-added-to-agenda-asks-kharge-in-rajya-sabha-101628516595796.html
09-08-2021||India||Assam revises partial curfew time. Check what’s allowed||The Assam government on Monday revised the partial curfew time in the state between 6pm to 5am from Tuesday onwards after an improvement in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positivity rate. In an order on August 2, the Assam government lifted the “round the clock curfew” across the state and a partial curfew between 5pm and 5am was imposed instead.Notably, as many as 574,100 Covid-19 cases have been confirmed in Assam since the pandemic first broke out, of which, 557,654 people have recovered and 5,387 have succumbed to the virus, according to data available on the government website.What’s allowed across the state?1. Workplaces or business establishments can stay open up to 5pm. In the case of government employees, only those who have been inoculated with at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine can attend office. Besides, pregnant government staff or women with children aged five or below will be eligible to work from home. Employees coming under the Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) category will be exempted from work but can be encouraged to work from home.2. Shops and commercial establishments, including those dealing with groceries, dairy and products, and vegetables, among others, can stay open up to 5pm.3. Dine-in restaurants, roadside eateries, and even takeaways from these eateries will be permitted up to 5pm.4. For wedding and funeral ceremonies, as many as 10 people will be permitted to attend.5. For functions to be held in closed venues barring weddings, birthdays and anniversaries, among others, prior permission of the deputy commissioner is needed and the capping is for 200 fully vaccinated.6. Autorickshaws, taxis and cycle rickshaws can operate with only one driver or rider, and two passengers will full observance of social distance.7. Essential services, including food, medical equipment and pharmaceuticals, and delivery persons dealing with the same, will continue to operate round the clock.8. Transportation of goods items will also continue unhindered.9. Intra-district transport, with 50 per cent seating capacity, and maintaining of all Covid-19 norms, may be allowed.10. Shopkeepers must not allow more than five people to enter the shop at a time.11. Operations of Guwahati Tea Auction Centre (GTAC) including e-auction are allowed till 5pm with 20 per cent of the workforce for tea-tasting, brokering, sampling and warehousing.What’s not allowed?1. All inter-district transport of passengers and movement of people will remain prohibited.2. No pillion riding permitted for two-wheelers. However, exemptions will be given in the case of women and children.3. All education institutions will continue to operate virtually, and no physical classes will be allowed.4. Any form of gathering or meeting in open spaces is completely prohibited.5. Religious places will remain shut.6. Weekly markets and haats will also continue to remain closed.Also Read | Covid: Assam issues revised SOPs, 2 districts to observe round-the-clock curfewWhich places will be considered as containment zones?Districts, where the Covid-19 test positivity rate reaches more than 10 in the previous seven days, will be declared as a total containment zone. In these zones, all the aforementioned restrictions will be imposed, but essential services will be permitted throughout the day.Which areas may witness the lifting of restrictions going forward?According to the notice issued by the Assam government, inter-district movement of people and transport facilities and resumption of physical classes will be reviewed depending on the progression and dip in the Covid-19 caseload in the state. Apart from these, graded re-opening of religious sites as well as monuments and other such places will also be reviewed as per the case positivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-revises-partial-curfew-time-check-what-s-allowed-in-the-state-101628514632215.html
09-08-2021||India||PM Modi lays roadmap for maritime security cooperation at UNSC||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday called for the removal of barriers on trade on sea routes as he stressed that any hindrance to maritime trade can hurt the global economy. PM Modi, while chairing a high-level United Nations Security Council (UNSC) debate, said that "prosperity of all" is dependent on the active flow of maritime trade and urged for peaceful settlement of disputes and according to international law. "This is very important for mutual trust and confidence. This is the only way we can ensure global peace and stability," he said."The ocean is our common heritage. Our sea routes are the lifeline of international trade. And, the biggest thing is that these seas are very important for the future of our planet. But this shared maritime heritage of ours is facing many challenges today," the Prime Minister said as he chaired the debate virtually in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We need to face natural disasters and maritime threats created by non-state actors together,” he said.Also read | Russian president Vladimir Putin to attend Modi’s UNSC debatePM Modi pointed out that India has taken several steps to enhance regional cooperation on this subject. Sea routes, he said, are being misused for piracy and terrorism and maritime disputes between many countries have been noticed. "And climate change and natural disasters are also related to the maritime domain," he said adding that the maritime environment must be safeguarded from pollution through plastics and oil spills.The meeting on Monday was the first UNSC debate to be chaired by an Indian prime minister. However, this is the eighth time that India has the rotational presidency of the top global body as a non-permanent member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lays-roadmap-for-maritime-security-cooperation-at-unsc-101628515014269.html
09-08-2021||India||Online classes may leave trail of health issues, says Kerala education minister||Frequent online classes may lead to many health problems for students, Kerala education minister V Sivankutty said in the state assembly quoting a study conducted by the state council of education research and training. The minister said 36 per cent students have neck pain, 28 per cent complained of eye ailments and 22 per cent reported anxiety and stress. Digital classes cannot be the norm, he elaborated. He said the Kerala government is waiting for the Centre’s directive to open schools and a final decision would be taken soon. It is planning to open classes for senior students but the high volume of Covid-19 cases has left it in a quandary. Neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Karnataka earlier announced their plan to open educational institutions in a structured manner. Like the rest of the country, educational institutions were closed in the state in March 2020 but classes started later through the online medium and it has been continuing for more than one and a half years now. “We can’t continue online classes forever. Our study shows students suffer from some ailment or the other due to online classes. We have to go back to the old system as soon as possible,” he said in the assembly. The minister also mentioned that to reduce mental stress due to Covid-19 related issues students would be given free counselling. “We have to make parents also aware of the inherent dangers of the overuse of the internet. We will give training to them also. Many non-government bodies have come forward,” he said. “Schools will reopen in different phases. We have to inoculate students before reopening. We will ensure a smooth opening after meeting all norms,” he said. Many experts are of the opinion that strict adult guidance or monitoring is needed for internet use by small children and parents will have to lay down ground rules for usage of the internet to avoid overexposure and exploitation. Some parents also complained that after each class, schools often take a long break keeping children glued to the screen for long. “Strict parental guideline is needed for small children. They have to ensure a balance between the use of gadgets and avoiding their harmful effects,” said P Niveditha, a teacher, adding parents will have to keep a strict vigil.“The digital world opens a new vista for students. But they will have to be careful. Children with behavioural issues can spin into gadget addiction rapidly,” said child psychologist Dr T V Anil Kumar. He said online classes will leave a spectre of screen addiction in many children. Many students also admitted that online classes can’t be compared to traditional classes which help them to embrace many qualities. Besides this another danger lurks in the form of digital classes, complained teachers and parents. Some anti-social elements have started hacking and posting vulgar posts in groups meant for online classes. At least 51 such complaints surfaced in the state in the last three months and cyber security experts said a majority of such posts are created outside the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/online-classes-may-leave-trail-of-health-issues-says-kerala-education-minister-101628514556091.html
09-08-2021||India||Disinvestment of PSUs will lead to loss of quota jobs: Govt in Lok Sabha||The government on Monday said in Lok Sabha that a section of citizens will lose their employment reservations in public sector undertakings (PSUs) if it decides to privatise them.The government’s answer was in response to a question by Congress MP Karti Chidambaram, who asked the union finance minister “whether the proposed privatisation and disinvestment of PSUs, particularly Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) will result in a reduction of reserved posts for Scheduled Castes (SCs), Scheduled Tribes (STs), and Other Backward Classes (OBCs), and if so, the details and number of such posts.”Chidambaram also asked the finance ministry about the details of the “sanctioned reserved posts” for SCs, STs, and OBCs in all Central Public Sector Undertakings (CPSUs). He also asked whether the government had any plan to continue these reservations in CPSUs, particularly BPCL, after disinvestment.Responding to Chidambaram, the minister of state for finance Bhagwat Kisanrao Karad said that “reservation policy is applicable only in government companies” and since post disinvestment, a company ceases to be a government subsidiary, the reservation policy will not apply.Also Read | Govt to push legislation in final week of session“Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) being the nodal department for disinvestment matters has informed that the reservation policy is applicable only in government companies and after strategic disinvestment of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL), it will not remain a government company,” the minister informed Chidambaram.About the total figures of people from reserved categories who work in CPSUs, the minister said among the 919,479 employees in CPSUs, nearly 160,384 come from scheduled caste backgrounds and account for over 17% of the total employees. Nearly 99,693 people are from scheduled tribe backgrounds and account for over 10% of total employees. Apart from these two, 198,581 people are also employed from the OBC category in the CPSUs, as per the government.Cumulatively, these reserved category employees form 49.8% of the total employees in CPSUs.The current government has been guided by the principle of privatisation with a resolve of “minimum government and maximum governance.” Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, on February 1, 2021, had announced an elaborate roadmap for privatisation of PSUs in this fiscal year.“In spite of Covid-19, we have kept working towards strategic disinvestment. A number of transactions namely BPCL, Air India, Shipping Corporation of India, Container Corporation of India, IDBI Bank, BEML, Pawan Hans, Neelachal Ispat Nigam limited among others would be completed in 2021-22,” she had said in her budget speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disinvestment-of-psus-will-lead-to-loss-of-quota-jobs-govt-in-lok-sabha-101628513295760.html
09-08-2021||India||BJP leader, his wife shot dead by militants in J&K’s Anantnag||Militants on Monday afternoon killed a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and his wife in South Kashmir’s Anantnag town.Militants barged into the rented accommodation of Ghulam Rasool Dar and his wife Jawhara Banoo in Lal Chowk area of Anantnag, and shot at them from close range. The couple was later rushed to government medical college in Anantnag where doctors declared them brought dead.Sixty-five-year-old Dar was the Kulgam district president of BJP Kisan Morcha and a sarpanch. His wife was also a panch from the same village. BJP’s J&K spokesperson Altaf Thakur condemned the killings and said, “He (Dar) was without security and lived in a rented accommodation. Like Dar, there are many BJP leaders who have no security.”Also Read | Deterioration in security situation in Afghanistan is serious, says JaishankarJ&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha termed the killings an act of cowardice.“I strongly condemn the brutal terrorist attack on the Sarpanch Ghulam Rasool Dar and his wife Jawhara Banoo of Redwani Bala, Kulgam.This is an act of cowardice & perpetrators of violence will be brought to justice very soon. My deepest condolences to bereaved family in this time of grief,” tweeted Sinha.Former J&K chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti also condemned the killings. “Extremely sorry to hear that BJP District President and his wife have been shot dead by militants today. My condolences to their families and loved ones,” she tweeted.Former chief minister and National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah tweeted, “I unequivocally condemn the assassination of Ghulam Rasool Dar and his wife. They join a long list of mainstream politicians killed for their political beliefs. My condolences to his family and colleagues. May Allah grant the departed place in Jannat.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-his-wife-shot-dead-by-militants-in-j-k-s-anantnag-101628512455663.html
09-08-2021||India||2022 assembly polls: U'khand BJP may field new faces to replace sitting MLAs||With several months left for the next assembly elections to be held next year, the ruling BJP in Uttarakhand has started brainstorming over the distribution of tickets to nominees. It is also expected that the party will deny tickets to some of its sitting MLAs over “poor performance”.The decision is being contemplated by the BJP leadership following an internal survey by the party on the performance of its MLAs in the past four and a half years.According to people privy to the development, the survey was being conducted “since the last three-four months to evaluate the performance of MLAs before the party leadership could decide on distribution of tickets.”“Based on the preliminary results of the survey, the BJP is unlikely to give tickets again to at least 20 MLAs who have failed to perform so far. It seems the people in their constituencies are also unhappy with them. The party leadership is not willing to take any risk with them in the 2022 assembly elections,” a BJP leader said.The development is significant considering the fact that the BJP had a thumping majority in the last assembly elections in which it won 57 out of the total 70 seats which is the best performance by any party in the Himalayan state.“However, the party leadership is somewhat aware that it will not be a cakewalk for them in 2022 as it might not be able to win as many seats again. Hence, it is likely to give tickets to young people instead on the 20 seats where the sitting MLAs have been unable to perform,” said the leader.BJP state unit in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam, however, refused to speak on the internal survey but said, “The 2022 elections will not be fought on any individual’s face but on the party symbol.”“BJP while in power has done a lot of public welfare work and brought in policies for the same. The party will fight the polls on the basis of those and we are sure that the people of the state will once again support us,” said Gautam.He also hit out at the Opposition Congress by accusing it of “looting the country”.“Congress has always looted the country whenever it was voted to power. It is only the BJP that has been working for the comprehensive development of the country. In the previous assembly elections in 2017, Congress leader Harish Rawat who was called a big challenge, lost on both the seats where he fought. This time too, the Congress will meet a similar fate,” said Gautam.The state Congress meanwhile, termed the BJP’s internal survey its “nervousness” ahead of polls.“The BJP in the last four and a half years of tenure has done no work except bringing three CMs which is an insult to the people of the state which handed it a thumping majority in 2017. They are just using the state as a laboratory for their politics while having no regard for its people,” said Congress MLA and party national secretary Qazi Nizamuddin.Nizamuddin said, “The people this time are waiting to teach the BJP a lesson for their arrogance. It has failed on every aspect including unemployment, price rise, farmers’ issues and others. It won’t matter whether they give tickets to their sitting MLAs or not because they will have a tough time in 2022.”Political analysts too said that the 2022 elections won’t be a cakewalk at all for the BJP like in 2017.MM Semwal political analyst and professor of political science in Garhwal Central University in Srinagar said, “The 2022 assembly elections are not going to be easy for the BJP unlike the previous one because people especially the youth are angry over the employment issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-bjp-likely-to-field-new-faces-to-replace-sitting-mlas-for-2022-assembly-polls-101628511075532.html
09-08-2021||India||PM Modi condemns attack on Vincent and Grenadines counterpart||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday condemned an attack on his St Vincent and the Grenadines counterpart Ralph Gonsalves and wished him quick recovery and good health. PM Modi said in a tweet: “I condemn the ghastly attack on Prime Minister Ralph Gonsalves of St Vincent and the Grenadines. Excellency, I wish you quick recovery and good health. We will miss your presence at the UNSC Open Debate on Maritime Security today.” Gonsalves, 74, was struck on the head by an object during an anti-vaccine rally on Thursday and was flown to Barbados for medical treatment. He said on Friday he was recovering. The premier of the Caribbean country was attacked as he walked through a group of about 200 protesters to get into parliament. “By the grace of God almighty, I’m doing well and on the mend,” he wrote on social media. He said there was no sign of neurological damage, though his concussion would require weeks of monitoring. Also Read | Bangladesh, Mauritius and Seychelles to join regional maritime security groupingGonsalves was hit by a projectile just above his temple, his office said in a statement. Video footage following the attack showed a dazed Gonsalves, his white shirt turning red as blood streaked down. Security guards rushed him from the scene and he was later flown to Barbados for medical care. The protest was organised by unions representing nurses, police and other workers who fear Covid-19 vaccinations could be mandated for some employees by the government, according to reports and videos on social media. Gonsalves has said proposed changes to his country’s public health law wouldn’t include penalties for those who refuse Covid-19 shots. He also said there was no justification for the attack. “We can have our disagreements, but to cross the line into violence is unacceptable in a democratic society,” he said. St Vincent and the Grenadines, a chain of 32 islands in the southern Caribbean, is home to more than 110,000 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condemns-attack-on-vincent-and-grenadines-counterpart-101628510895553.html
09-08-2021||India||NIA raids on Jamaat-e-Islami Centre’s self goal, says PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti||People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti on Monday accused the Centre of “waging a war” against Jammu and Kashmir, saying the National Investigation Agency (NIA) raids on Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) were a self goal by the government, even as the agency continued raids for a second day.“(The) NIA raids on Jamaat is emblematic of GOI waging a war against its so-called ‘integral part’. Instead of fighting an ideology with a better idea it is crushing contrarian thought with an iron fist,” she said in a tweet.Mufti said such “oppressive” measures may seem to work temporarily. “But in the long run it will prove to be counterproductive. The gulf between J&K and the rest of the country widens with every passing day. It is a self goal,” she said.Meanwhile , the NIA, along with J&K Police and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) conducted searches at five places in Kashmir’s northern district of Bandipora. “Searches conducted today included the premises of office bearers and members of the proscribed association, JeI. During the searches, various incriminating documents and electronic devices were seized from the premises of the suspects “ the agency said in a statement. The NIA on Sunday raided 56 locations linked to the alleged members of the banned JeI group across 14 districts in J&K as part of its probe in an alleged terror funding case.Also Read | BJP leader Gulam Rasool Dar, his wife shot dead by terrorists in J&K’s AnantnagThe Centre banned the JeI for five years after the Pulwama attack in which 40 CRPF troops were killed, under anti-terror laws on the grounds that it was “in close touch” with terror outfits and was likely to “escalate secessionist movement” in the region.A notification, banning the group under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, was issued by the ministry of home affairs in February 2019, months before the special status of J&K was revoked and the region split into two Union Territories.The NIA searches on Sunday covered the premises of JeI office bearers, members and also offices of trusts purportedly run by the outfit.The NIA added that during the searches held across all the districts of Kashmir and four districts of Jammu “various incriminating documents and electronic devices were seized from the premises of the suspects”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niaraids-on-jamaat-e-islami-centre-s-self-goal-says-pdp-chief-mehbooba-mufti-101628509155744.html
09-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Communal sloganeering at Jantar Mantar, Delhi police files FIR and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Communal sloganeering at Jantar Mantar: Delhi Police registers FIRThe Delhi Police on Monday said they registered a first information report (FIR) in connection with a video in which some people are seen raising communal and inflammatory slogans near Jantar Mantar in central Delhi on Sunday. Read more.Cong leader demands immediate evacuation of Sikhs, Hindus from AfghanistanCongress leader Jaiveer Shergill on Monday urged Union minister for external affairs S Jaishankar to immediately evacuate Hindus and Sikhs from conflict-ridden Afghanistan. Read more.Forces claim to have foiled terror plot in Jammu and Kashmir before I-DaySecurity forces in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday claimed to have foiled a terror plot five days before the 75th Independence Day by recovering a large cache of arms and ammunitions including AK 47 assault rifles, hand grenades, detonators and pistols. In a separate incident, the J&K Police arrested two freshly-recruited terrorists of Hizbul Mujahideen from Kishtwar district. Read more.‘Ensure plastic tricolours are not used for I-day celebrations’: Centre to states, UTsThe Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has directed all states and Union territories (UTs) to ensure that people do not use national flags made of plastic during the forthcoming Independence Day celebrations. In a statement, MHA said that flags made of non-biodegradable items do not decompose for a long time and make their appropriate disposal a practical problem. Read more.Gujarat govt’s decision to remodel Sabarmati Ashram 'shocking': GehlotOpposing the plan of redeveloping Sabarmati Ashram in Gujarat, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said it is a shocking, uncalled for and politically-driven decision taken by the Gujarat government. Read more.Akshay Kumar wants Neeraj Chopra to play him in a biopic, reacts to viral memeStar javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, who won a gold medal at the recent Tokyo Olympics, once said that he would like Akshay Kumar to play him in a biopic. However, in an interesting turn of events, Akshay now wants Neeraj to portray him in a film based on his life. Read more.'Was like gold dust for us': Virat Kohli says Indian bowlers have been batting 'in the nets regularly'One of India's biggest weaknesses in recent times has been the inability of the lower-order batsmen to contribute to the score. With the fall of the last recognised batsman, it has generally been seen that the tailenders have also been dismissed cheaply. In contrast, Indian bowlers have faced some difficulty in dismissing the lower-order batsmen of the opposing sides. Since 2018, India's last three batsmen have had the worst average of all test-playing nations. Read more.Audi RS 5 Sportback launched at ₹1.04 crore. Check out details hereAudi RS 5 Sportback has been officially launched in India at an introductory price of ₹1.04 crore (ex showroom). With a 2.9L V6 TFSI engine at its core, the performance-oriented Audi sedan is brought in via CBU route and is directed straight at driving enthusiasts looking for a capable luxury vehicle. Read more.Nora Fatehi glams up vintage pantsuit and corset with ₹57k pumps, bold red lipsMoroccan beauty Nora Fatehi may have made a mark in the film industry with her infamous dance moves, but one cannot ignore her impeccable fashion choices through the years. The dancer-turned-actor can slay any fashion statement, be it corsets, pantsuits or printed co-ords. Her recent look in a vintage pantsuit and corset teamed with bold lips proves the same. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-communal-sloganeering-at-jantar-mantar-police-files-fir-101628507067961.html
09-08-2021||India||BJP leader Gulam Rasool Dar, his wife shot dead by terrorists in J&K's Anantnag||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and his wife were killed in a terrorist attack in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Monday. BJP’s Kisan Morcha president of Kulgam, Gulam Rasool Dar, and his wife died after terrorists fired bullets at the couple in the Lal Chowk area of Anantnag, BJP leader Altaf Thakur said.Dar was also sarpanch and the party's district president of Anantnag.The couple was rushed to the hospital following the attack, but they succumbed to the injuries. Police blamed the militant group, Lashkar e Taiba for the killing.#UPDATE | Gulam Rasool Dar, Kulgam BJP Kisan Morcha president, and his wife died in an attack by terrorists in Anantnag: Jammu & Kashmir BJP leader Altaf Thakur(Visuals from the spot, deferred by unspecified time) pic.twitter.com/1bV80iKFKbHours ago, the security forces seized a huge cache of arms and ammunition from a hideout in the valley’s Poonch district. The seizures, days ahead of Independence Day, included two AK-47 rifles, four AK-47 magazines, one Chinese pistol, 10 pistol magazines, four Chinese grenades and 257 round AK-47 ammunition, said the Border Security Forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-gulam-rasool-dar-his-wife-shot-dead-by-terrorists-in-j-k-s-anantnag-101628508268692.html
09-08-2021||India||Uproar in MP assembly; Opposition demands restoration of tribal day holiday||The Congress on Monday staged a protest in Madhya Pradesh assembly demanding that the state holiday on World Tribal Day on August 9 be restored.On the first day of monsoon session, the Opposition leaders staged protest in the well of the House, accusing the BJP-led state government for insulting tribal by taking away their rights of celebrating the day.The International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples was marked for the first time by UN General Assembly in December 1994. But in the state, it was only in 2019 that then Congress-led state government announced a public holiday on August 9 and also allocated budget to every district to organise programmes.Leader of Opposition in the state assembly, Kamal Nath, said, “The BJP-led state government cancelled the holiday and changed to an optional leave. The state government has not allocated any budget for celebration. It is harassing tribals and working against them.”“Atrocities against people of our community have increased...We will not allow injustice,” said tribal leader and Congress MLA Hiralal Alawa.Also Read | Flood-hit Rajasthan, MP announce aid; rain continues in northAmid protest, Congress leaders walked out of the House and sat on dharna outside the assembly. Later, the House was adjourned for the day.Hitting back at the Congress, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “It is an optional holiday but it has become a habit of the Congress to do indecent politics. Today, they insulted the departed soul of tribal leader Kalavati Bhuria and others by not paying tribute to them.”“The BJP doesn’t need any certificate from Congress about how much they care about tribals. We will observe Janjati Gaurav Diwas on November 15 on Birsa Munda’s birth anniversary,” he said.Meanwhile, BJP Member of Parliament Gajendra Patel, who is also the national general of BJP Scheduled Tribe Morcha, claimed that the World Tribal Day is a conspiracy by those who want to convert tribals into Christians.“People of the tribal community celebrate so many festivals but some anti-national organisations and missionaries focus on August 9 as World Tribal Day to misguide and convert them. They organise programmes to attract tribal towards their religion on the pretext of providing help, medical aid, and education,” he said.Jai Adiwasi Yuva Sangathan protested against Patel’s statement. JAYS general secretary Dr Anand Rai said, “The state government and its leaders are insensitive towards tribals. The UN has declared it the World Tribal Day. It has nothing to do with politics. The government first scrapped the holiday and now, a BJP MP is calling it a conspiracy. They remember tribals only at the time of elections.”We will intensify our protest if World Tribal Day state holiday is not restored. Madhya Pradesh has 15.31 million tribal population which constitutes more than 21% of total population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uproar-in-mp-assembly-opposition-demands-restoration-of-tribal-day-holiday-101628507775321.html
09-08-2021||India||'Kisan Sansad' to end at Jantar Mantar today, stir at Delhi borders to continue||Protesting farmers will end their ‘Kisan Sansad’ (farmers’ parliament) at the Jantar Mantar in Delhi on Monday evening after passing a 'no confidence motion' against the Narendra Modi-led central government. The farmers will not seek any further permission from the Delhi Police to extend the agitation, a functionary of the farmers’ collective said.The 'Kisan Sansad', called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers' unions, will also call for the resignation of the Modi government for not repealing the contentious farm laws.Around 200 farmers had been camping at the Jantar Mantar for the ‘Kisan Sansad’ since July 22 when the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament began. This was an extension of their months-long agitation along the borders of Delhi seeking a repeal of three Central farm laws. This protest will, however, continue, said an office-bearer of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), a part of the SKM, said“The farmers' unions through their 'Kisan Sansad' will pass a 'no confidence motion' for the government, demanding resignation of the BJP-led dispensation. This government no longer deserves the trust of the people, including the farmers, and has no right to continue in power,” BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said.The Delhi Police had granted permission for the protest at Jantar Mantar from July 22 till August 9 with a maximum of 200 protesters at the site.A senior police officer said, "Today is the last day of the protest by farmers at Jantar Mantar here. As per permission given, they held their protest peacefully for all these days and will leave Jantar Mantar after their protest this (Monday) evening."The protestors, otherwise, have stayed put at Delhi's border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur since November 2020 with a demand that the Centre repeal the three farm laws introduced last year.“On this very day (August 9) several years ago, Indians had called for the British to quit India. Today, we are calling for the BJP to leave (the seat of) power,” Malik said, referring to the landmark 1942 episode of the national freedom movement.“We are not going to seek any further permission for the protest at Jantar Mantar because the government is just not concerned. We will pass the 'no confidence motion' against it and return to the (Delhi) borders where protest will continue until our demands are met,” he added.In parliamentary parlance, a government can be in power only as long as it commands a mandate in Lok Sabha. In the event of a no-confidence motion against it, the government has to prove its majority in the directly-elected house.The 'Kisan Sansad', a symbolic body created by the demonstrators at the Jantar Mantar under the banner of the SKM, was held to protest against the Centre over the contentious laws amid the ongoing monsoon session of parliament.Hundreds of farmers are encamped at Delhi's borders since November 2020 with a demand that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for crops.However, the government, which has held 11 rounds of formal dialogue with the protestors, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kisan-sansad-to-end-at-jantar-mantar-today-stir-at-delhi-borders-to-continue-101628506791880.html
09-08-2021||India||Accident averted as wheel of Raxaul-bound train gets dislodged near Samastipur||A major train accident was averted after the wheel of a passenger train travelling to Raxaul from Narkatiaganj got dislodged near a station in Bihar’s West Champaran district on Monday morning.The incident occurred when a wheel from one of the coaches of the Narkatiaganj-Raxaul (05210) train got dislodged while the train was changing tracks near Kumarbag station. However, no casualties were reported and none of the passengers sustained injuries, police officials said. The Kumarbag railway station falls under the jurisdiction of the Samastipur railway division of the East Central Railways. “No casualty or injuries were reported after the incident,” said Ashok Maheshwari, divisional railway manager (DRM) of the Samastipur railway division. The movement of trains remained unaffected throughout the chord on Monday. “Railway officials have reached the site for restoration work as well as to probe the matter,” Maheshwari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/accident-averted-as-wheel-of-raxaul-bound-train-gets-dislodged-near-samastipur-101628507055062.html
09-08-2021||India||Forces claim to have foiled terror plot in Jammu and Kashmir before I-Day||Security forces in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday claimed to have foiled a terror plot five days before the 75th Independence Day by recovering a large cache of arms and ammunitions including AK 47 assault rifles, hand grenades, detonators and pistols. In a separate incident, the J&K Police arrested two freshly-recruited terrorists of Hizbul Mujahideen from Kishtwar district. A Border Security Force (BSF) spokesperson said the recovery was made in a joint operation with Rashtriya Rifles and Special Operations Group (SOG) from the forest area at Sangad village in Mankote, close to the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan in Jammu’s Poonch.“During [the] search operations, two AK-47 assault rifles, 4 AK magazines, one Chinese pistol, 10 pistol magazines, one wireless set I-Com, four Chinese hand grenades, four detonators (non-electric), nine electric detonators, 15 fuse with levers for the detonators of Chinese grenades, 16 meters of Cordex wire, 257 rounds of AK ammunition , 68 rounds of 9 mm ammunition, 23 rounds of 7.65 mm ammunition, two Nokia mobile phones, 12 battery mobile chargers, and two batteries of 9V were recovered,” the BSF statement said. In another incident, Jammu and Kashmir Police on Monday said it arrested two newly-recruited terrorists of Hizbul Mujahideen in Kishtwar district. They were identified as Yasir Hussain, son of Ghulam Rasool of Sounder in Dachhan tehsil and Usman Qadir, son of Ghulam Qadir of Tander in the same tehsil of the district. “On Saturday, it was reliably learnt that both the youth have joined HM terrorist organization with an intention to endanger the integrity and sovereignty of the country...,” said a police spokesman. On Sunday, a police party led by deputy superintendent of police (SP) operations, Devinder Singh Bandral, assisted by inspector Dilraj Singh and accompanied by soldiers of Indian Army’s 17 Rashtriya Rifles and the Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) 52 Battalion, launched a search operation following inputs that the two terrorists named above were present in Tander- Dachhan area of the district. Both of them were arrested from Kalaingassu area of Tander-Dachhan with arms and ammunition, the spokesman said, and added that further search operation in the area was still going on. On Monday, security forces also launched cordon and search operations in Jammu, Samba, Rajouri and Poonch districts following reports of suspicious movements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forces-claim-to-have-foiled-terror-plot-in-jammu-and-kashmir-before-iday-101628506395482.html
09-08-2021||India||‘Ensure plastic tricolours aren't used for I-day celebrations’: Centre to states||The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has directed all states and Union territories (UTs) to ensure that people do not use national flags made of plastic during the forthcoming Independence Day celebrations. In a statement, MHA said that flags made of non-biodegradable items do not decompose for a long time and make their appropriate disposal a practical problem.The home ministry stated that the tricolour represents the hopes and aspirations of the country; hence should occupy a position of honour.“There is universal affection and respect for, and loyalty to, the national flag. Yet, a perceptible lack of awareness is often noticed amongst people as well as organisations or agencies of the government, in regard to laws, practices and conventions that apply to display of the national flag,” the statement read.The MHA said that tricolours made of plastic are being used during important national, sports and cultural events instead of those made of paper. The states and UTs have thus been asked to make sure that people use national flags made of paper only on the occasions of such important sports, cultural and national events in terms of the provisions of the Flag Code of India, 2002, and that these paper flags are “not discarded or thrown on the ground after the event.”The paper flags are required to be disposed of, “in private, consistent with the dignity of the flag,” the MHA statement read. The home ministry letter addressing the states and UTs was issued alongside a copy of the 'Flag Code of India, 2002’, and ‘The Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971’.Such statements by the Centre have been issued previously as well.Also Read | Congress to hold year-long celebrations to mark 75 yrs of IndependenceMeanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has sought suggestions and ideas from people for his Independence Day speech this year. Taking to Twitter on July 30, PM’s office asked citizens to share their ideas on mygovindia. “Your thoughts will reverberate from the ramparts of the Red Fort. What are your inputs for PM @narendramodi’s speech on 15th August?”(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-plastic-tricolours-are-not-used-for-i-day-celebrations-centre-to-state-101628504002546.html
09-08-2021||India||Bangladesh, Mauritius and Seychelles to join regional maritime security grouping||Bangladesh, Mauritius and Seychelles are set to become full members of the Colombo Security Conclave, a grouping of India, Sri Lanka and the Maldives that focuses on maritime security, counter-terrorism and disaster relief. The three countries were invited to join the grouping during the first meeting of deputy national security advisers of the Colombo Security Conclave that was hosted virtually by Sri Lanka last week. Bangladesh, Mauritius and Seychelles currently have observer status with the grouping, which was earlier known as the NSA Trilateral on Maritime Security and was revived in November last year. The three observer states are expected to become full members at the next meeting of national security advisers that will be organised in the Maldives later this year, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The widening of areas of cooperation and expansion of the conclave’s membership to Bangladesh, Mauritius and Seychelles indicate growing convergence among Indian Ocean region countries to work together on a common platform and to deepen their engagement under a regional framework, the people said. Maritime security and countering terrorism and other crimes in the Indian Ocean has emerged as a focus area for India as part of its Indo-Pacific strategy and the doctrine of Security and Growth for All in the Region (SAGAR). The virtual meeting of the deputy NSAs hosted by Sri Lanka on August 4 focused on the security of regional maritime operations, threat perceptions, prevention of smuggling of contraband, piracy, close trilateral cooperation for further enhancing the response to security concerns and illegal activities on the seas, according to a statement from the Sri Lankan military. Also Read | Deterioration in security situation in Afghanistan is serious, says JaishankarThe people cited above said all the members of the conclave expressed a desire to cooperate in maritime safety and security through joint exercises involving navies and coast guard forces. Sri Lanka and Maldives conveyed their expectations and desire of aid from India on maritime and security issues, and the India side assured them of its full assistance, the people added. In light of recent maritime accidents in the Indian Ocean region that resulted in pollution, such as the incidents involving MV Xpress Pearl, MT New Diamond and MV Wakashio, the members discussed ways to tackle marine pollution. Cooperation in dealing with terrorism and radicalisation was also discussed, the people said. The conclave was initiated by President Gotabaya Rajapaksa in 2011, when he was serving as defence secretary, as a platform for trilateral maritime security cooperation between India, the Maldives and Sri Lanka. Since the grouping was revived in 2020, a secretariat has been established in Colombo. During the meeting of the NSAs last year, the grouping decided to expand its overall ambit to maritime and security cooperation, and to focus on countering terrorism and extremism, trans-national crimes such as narcotics, weapons and human trafficking, humanitarian assistance and disaster relief and protecting the maritime environment. Last week’s meeting of the deputy national security advisers was chaired by Gen Shavendra Silva, Chief of Defence Staff of Sri Lanka, and it was joined by Indian deputy national security adviser Pankaj Saran and Aishath Nooshin Waheed, secretary in the Maldives NSA’s office. Bangladesh, Mauritius and Seychelles were represented by Lt Gen Waker-ul Zaman, personal staff officer, armed forces division, prime minister’s office, Pusmawatee Sohun, permanent secretary, prime minister’s office, and Col Michael Rosette, chief of defence forces, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangladesh-mauritius-and-seychelles-to-join-regional-maritime-security-grouping-101628503515228.html
09-08-2021||India||Gujarat govt’s decision to remodel Sabarmati Ashram 'shocking': Gehlot||Opposing the plan of redeveloping Sabarmati Ashram in Gujarat, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said it is a shocking, uncalled for and politically-driven decision taken by the Gujarat government. He also suggested that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should intervene and ask the state administration to reconsider the move.“The decision of the Gujarat government to build a museum by demolishing Sabarmati Ashram is shocking and uncalled for. People come to visit this holy site to see how Gandhiji lived a simple life and yet orchestrated an enormous freedom movement by including every section of society, particularly at a time when the society was extremely divided. He has spent 13 years of his valuable life in the Ashram,” Gehlot said in a series of tweets.The Gujarat government’s proposed ₹1200-crore Gandhi Ashram Memorial and Precinct Development Project aims to redevelop Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad, where Mahatma Gandhi lived for 13 years, to bring it closer to its original state, when it was established by Gandhi in 1917 on the bank of the Sabarmati river. It is also believed in some quarters that several non-heritage structures in the 35-acre complex will be demolished as part of the overhaul. Over a hundred eminent personalities recently opposed the project, alleging that it is an attempt to take over Gandhian institutions.The Rajasthan chief minister said Sabarmati Ashram is known for its harmony and ideas of fraternity. People from within the country or abroad don’t wish to see any world-class buildings over there. Visitors admire the simplicity and the ideals of the place - that’s why it is called an Ashram - not a place which can be called a Museum.“Destroying the sanctity and dignity of the ashram is showing disrespect to our Father of the Nation. It seems that the decision is driven by a political motive to change everything that is related to Gandhiji. Any such action will go down in history and generations to come will not forgive those who tried to destroy our rich heritage, culture and traditions. Prime Minister Narendra Modi must intervene and reconsider the decision and protect the historical Ashram,” he wrote in a post on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocking-says-ashok-gehlot-on-gujarat-govt-s-decision-to-remodel-sabarmati-ashram-101628500694911.html
09-08-2021||India||ED attaches Pune businessman Avinash Bhosale’s group corporate office building||The Enforcement Directorate on Monday provisionally attached land worth ₹4 crore, owned by Anamrita Properties Ltd (ARA Properties) linked to Pune businessman Avinash Bhosale, who is known for proximity with many political heavyweights in Maharashtra. ED said it acted under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002.The attached land houses corporate offices of Avinash Bhosale Infrastructure Ltd. (ABIL) and its other group companies. Bhosale is the promoter of the ABIL group, ED stated on Monday. The nature of his link with ARA Properties has not been revealed by ED yet.ED’s money laundering case against Bhosale is based on a FIR registered by Pune police alleging the plot at Yashwant Ghadge Nagar Cooperative Housing Society on Ganesh Khind Road in Pune was transferred to ARA Properties in violation of original allotment condition by one Ranjit Mohite. The FIR said this land could only be transferred to the government or commissioned officers as per the primary condition imposed at the time of its allotment in 1951, ED said in a statement.The anti-money laundering agency has been carrying out the investigation in the Pune land grabbing case since last year and has also questioned Bhosale and his son Amit for several hours.The father-son duo is accused of developing a commercial property on the said land which was meant for bureaucrats. During the investigation, ED has also carried out search and seizure operations at various places and seized incriminating documents, corroborating the allegations made in the FIR, ED said.In June, ED had attached assets worth ₹40.34 crore belonging to Bhosale and his family for alleged violations of Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema), 1999.ED investigation against Bhosale began in September 2017 following reliable inputs that the family had acquired an immovable property in Dubai in contravention of Fema. ED’s further probe revealed that Bhosale acquired foreign securities of a Dubai company, which held the property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-attaches-pune-businessman-avinash-bhosale-s-group-corporate-office-building-101628499014578.html
09-08-2021||India||PM Modi releases 9th instalment of PM-Kisan Scheme, interacts with beneficiaries||Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually transferred about ₹19,500 crore to over 9.75 crore farmers on Monday, under the government's Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme. He also interacted with the beneficiaries of the scheme via video conferencing during the event.With the latest instalment, the government has so far transferred nine installments amounting around ₹1.57 lakh crore to farmer families under PM-KISAN. Under the scheme, an annual direct cash transfer of Rs.6,000 is provided to farmers, which is directly deposited into their registered bank accounts. The amount is paid in three equal four-monthly installments of ₹2,000 each.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Union ministers of State for agriculture Kailash Choudhary and Shobha Karandlaje, as well as agriculture secretary Sanjay Aggarwal were also present on the occasion. PM Modi credited farmers with working hard despite the hurdles presented by the Covid-19 pandemic and ensuring bumper production last year. “This amount will help the small farmers a lot,” he said during the interaction.Also Read: Over 41k Haryana farmers found ineligible for PM Kisan Samman NidhiThe Prime Minister also talked about ‘Mission honey bee’ and saffron production in Kashmir in his address. Tomar expressed concern over shortage of edible oils and pulses and said the government is taking measures to boost domestic production so as to reduce its reliance on imports.The Prime Minister also talked about the role farmers are slated to play in the country’s future. “Where do we want to see India in the coming 25 years? When the country will complete 100 years of Independence what will the state of the country be? This will be decided by the farmers of this country,” he said, adding that farmers need to be given guidance and direction so they can tackle new challenges and make use of new changes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-releases-9th-instalment-of-pm-kisan-scheme-interacts-with-beneficiaries-101628496560935.html
09-08-2021||India||Zydus Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine likely to get emergency approval by this week: Report||Zydus Cadila's needle-free vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is expected to get approval for emergency use in India by this week, news agency ANI reported.If approved, it will be the country's second indigenous vaccine after Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Overall it will be the sixth vaccine approved by the India to inoculate its 1.3 billion population. Apart from Covaxin, the country is using Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, the Russian-made Sputnik V, Moderna vaccine and Johnson & Johnson's single-dose vaccine in the nationwide inoculation drive.On July 1, the Ahmedabad-based pharmaceutical company submitted an application for the emergency use authorisation to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). The ZyCoV-D will be a three-dose regimen.Zydus Cadila is planning to manufacture 100-120 million doses of the vaccine annually. It has conducted the largest clinical trial for its Covid-19 vaccine in India so far in over 50 centres. It had presented interim results from Phase-III clinical trials in over 28,000 volunteers. The study is said to have demonstrated safety and efficacy in the interim data.The company has also tested the jab in the adolescent population in the 12-18 years age group in India, according to its regulatory filing. The data has shown that ZyCoV-D is safe for children in the age group of 12 to 18 years.According to Zydus Cadila, the three doses of ZyCoV-D are to be administered on day 0, day 28, and day 56. The company is also said to be working on a two-dose vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-s-covid-19-vaccine-likely-to-get-emergency-approval-by-this-week-report-101628496442355.html
09-08-2021||India||IEDs recovered in Punjab border village, DGP says delivered through drones||The police in Punjab claim to have busted a terror module and recovered ammunition, including Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) fitted in tiffin boxes and hand grenades from a village near the international border. Punjab Police chief Dinkar Gupta said the cops in the state are working with central agencies on the case."We believe the IEDs and grenades were delivered through drones from across the border. These are highly sophisticated and remote controlled devices, activated through batteries," Gupta said. He, however, refused to name the target.The IEDs were found in Daleke village on Sunday.Gupta did not name any terror group in Monday's press conference, but said that the police are aware of "who is doing what", adding that a major terror bid has been foiled."We are working with central agencies like the NIA and BSF," added Gupta.The DGP also said that people, while travelling in buses or public transport, should make sure to check their surroundings for suspicious items and inform the police if any such thing is spotted.The recovery of these arms and ammunition is significant in weeks before the Independence Day, when the security apparatus across the country is in a heightened state of alertness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ieds-recovered-in-punjab-border-village-dgp-says-delivered-through-drones-101628495170073.html
09-08-2021||India||Mehbooba meets PDP youth wing leaders; calls for release of political detainees||Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday chaired a meeting of youth workers of her party in Srinagar where the release of political detainees was sought. The meeting was the first of its kind since the arrest of PDP youth wing president Waheed ur Rehman Parra.The meeting was attended by the party’s youth leaders from across Kashmir. Mufti said the party will fight for restoration of Article 370, which was nullified by the Centre on August 5, 2019. Article 370 gave a special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir which has since been bifurcated in to two Union TerritoriesPDP chief spokesperson Suhail Bukhari said this was the first youth meeting of the party in two years, especially since Parra was arrested, first by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and then by Crime Investigation Department. “The aim was to discuss the current situation of J&K with our youth leadership. This meeting was attended by 150 youth leaders and workers from all the Kashmir districts... In the meeting, a briefing was given on how self-rule is the only viable, practical and acceptable solution to Kashmir problems.”On Parra’s detention, Bukhari said, “The leadership demanded the release of all the prisoners, including Waheed ur Rehman Parra.”Parra was arrested by NIA last November for his alleged terrorist links. PDP has termed all charges against him baseless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mufti-meets-pdp-youth-wing-leaders-calls-for-release-of-political-detainees-101628494634391.html
09-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Heavy rain in UP, flood alert issued in many districts and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Heavy rains pour misery in Uttar Pradesh, flood alert in many districtsA flood-like situation was witnessed in parts of Uttar Pradesh as heavy rains pounded several districts. Read MoreThree minor sisters burnt to death as cylinder catches fire in UPThree minor sisters died of burn injuries when a Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinder caught fire in their house in Imamgarh village of Azamgarh district, Uttar Pradesh, late Sunday evening, police said on Monday. Read MorePublic, private investors stare at ₹1.8 lakh crore if Vodafone Idea collapsesThe Centre is discussing ways to keep Vodafone Idea Ltd (VIL) afloat, including cash infusion, to minimise stress in the telecom sector. Read MoreFormer India wicket-keeper says Ashwin's competition is not with Jadeja but with another Indian all-rounder in EnglandWhen India captain Virat Kohli announced the playing XI for the first Test against England at Trent Bridge in Nottingham, there was an unexpected call. Read MoreJuhi Chawla breaks silence, shares video on fight against 5G tech: 'I'll let you decide if it was publicity stunt'Actor Juhi Chawla has broken her silence over the Supreme Court dismissing her lawsuit related to the implementation of 5G mobile technology in India in June. Read MoreHyundai N Line models to make India debut at long lastHyundai Motor India on Monday announced it will drive in the first of several N Line models in the country this year in what could well be one of the best automotive news for driving enthusiasts here. Read MoreWhen Kiara Advani wore Janhvi Kapoor's ₹7k lilac airport dress for Shershaah promotionsShershaah actor Kiara Advani's wardrobe is full of eccentric style statements that make us want to steal every piece from her repertoire. Read MoreFish with human-like teeth caught in the US. Pics go viralThe Internet has a lot of bizarre stuff to showcase and this fish with human-like teeth is probably the newest one that you just can’t miss. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-heavy-rain-in-up-flood-alert-issued-in-many-districts-and-all-the-latest-news-101628491277582.html
09-08-2021||India||Supreme Court notice to Centre on plea seeking disclosure of clinical trial data of Covid vaccines||The Supreme Court on Monday issued a notice to the Centre on a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) which has sought information on clinical trial data of Covid-19 vaccines, which have been given emergency use authorization (EUA) in the country.The petition has been filed by Jacob Puliyel, former member of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization, seeking segregated data from the clinical trials of the vaccines that are part of the country's vaccination drive against Covid-19.The PIL, filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan, also asked the Supreme Court to direct the government to disclose post-vaccination data on adverse effects, on people who got infected with Covid post vaccination, those who needed hospitalisation and those who died. It also asked for the data to be widely publicised. The plea also challenged the vaccine mandates that forced people to be compulsorily vaccinated or lose their livelihood."In India, the manner in which the vaccines have been licensed vitiates and even precludes the possibility that the vaccines can be evaluated objectively in the future. Under these circumstances the petitioner is forced to appeal to this court for public disclosure of trial data and post-vaccination data, as required by international medical norms," the plea stated.Also Read: Supreme Court notice to Centre, Delhi govt on plea for vaccination of beggars"In other countries, this type of observation has helped identify the occurrence of blood clots and strokes in vaccine recipients," the plea further said, adding that many countries stopped administering the vaccine till they evaluated this occurrence. "Countries like Denmark have completely banned the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine (branded as Covishield in India)."The Supreme Court made it clear that it does not want to send “a signal on the safety of vaccines” as the country was already battling vaccine hesitancy, and pondering on safety of vaccines as it may create doubts in the minds of people on the safety of these vaccines. However, the court agreed to examine the issue as it saw an important question on personal autonomy to seek information vis-à-vis the right to public health. The matter will be heard after four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-notice-to-centre-on-plea-seeking-disclosure-of-clinical-trial-data-of-covid-vaccines-101628492131812.html
09-08-2021||India||Heavy rains pour misery in Uttar Pradesh, flood alert in many districts||A flood-like situation was witnessed in parts of Uttar Pradesh as heavy rains pounded several districts. Hundreds of villages are inundated with water, and Bundelkhand region is the worst-hit. Rivers in various parts of the state are flowing above the danger level.According to news agency ANI, more than 500 houses near the banks of rivers in Bundelkhand are submerged in water. As the water level continues to rise, many people are moving to safer areas on their own. "Temporary shelters and food are not available to poor people," ANI quoted Sibtain Rizvi, a resident of Prayagraj's JK Nagar, as saying.Two major rivers - Ganga and Yamuna - are maintaining an upstream trend and flowing above the danger mark, according to ANI. As of Monday morning, both the rivers are flowing at 85.08m and 84.90m at Phaphamau in Prayagraj district, ANI further reported.In Gonda district, a primary school got washed away following a rise in the water level of the Ghaghara river. Meanwhile, in Badagaon village in Baghpat district, a 10-year-old girl died in a wall collapse incident on Sunday. Two others were also injured.In Jhansi as well, the water level in Betwa river rose due to incessant rainfall. "Water is being released from Matatila, Sukma Dukma and Parichha dams. People have been warned not to go near the river. NDRF, SDRF teams have been alerted," said Andra Vamsi, district magistrate of Jhansi.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is scheduled to conduct an aerial survey of flood-affected areas of Auraiya and Etawah today. He will also review relief and rescue operations with concerned officers.Earlier on Sunday, Uttar Pradesh minister Mahendra Singh conducted an aerial survey of flood-affected areas in Ballia district and held a meeting with officials over the deteriorating situation.In Monday's weather forecast, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted thunderstorms along with light to moderate intensity rain for parts of Uttar Pradesh. The districts which will be affected according to IMP forecast are Muzaffarnagar, Khatauli, Baghpat, Khekra, Baraut, Anupshahar, Atrauli, Amroha, Rampur, Sambhal, Billari, Chandausi, Bahajoi, Roorkee, Bijnor and Nazibabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-pour-misery-in-uttar-pradesh-flood-alert-in-many-districts-101628491534541.html
09-08-2021||India||Opposition will allow passage of 127th Constitution Amendment Bill||The Opposition on Monday decided that it will “cooperate” with the Narendra Modi government to clear a constitutional amendment that aims to restore the power of states to identify backward castes. The Bill will come for passage in the Lok Sabha today.At a meeting held at Rajya Sabha Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge’s office here, various parties spoke about the important Bill while trying to finalise their strategy for the remaining part of the session.While two parties were in favour of continuous protests, others were of the opinion that the Constitution amendment should be cleared as it empowers the states on a very sensitive subject.“We decided that we will allow and cooperate for the passage of the Constitution amendment bill. On all other issues, our protest will continue,” said CPIM’s Elamaram Kareem, one of the leaders present in the meeting.The 127th Constitution Amendment Bill 2021 aims to bypass a May 2021 Supreme Court ruling that said only the Centre could notify socially and educationally backward classes (SEBCs) — and not the states.Click here for LIVE Updates of Parliament proceedingsThe apex court’s decision triggered protests by state governments and other backward caste (OBC) groups. The Bill comes ahead of crucial elections in five states early next year.Opposition support to the Bill is significant as a constitutional amendment requires two-thirds majority of lawmakers who are present during the proceedings, with at least 50% in attendance.But some parties may chose to use opportunities in the debate to highlight the Pegasus issue, the recent rape of a dalit girl and the farm agitation, another Opposition leader said.So far, the monsoon session of Parliament, which began on July 19, has been rocked by frequent protests and disruptions. Both Houses have seen Opposition lawmakers troop to the Well, hold placards and shout slogans against the government over their demand to discuss the Pegasus row, the three farm laws and rising fuel prices. Last week, a Rajya Sabha MP -- TMC’s Santanu Sen -- was suspended for the session for alleged “unruly” behaviour, with Opposition leaders accusing the Chair of not allowing them to express their views.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-will-allow-passage-of-127th-constitution-amendment-bill-101628488874067.html
09-08-2021||India||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to arrive in Srinagar today for a 2-day visit||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will be arriving in Srinagar on Monday evening for a two-day visit.He is scheduled to meet party leaders and inaugurate the newly constructed party headquarters on MA Road on Tuesday morning.On Tuesday evening, J&K Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir will host a dinner for Gandhi and other politicians and senior Congress leaders.Leaders of Peoples Alliance For Gupkar Declaration, including National Conference president Farooq Abdullah, Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti and Communist Party of India general secretary, Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami are scheduled to attend the dinner.Also Read | J&K admin relaxes curbs on gatherings for Independence Day celebrations“I have invited lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha and other leaders for dinner as well. I am hosting the dinner in honour of my son, who got married a few days ago,” said Mir.Gandhi will visit the Hazratbal shrine and Shankaracharya temple during his stay in Kashmir. This is his first visit to J&K after the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019.On August 5, 2019, the Central government nullified Articles 370 and 35(A), which gave the erstwhile state its special status and the mandate to define its domicile rules. Political parties in Jammu and Kashmir have vowed to continue their struggle for restoration of statehood.On July 28, minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai told Rajya Sabha that the statehood for Jammu & Kashmir would be granted after “normalcy is restored”.In an interview with Hindustan Times on July 28, Jammu & Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha had said that union home minister Amit Shah had assured that “statehood would be granted to the union territory at an appropriate time”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-rahul-gandhi-to-arrive-in-srinagar-today-for-a-2-day-visit-101628485034377.html
09-08-2021||India||Centre has given at least 523 million Covid vaccine doses till now||The Centre has provided at least 523 million Covid vaccine doses across the country by now, as per the health ministry records on Sunday, August 8. The Centre announced the same day that those who have been vaccinated can get their vaccination certificate through WhatsApp. Currently, people have to download the certificate through the CoWin portal.The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 this year.In Maharashtra, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that fully vaccinated residents of Mumbai, who have completed 14 days after the second dose, can travel in local trains from August 15.Also Read | Rapid PCR test facility set up at Delhi’s IGI AirportMeanwhile, as on Sunday morning, the Centre had provided 523,750,890 doses to the states and Union Territories. Of this, the total consumption, including wastages, is 503,277,942 doses. As many as 24,287,160 balance and unutilised vaccine doses are still available with the states/UTs and private hospitals. Another 899,260 doses are in the pipeline.On Monday, India reported 35,499 new Covid cases in the last 24 hours, as per a government statement. After Monday’s fresh cases, the overall tally has reached 31,969,954. The death toll saw a rise of 447 fatalities and now stands at 428,309, according to the ministry’s data.The Kerala government will hold a mass inoculation drive across the state starting from Monday in view of the high number of Covid-19 cases. The drive will go on till August 31, according to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-has-given-at-least-523-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101628484494059.html
09-08-2021||India||Bihar to acquire documents in private collections linked to Quit India movement||Several documents related to the Quit India movement and the Colonial period in general, which were still held in unknown private collections in the state, will now be acquired by the Bihar State Archives department for preservation as an exclusive segment, officials said. The Quit India movement was a mass civil disobedience against the British rule, launched on 8 August 1942 by Mahatma Gandhi and the country is celebrating its 79th anniversary this year. Bihar was one of the major centres of the movement which saw seven students leading a protest rally in Patna getting killed in firing ordered by the then city magistrate WC Archer, while they were heading to hoist the tricolour atop the secretariat building.“There still exists a memorial for those who died in this incident on August 11, 1942. The State Archives also has the original pictures of all the seven students killed in the firing. But that rally must have been attended by many others who participated in the Quit India movement but have remained unknown,” Dr Rashmi Kiran, an official from the State Archives, said. The department aims to collect information about such unknown participants and document their contributions after acquiring the articles related to the movement, she added. “Their grandchildren or great grandchildren must be having diaries or letters or even footnotes related to their work. These might prove to be an important source of information about the Colonial rule in the country,” she said. The department will soon be inviting such people through media to approach the department with their collection related to the Quit India movement. “We are preparing to observe the 75th anniversary of the country’s Independence, the Aazadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, and this plan to create a segment of private collections is a part of this celebration. It’s also an effort to preserve the treasures of information and history of the state and the country,” she said.Former Patna University history teacher and also the former director of the Khuda Bakhsh Oriental Public Library, Professor Imtiaz Ahmed said it was a good initiative. “It will enrich the State Archives’ collection of documents. There are many families in the state capital whose grandparents or great grandparents participated in the freedom struggle, especially in the Quit India movement. Their collections of personal diaries or letters would definitely yield important information about the nature and composition of the freedom movement in the country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-to-acquire-documents-in-private-collections-linked-to-quit-india-movement-101628484374120.html
09-08-2021||India||PM Modi to discuss maritime security as Indian Navy set to enhance its sea-power||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi today chairs a UN Security Council debate on maritime security, India is all set to enhance its blue water Navy status by commissioning indigenous aircraft carrier INS Vikrant, strategic ballistic missile submarine INS Arighat and latest guided missile destroyer INS Visakhapatnam in its 75th year of independence.INS Visakhapatnam will be commissioned into Indian Navy by November this year, INS Arighat with a more efficient nuclear engine and potent long range missiles is all set to be commissioned into India’s strategic forces next year with INS Vikrant to be commissioned by August 15, 2022. As a force multiplier, the Indian Navy will be soon approaching the Defence Acquisition Council for clearance of six more diesel attack submarines under Project 75I.Apart from strengthening the Indian Navy, India is guided by PM Modi’s vision of Security and Growth for All in the Tegion (SAGAR) for cooperative and sustainable use of the oceans with a foundation built on safe, secure and stable maritime domain in the region. It is in this context that India is a very active player in Regional Cooperation Agreement on Combating Piracy and Army Robbery against ships (ReCAAP) in Asia.The Indian Navy also keeps in sync with the foreign policy by participating in cooperative manoeuvres and exercise with major maritime powers and littoral states in the Indo-Pacific. From August 24, the Quad navies will be participating in Malabar exercises off the coast of Guam in far Pacific with focus on interoperability and capability to counter any unilateral domination of the Indo-Pacific. The Indian maritime approach is very internationalist and based on UNCLOS, which is the basis for freedom of navigation and open sea lanes of communication bereft of any artificial boundaries like the nine- dash line imposed by Beijing on South China Sea.Just as India's vision of maritime cooperation is anchored in SAGAR, it is strengthening its own maritime security by development of Andamans and Nicobar Islands and the Lakshwadeep Islands, which dominate the major shipping lanes and trade routes from the Gulf to countries beyond Malacca Straits. Besides, it is also building deep seaports like Vadhavan in Maharashtra and Paradeep Outer in Odisha apart from enhancing capacities and operational efficiency of 12 major ports at the cost of ₹58884 crores under the SAGARMALA scheme.With Russian President Vladimir Putin and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken expected to join the maritime security debate at the UNSC, a global perspective will be shaped today for better and environment friendly management of oceans with all the major powers contributing to the cooperative mechanism in Indo-Pacific and beyond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-discuss-maritime-security-as-indian-navy-set-to-enhance-its-seapower-101628484139740.html
09-08-2021||India||Spirit of Quit India Movement energised youth of our nation: PM Modi||On the occasion of the 79th anniversary of the Quit India Movement, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that the spirit of movement reverberated across India and energised the youth of our nation.PM Modi also paid tribute to the greats who took part in the Quit India Movement, which played a crucial role in strengthening the fight against colonialism."Tributes to the greats who took part in the Quit India Movement, which played a crucial role in strengthening the fight against colonialism. Inspired by Mahatma Gandhi, the spirit of the Quit India movement reverberated across India and energised the youth of our nation," tweeted PM Modi.The Quit India Movement was an important milestone in the Indian freedom struggle. Under the leadership of Gandhi, people across India came together to uproot imperialism.On this day in 1942, Gandhi gave the clarion call of "Do or Die" to all Indians to drive away Britishers from the country. The movement had begun from Gawalia Tank in Mumbai. The day is observed as August Kranti Day every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spirit-of-quit-india-movement-energised-youth-of-our-nation-pm-modi-101628482296828.html
09-08-2021||India||India records 35,499 new Covid-19 cases, 447 deaths in a day||India on Monday reported 35,499 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) over the last 24 hours, according to the data released by the Union health ministry at 8am. The number is slightly lower than yesterday's 39,070 cases.After Monday's fresh cases, the overall tally has reached 31,969,954. The death toll saw a rise of 447 fatalities and now stands at 428,309, according to the ministry's data.The number of active cases declined to 402,188, according to the health ministry. The national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 97.40 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 31,139,457.As many as 1,371,871 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 481,767,232.Also Read | Fully vaccinated can now board Mumbai locals, says Maharashtra CMOn the vaccination front, 568 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Sunday morning.On Saturday, the health ministry granted Johnson & Johnson’s single-dose Covid-19 vaccine emergency use authorisation, making it the fifth vaccine and the second foreign-made shot to be cleared for use in the country. The vaccine will be brought to India through a supply agreement with homegrown vaccine maker Biological E Ltd.Also Read | Mixing shots safe and effective: StudyApart from the J&J vaccine, the four other Covid-19 shots approved for emergency use in India are Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, the Russian-made Sputnik V, and the Moderna vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-35-499-new-covid-19-cases-447-deaths-in-a-day-101628478940726.html
09-08-2021||India||Light rains to continue in Delhi today: IMD||The national Capital may receive light rainfall today as well, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. However, a dry spell is expected to set in from August 10, when monsoon will enter a break phase. Delhi received light to moderate showers on Sunday, which continued throughout the day. The Safdarjung observatory, considered representative for Delhi weather, received 15.4mm rainfall till 8.30am on Monday. Also Read | Widespread rain likely over NE states, Uttarakhand, parts of UP for 5 daysThe minimum temperature was 25.1 degrees C (°C), two notches below normal. “From August 10, break monsoon-like conditions will prevail, as the monsoon trough is expected to shift to the Himalayan foothills. The break will remain for 4-5 days. Monsoon is likely to revive from August 15-16,” said a senior IMD official.He added that in the absence of rainfall, both day and night temperatures are likely to increase with high humidity levels, adding to the discomfort.Delhi had faced break monsoon conditions in June also, delaying its onset. The monsoon arrived in Delhi on July 13, at least 16 days behind schedule. The IMD had predicted that monsoon will arrive in the Capital by June 15. However, later it revised its forecast and said that break monsoon conditions had developed, which delayed the onset.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-rains-to-continue-in-delhi-todayimd-101628481013636.html
09-08-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik plans separate dept for western Odisha, BJP calls it 'gimmick'||More than two decades after the Odisha government created a separate development council for 10 western districts infamous for their backwardness and poverty, it is now planning to create a new department for western Odisha to effectively deal with the development issues in a holistic and time-bound way, people aware of the developments, said.They claim that a proposal may be brought before the state cabinet soon much before the process of gram panchayat polls gets underway early next year. The idea, if it finally makes it through the Cabinet, would make Odisha only the second state after Assam- which approved one for Bodoland in May this year-- with a separate department for a region. The Atal Bihari Vajpayee government had first created a separate department for the north east region in 2001 and then followed it up with a ministry in 2004, but no state had done it till Assam took the decision about two months ago.Some leaders from the ruling Biju Janata Dal requesting anonymity said that the proposal was at an advanced stage, but refused to give a timeline. “Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has kept western Odisha in focus. Over the last couple of years, he has pumped in huge amounts of money for irrigation schemes for several districts of western Odisha including Kalahandi, Sambalpur and Bargarh. The government is also announcing more money for building smart classrooms in government high schools there. More projects would be announced once the Covid pandemic weakens a bit,” said Sushant Singh, the minister for rural development, adding that a special assistance of ₹50 crores given for management of Covid-19 in 11 districts of western Odisha was proof of the government’s seriousness for the region.In 2000, the Naveen Patnaik government created the Western Odisha Development Council comprising 10 districts of Bargarh, Balangir, Boudh, Deogarh, Jharsuguda, Kalahandi, Nuapada, Sambalpur, Subarnapur, Sundargarh and Athamallick Sub-division of Angul district with an annual Budget of ₹100 crore for community based projects as per people’s needs. The region, known for labour migration to other states and wrecked by natural disasters like droughts, has been a huge drag on the state’s development with a poverty rate higher than state’s 32% . Districts like Kalahandi often made headlines for child trafficking.Officials in the know said a separate department would help in convergence of several government schemes as the development council had failed to deliver the desired results. At present, development work related to the region is taken up separately by different departments causing delays.Since inception, the WODC was sanctioned ₹1,615.93 crore for taking up different projects under road and communication, agricultural development, irrigation, water supply schemes, infrastructure development in school and colleges, health services, and electrification of villages. This year, the government increased its annual budget to ₹200 crore. But an audit of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CA) last year found plenty of irregularities and infirmities in the council’s accounts and decision making. As per the audit report, 34 of the 89 blocks in the region were still “very backward”, while 25 were backward and adequate priority had not been given to bring them at par with developed blocks. The audit found that frequent changes in the projects by the MLAs led to low spending, which was also a result of lack of coordination between the executing agencies. The CAG was also critical of the Western Odisha Development Council’s (WODC) decision to provide financial assistance to certain private educational institutions in disregard of the statutory instructions.Political analysts said the government’s move to have a separate department for western Odisha may be rooted in the BJD’s grand plan to strike at the votebase of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in western Odisha. In 2017 panchayatiraj polls, BJP won 9 of the zilla parishads, most of them in western and tribal Odisha. In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, BJD lost out to the BJP in almost the entire western Odisha belt, which helped the ruling party at the Centre win 8 of the 21 Lok Sabha seats and secure 38.37 % of the votes, a rise of 16.49 % from its 2014 figures.“Since the last couple of years, BJD has been trying its best to cut into BJP’s votebase in Kalahandi, Sambalpur and Sundargarh. The only way the party can do this is through better implementation of basic welfare measures. Since the beginning, the WODC had its headquarter in Bhubaneswar and that affected the development process. Creation of a separate department is BJD’s way of telling western Odisha electorate that it cares for them,” said Satya Prakash Dash, a political science professor.BJP state vice-president and MLA of Kuchinda in Sambalpur district, Nauri Nayak said creation of a separate department is yet another “gimmick” by the state government to woo the people of western Odisha.“Since several years, WODC has functioned only with a chairman and a CEO, when it was supposed to have 22 members including 11 MLAs, 2 members of parliament and experts. In the past 20 years, the WODC has served as a political rehabilitation center for the ruling party politicians or retired bureaucrats. All these years, the government could not even shift the council’s headquarter in any western Odisha town, and now, they are talking of a separate department. We demand that the headquarters of the WODC be shifted to Sambalpur for better implementation of projects,” said Nayak..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naveen-patnaik-plans-separate-dept-for-western-odisha-bjp-calls-it-101628480053646.html
09-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to chair UNSC debate on maritime security today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to chair UNSC debate on maritime security today: 10 pointsPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Monday chair an open debate at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) on maritime security. According to ministry of external affairs (MEA), the meeting, through video conferencing, is scheduled to take place at 5.30pm IST. Read More'Reports have no proven basis': Aviation ministry on high Delhi-London fareThe Union civil aviation ministry said late on Sunday that it has "thoroughly checked" the claims made about the exorbitant airfare being charged in Delhi-London route and found that the reports have no proven basis.Monsoon Session: Key Bills to be moved today; Opposition floor leaders to meetFloor leaders of the Opposition are set to meet at 10am on Monday in the chamber of Mallikarjun Kharge, the Leader of Opposition in the Upper House. Read MoreMaharashtra allows fully vaccinated people to use Mumbai locals from August 15Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday announced that people fully vaccinated against Covid-19 will be allowed to commute in local trains in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) from August 15, but only 14 days after taking the second dose. Read More'It's a shame we couldn't complete day 5': Virat Kohli reacts after rain forces draw in NottinghamThe first Test between India and England was shaping up to deliver an exciting and enthralling final-day finish, but the Nottingham weather had other plans. Read MoreAnupam Shyam of Mann Kee Awaaz: Pratigya dies at 63 due to multiple organ failureVeteran actor Anupam Shyam died on Sunday night following multiple organ failure. His friend Yashpal Sharma and producer Ashoke Pandit confirmed the news of his death. Anupam was last seen in Mann Kee Awaaz: Pratigya 2. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-chair-unsc-debate-on-maritime-security-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101628477988525.html
09-08-2021||India||Krishna, Godavari River Management Board to hold emergency meeting today||The Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) and Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) are set to meet on Monday to take steps on issues mentioned in the recent gazette notification issued by the Centre on their jurisdiction. The states of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have been engaged in a war of words over water sharing and some irrigation projects on the Krishna river, which prompted Centre to come out with the gazetted notification to GRMB and KRMB.The ministry of jal shakti, through a gazette notification on July 16, set the jurisdiction of GRMB and KRMB to reduce friction between the two states in the area of water management. It is aimed at awarding the boards more powers for administration, regulation, operation, and maintenance of projects listed therein in Godavari and Krishna rivers in the two states.The K Chandrashekar Rao-led Telangana government said on Sunday that it won't be able to take part in the emergency meeting due to some prior commitments. In a letter to the Godavari River Management Board, Telangana special chief secretary Rajat Kumar said the representatives of the state will not be able to attend the board meeting, owing to various legal matters posted on Monday. "It is requested to kindly indicate another convenient date so that members from Telangana state can attend the meeting and present their views," Kumar wrote to the board.The YS Jagan Mohan Reddy-led Andhra Pradesh government had filed a petition in the Supreme Court complaining that Telangana was refusing to follow decisions taken in the apex council constituted under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014 directions of the Krishna River Management Board and those of the Centre. Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana responded that he would not adjudicate the legal issues involved in the matter, insisting that the states resolve the matter through talks, which the Supreme Court bench was willing to assist, an invitation which the Andhra government declined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/krishna-godavari-river-management-board-to-hold-emergency-meeting-today-101628478608564.html
09-08-2021||India||'Historic moment for India': Aircraft carrier Vikrant returns after sea trials||Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) Vikrant returned after five-day sea trial to test the performance of the 40,000-tonne warship. IAC Vikrant, built at a cost of around ₹23,000 crore, set sail from Kochi on August 4 for the crucial sea trials ahead of its planned induction into the Indian Navy by August next year.On the successful completion of the trial, Vice Admiral AK Chawla said it is indeed a "historic moment for the country"."We are going back to Kochi after five days of trials at sea. We're going back with a great sense of satisfaction. This has been possible with dedicated teamwork," Vice Admiral was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The navy said that the system parametres proved satisfactory during the trials. The ship's performance, including hull, main propulsion, Power Generation and Distribution (PGD) and auxiliary equipment were tested during the exercise.The trials were reviewed by Vice Admiral AK Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief Southern Naval Command.The aircraft carrier is 262 metres long, 62 metres at the widest part and a height of 59 metre including the superstructure. There are 14 decks in all, including five in the superstructure.The warship will operate MiG-29K fighter jets, Kamov-31 helicopters, MH-60R multi-role helicopters. It has a top speed of around 28 knots and a cruising speed of 18 knots with an endurance of about 7,500 nautical miles.The ship has over 2,300 compartments, designed for a crew of around 1,700 people, having gender-sensitive accommodation spaces for women officers. The ship with high degree of automation for machinery operation, ship navigation and survivability, has been designed to accommodate an assortment of fixed-wing and rotary aircraft.With the delivery of Vikrant, India would join a select group of nations with the capability to indigenously design and build an aircraft carrier. It will also provide thrust to Centre's 'Make in India' initiative. Delivery of IAC would also strengthen India's position in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) and its quest for a blue water Navy.India currently has only one aircraft carrier - INS Vikramaditya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/historic-moment-for-india-aircraft-carrier-vikrant-returns-after-sea-trials-101628477884494.html
09-08-2021||India||Monsoon Session: Key Bills to be moved today; Opposition floor leaders to meet||Floor leaders of the Opposition are set to meet at 10am on Monday in the chamber of Mallikarjun Kharge, the Leader of Opposition in the Upper House.Union minister of social justice and empowerment Dr Virendra Kumar will introduce the Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the Lok Sabha on Monday. The Bill aims to clarify “some provisions in the 102nd Constitutional amendment Bill” to restore the power of the states to identify backward classes — a demand made by a number of regional parties and even the ruling party’s own OBC leaders.The new Bill nullifies the top court’s decision ruling that after a 2018 amendment in the Constitution, only the Centre could notify socially and educationally backward classes (SEBCs), not the states.Click here for LIVE Updates of Parliament proceedingsUnion minister of AYUSH Sarbananda Sonowal will be introducing the National Commission for Homoeopathy (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the National Commission for Indian System of Medicine (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the lower house. The former aims to repeal the Homoeopathy Central Council Act, 1973, while the latter aims to repeal the Indian Medicine Central Council Act, 1970.Both the Bills were introduced in the Parliament in 2019 and were referred to the standing committee which submitted its reports in November 2019.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman would be moving the Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Lok Sabha for passage.Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill 2021 was introduced in Rajya Sabha in this session after the union Cabinet gave its approval on July 28, 2021. The amendment Bill seeks to facilitate greater ease of living to law-abiding corporates and to decriminalise certain provisions of the Act.The Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 or the DICGC Amendment Bill 2021 proposes three key changes that could vastly improve the working of deposit insurance as it stands today. These changes, if passed into law, will add an extra dimension to the Centre’s landmark move last year to hike the insurance coverage for individual depositors in banks from ₹1 lakh to ₹5 lakh.Union minister Arjun Munda will be moving the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the Lok Sabha. The Upper House on Thursday passed the Bill allowing the inclusion of Mishmi-Kaman (Miju Mishmi), Idu (Mishmi), Taraon (Digaru Mishmi) and Monpa, Memba, Sartang and Sajolang (Miji) in the list in lieu of Mishmi, Idu, Taroan, and Momba respectively. The Bill sought to amend the constitutional list of Scheduled Tribes as recommended by Arunachal Pradesh.In the Rajya Sabha, Union minister Nirmala Sitharaman will move the Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021 and the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021. Lok Sabha had passed both the Bills last week.MoS of finance Pankaj Chaudhary will also move for the passage of The Appropriation (No.4) Bill, 2021 and the Appropriation (No.3) Bill, 2021 in the Rajya Sabha on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-key-bills-to-be-moved-today-opposition-floor-leaders-to-meet-101628477953512.html
09-08-2021||India||Widespread rain likely over NE states, Uttarakhand, parts of UP for 5 days||Widespread rain is likely over parts of eastern Himalayas, especially Sub Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and other northeastern states for the next 4-5 days, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Widespread and heavy rain is also expected over Uttarakhand, parts of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand, it said.The eastern end of the monsoon shifted close to the foothills of the Himalayas and the western end is running north of the normal position. The entire monsoon trough is likely to shift close to the foothills of Himalayas during the next 24 to 48 hours, the department added.A cyclonic circulation is lying over northeast Madhya Pradesh in the lower levels.Under the influence of these systems, widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rain is very likely over northeast and Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during the next 5 days, the IMD bulletin said.Under the influence of strong south westerly /southerly winds from Bay of Bengal in the lower levels over these areas from July 11, intensity of rainfall is very likely to increase over these areas and there is likely to be isolated heavy to very heavy rain in the region on August 11 and 12.Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls is very likely over Madhya Pradesh and east Rajasthan during the next 2 days with significant reduction in intensity thereafter, the weather department added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-likely-over-ne-states-uttarakhand-parts-of-up-for-5-days-101628475613412.html
09-08-2021||India||Kerala to conduct mass inoculation drive from today as Covid-19 cases high||The Kerala government will hold a mass inoculation drive across the state starting from Monday in view of the high number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The drive will go on till August 31, according to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.The focus will be on inoculating final year degree students, PG students, lower primary and upper primary teachers. The first dose of vaccination for senior citizens will be completed by August 15. Patients with comorbidity will be vaccinated at home.Vijayan had said that the state government will make more Covid-19 vaccine available to the private sector. "The state government will buy 20 lakh doses of vaccines and provide them to private hospitals at the same rate," he had said in a statement on Saturday.All this is being done, the chief minister said, to vaccinate as many people as possible. He also urged commercial institutions and public organizations to arrange vaccines for local people.Kerala health minister Veena George announced last week said that over 1.5 crore people (15 million) in the state have been inoculated with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, accounting for 42.82 per cent of Kerala's population.The state government is also going to implement new and more stringent guidelines from August 11. As per the new guidelines, only those who have taken at least one dose of the vaccine or who are in possession of RT-PCR negative certificates taken 72 hours before to enter shops, markets, banks and tourist spots.This will be applicable on both workers and visitors coming to the state.Kerala recorded 18,607 cases of Covid-19 on Sunday. This was first time in a week that the daily caseload came below 20,000. The positivity rate stands at 13.87 per cent, according to state government's health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-conduct-mass-inoculation-drive-from-today-as-covid-19-cases-high-101628474690400.html
09-08-2021||India||'Reports have no proven basis': Aviation ministry on high Delhi-London fare||The Union civil aviation ministry said late on Sunday that it has "thoroughly checked" the claims made about the exorbitant airfare being charged in Delhi0London route and found that the reports have no proven basis. The ministry's statement on Twitter came after the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) asked the airlines that operate India-UK flights currently to submit details about their fares."There are media reports claiming India-UK one-way economy class fares have touched Rs. 4 lakhs. These reports have no proven basis. The veracity of Sh Sanjeev Gupta’s claim has been thoroughly checked by @DGCAIndia," the ministry said.There are media reports claiming India-UK one-way economy class fares have touched Rs. 4 lakhs. These reports have no proven basis. The veracity of Sh Sanjeev Gupta’s claim has been thoroughly checked by @DGCAIndia."The fares offered on the Delhi-London sector (Economy class) range from 1.03-1.21 lakhs for Indian carriers and 1.28-1.47 lakhs for UK carriers for travel during August 2021," it added in a subsequent tweet.The issue came to light after Sanjeev Gupta, secretary at the ministry of home affairs, on Saturday raised concern about the high prices during college admission time.“Fare of ₹3.95 lakh one way Delhi to London on Aug 26. No, it's not 1st class. It's economy on @British_Airways @airindiain @airvistara etc. also 1.2 to 2.3 lakh. College admission time! See minimum fare on @GoogleTravel in August. Have alerted Secretary @MoCA_GoI @JM_Scindia,” tweeted Gupta, sharing screenshots of the airfares.Gupta's tweet came as the UK moved India from "red" to "amber" list, giving relaxations from hotel quarantine to travellers.The DGCA asked the airlines on Sunday to submit details about the airfares they have been charging for India-UK flights during August.While there have been lower and upper limits on all domestic airfares in India since May 25 last year, no such limits have been imposed on international airfares.Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 last year amid the coronavirus pandemic.However, limited special international passenger flights have been operating since July 2020 under the air bubble arrangements formed with 28 countries, including the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reports-have-no-proven-basis-aviation-ministry-on-high-delhi-london-fare-101628473394462.html
09-08-2021||India||Congress to launch campaign against BJP in Uttar Pradesh ahead of assembly elections||The Congress party will launch a campaign against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh on Monday in a bid to step up an attack ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. The 'Bhajapa Gaddi Chordo Abhiyaan (BJP, leave the seat of power)' is being launched on the anniversary of the start of the 'Quit India movement'.Under the campaign, Congress will hold various demonstrations including the marches at all assembly constituencies over issues such as price rise, unemployment, farmers' "plight" and the law and order situation.On August 9, 1942, the Quit India Movement was launched under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi which resulted in freedom of the country from British rule five years later on August 15, 1947.According to a report by news agency PTI, the Congress will undertake a march for about 5 kilometres through the main market of each assembly segment. During the march, the Congress workers will also raise slogans like 'BJP Gaddi Chhorho'.Various responsibilities have been entrusted to state unit office bearers to ensure the success of the campaign, PTI also reported.According to the news agency, as many as 400 leaders have been given the responsibility of making the assembly-wise marches successful.Potential assembly election candidates have also been asked to make all possible efforts for this programme.The Congress will contest Uttar Pradesh assembly elections next year under the leadership of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Congress' state unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu had said. The party is confident that it will make a comeback in the state after over three decades under "Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's supervision," PTI reported quoting Ajay Kumar as saying.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-launch-campaign-against-bjp-in-uttar-pradesh-ahead-of-assembly-elections-101628470964377.html
09-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi to visit Srinagar, meet Congress leaders and workers||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will be on a two-day visit to Srinagar from Monday. This is the first time that he is visiting Jammu and Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370. Gandhi is scheduled to inaugurate the party's headquarters in the union territory. He will also interact with leaders and party workers during his visit.“Gandhi had already planned a four-day tour to J&K but the Parliament session ensued and so he is now visiting Kashmir on a short visit. He will be in Kashmir on August 9 and 10,” according to J&K Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir. After the Parliamentary session is over, the senior Congress leader will also visit Jammu for two to three days, he further informed.Gandhi will address a select gathering including state office bearers, party district presidents, former legislators and others during the inaugural ceremony of the party's headquarters.On August 5, 2019, Articles 370 and 35(A) were nullified that gave the erstwhile state its special status and the mandate to define its domicile rules. The political parties in Jammu and Kashmir have vowed to continue their struggle for restoration of statehood.On July 28, Minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai told the Rajya Sabha that the statehood for Jammu & Kashmir would be granted after normalcy is restored.In an interview with Hindustan Times on July 28, Jammu & Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha had said that Union home minister Amit Shah had assured granting statehood to the Union territory at an appropriate time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-visit-srinagar-meet-congress-leaders-and-workers-101628468649050.html
09-08-2021||India||PM Modi to chair UNSC debate on maritime security today: 10 points||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Monday chair an open debate at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) on maritime security. According to ministry of external affairs (MEA), the meeting, through video conferencing, is scheduled to take place at 5.30pm IST.Modi will be the first Indian Prime Minister to preside over a UNSC open debate, the MEA further said.As a non-permanent member, India has the rotational presidency of the top world body for the month of August. The UN Security Council has discussed and passed resolutions on different aspects of maritime security and maritime crime. However, this will be the first time that maritime security will be discussed in a holistic manner as an exclusive agenda item in such a high-level open debate.Here are the things to know about the UNSC debate:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-chair-unsc-debate-on-maritime-security-today-10-points-101628467544672.html
09-08-2021||India||PM Modi to release 9th instalment of PM-KISAN scheme today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release the next instalment of financial benefit under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme on Monday at 12:30pm via video conferencing. The Prime Minister will address the nation on the occasion and interact with the beneficiaries. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar will also be present on the occasion."This will enable the transfer of an amount of more than ₹19,500 crore (195 million) to more than 9.75 crore (97.5 million) beneficiary farmer families. Prime Minister will interact with farmer beneficiaries during the event and will also address the nation," an official release from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) stated.Under the PM-KISAN scheme, a financial benefit of ₹6,000 per year is provided to the eligible beneficiary farmer families, payable in three equal four-monthly installments of ₹2,000 each, the statement added.The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. In this scheme, Samman Rashi of over ₹1.38 lakh crores has been transferred to farmer families so far, it said.On May 14, PM Modi had released the 8th instalment of financial benefit under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme via video conferencing. The last instalment of PM-KISAN was disbursed to 90 million farm households.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-release-9th-instalment-of-pm-kisan-scheme-today-101628466321775.html
09-08-2021||India||‘We don’t believe in attacking others’ power grids’: Union power minister Raj Kumar Singh||Raj Kumar Singh, the two-time Lok Sabha member of Parliament from Arrah, Bihar, was recently elevated as a Union cabinet minister for the ministries of power and new and renewable energy. In an interview, Singh talked about new electricity distribution reforms and India’s growing position as a global climate leader.The Centre also plans to extend the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme to electrolysers and an uniform electricity tariff is being examined for future green bids, he said. India will also take up the climate financing commitments made by developed nations at the Conference of the Parties (COP 26). Singh, a former home secretary and a 1975 batch Bihar cadre IAS officer, also termed cyberattacks on India’s power grid as an act of warfare. Edited excerpts:When will the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021, be tabled in Parliament?It has gone to the cabinet secretariat, which has to put it up before the cabinet. It is something that is necessary and something on which nobody can have cogent objections because, what are we saying? We are saying let’s delicense it. Why do we still have licensing in distribution? By doing so, you will open up the doors to competition. You have to decide whether the people exist to serve the discoms (distribution companies) or vice-versa. The discoms exist to serve the people, and the people deserve a choice. If you provide good service and if your pricing is better, you compete on price and service. Whosoever gives better service to the people will survive. That’s how it is. That’s how it should be. Nobody can have a right to monopoly.India’s largest power generation utility NTPC Ltd is operating at a low plant load factor (PLF). Why is that so?PLF for the entire system is 55-60%. That means that about 40% is not being scheduled, because we have installed capacity of 382 gigawatts (GW) against a maximum demand of 200GW. Basically, PLF of thermal power plants will remain around this level and may come down a bit because we are in the midst of an energy transition. It is a conscious transition and that has to be done in a sustainable manner. The transition is necessary for the environment and our government has a commitment to (protecting the) environment. We will be the first ones (in the world) to come out with large grid-scale green hydrogen manufacturing.Will the PLI scheme be extended to electrolysers used for producing green hydrogen?It is coming. That is my next proposal to the cabinet. It is getting drafted. We are bringing a scheme for electrolysers.Will India raise the threats posed by Chinese hackers targeting our critical infrastructure, such as the power grid, on the global stage?We are strengthening our cybersecurity mechanism. We are carrying out exercises to check the measures we have instituted to tackle cyberattacks and we are strengthening those measures. No country will accept that they are behind the cyberattacks. The attacks also followed a system of mirroring, or bouncing it of servers of other countries. But by and large we know from where it did happen and from where it is happening. We have a fair idea.Are you also doing something?I am not saying that. We don’t believe in attacking other people’s power systems. I am only saying this: that by and large people should desist from doing this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-don-t-believe-in-attacking-others-power-grids-union-power-minister-raj-kumar-singh-101628464655696.html
09-08-2021||India||Assam CM may call on PM and Shah over Mizoram border row||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma is likely to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Monday to discuss the border dispute with Mizoram, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP said on Sunday even as an Assam minister warned of moving the Supreme Court against the neighbouring state.Six Assam Police personnel and a civilian were killed and dozens were injured as a decades-long border dispute sparked violent clashes on July 26, prompting Himanta and his Mizoram counterpart Zoramthanga to publicly trade charges. The two sides reached an interim agreement to withdraw their forces from the disputed 4km stretch on July 28.“The Assam CM is likely to meet the PM on Monday. After that, the CM accompanied by all the MPs from Assam, will meet home minister Amit Shah. There is a possibility that they might discuss a permanent solution to the border dispute,” said BJP MP from Silchar, Rajdeep Roy.The border clash proved to be a flashpoint between the two BJP-ruled states with the Mizoram Police registering an FIR against Himanta and six top state officials on charges of attempt to murder and assault, and the Assam Police summoning Mizoram’s Rajya Sabha member K Vanlalvena and six top officials over their alleged role in fanning tensions. The political standoff appeared to abate on August 2 as the two sides withdrew the police cases after key leaders met PM Modi.However, the ties between the two states might not be completely on the mend as Assam minister Parimal Suklabaidya said he would consider moving the top court against the Mizoram government if it did not take action against its police officials who he said opened fire at the border, claiming seven lives.“People are angry and as their representatives, we cannot ignore their emotions. If Mizoram does not take action against its police officials for killing six Assam police jawans, we will consider moving the Supreme Court for justice,” said the MLA from Dholai constituency, where Lailapur — one of the sites of the clashes— is located.The Mizoram government has maintained that its police personnel acted in self-defence. “Assam police initially attempted to claim Mizoram’s land and they are the ones who started firing on the police officials of Mizoram. Our police fired in defence...,” said chief secretary Lalnunmawia Chuaungo.Meanwhile, the movement of trucks carrying essential goods to Mizoram appeared to improve after Assam eased an undeclared blockade. “In less than 24 hours of the economic blockade being lifted, more than 200 vehicle have safely moved towards Aizwal. These vehicles, carrying essential items were stranded for more than 10 days. We assure each and every driver that they’ll be safe inside Mizoram if they come, “ executive magistrate-level official of Mizoram’s Kolasib district Carolyne Pachuau said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-may-call-on-pm-and-shah-over-mizoram-border-row-101628458302433.html
09-08-2021||India||Arrest of tribal farmers sparks outrage in Telangana||The Telangana forest department’s recent complaint against 23 farmers in the Yellannasagar village of Konijeria Mandal in Khammam of an attack against their officers during a farmland recovery, which led to their eventual arrest on Friday under charges of attempt to murder, drew sharp criticism from the tribal leaders and opposition parties in the state for the past three days. According to the complaint, on August 3, the tribals attacked the forest department staff when they forcefully tried to recover farmland that the villagers have been cultivating for decades. Acting on the complaint, the police registered a case under sections 307, 353 and 158 r/w 149 of the IPC against the tribal farmers and sent them to 14 days judicial remand. Among the arrested women are Alapati Kavitha, mother to a three-month-old baby; Kavya, who has an eight-month-old baby and Rani, whose child is one year old. The mothers were seen carrying their infants to jail. “My wife Swapna and I own three acres of land, which was passed on by my grandfather. On that day, about 20 forest officials came and suddenly started destroying our crop. When we stopped them, they used foul language and attacked us. But we stood there protecting our land. They threatened us with dire consequences and said that they will drive us out of this town and filed cases against us,“ claimed Narasimha, a tribal farmer.Khammam commissioner Vishnu S Warrier confirmed to HT, “Yes, the villagers did attack forest officials with sticks and stones. But on Saturday, all the accused moved a bail petition. After speaking to eyewitnesses, we have decided to alter the sections, and in all likelihood, they will get bail.”The arrests drew flak from the CPI (ML-New Democracy) State committee.“Three women farmers with their babies in their laps were among those arrested and sent to jail. How can women with children attack with stones? The forest staff are adopting a vindictive attitude towards the farmers without heeding their requests to desist from destroying their crops. The state government should withdraw the false cases foisted against the farmers and take stern action against those responsible for resorting to repressive measures against women farmers,” said CPI (ML-ND) State assistant secretary Potu Ranga Rao.Congress Mulugu MLA Seethakka added, “The Congress had assigned the Dalits and Adivasis these podu (agricultural) lands which the KCR govt is forcefully vanquishing. No jobs have been given to these Dalits too. I will put an end to the atrocities of CM KCR’s politics soon.” Forest staff, speaking on the condition of anonymity, refuted the charges made by politicians. “A section of the villagers of Yellanna Nagar assaulted the forest staff when the latter tried to take up preparatory works for plantation drive as part of Haritha Haram afforestation programme in the forest land under Gubbagurthi reserve forest area.Historically, tribal communities have depended on forests for their livelihoods. Many tribals engage in a form of shifting cultivation in upland forests, called podu which is a bone of contention with forest officials. The Telangana government had launched an ambitious afforestation program named Harita Haram, which has become a major reason for the eviction of tribals. The state government in 2015 had decided not to entertain any further claims under the Forest Rights Act which had emboldened the forest department staff to suppress the rights of Adivasis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrest-of-tribal-farmers-sparks-outrage-in-telangana-101628452751240.html
09-08-2021||India||TN parties begin work to face local body polls||Parties have started preparing for the upcoming local body polls, slated to be held before the end of this year. The polls will be the first since the assembly elections held on April 6. With an eye on the upcoming polls, the ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) is focusing on the districts in the western region where it fared poorly. Chief minister and DMK president MK Stalin even went on a huddle with district secretaries on Sunday to discuss the polls. The Supreme Court has ordered the Tamil Nadu state election body to complete the rural local body polls in nine newly created districts before September 15. Elections to urban local bodies were last held in October 2011 and after their five year tenure was over issues over delimitation of wards arose and stalled the elections.However, elections to 27 rural local bodies were completed in 2011. “Their tenure will continue,” said a senior DMK leader who was part of the meeting. “Today’s meeting focused on the nine districts and since it will be the first election since our win, the chief minister wants us to build on the goodwill gained so far,” the DMK leader said. MLAs and MPs belonging to the nine new districts--Vellore, Ranipet, Tirupattur, Kancheepuram, Chengalpet, Villupuram, Kallakuruchi, Tirunelvelu, Tenkasi-- were also present at the meeting. While these regions are predominantly in the south, considered as DMK’s stronghold and north where the party performed well, DMK is now working to weaken the opposition AIADMK’s hometurf in the western region. The alliance led by DMK won just 17 of the 50 seats in the region, while it almost swept all other regions in the state. The AIADMK-led alliance with the BJP won the remaining 33. The western belt, also known as the Kongu region, is also the only place where the BJP enjoys considerable support in comparison to its unpopularity elsewhere in the state and the national party hopes to grow from here. Two of BJP’s four MLAs are from this region. The BJP has formed a 17-member panel to start preparing for the local body polls. “We will study our strengths in the panchayats, municipalities and corporations to analyse where we can contest,” said Karu Nagarajan, BJP’s state general secretary and a committee member. “As a first step we will collect nominations and then we will plan our strategy, campaign before sitting down with our alliance partners.”The DMK inducted three MLAs from the western belt into its cabinet and also saw to it that it has representation from the largely present Gounder community from here from which former chief minister Edappadi Palanswami belongs. The DMK has been poaching strong leaders from the western region belonging to the AIADMK and Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM). Stalin while inductingHaasan’s lieutenant turned rebel R Mahendran in July had said that the party would have fared better in the west if people like Mahendran were with the DMK. “Even while campaigning last year, we were focussed on building our strength in the western region. We need to do more there,” the DMK leader said. The party is hoping that its popularity after forming the government will help them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-parties-begin-work-to-face-local-body-polls-101628452631925.html
09-08-2021||India||Tripura police arrest 14 TMC leaders for violating Covid-19 norms, they get bail later||Hours after arresting as many as 14 Trinamool Congress leaders for violating Covid-19 norms, a local court released them on bail on Sunday, according to people aware of the development. Those arrested included Sudip Raha and Jaya Datta who were injured after their vehicle was attacked allegedly by BJP activists at Ambassa in Dhalai district on Saturday. A senior TMC leader said that they were returning to Agartala after the incident when police stopped them in Khowai district saying that there could be more attacks on them by miscreants. According to the police, the TMC leaders violated the Covid-19 night curfew norms by travelling after 7 pm since the entire state is under curfew for ten hours from 7 pm. After landing in Agartala on Sunday, TMC general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, West Bengal Education Minister Bratya Basu and Rajya Sabha MP Dola Sen went to Khowai to meet the arrested leaders. The three senior TMC leaders sought to meet the police personnel to show them the copy of a case lodged against the 14 TMC leaders and also inquire why the BJP miscreants were not arrested for violating Covid-19 norms. Banerjee, earlier on August 2, visited the state for the first time in the aftermath of 23 members of the Indian-Political Action Committee ( I-PAC) led by political strategist Prashant Kishore being booked and asked to stay inside a hotel in Agartala for violating Covid-19 norms. The team was in Agartala last month to assess the scope of expanding the base of Trinamool Congress in the BJP-ruled state. The party, that had had fielded 24 candidates, failed to get a single seat in the assembly polls in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-police-arrest-14-tmc-leaders-for-violating-covid-19-norms-they-get-bail-later-101628452391788.html
09-08-2021||India||Day after portfolio allocations, troubles begin for Bommai||Bengaluru A day after chief minister Basavaraj Bommai distributed portfolios to his Cabinet members, at least two ministers- N Nagaraj (MTB) and Anand Singh- met chief minister on Sunday demanding that they either be given better portfolios or allow them to drop out of the Cabinet.“I am a little saddened by the portfolio distribution,” Nagaraj said after meeting with the chief minister. Nagaraj has been alloted the municipal administration, small scale and public sector industries portfolio, while Singh, on the other hand, has been given tourism, ecology and environment portfolios.He said that even during the tenure of BS Yediyurappa, there was discontentment over the portfolio allocation but was under the impression that it would be fixed under Bommai’s leadership. Both Singh and Nagaraj have said that they will “make a decision” if their grievances are not heard; though it remains unclear what they mean by this.Nagaraj said that he was a housing minister in the HD Kumaraswamy-led coalition government and was hoping to get the same portfolio or a better one when he defected.“I have spoken about all issues with him (Anand Singh). He has shared his concerns. I have told him that I understand how you feel and will do everything to uphold your honour,” Bommai said.Even as it is considered normal for some discontent to brew over portfolio allocations, the widening rift within the Karnataka BJP over ‘insiders’ and ‘outsiders’ have started to rear its head in a state that heads to polls in less than two years.It all started with Bommai, who had been 13 years with the BJP before he was chosen for the top post over other seniors of the party. Now the issue appears to have trickled down to his Cabinet.Satish Reddy, the BJP legislator from Bommanahalli in Bengaluru said that workers were openly stating that “outsiders” were given all the opportunities within a party where its core-party MLAs were being left out.Barring R Shankar and Shrimant Patil, all the defectors who were part of the earlier Cabinet have been retained, indicating that Yediyurappa is calling the shots to ensure those who helped him to power continue to be rewarded.Analysts and other legislators said that putting the interests of a few individuals over that of the party could set a dangerous precedent as dissent among those who consider themselves core-BJP.Even Bommai’s meeting with Janata Dal (Secular) supremo and former prime minister HD Deve Gowda after taking oath as chief minister sent a few legislators like Pritam Gowda over the edge. He said that there was no requirement for such meetings and it sends a wrong message ahead of the Zilla and taluka panchayat elections, scheduled to be held later this year.There are at least 14 districts, including Mysuru, Hassan, Kalaburagi and Vijayapura that have no representation at all. Bengaluru, which has 28 assembly constituencies, accounts for seven ministers. Reddy said that with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) elections round the corner, the government needed to give more importance and accommodate ministers from India’s IT capital.However, it may well be beyond Bommai to placate disgruntled elements as Yediyurappa appears to be in charge despite the change in leadership. The majority who made it to the Cabinet are either those who are loyal to Yediyurappa or who helped him to power in 2019, Hindustan Times reported on Wednesday.“It does not matter who gets what portfolio as long as they are willing to work,” said one newly inducted minister, requesting not to be named. He, however, added that there would be some rumblings but much of this would settle down within a few days. There are just four vacancies in the Cabinet and Bommai has more than thrice the number of aspirants. Including Ramesh Jarkiholi, the former minister whose home in Belagavi has become a rendezvous of sorts for legislators who have missed out on Cabinet berths.The disgruntlement also rears its head when nearly half of Karnataka’s 31 districts are dealing with floods and the state is staring at another wave of Covid-19 infections, leaving the population to fend for themselves.“Nothing is ok there (in the BJP government). Many are upset with making Bommai as the chief minister and now with the portfolio allocation,” Siddaramaiah, the leader of the opposition said on Sunday.He added that if the same continues, then all this dissent could implode within the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-portfolio-allocations-troubles-begin-for-bommai-101628452032912.html
09-08-2021||India||14 TMC workers arrested for Covid norms breach in Tripura, released||Hours after at least 14 Trinamool Congress leaders and workers, including those injured in an alleged attack by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers on the previous day, were arrested for violating Covid-19 norms in Tripura’s Khowai district, a local court released them on bail on Sunday, people aware of the development said.Those arrested included Sudip Raha and Jaya Datta, who were injured after their vehicle was attacked allegedly by BJP workers at Ambassa in Dhalai district on Saturday.A senior TMC leader said they were returning to Agartala after the incident when police stopped them in Khowai district saying there could be more attacks on them by the miscreants.However, police said the TMC leaders violated Covid-19 night curfew norms by travelling after 7 pm. The state has been observing night curfew for 10 hours starting from 7 pm in the wake of Covid-19 cases.Meanwhile, TMC general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, West Bengal education minister Bratya Basu and Rajya Sabha MP Dola Sen arrived in Agartala on Sunday went to Khowai to meet the arrested leaders.The three senior TMC leaders asked the police to show them the copy of the case lodged against the 14 party leaders and workers and also inquired why the BJP miscreants were not arrested for violating the Covid-19 norms.Earlier, Banerjee had visited the state for the first time on August 2, in the aftermath of 23 members of political strategist Prashant Kishor’s Indian-Political Action Committee (I-PAC) team were booked and asked to stay inside a hotel in Agartala for violating Covid-19 norms.The team had visited the state last month to assess the scope of expanding the base of TMC in the BJP-ruled state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-tmc-workers-arrested-for-covid-norms-breach-in-tripura-released-101628451611884.html
09-08-2021||India||Day after his 73rd birthday, Sibal set to host Opposition leaders on Monday||Several Opposition leaders are set to gather at Congress leader Kapil Sibal’s house on Monday, a day after his 73rd birthday, with people aware of the developments saying that the gathering would serve as a platform for like-minded leaders to discuss uniting against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Nationalist Congress Party leaders Sharad Pawar and Praful Patel, Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien, the National Conference’s Omar Abdullah, Samajwadi Pary chief Akhilesh Yadav, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (DMK’s) Tiruchi Siva, and the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Lalu Prasad are likely to make an appearance, a person aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity.Among those likely to be present at the gathering are also several of the so-called “G-23” leaders, who wrote a letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi last year, asking for an overhaul in the party’s, including elections to all party posts.“It’s just a personal dinner for my friends… There’s nothing more to it,” Sibal said when contacted by HT.Congress leader and MP Shashi Tharoor, who has also been invited to the gathering, said: “As far as I understand, Kapil’s dinner is just a discussion among like-minded people from various parties about the best ways forward to defeat the BJP in 2024. It is in no way any sort of rebel movement in the party; instead, it seeks to strengthen the entire Opposition, including the Congress.”A person who was among the signatories of the letter, however, said: “It’s been a year and there are many who feel that things have not moved.” “So we decided that we should take things beyond the Congress and also re-group,” the leader said, asking not to be named.When contacted, a Congress spokesperson declined a formal comment. The spokesperson, however, said that the Congress viewed it as Sibal’s personal engagement which in no way impacted the political party. Many Congress leaders who are not signatories are also likely to attend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-his-73rd-birthday-sibal-set-to-host-opposition-leaders-on-monday-101628451311771.html
09-08-2021||India||5 arrested for posting derogatory content against judges: CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) said on Saturday it has arrested five people in the last one month for allegedly posting derogatory content on social media against judges and the judiciary, a remark that came two days after a bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana lamented that CBI and other agencies “are not helping the judiciary at all”.To be sure, the arrests have been made in an unrelated case, in which probe was launched by CBI in November last year on the orders of the Andhra Pradesh high court. Of the five people, two were arrested on Saturday for allegedly posting defamatory content against Andhra Pradesh high court and Supreme Court judges, an officer said on condition of anonymity.The central agency took over 12 First Information Reports (FIRs), registered by the state Crime Investigation Division between April and July 2020 on the complaint of Registrar General of Andhra Pradesh high court, and clubbed all these into a single case.In its FIR registered on November 11, the agency named 16 people as accused and charged them under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including section 506 (criminal intimidation), and Section 67 of the IT Act.“It was alleged that the accused, by intentionally targeting the judiciary, made derogatory posts on social media platforms against judges and judiciary, following some court verdicts delivered by the judges of the high court of Andhra Pradesh,” said CBI spokesperson RC Joshi.The five people arrested have been identified as Pattapu Aadarsh and Lavanuru Samba Siva Reddy from Andhra Pradesh (arrested on Saturday); Dhami Reddy Konda Reddy and Pamula Sudheer (arrested on July 28) and Lingareddy Rajasekhar Reddy (arrested on July 9 on his arrival from Kuwait).“We were monitoring Lingareddy’s movements. The moment he landed in India, the officers took him into their custody,” the officer cited above said.According to the officer, the agency has also examined a Lok Sabha member N Suresh, and former MLA Amanchi Krishnamohan – both belonging to the YSR Congress – in connection with the case.Of the 16 booked in connection with the case, 13 have been traced while the other three are settled abroad and efforts are on to nab them, said a second officer, asking not to be named.“We have so far examined 11 out of the above 13 accused persons and arrested five. Evidence against the remaining six accused persons is being evaluated for further necessary legal action. CBI is pursuing to secure the presence of two other accused said to be abroad for their examination,” Joshi said.The agency carried out searches on the premises of the accused that led to the information that one of them was allegedly using a passport in a different name, he said. “Action was also initiated by CBI, after it had registered this case to get objectionable posts removed from the social media platforms, public domains and a lot of such posts or accounts were removed from the internet,” he added.Joshi said CBI has also sought cooperation from the channels of MLAT (mutual legal assistance treaties) and the Interpol to collect evidence from abroad.On August 6, while hearing the case of a Jharkhand district judge’s murder, Justice Ramana passed stern remarks on the working of the CBI and other investigative agencies with regards to complaints raised by judges.“In one or two places, the court ordered a CBI inquiry. I am very sorry to say that the CBI has done nothing in more than one year. At one place, I know, the CBI has done nothing. I think we have expected some changes in CBI’s attitude. But there is no change in the attitude of the CBI...They think it is not a priority item for them. The IB, CBI they are not helping the judiciary at all...,” the CJI had said while hearing a suo motu case on the issue of safeguarding courts and protecting judges in the wake of a recent incident of the alleged mowing down of a judge in Dhanbad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-arrested-for-posting-derogatory-content-against-judges-cbi-101628450111730.html
09-08-2021||India||Approached by TMC to merge party: Gogoi||GUWAHATI: Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi on Sunday said the Trinamool Congress (TMC) has approached him to merge his party with it and offered him the post of party’s Assam unit chief.“They have given a proposal that Raijor Dal should merge with TMC, and I should head the party’s unit in Assam,” the Sibsagar MLA said, without divulging on his party’s stand on the offer.However, a party insider requesting anonymity said they have decided not to merge with the TMC.Gogoi said he met TMC chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Kolkata, adding that three rounds of meetings between the two parties have already taken place.Gogoi on Sunday said an alliance of regional parties under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee is in the making to oust the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from power at the Centre in 2024.“If we have to remove Prime Minister Narendra Modi from power, confederation of regional parties will play an important role. Hence under the leadership of Mamta Banerjee, all regional parties of India have to come together,” he added.Gogoi said the Raijor Dal has started talks with the Congress to discuss the upcoming bypolls in Assam and the prospect of opposition parties, except All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) joining hands.“We’ve had initial discussions with Congress. Some of their leaders are saying that they want to part ways with AIUDF, which was part of the ‘grand alliance’ for the assembly polls,” he added.Bypolls in at least five seats are to be held in the coming weeks after two newly elected MLAs died due to Covid-19, two Congress MLAs quit the party and joined the BJP and former CM and Majuli MLA Sarbananda Sonowal joined the Union cabinet last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/approached-by-tmc-to-merge-partygogoi-101628449513790.html
09-08-2021||India||53 assistant commandants pass out from ITBP Academy in Mussoorie||Fifty-three assistant commandants passed out from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police Academy in Mussoorie on Sunday. These 53 assistant commandants included 42 in General Duty category and 11 in Engineering category. Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami participated in the passing out parade and took the salute. SS Deswal, DG ITBP along with senior officers of the Force welcomed Dhami on the occasion. Lauding the role of ITBP in protecting the country’s border areas in the over 3400 km long Himalayan range, Dhami said it is because of their sacrifices and alertness in the difficult terrain that people can sleep peacefully at night. Dhami said he too was the son of an army man and as such was proud to participate in the passing out day parade. “ITBP personnel are not only protecting the Himalayan frontiers, they are also promoting adventure sports and initiating various welfare schemes in the border areas,” he said. The chief minister also expressed his gratitude to ITBP for its services during various disasters in the state and across the country. He recalled their services during the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy and overall contribution in taking care of many medical emergencies in high altitude areas during the Char Dham yatra and Mansarovar Yatra and so on. The chief minster while congratulating the new assistant commandants of ITBP, said he hoped that they would work with dedication and emerge as efficient and able leaders ITBP Academy, which was established in 1978, trains directly recruited officers of the rank of Assistant Commandants, who constitute senior leadership of the Force and directly recruited Sub-Inspectors, who constitute subordinate leadership level, according to the website of the Academy. Besides imparting initial training to these Officers, the Academy has also developed specialisation in disciplines like counter-insurgency operations, rock climbing, VIP protection, and identification and handling of improvised explosive devices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/53-assistant-commandants-pass-out-from-itbp-academy-in-mussoorie-101628449512699.html
09-08-2021||India||Highest threat to bodily integrity is in police custody: CJI||Underlining the importance of human rights and bodily integrity, Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana on Sunday lamented that police stations pose the “highest threat” to citizens’ rights.“The threat to human rights and bodily integrity is the highest in police stations...Going by recent reports, even the privileged are not spared third-degree treatment,” said the CJI as he spoke at the release of National Legal Services Authority’s legal services app and vision statement in New Delhi.Despite constitutional declarations and guarantees, Justice Ramana rued, lack of effective legal representation at the police stations is a huge detriment to arrested people.“To keep police excesses in check, dissemination of information about the constitutional right to legal aid and availability of free legal aid services is necessary,” said the CJI while imploring the NALSA to actively carry out nationwide sensitisation of police officers.Justice Ramana further emphasised that access to justice is an unending mission which will succeed only if judiciary can obviate obstacles like lengthy, painstaking, and expensive formal justice processes.“If, as an institution, the judiciary wants to garner the faith of the citizens, we have to make everyone feel assured that we exist for them. For the longest time, the vulnerable population has lived outside the system of justice,” he asserted.According to the CJI, it is imperative to bridge the gap of accessibility to justice between the highly privileged and the most vulnerable. He said the digital divide has not helped the cause of easy access to justice. Rural and remote areas suffer from lack of connectivity.“Accessing justice in India is not merely an aspirational goal. We need to work hand in hand with various wings of the government to make it a practical reality,” said justice Ramana, adding that he has already written to the government about the urgent need to bridge the digital chasm on a priority basis.Justice Uday U Lalit, who is the executive chairman of NALSA, said that law colleges must adopt the nearby talukas for spreading awareness about legal aid.“We are impressing upon bar councils and law colleges, and they must adopt one or two talukas around them, so that students can be given practical training to be part of a large contingent of para-volunteers. They will impress on people about their rights of legal aid,” Justice Lalit said at the same event.To further the accessibility of legal aid, Justice Lalit opined that it is essential that the services of post offices must be utilised owing to their well-established networks.“If we are to reach the remotest areas of the country, it must be through post offices. Post offices will spread awareness about legal services”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-threat-to-bodily-integrity-is-in-police-custody-cji-101628449212405.html
09-08-2021||India||Tamil Nadu survey shows Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy highest among elderly||A state government survey on Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy has found that the elderly population in Tamil Nadu was the most hesitant compared to other age groups.The survey was carried out by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine (DPH) in July to analyse people’s perception towards taking the vaccine across Tamil Nadu. 95 clusters were chosen randomly in the state with each cluster consisting of 30 random houses. Vaccine hesitancy was highest among those who were above the age of 60 with 27.6%, while for those in the 18-45 age category it was 16.9% and in the 45-60 age category it was 18.2%. The number of people who were surveyed in each of these three categories are 488, 1596, and 771 respectively. The survey covered a cross section of people who are professionals and illiterate and working, unemployed, students and those who are retired. Nearly 2855 people were surveyed. “This number is enough to conduct a rapid assessment to understand the problem for decision making,” said Dr K Kolandaswamy, former director of DPH. “The survey has shown what we have come to know anecdotally that there is vaccine hesitancy among the elderly, pregnancy and lactating women.” Pregnant and lactating women were also included in the survey.Among those who were not vaccinated, 80.3% of males and 81.6% of females were ready to get vaccinated, according to the survey released on Sunday. Vaccine hesitancy was observed in 19.7% men and 18.4% of women. Vaccine hesitancy was higher among rural respondents (20.3%) compared to urban areas (17.5%). According to the survey, reasons for vaccine hesitancy were manifold among the respondents who were both vaccinated and had not taken it. The top reasons were fear of injections, fear of complications, confidence that they will not get Covid-19 and being turned away due to short supply of vaccines and not being aware of where to get vaccines.Based on the survey results, the public health department has decided to focus on awareness activities to address misconceptions regarding the Covid-19 vaccine with special attention for people above 60 years of age. Strategies and facilities would be created to counter the barriers. “The survey has shown us that we need to create a supply that is closer to their homes,” said Dr T S Selvavinayagam, director public health who led the survey. “Most of these problems are easily addressable but the real challenge for us is the supply now.” The state has been perennially facing a shortage in vaccine supply from the Union government, but it has been addressed now. He added that another survey will be taken only if their performance in addressing hesitancy doesn’t work.The survey teams at each district were constituted and led by the respective Deputy Director of Health Services, while in Chennai; the survey was done by Community Medicine Postgraduate students from the Madras Medical College with support from Greater Chennai Corporation.“They visited houses and one family member was chosen by a random method from each house. They were interviewed to understand their perception towards Covid-19 vaccine, after verifying their vaccination status,” said a statement from the DPH.If the participant was vaccinated, the reason for their acceptance of the vaccine and getting vaccinated was recorded. If the participant was unvaccinated, the reasons for not getting vaccinated and their willingness to get vaccinated in future were also recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-survey-shows-covid-19-vaccine-hesitancy-highest-among-elderly-101628448431533.html
09-08-2021||India||Mixing shots safe and effective: Study||After analysing the accidental mixing of Covishield and Covaxin vaccine shots in 18 people in an Uttar Pradesh village, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has concluded in a pre-print study that the combination of the two Covid-19 vaccines elicits a better immune response than two jabs of the same vaccine.In May, 20 villagers in a government-run hospital in UP’s Siddharthnagar district were inadvertently administered the second dose of Covaxin after the first dose of Covishield after a gap of six weeks. Of the 20, 18 agreed to be part of the study. Among them, 11 were men with a median age of 62 years. A comorbid condition (hypertension) was reported in one individual.“We compared the safety and immunogenicity profile of them against that of individuals receiving either Covishield or Covaxin… Immunogenicity profile against Alpha, Beta and Delta variants in the heterologous group was superior; IgG antibody and neutralising antibody response of the participants was also significantly higher compared to that in the homologous groups,” researchers said in the paper, which is yet to be peer-reviewed.While the findings could benefit the immunisation programme, there is a need for a randomised controlled trial to further corroborate the findings.“A slew of studies suggests that mixing vaccines provokes potent immune responses, but scientists still want answers on real-world efficacy and rare side effects,” according to Nature.According to the study, none of the participants enrolled in the study had any serious adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) within 30 minutes of inoculation with the first or second dose. The most common local after-effect reported after the first and second doses was pain at the injection site.“The findings suggest that immunisation with a combination of an adenovirus vector platform-based vaccine (Covishield) followed by an inactivated whole virus vaccine (Covaxin) was not only safe but also elicited better immunogenicity,” the paper said.The national immunisation programme against Covid-19 began on January 16 with two vaccines: AstraZeneca’s ChAdOx1-nCov-19 (termed Covishield in India) and inactivated whole virion BBV152 (Covaxin). The regimen for both vaccines initially had a priming dose followed by a homologous booster dose at an interval of four weeks. The gap between the two Covishield doses was later increased to 6-8 weeks, and then to 8-12 weeks. There was no change in the Covaxin schedule.India prioritised frontline workers, including health care professionals, people above the age of 60 years and adults with comorbidities for vaccination before opening it up for all adults.“The nationwide vaccination program at this time entered into 4 months of its existence and the event of mixed dosing raised considerable anxiety in public domain with a potential to contributing to vaccine hesitancy. We conducted the current investigation against this backdrop,” said the paper published in the open access medical journal, MedRxiv.In July, the subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation granted approval to Christian Medical College, Vellore, to conduct clinical trials of mixing of both Covishield and Covaxin vaccines.“For this particular study, these people were closely monitored, and their parameters checked at regular intervals to find out the effect of mixing of both the Covid-19 vaccines. There are other studies going on globally and nationally as well to determine the effect of mixing two different types of vaccines as part of the inoculation regimen and we have had promising results so far. However, this is the first result to study the effects of mixing adeno vector and inactivated whole virion based Covid-19 vaccines,” said one of the authors of the ICMR study, asking not to be named.“These findings have an important implication for the Covid-19 vaccination program wherein heterologous immunisation will pave the way for induction of improved and better protection against the variant strains of Sars-CoV-2. Such mixed regimens will also help to overcome the challenges of shortfall of particular vaccines and remove hesitancy around vaccines in people’s mind that could have genesis in programmatic “errors” especially in settings where multiple Covid-19 vaccines are being used,” said the paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mixing-shots-safe-and-effective-study-101628448312631.html
09-08-2021||India||Govt to push legislation in final week of session||With just five days left until the end of Parliament’s monsoon session, the central government is looking to push through a constitutional amendment that aims to restore the power of states to identify backward castes, at a time the Opposition has indicated that it will stick to its strategy of demanding a debate on the Pegasus spyware controversy and the contentious agriculture laws.So far, the monsoon session of Parliament, which began on July 19, has been rocked by frequent protests and disruptions. Both Houses have seen Opposition lawmakers troop to the Well, hold placards and shout slogans against the government over their demand to discuss the Pegasus row, the three farm laws and rising fuel prices. Last week, a Rajya Sabha MP -- TMC’s Santanu Sen -- was suspended for the session for alleged “unruly” behaviour, with Opposition leaders accusing the Chair of not allowing them to express their views.According to Opposition leaders, the government has not yet reached out to the parties to seek support for The 127th Constitution Amendment Bill 2021, which aims to bypass a May 2021 Supreme Court ruling that said only the Centre could notify socially and educationally backward classes (SEBCs) — and not the states.The new bill effectively bypasses the apex court’s decision, which triggered protests by state governments and other backward caste (OBC) groups. It also comes ahead of crucial elections in five states early next year.Opposition support to pass the bill is significant as a constitutional amendment requires two-thirds majority of lawmakers who are present during the proceedings, with at least 50% in attendance.A senior Congress strategist aware of the matter indicated on Sunday that the party will not budge from the demand for a debate on Pegasus.Congress chief whip in the Rajya Sabha, Jairam Ramesh, also hinted that the party is unlikely to shift its stand on Pegasus in the last five days of the session. “Remember what happened in 2010,” he said, pointing out how the 2010 winter session was a washout as the BJP, then in Opposition, vigorously demanded a joint parliamentary probe into allegations of corruption in the 2G spectrum allocation.The Trinamool Congress’s Lok Sabha leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay said the party, too, will continue to raise issues and demonstrate. “We will stage dharna at the Gandhi statue (in Parliament) on the violence against our party workers and leaders in Tripura. Inside Parliament, the Pegasus remains our key theme,” he said, referring to the alleged attack on TMC workers in Tripura by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders. The BJP has denied any involvement in Saturday’s incident in the north-eastern state.Other parties, however, said that the constitutional amendment is an important issue. “This is an important bill and I personally want it to be cleared,” said Elamaram Kareem, Rajya Sabha MP of the Communist Party of India (Marxist).In the three weeks of the monsoon session, opposition parties have largely presented a united front against the BJP-led government in Parliament. On Friday, leaders of 13 opposition parties attended the farmers’ protest at Delhi’s Jantar Mantar against the new farm laws, and spoke about the Pegasus controversy, which erupted last month after reports said that the Israeli spyware may have been used to hack the phones of activists, journalists and politicians in India.Party leaders also huddled together to arrive at a common strategy to counter the government over the two issues, and last week, MPs repeatedly brought up the Pegasus issue even as a debate on a bill introduced in House went on.On Monday, too, around 14 Opposition leaders from over a dozen parties will meet at 10am at the chamber of Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, to chalk out a common strategy.A senior non-Congress Opposition leader said they will likely continue to speak about Pegasus and farm laws at every opportunity.“We are going to give notices for amendments, discussion on bills. And every speaker, when his or her chance comes, might say a few sentences about national security, Pegasus... the issues that we want to highlight,” the leader said on condition of anonymity.Although much of the session has been rocked by demonstrations and a flurry of adjournments, the government has been able to pass key laws amid the din in both Houses of Parliament. It has managed to pass key bills such as The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill, 2021, The Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021 and The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in both Houses.For this week, the government has added more bills in its legislative agenda. It wants to clear bills to create the National Commission for Homeopathy and National Commission for Indian System of Medicines. In the Lok Sabha, it has also listed The Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 (which will provide relief to depositers of stressed banks) and The Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill, 2021 (which aims to improve ease of business in India).“When the voice of the entire Opposition is being censored daily in Parliament, we will innovate to communicate. We all agreed on a unique technique last week, we will continue to hold them accountable next week,” said Derek O’Brien, TMC MP in Rajya Sabha said on Sunday.“Mr (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi, come listen to us,” the Trinamool leader wrote in a tweet on Sunday, posting a three-minute video of Opposition leaders protesting in both the Houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-push-legislation-in-final-week-of-session-101628448251017.html
09-08-2021||India||Flood-hit Raj, MP announce aid; rain continues in north||As heavy to moderate rainfall continued to lash parts of north India on Sunday, the flood situation in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan improved as the governments announced relief packages for the victims and commenced an evaluation of loss of life, livestock and property.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who earlier announced a ₹4 lakh compensation to kin of those killed in rain-related incidents, announced on Sunday a fresh relief package of ₹30,000 for cow, ₹25,000 for the non-milking animal, ₹3000 for goat and sheep, and ₹60 for hen.Nearly 15,000 people, rescued from flood-hit districts of Shivpuri, Guna, Gwalior, Morena, Bhind, Sheopur, Datia and Ashok Nagar, are staying in over 230 relief camps.Early on Sunday, Union aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia undertook an aerial survey of flood-hit areas of the Gwalior-Chambal region. He also met the victims and assured to provide them all the necessary help.“I have never seen such devastation in the past 40 years. About 20000 lives have been saved so far with the help of the Air force, Army, NDRF and SDRF. Instructions have been given to provide relief after assessing the damage caused to the people at the earliest,” he said.In Rajasthan, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has directed officials to provide immediate financial assistance of ₹5 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased, and ₹2 lakh to the injured from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.In this hour of crisis, all possible help will be provided to the families who have lost their loved ones. Orders have been issued for special ‘girdawari’ (revenue survey) to assess crop damage due to the rains so that compensation can be provided to those affected, the CM said.Several parts of Rajasthan have been lashed by heavy rains for days, leading to a flood-like situation in many areas. Hundreds of people in different districts have been evacuated from low-lying areas.After excessive rains in Hadoti region, comprising Kota, Jhalawar, and Baran in last several days, the situation has started normalizing on Sunday. No new casualty or rescue operation was conducted on Sunday.With the weakening of the low pressure system, heavy rainfall activities have reduced in the state bringing respite to people who have been affected due to incessant rainfall particularly in Kota division.However, Baran continues to face rain but there to the situation is improving as the water level is declining.“The district witnessed 1000 mm rains this season, which is probably the highest after 2011. Leaving Mangrol and Anta area, mostly every areas of the district was affected with incessant rains, especially Shahbad, Kishanganj, Atru and Chhabra,” said Rajendra Vijay, Collector Baran.Meanwhile, over the past few days, sultry weather has prevailed at many places in Punjab and Haryana, including common capital Chandigarh.Chandigarh and its surrounding areas were pounded by heavy rainfall, providing some relief to people from sultry weather. Adjoining towns Mohali (Punjab) and Panchkula (Haryana) also witnessed heavy showers.Chandigarh recorded a maximum temperature of 34.7 degrees Celsius during the day. In Punjab, Gurdaspur registered a high of 33.5 degrees Celsius, Amritsar 35 degrees Celsius, Ludhiana 33.4 degrees Celsius and Patiala 34.2 degrees Celsius. Light to moderate rain along with thundershower occurred at a few places over eastern Uttar Pradesh, the MeT Department said.IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said the monsoon trough is moving towards the western foothills of the Himalayas. He said rainfall is likely to decrease over north Indian plains and increase over the hills.The entire monsoon trough is likely to shift close to the foothills of the Himalayas during the next 24 to 48-hours, the IMD said. A cyclonic circulation lies over northeast Madhya Pradesh, it added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/floodhit-raj-mp-announce-aid-rain-continues-in-north-101628447472054.html
09-08-2021||India||Political parties in Tamil Nadu prep for upcoming local body polls||Political parties in Tamil Nadu are preparing themselves for the upcoming local body elections, the first since the assembly polls were held on April 6 and the ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) is focussing on the western region, the only districts where it fared poorly in the April 6 assembly polls.Chief minister and DMK president M K Stalin huddled with district secretaries on Sunday to discuss the polls. The Supreme Court has ordered the Tamil Nadu state election body to complete rural local body polls in nine newly created districts before September 15. Before the end of the year elections to urban local bodies will be conducted. Elections to urban local bodies were last held in October 2011 and after their five year tenure was over issues over delimitation of wards arose and stalled the elections.But elections to 27 rural local bodies were completed in 2011.“Their tenure will continue,” said a senior DMK leader who was part of the meeting. “Today’s meeting focussed on the nine districts and since it is the first election since our win, the chief minister wants us to build on the goodwill gained so far,” he added.MLAs and MPs belonging to the nine new districts--Vellore, Ranipet, Tirupattur, Kancheepuram, Chengalpet, Villupuram, Kallakuruchi, Tirunelvelu, Tenkasi-- were also present at the meeting. These regions are predominantly in the south which is the DMK’s stronghold and north where the party performed well, but the DMK is working to weaken the opposition AIADMK’s hold in the western region. The alliance led by DMK won just 17 of the 50 seats in the region, while it almost swept all other regions in the state. The AIADMK-led alliance with the BJP won the remaining 33. The western belt, also known as the Kongu region, is also the only place where the BJP enjoys considerable support in comparison to its unpopularity elsewhere in the state and the national party hopes to grow from here. Two of BJP’s four MLAs are from this region. The BJP has formed a 17-member panel to prep for the local body polls. “We will study our strengths in the panchayats, municipalities and corporations to analyse where we can contest,” said Karu Nagarajan, BJP’s state general secretary and a committee member. “As a first step we will collect nominations and then we will plan our strategy, campaign before sitting down with our alliance partners.”The DMK inducted three MLAs from the western belt into its cabinet and also saw to it that it has representation from the largely present Gounder community from here to which former chief minister Edappadi Palanswami belongs. The DMK has been poaching strong leaders from the western region belonging to the AIADMK and Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM). Stalin while inducting Haasan’s lieutenant turned rebel R Mahendran in July had said that the party would have fared better in the west if people like Mahendran were with the DMK. “Even while campaigning from last year, we were focussed on building our strength in the western region. We need to do more there,” the DMK leader said. The party is hoping that its popularity close on the heels of forming the government will help them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-parties-in-tamil-nadu-prep-for-upcoming-local-body-polls-101628447411905.html
09-08-2021||India||Govt data highlights waning scope of all-party meetings||The ambit of the long-standing culture of holding all-party meetings on crucial national and international issues appears to have narrowed over the years, government data indicates, with such meetings largely focussing on parliamentary affairs in recent years.While the all-party meetings were mostly chaired by the Prime Minister, the home ministry and the finance ministry on various issues in the governments led by Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Manmohan Singh, a large majority of those under the current ruling dispensation have been chaired by the parliamentary affairs ministry for the smooth functioning of the House, the official data shows.Records available with the ministry of parliamentary affairs show that Prime Minister Vajpayee’s government was most active in calling such meetings. Between 1998 and 2004, the Vajpayee government held 31 all-party meetings during its six years.To be sure, the Narendra Modi-led government has held more such meetings — 26 — in the last seven years than the Manmohan Singh-led government, which held 17 all-party meetings in 10 years, according to the official records.The data shows that during the last seven years, routine all-party meetings have been held every year ahead of Parliament sessions. The meetings were organised on the same subject: smooth functioning of the sessions.On three occasions of the 26 gatherings, all related to the raging pandemic, Prime Minister Modi chaired the meetings with floor leaders of Parliament since March 2020. The three meetings were crucial, as many policy directives including those on how to end the federal lockdown were discussed, and the Centre announced that the lockdown would not be stopped abruptly. One meeting, in September 2016, was chaired by the Union home minister on the state of affairs in Jammu & Kashmir. The 23 remaining meetings were chaired by the parliamentary affairs minister or his ministry, the data shows.In the previous two regimes, the PM, home minister and the finance minister presided a larger number of all-party meetings.Vajpayee presided over 23 out of the 31 meetings that were called on a variety of subjects under his leadership. On March 10, 2003, floor leaders met to discuss “the evolving situation with regard to Iraq” followed by another meeting on the “current situation in Iraq” on March 22 in the same year. In 1998, months after Vajpayee came to power, two all-party meetings were held on the women’s reservation bill on October 7 and December 9.A drought situation in 2000 and an earthquake in Gujarat in the same year led to an all-party meeting headed by the Prime Minister. During Singh’s government, parliamentary party leaders met to discuss “rising prices of essential commodities in India” on November 23, 2009. A meeting was also held on the land acquisition bill on April 9 and 18, 2013, while Reservation in Promotions SCs & STs in the Posts and Services was discussed at an all-party meeting at PM Singh’s residence on August 8, 2012.The latest all-party meeting on Covid-19 in the current government was held on July 18. PM Modi chaired the physical meeting at the Parliament annex and the Union health ministry gave a detailed briefing to several floor leaders on the progress related to vaccines, and management of the pandemic.An all-party meeting chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh was a near possibility during the ongoing Parliament session to end the logjam over Opposition protests triggered by the Pegasus issue and over three contentious farm laws. It, however, has not happened so far as the Opposition has remained firm on its demand for a debate on the Pegasus row. Government managers, who were negotiating with the Opposition leaders for a breakthrough, saw little merit in such a meeting when the outcome appeared to be predetermined, a person aware of the matter said.“It is always expected that the government of the day will hold all-party meetings on important internal and external developments regularly. All-party meetings can, at times, facilitate better functioning of Parliament, but frequent consultations with other parties, taking them on board, can help bring down political temperature of the country. In the past, Prime Minister PV Narsimha Rao had even sent Leader of the Opposition Atal Bihari Vajpayee to UNGA,” said former Lok Sabha secretary general P Sreedharan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-data-highlights-waning-scope-of-all-party-meetings-101628447356777.html
09-08-2021||India||Dictator, corrupt, sin: MP lists words to be avoided in assembly||Traitor, curse, mad thief, sycophant, dictator, sin, pity, black-marketing and corrupt are among the list of words and phrases that have been expunged from the proceedings of the Madhya Pradesh legislative assembly from 1954 till March 2021, according to a booklet prepared by state assembly officers consisting of 1,161 words and phrases that are deemed unparliamentary.Now, legislators have been asked to avoid these words and phrases during assembly proceedings, said AP Singh, principal secretary, Madhya Pradesh assembly.On the eve of the four-day long monsoon session, the state assembly on Sunday released this 38-page booklet, which lists out a number of unparliamentary words, phrases and sentences - mostly in Hindi.According to the booklet, use of misnomers like Pappu, Mr Bantadhar, Jhoota, Farzi Patrakar, Godi, Feku, Mamu among others will also be out of bounds for legislators. Similarly, they will be asked not take names of wife and other relatives of fellow MLAs and ministers.The booklet was released at the Vidhan Sabha Bhavan on Sunday by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, state Congress chief Kamal Nath, parliamentary affairs minister Narottam Mishra and assembly speaker Girish Gautam.Legislators will also be asked not to use some of the Hindi proverbs and idioms, such as ‘chullu bhar pani mein doob jana’, ‘gobar ganesh’, ‘Ali Baba chalis chor’ among others.“During the session, we have to expunge many unparliamentary and indecent words from the proceedings record book. So, we have decided to give them clarity on the use of words in the assembly,” said assembly speaker Girish Gautam.Parliament of India has already prepared a list of words that are not allowed to be used by members of the Houses under Article 105(2) of the Constitution of India.“Ban on using unparliamentary words doesn’t mean that session will be so serious. The MLAs should read some literature and can use some decent light words to attack on each other on a lighter note,” the assembly speaker added.However, several opposition leaders have expresses dissatisfaction over the ban of many words which they claimed are commonly used to attack the state government.“Corruption, fake, black-marketing and injustice are some of the words which we use commonly to expose irregularity in the system. Now, the assembly speaker wants to keep us mum in the house. We also want ban on misnomer, but it is wrong to ban use of common words,” said Govind Singh, senior Congress leader.However, ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders in the state have welcomed the decision to ban these words.Minister of medical education Vishwas Sarang said, “Instead of raising issue related to common man, Congress MLAs do personal attack. By using indecent words, they try to mislead the assembly and avoid fruitful discussion. This book is very necessary to teach them.”Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said it was necessary to maintain decency in the House and this book will help MLAs to check their conduct and words in the assembly.Political analyst Girija Shankar said, “This book has so many words which are very common, and it is impossible for any MLA not to use it while accusing each other. It is basically to stop the personal attacks and using misnomers in the house as it has increased a lot in the House.”An official from the assembly said the booklet will be given to the members of the House on Monday, before the session begins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dictator-corrupt-sin-mp-lists-words-to-be-avoided-in-assembly-101628447292732.html
09-08-2021||India||Putin to attend UNSC debate chaired by PM Modi||Russian President Vladimir Putin, Democratic Republic of Congo President Felix- Antoine Tshisekedi Tshilombo, who is also president of the African Union, and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken are among several heads of states and governments and world leaders who are expected to attend the UN Security Council high-level debate on Maritime Security that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair on Monday.UN diplomats familiar with the organisation of the meeting said confirmations are still coming in and the list of those likely to participate in the debate could grow.The meeting on Monday will be the first UN Security Council debate to be chaired by an Indian prime minister, though this is the eighth time that India has the rotational presidency of the top world body as a non-permanent member. Modi will chair the debate virtually in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The Maritime Security debate is the first of three signature events India is holding as Security Council chair for the month of August. The other two are debates on UN Peacekeeping, to which India has been a generous and steadfast contributor, and counter-terrorism, which is a subject India has championed at the world body for decades as a leading victim, especially from state-sponsored groups and individuals across its western border. External affairs minister S Jaishankar will chair the other two, and in person at the UN headquarters in New York City.President Putin’s participation was noted as a significant gesture as he rarely attends such debates; the last one, people familiar with the matter, said was possibly 15 years ago.DRC’s President Tshisekedi is participating in the debate as a briefer on behalf of the African Union, 54 of whose members are part of the 55-member African Group, which is the largest group of geographically categorised groups that UN members are divided into. Prime Minister of St Vincent and Grenadines Ralph Gonsalves was confirmed as a participant as well, but has pulled out for health reasons and will be represented by his son, who is a member of the cabinet.Meanwhile, India’s presidency of the UNSC faced its first pushback and from expected quarters. Pakistan has reacted strongly to the UNSC’s rejection of its formal request to attend the Friday briefing by the UN Assistance Mission on Afghanistan (UNMA) on the evolving security situation in the country as US-led international forces end their 20-year presence.“It is a matter of deep regret that, as the closest neighbour of Afghanistan, whose contribution in the ongoing peace process has been recognised by the international community, Pakistan’s request to the President of the Security Council to address the Council’s session and present its perspective on the Afghan peace process and the way forward was not acceded to,” Pakistan’s ministry of foreign affairs said in a statement Saturday.Pakistan had indeed made a formal request, but people familiar with the matter said, “it was turned down because, one, neighbours do not automatically qualify to attend or address under rules, as are affected countries — Afghanistan attended. And, two, where do you stop if all neighbours make the same request, to attend.”Some of Afghanistan’s other neighbouring countries had indeed expressed the desire to attend and address the meeting, but they were politely turned down as well, citing the same reason.Pakistan took aim in the comment at the president of the council, which for the month of August is India. But, the people cited earlier insisted, the decision to keep out neighbours was taken collectively by the UN Security Council as a body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/putin-to-attend-unsc-debate-chaired-by-pm-101628447113771.html
09-08-2021||India||NIA raids 56 J&K areas in terror funding case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday raided 56 locations linked to the alleged members of the banned Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) group across 14 districts in Jammu and Kashmir as part of its probe in a terror funding case, the agency said in a statement.The Centre banned the JeI for five years after the Pulwama attack, in which 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) troopers were killed, under anti-terror laws on the grounds that it was “in close touch” with terror outfits and was likely to “escalate secessionist movement” in the region. A notification, banning the group under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, was issued by the ministry of home affairs after a high-level meeting on security chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in February 2019.“Searches conducted today included the premises of office bearers of the proscribed association, its members and also offices of trusts purportedly run by JeI,” NIA said in a statement. NIA added that during the searches held across the districts of Srinagar, Budgam, Ganderbal, Baramulla, Kupwara, Bandipora, Anantnag, Shopian, Pulwama, Kulgam, Ramban, Doda, Kishtwar and Rajouri, “various incriminating documents and electronic devices were seized from the premises of the suspects”.Hundreds of JeI members, including its chief Abdul Hameed Fayaz, were arrested by the J&K Police in a major crackdown after the outfit was banned. Fayaz continues to be behind bars.“The members of the organisation have been collecting funds domestically and abroad through donations particularly in the form of Zakat, Mowda and Bait-ul-Mal (religious donations) purportedly to further charity and other welfare activities but these funds are instead being used for violent and secessionist activities,” the NIA statement added.The central anti-terror agency added that the funds collected by the JeI were being used to help terrorist groups.“The funds raised by JeI are also being channelised to proscribed terrorist organisations such as Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM), Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and others through well-organised networks of JeI cadres,” the statement said.NIA also said that the JeI was motivating “impressionable youth of Kashmir and recruiting new members in J&K to participate in disruptive secessionist activities.”“Further investigation in the case continues,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niaraids-56-j-k-areas-in-terror-funding-case-101628447112413.html
09-08-2021||India||Ujjwala scheme 2.0 beneficiaries to get free stove, refill||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the second version of Ujjwala free cooking gas connection scheme along with “a free refill and a stove” on Tuesday from Mahoba district of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, in a bid to replicate the success of its first version that earned political goodwill for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2017 UP assembly elections, two people aware of the development said.Under Ujjwala 2.0, the Union government will distribute about 10 million gas connections this financial year to the poor along with a free refill and a stove, they said, asking not to be named. About five years ago, ahead of the crucial UP polls, PM Modi launched the first version of the scheme (Ujjwala 1.0) in Ballia district on May 1, 2016.Ujjwala 2.0 is also expected to give a free refill worth over ₹800 and a free stove, one of the people quoted above said. “Earlier under Ujjwala 1.0, only a deposit free LPG connection was provided to the beneficiary amounting to a financial assistance of ₹1,600, where beneficiaries also had an option to take loan at zero interest rate from the public sector oil marketing companies for the hot plate (stove) and the first refill,” the person added.On Tuesday, the Prime Minister will also deliver a speech. The event will be attended by Union petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, a government spokesperson said.The intent of the scheme was announced in this year’s annual budget. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1 announced extending the scheme to 10 million new beneficiaries in 2021-22. “Ujjwala Scheme which has benefited 8 crores [80 million] households will be extended to cover 1 crore [10 million] more beneficiaries,” she said in her Budget speech.Besides free first refill and a stove along with a deposit-free gas connection, the scheme in its new form will have a provision for online application. A migrant family can also get separate gas connections, the person said.“Preference would be given to poor families belonging to the scheduled castes (SCs) and scheduled tribes (STs) and also for families residing in areas with lower LPG [liquefied petroleum gas] penetration than the national or state average,” the person said.Applicants will be required to fill a simplified know-your-customer (KYC) form, which would not require any notarised affidavit. Migrants can provide self-declaration if they don’t have a proof of address, the person added. People can apply online through the dedicated portal or common service centres, or through local gas agencies belonging to the state-run oil marketing companies (OMCs) – Indian Oil Corporation, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd, the person said.Ujjwala 1.0, also known as the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), was launched in 2016 to provide only deposit-free LPG connections to the women of poor households.Initially, the target was set to provide 50 million LPG connections with the budgetary provision of ₹8,000 crore over a period of three years starting from FY 2016-17. Subsequently, considering the success of PMUY in providing access of clean cooking fuel and its resultant health, environment and economic benefits, the target was revised to 80 million connections with the total budget of ₹12,800 crore up to FY 2019-20, the second person said.The target beneficiaries were initially selected from the Socio-Economic Caste Census of 2011 (SECC Data) and the scope was later expanded to more categories to include deprived women in poor households.“The target to distribute 8 crore [80 million] LPG connections under the scheme was successfully accomplished in September 2019, seven months ahead of the target date. Implementation of PMUY has resulted in increase in national LPG coverage from 61.9% to 99.99 % as on July 1, 2021,” the person added.As there has been a gap of about 18 months since the last connection under Ujjwala 1.0 was given, the petroleum ministry is using the term Ujjwala 2.0 for this phase of the scheme, the person said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ujjwala-scheme-2-0-beneficiaries-to-get-free-stove-refill-101628447111919.html
09-08-2021||India||Govt may begin migrant data collection this week||The Union government is likely to launch by this week a digitised platform for migrant workers that will enable authorities to direct state-run benefits to them and intervene during crises, people aware of the matter said on Sunday. This follows a Supreme Court order in June that set a deadline of July 31 for the move.Last summer, tens of thousands of low-paid workers made an exodus on foot from major cities such as Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai under without much food or money following the stringent national lockdown during the first wave of Covid-19. In September 2020, then labour minister Santosh Gangwar told Parliament that the government had no data on how many such people left the cities or how many died in the lockdown.The migrant workers’ portal is expected to fill this gap. It is a joint venture between the labour and employment ministry and common service-centres (CSC) run by the electronics and information technology ministry, the people quote above said.“The portal is fully ready and we will be in a position to begin registration of workers anytime and possibly go live by this week,” a labour ministry official aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity.The platform will allow migrants to register themselves and secure a unique ID to access the portal from a CSC. The CSCs are points of access to a host of government digital services across the country and there are nearly 400,000 of them. “The ID can be used to access government schemes and services, irrespective of their place of stay,” an IT ministry official said, asking not to be named.Workers in the informal economy are estimated to contribute nearly 50% to the country’s gross domestic product. “One is not clear given the humongous task of registration whether this project will be completed in the near future. The first part is registration, of course,” said KR Syam Sundar, an economist with the Xaviers Labour Relations Institute, Jamshedpur.According to Sundar, the Supreme Court is aware of the “governments’ apathy in complying with critical procedural requirements concerning unorganised workers over the (past) decade and a half”.On June 29, the apex court, while hearing a case on the plight of workers in the unorganised sector, set a deadline of July 31 for the government to “prepare a mechanism” for the registration of such workers. Similar deadlines had been set in 2018 and 2019 as well.Workers will be registered as and when they apply and that could take time. “But we will launch a big awareness drive so that nobody is left behind,” said the labour ministry official.While there are no official estimates on the total number of migrant workers, a novel statistical tool developed by former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian had revealed an annual “interstate migrant population of about 60 million and an interdistrict migration as high as 80 million” between 2001 and 2011.According to the second official cited above, the portal is similar to a platform that the Gujarat government launched last month for construction workers to access the state’s welfare schemes. The Gujarat portal saw a registration of over 100,000 workers within a fortnight of launch, the official said.While the unique identification number allotted to migrants will be similar to the biometric Aadhaar, the unique ID will not be made mandatory for registration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-may-begin-migrant-data-collection-this-week-101628446934825.html
09-08-2021||NA||Breaking news: Fire breaks out at private factory in Noida sector 63||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Fire breaks out at private factory in Noida sector 63Massive fire breaks out at a private factory in Noida sector 63. At least six fire tenders rushed to spot.Soldier found dead in Rajouri garrison: Army24-year-old soldier found dead under mysterious circumstances in Rajouri garrison. Court of Inquiry has been ordered to investigate the cause of death: Indian ArmyNumber of injuries in Quetta blast rises to 13: Pakistan mediaAt least 13 people have now sustained injuries in the Quetta blast, reports local media.2 policemen killed in blast in Pakistan's Quetta, reports local mediaTwo policemen killed, at least six injured in a blast near Unity Chowk area of Quetta, reports Pakistan media.Considering relaxations for fully vaccinated people, says Thackeray"We are considering relaxations for fully vaccinated people in the state. I have asked industries to stagger the office timings," says Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray.Have urged Centre to remove 50% ceiling on reservation: Uddhav Thackeray"We have urged the Centre to remove 50% ceiling on reservation. We have also requested prime minister Narendra Modi to avail empirical data on backward classes for OBC reservation in politics," says Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray in address to state.Delhi reports 66 new Covid-19 cases; daily toll at zeroDelhi reports 66 new #COVID19 cases, 95 recoveries, and no death reported in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 536Total recoveries: 14,11,159Death toll: 25,066 pic.twitter.com/uOPfarIJfoDelhi reports 66 new Covid-19 cases, 95 recoveries; no death reported in the last 24 hours.Nearly 1600 new Covid-19 cases in KarnatakaKarnataka reports 1598 new Covid-19 cases, 1914 recoveries and 20 deaths. Cumulative infection tally at 2,918,525.Schools in Delhi to reopen partially from tomorrow: DDMASchools to partially open for class X and XII students in Delhi from August 9; students can visit their schools for admission related work including counseling/guidance and practical activities related to board exams: Delhi Disaster Management AuthorityU'khand appoints India hockey player as ambassadorUttarakhand CM Pushkar Singh Dhami announces India hockey player Vandana Kataria, who hails from state, will be the brand ambassador of its Department of Women Empowerment and Child Development.Assam CM to meet PM Modi tomorrow to discuss dispute with MizoramAssam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma and state BJP MPs to meet PM Modi on Monday to discuss border dispute with Mizoram.2050 new Covid-19 cases in Andhra PradeshAndhra Pradesh reports 2050 new Covid-19 cases, 2458 recoveries and 18 deaths. Recovery count at 1,948,828, while active cases and deaths at 19,949 and 13,531 respectively.Shops in Pune to open till 8pm six days a week from MondayMaharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar announces shops in Pune can open till 8pm six days a week, from Monday. Hotels and Restaurants have been allowed dine-in facility till 10 pm on all days.Haryana allows bars, gyms restaurants to open at 50% capacityCOVID restrictions under 'Surakshit Haryana' extended till Aug 23 with some relaxationsRestaurants, bars, gyms, spas allowed to open with 50% seating capacity. All shops and malls are allowed to open with social distancing norms. Swimming pools allowed to open with COVID norms. pic.twitter.com/5BPMjFDGngHaryana extends Covid-19 lockdown till August 23; restaurants, bars, gyms and spas allowed to open with 50% capacity.Iran records grim milestone of 500 Covid-19 deaths in 24 hrs#BREAKING Iran records over 500 Covid deaths In past 24 hours, new high: ministry pic.twitter.com/0b3ChPlkQaFire breaks out at a godown in Delhi's Peeragarhi Chowk areaDelhi: Fire breaks out at a godown in the Peeragarhi Chowk area. 15 fire tenders rushed to the spot. No casualty reported so far. Details awaited.Russia reports 22,866 new Covid-19 cases, 787 deathsRussia reported 22,866 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, including 2,761 in Moscow, taking the national tally to 6,447,750 since the pandemic began.Covishield, Covaxin mix can give better results, says ICMRThe Indian Council of Medical Research has revealed that a mix of Covishield and Covaxin, the two main vaccines of India's Covid vaccination programme, can actually yield better results, news agency ANI reported.Passenger bus overturns in western Turkey, killing 14 peopleA passenger bus veered and tumbled off a highway in western Turkey, killing 14 people on Sunday.Freedom fighters under the leadership of Mahatama Gandhi overthrew a power: CJI RamanaToday is an important day as exactly 79 years back marked the turning point in the freedom struggle. Freedom fighters under the leadership of Mahatama Gandhi overthrew a power, which gave them dominant status. It was a deep-rooted desire to end inequality and discrimination: CJI NV Ramana.Over 52 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses provided to states, UTs so far: CentreMore than 52.37 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far and a further 8,99,260 doses are in the pipeline, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday.PM must intervene to end Parliament logjam; Monsoon session be extended: RJD MPAccusing the government of "closing the door" on negotiations to break the logjam over the Pegasus issue in Parliament, RJD leader Manoj Kumar Jha on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi must intervene to end the impasse, and called for extending the Monsoon session to make up for the lost timeKey city of Kunduz in northern Afghanistan falls to TalibanKey city of Kunduz in northern Afghanistan falls to Taliban, battle begins in another provincial capital, reports AFP. The Taliban said Sunday they had captured the key Afghan city of Kunduz, a claim confirmed by an AFP correspondent in the vicinity, as fierce fighting raged in the centre of a second northern capital, Shar-e-pul.1 officer dead, another wounded in Chicago shootingOne Chicago police officer died and another was wounded following an exchange of gunfire during a traffic stop late Saturday, officials said.Karkidaka Vavu Bali rituals in Kerala will not be allowed in public placesIn a view of Covid-19, Karkidaka Vavu Bali rituals will not be allowed in public places.State urged people to perform Karkidaka Vavu Bali, an annual Hindu ritual, where people perform balitarpan to pay obeisance to their ancestors, at their homes.Nepal receives first batch of AstraZeneca vaccine from JapanNepal received the first batch of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine from Japan on Saturday, local media reports said.Beijing imposes new travel restrictions to prevent Covid-19 spreadThe city of Beijing has rolled out a range of measures to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic by imposing restrictions on travellers from regions with relatively high virus transmission rates.Security increased at Delhi's IGI airport after threat emailSecurity has been increased at Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport after a bomb threat email to Delhi Police cautioned about terrorist outfit Al Qaeda planning to attack the airport.India’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 50.68 crore: Union health ministryIndia’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 50.68 crore. A total of 55,91,657 vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours, as per the 7 am provisional report today: Union health ministry.India reports 39,070 new Covid-19 casesIndia reports 39,070 new Covid-19 cases, 43,910 recoveries and 491 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per Health MinistryTotal cases: 3,19,34,455Active cases: 4,06,822Total recoveries: 3,10,99,771Death toll: 4,27,862Landslide in Thane; no casualty, 6 houses damagedAt least six houses were damaged after a landslide in Kalwa area here in Maharashtra on Sunday, but no one was injured, a civic official said.British cyclist Jason Kenny makes history with Olympic keirin goldJason Kenny won the men's keirin on Sunday to collect his seventh Olympic gold medal, overtaking Chris Hoy as Britain's most successful Olympian of all time.Olympics-organisers report 26 new games-related Covid-19 casesOrganisers of the Tokyo Olympics reported 26 new Games-related Covid-19 cases on Sunday, bringing the total since July 1 to 430 cases.Australian Delta outbreak continues as vaccination push ramps upAustralia continued its struggle to contain a delta outbreak across the nation’s east coast, with the race to increase vaccinations now key to prospects for a reduction in virus restrictions.NIA is conducting raids at multiple locations in J-K related to a terror funding caseNational Investigation Agency (NIA) is conducting raids at multiple locations in Jammu and Kashmir related to a terror funding case, reports news agency ANI.5 killed, driver seriously injured after single car crash in New ZealandNew Zealand police confirmed Sunday that five people died in Saturday night's overloaded single-car crash, one of the worst recently in South Island's Timaru.India moves to UK's 'amber list' todayThe United Kingdom has announced that it is moving India, which was so far on its high-alert 'red list' for entering England, to the medium-risk 'amber list' from today (i.e. August 8, Sunday).China reports 96 new Covid-19 cases vs 107 the day beforeChina reported 96 new cases of Covid-19 on the mainland for August 7, down from 107 cases a day earlier, the country's health authority said on Sunday.Brazil reports 43,033 Covid cases, 990 deaths in 24 hoursBrazil had 43,033 new cases of the novel coronavirus reported in the past 24 hours, and 990 deaths from Covid-19, the Health Ministry said on Saturday.7 killed in lightning strike in Bihar's BankaSeven people have been killed in a lightning strike in Bihar's Banka district on Saturday, state Health Minister Mangal Pandey informed.Saudi Arabia to reopen borders to vaccinated pilgrims: state mediaSaudi Arabia will begin accepting vaccinated foreign visitors to the Islamic holy city of Mecca as part of the umrah pilgrimage, state media reported Sunday, around 18 months after a border closure prompted by the coronavirus pandemic.Wildfires rampage in Greek forests, cut large island in halfThree large wildfires churned across Greece on Saturday, with one threatening whole towns and cutting a line across Evia, the country's second-largest island, isolating its northern part.4 drown in pond at Andhra's Veligallu projectFour members of a family drown in Gandi pond at Andhra Pradesh's Veligallu project on Saturday.Maharashtra: 6 houses damaged due to landslide in Kalwa EastIn a tragic incident, six houses got damaged due to a landslide at Ma Kali Chawl in Indira Nagar at Kalwa east, on Saturday evening. So far, no casualty has been reported.Australia's Victoria reports 11 Covid-19 casesAustralia's second most populous state Victoria reported 11 new locally acquired coronavirus cases on Sunday, as the state remains under a seven-day strict lockdown imposed earlier this week to reign in the highly infectious Delta variant.Thousands evacuated as floods hit North Korea: state TVMore than a thousand homes were damaged and about 5,000 people evacuated in North Korea after flooding caused by heavy rains, the country's state broadcaster reported, with swathes of farmland also inundated by the deluge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-thousands-evacuated-as-floods-hit-north-korea-reports-state-tv-101628379035776.html
09-08-2021||India||Discovery of new animal, plant species from India dip due to Covid-19 pandemic||The Covid-19 pandemic has taken a toll on the discovery of new animal and plant species in India. The number of discoveries of plant and animal species, some of which are unknown to humans, by scientists of the Botanical Survey of India and Zoological Survey of India has dropped over the past one year.Scientists have not been able to travel to remote corners and biodiversity rich areas of the country because of the lockdown and travel restrictions imposed by various states. The budget has also been slashed.“There has been a drop in the discovery of plant species this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Because of the pan-India lockdown, restriction on travel imposed by several states and the raging Coronavirus, scientists could not travel to remote areas. The budget has also been slashed for which field tours had to be curtailed,” said AA Mao, BSI director.Even though on an average the BSI discovers around 350 plant species, starting from flowering plants to ferns, fungi and algae, this year this has come down to around 250, a BSI scientist said. Around 180 are new to science, while the rest have never been reported from India earlier.Every year the ZSI and BSI, both headquartered in Kolkata, come up with annual publications listing the few hundred animal and plants that are discovered.For new discoveries, scientists depend on field trips to remote and biodiversity-rich areas of the country such as Himalayas, Western Ghats and the Nicobar islands in Bay of Bengal among others. Samples are collected and brought back to the laboratories for analysis and identification.“But over the past one-and-half-years such field surveys have virtually come to a halt. During this time ZSI scientists had to primarily depend on the samples, which they collected during earlier field trips. Not all samples which are collected can be analysed. They are kept in store. These were analysed this time and we came up with a few hundred new species,” said Dhriti Banerjee, ZSI director.The ZSI, which discovers around 350 species on an average, came up with around 200 new findings this year. Most of them are new to mankind.In 2020, ZSI reported at least 364 animal species which were unknown to humans while another 116 species of animals, which were earlier found elsewhere in the world but not recorded from India, were also discovered.“We had taken a few one-day field trips but the long-duration trips which allow exploring remote areas in forests could not be undertaken because of travel restrictions. Also, some scientists got infected,” said a ZSI scientist.Before publishing a research paper on identification of new species if there is any confusion the scientists re-visit the area from where the first sample was collected and try to collect a sample of the opposite sex to verify. As long trips could not be done some identification tasks got stuck midway.Till date scientists have been able to identify 102,161 species of animals – starting from the one-celled protozoans to large animals such as elephants and tigers. This is around 6.52% of the global share. More than 50,000 species of plants have also been identified from the country.“It was in March 2020 that I went for my last field trip to Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh. I had come back just two days before the pan-India lockdown started. Over the past one year I focused mostly on laboratory work -- analysing old samples, studying literature, preparing herbarium and studying plants in the Botanic Garden,” said a senior scientist of the BSI.Scientists from across the globe have managed to identify 1.8 million species till date which is only a small fraction of the estimated 30 to 50 million species thought to exist in the world. India ranks 8th in the world with its 1.02 lakh speciesThis year the publications are yet to be published. Officials in the ZSI and BSI said that they are likely to be published soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/discovery-of-new-animal-plant-species-from-india-dip-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-101628360766054.html
