10-08-2021||India||Current wet spell coupled with lightning to continue in these states till Aug 15||Several parts of India have been receiving widespread rainfall ever since the monsoon commenced this year, with states like Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan even witnessing deaths due to rain-triggered incidents as well. Heavy downpour in the national capital and various other eastern and northeastern states have led to waterlogged streets, building collapses and subsequent damage.Over the last few days, northeast, east and parts of the Himalayan regions along with Uttar Pradesh have been receiving widespread rainfall. According to the latest bulletin update by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the current spell of such heavy rainfall is expected to continue over the next five days till August 15.Also Read | Widespread rain likely over NE states, Uttarakhand, parts of UP for 5 daysThe MeT department said the eastern end of the monsoon trough has shifted “close to the foothills of the Himalayas,” while the western end “runs north of its normal position.” The bulletin further said a “cyclonic circulation lies over Bihar” and extends up to mid-tropospheric levels.Under the influence of these factors, widespread rainfall along with thunderstorms and ground lightning are very likely in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Kerala, among other states.Here are the key IMD alerts for states that will receive heavy rainfall over the next five days:1. The current spell of fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely to continue northeast and sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during the next five days till August 15. Isolated extremely heavy rainfall is very likely over Meghalaya and Assam between August 10 and 13.2. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rainfall is likely to continue over east Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar and Gangetic West Bengal over the next five days. Isolated very heavy falls are likely over Bihar on August 11 and 12.3. Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall is very likely over Kerala and Tamil Nadu till August 15. Isolated heavy falls are also likely over Tamil Nadu over the next five days, and the same is likely over Kerala over the next two days.4. Moderate to severe thunderstorms accompanied by cloud to ground lightning is very likely at isolated regions over Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours.5. The bulletin said subdued rainfall is very likely over the remaining parts of northwest India – Punjab, Haryana, and Rajasthan, adjoining central India, and most parts of the peninsular India (outside Tamil Nadu and Kerala), including Maharashtra and Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/current-wet-spell-coupled-with-lightning-to-continue-in-these-states-till-aug-15-101628618769071.html
10-08-2021||India||Maharashtra government announces Rajiv Gandhi award for IT sector||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Centre renamed the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award, Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced a new award named after the former prime minister for outstanding performance in the Information and Technology (IT) sector. The award will be conferred upon companies and institutions for excellence in the IT sector.Minister of state for Information and Technology Satej Patil said the award will be given yearly on August 20, the birth anniversary of Rajiv Gandhi.“The award will be given to the institutions that excel in the IT sector every year. This will be a lasting tribute to Rajiv ji for his pioneering work in the technology sector of the country,” Patil said.The Centre on Friday dropped Rajiv Gandhi’s name from the Khel Ratna award and renamed India’s highest sporting honour after Major Dhyan Chand, the legendary hockey player. The Congress criticised the move terming it political vendetta.Patil, however, said that the decision has “nothing” to do with the controversy over the renaming of the Khel Ratna award. “The decision about this award was taken a month ago, though chief minister Uddhav Thackeray cleared the proposal recently. The modalities of the award are being finalised by speaking to various organisations from the field,” he said.The Congress party is part of a three party coalition running the Maharashtra government led by Shiv Sena’s Uddhav Thackeray.Rajiv Gandhi, was the sixth prime minister of India between 1984 to 1989 and is widely credited for starting a telecom revolution in India and encouraging the use of Information Technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-government-announces-rajiv-gandhi-award-for-it-sector-101628618963141.html
10-08-2021||India||'Only 1 state reported suspected death due to oxygen shortage’: Health ministry||Health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal on Tuesday during the daily Covid-19 briefing said that only one state reported ‘suspected’ death due to lack of medical oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19. The Centre sought data from all states and Union Territories on deaths due to shortage of oxygen to which only 13 states and Union Territories responded. The government’s enquiry was initiated after the issue was raised in Parliament.Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab responded to Centre's enquiry and Punjab said it recorded four ‘suspected’ deaths due to oxygen shortage.“When the question was raised in Parliament, states were specifically asked this question and as per reports received only one state mentioned suspected death and no state has so far said that there were deaths because of oxygen shortage,” Agarwal said.During the monsoon session, the Opposition parties raised the issue of the devastation caused by the second wave of Covid-19. The Opposition parties wanted to know as to why the government faced an oxygen crisis at several hospitals as the country was battling a deadly second wave of Covid-19.The Opposition also sought answers from the government regarding reports of deaths on roads and outside hospitals due to lack of oxygen to which the government said that health is a state subject.Union minister of state for health Bharati Praveen Pawar on July 20 said that no state reported deaths due to shortage of oxygen. “Detailed guidelines for reporting of deaths have been issued by the Union Health Ministry to all states and UTs. Accordingly, all states and UTs report cases and deaths to the Union Health Ministry on a regular basis. However, no deaths due to lack of oxygen has been specifically reported by states and UTs,” Pawar said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-1-state-reported-suspected-death-due-to-oxygen-shortage-health-ministry-101628618133923.html
10-08-2021||India||UPSC behaving like a political party’s organ: TMC MP objects to CAPF exam questions||Trinamool Congress leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay on Tuesday raised objections over some questions asked in examination for Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) conducted by the UPSC earlier this month and alleged that it was "behaving like an organ of a political party".He said that some questions in the examination held on August 8 for filling some vacancies in the CAPF were "political" in nature.He said students were asked if farmer protests are politically motivated and were asked for views on poll violence in West Bengal and if party politics in India is a flourishing family business."It appears that these are actually questions of a political party. How can such questions be asked in the UPSC examination? These are politicised issues. We did not expect UPSC to behave like this. This is condemnable," Bandyopadhyay said."UPSC is behaving like an organ of a political party. UPSC is trusted and respected by people. Never before questions like this were asked. It raises questions about the reliability of the exam. They are trying to put some prejudicial ideas in the minds of the ones taking the exam," he added.On the issue of poll violence in West Bengal, he said that the assembly election was held in eight phases and the Election Commission did not mention any instance of violence in its report. "No by-polls were conducted in any constituency either."Also Read | Central agency ready to probe Bengal post-poll violence: Govt to HCAsked if he would raise the issue in Parliament, Bandyopadhyay said three working days were left for the session to conclude."It is worth raising in Parliament, but it can't happen. We allowed the discussion of an amendment in the constitution today though the Pegasus issue is still on. We will take this matter to the speaker."The Calcutta High Court had on August 3 reserved its order after hearing on the issue of post-poll violence in West Bengal.Several incidents of violence had been reported after the assembly poll results on May 2. A four-member team deputed by the Ministry of Home Affairs also visited the violence-affected areas.The monsoon session of Parliament, which began on July 19, will conclude on August 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-congress-leader-objects-to-questions-in-upsc-held-capf-exam-101628616750213.html
10-08-2021||India||Minister explains why Covid certificate has PM Modi's photo||The certificate of vaccination has Prime Minister Narendra Modi's photo for a specific reason of creating awareness, minister of state for health Bharati Pravin Pawar informed the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday in a written reply. The minister also said that the format of the vaccine certificate is in compliance with that of the World Health Organization. In the Upper House of Parliament, the minister was asked whether it is necessary and compulsory to print photographs of the prime minister on the Covid vaccination certificate."Given the context of the pandemic, its evolving nature and the fact that following of Covid-appropriate behaviours has emerged as one of the most critical measures for preventing the spread of disease."The photograph along with the message of the prime minister in the vaccination certificates reinforces the message for creating awareness about the importance of following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour even after vaccination, in the larger public interest," Pawar said adding that it is the moral and ethical responsibility of the government to ensure that such critical messages are disseminated to people in the most effective manner."The format of vaccination certificate, compliant with WHO norms for vaccination certificates, including the message and presentation about the importance of following Covid-appropriate behaviour even after vaccination, has been decided keeping all these factors in consideration."All states and Union Territories are using Cowin application for Covid-19 vaccination and vaccination certificates are generated through Cowin in a standard format," the minister said.PM Modi's photo on the vaccine certificate stirred up a political controversy following which several state governments issued vaccine certificates with state chief ministers' photos on them when states were buying vaccine from the Centre.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-explains-why-covid-certificate-has-pm-modi-s-photo-101628615677496.html
10-08-2021||India||Himachal CM expresses concern over Covid-19 surge; active cases rise to 2,086||With a reproductive rate of 1.3, higher than the national average of 1, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has expressed concern regarding the recent spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the state. Himachal Pradesh reported 2,086 active cases on Monday while the positivity rate stood at 1.9%, a health official told news agency PTI.Thakur said the recent spike in cases remains a matter of concern and that experts are unsure about the future trajectory of the Covid-19 situation. There are six districts in Himachal Pradesh which are showing a rising trend in daily new Covid-19 cases in the last 14 days, the health ministry said on Tuesday.The health ministry highlighted that Himachal Pradesh has an R-value of 1.3. R-value of a disease indicates the effective reproduction rate or the ability of a disease to spread.Himachal Pradesh saw a recent spike in Covid-19 cases which has created concern among experts. The government is also concerned about the incoming tourists which they fear could contribute to the rise in cases. It also made negative Covid-19 test reports mandatory and fully vaccinated people to enter the state.Earlier in social media, several pictures and videos were shared where tourists were seen flouting Covid-19 rules. The state saw an influx of tourists as Covid-19 guidelines were relaxed across the country and also due to the heat during the months of June and July in northwestern states. Chief minister Jairam Thakur earlier said that tourists cannot be stopped but people can still adhere to rules and regulations set to curb the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-cm-expresses-concern-over-covid-19-surge-active-cases-rise-to-2086-101628615858842.html
10-08-2021||India||OBC Bill passed: States can now maintain list of socially and educationally backward classes||The Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed the Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021 paving the way for states and Union Territories to prepare their own Other Backward Classes (OBC) list. During its passage, 385 members of Parliament voted in its favour while no members opposed it. The bill was passed with bipartisan support but MPs from both sides during the discussion before the passage blamed each other's parties for not doing enough for the OBC communities.Union minister Virendra Kumar initiated the discussion saying that the bill be passed to allow states and Union Territories to prepare their own Socially and Economically Backward Classes (SEBCs) list.Lawmakers agree but with few differencesUnion minister and Apna Dal MP Anupriya Patel said that representation is necessary for the upliftment of backward classes. “Several communities continue to demand their inclusion among the Other Backward Classes but due to the Supreme Court ruling the state governments’ hands were tied. The amendment brought forth by the government allows state governments to take these decisions.” Patel said.Patel attacked the Congress for failing to give constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes when it was in power. She said that PM Modi-led NDA did it in 2018 for the welfare of the people who belonged to these groups. She also said that the NDA took the decision to increase the creamy layer limit from ₹6 lakh to ₹8 lakh and also make provisions for admissions of students from OBC communities to Kendriya Vidyalayas, Jawahar Navodyaya Vidyalayas and Sainik Schools.All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen MP Asaduddin Owaisi said the BJP is doing it for votes and said that it should have the courage of ‘breaking the ceiling’ of 50% reservation. He highlighted that the decision to give Scheduled Castes reservation in 1950 was on a religious basis and said it was against the right to equality. “This is a golden chance. Make it religion-neutral. If there is provision for including Hindus, Buddhists and Sikhs in Scheduled Castes then why can Muslims, Dalits and Christians not be a part of it?” Owaisi asked. He also questioned the government that out of 89 secretaries, how many of them belong to the OBC community.Former UP chief minister and SP MP Akhilesh Yadav, BSP MP Ritesh Panday and other opposition leaders extended support to the bill but said that the Bharatiya Janata Party is being divisive citing that people from the OBC communities are not able to fully avail the benefits and increase their representation.Why is the bill needed?The bill is needed because if the state list gets nullified, then more than 600 OBC communities would lose access to reservations in appointments as well as in educational institutions thus impacting at least one-fifth of the total OBC communities.The need for this amendment arose after the Supreme Court in its Maratha reservation ruling upheld the 102nd Constitutional Amendment Act. The Supreme Court, however, said that the President, depending on the recommendations made by the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) which would decide which communities would be part of the state OBC list.The 102nd Constitution Amendment Act of 2018 inserted Article 342A along with Article 338B and Article 342. While Articles 338B dealt with the powers of NCBC, Article 324A allowed the President to decide with the governor which socially and educationally backward classes would make it to the list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-can-now-maintain-list-of-socially-and-educationally-backward-classes-101628615327528.html
10-08-2021||India||Decades on, power supply restored to this Maoist-hit Chhattisgarh village||A remote village located along the borders of Sukma and Bijapur districts in Chhattisgarh has started receiving electricity after decades.Tarrem village, hit by the Maoist insurgency, had suffered for years after ultras dug up roads and destroyed government infrastructure. However, the fruits of development are slowly reaching the villagers again. The district collector of Bijajur said some lives were lost and machinery damaged while rebuilding roads and bringing back power to the remote areas.Chhattisgarh: Naxal prone Tarrem village, situated in the border area of Sukma-Bijapur districts, receives electricity for the first time after decades pic.twitter.com/JC7RfhogFM“In the 1980s, there used to be power and roads here, but Naxals dug up the roads and demolished government infrastructure. We have now constructed Bijapur-Awapalli and Awapalli-Basaguda roads. We lost men and machinery during this. We also expanded the electricity line,” collector Ritesh Agrawal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Villagers said they were living in darkness for years, but things are looking up with a school and health centre being developed. A panchayat bhawan and anganwadi centre have already come up in the village. "We received electricity connection for the first time last month. Before that, we were living in the dark. Road connectivity came a year ago. There is a panchayat bhawan and anganwadi centre in the village. A school and health centre are also being developed," said Kusum, a local.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decades-on-power-supply-restored-to-this-maoist-hit-chhattisgarh-village-101628614602451.html
10-08-2021||India||8 days after schools reopen in Punjab, 20 students test positive for Covid-19||Eight days after schools for all classes reopened in Punjab, 20 students from two schools in Ludhiana have tested positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said eight students of Jodhewal Basti School were found to have contracted the virus on Monday. On Tuesday, 1,560 samples of students of Kailash Nagar School were collected. Of these, 12 students of classes 9 and 10 tested positive. “Both schools have been shut for 14 days,” Sharma was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Y'day, 8 students tested COVID positive in Jodhewal Basti school. 1560 samples were taken today & 12 students of class 9th & 10th have tested positive in Kailash Nagar school. Both schools have been shut for 14 days: Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma pic.twitter.com/s8p7EKB2JiRajesh Kumar, principal of Jodhewal Basti School, said the samples were collected from 41 students of class 11 on Monday. Of these, eight were found infected with the virus. “We have asked students of classes 11 and 12 to remain in quarantine for 14 days. The school will remain shut till August 24,” he further said.Stating other schools in the industrial city will continue to “function normally,” Sharma said the administration will conduct tests of more than 1,500 students each day in Ludhiana and will also use RT-PCR facilities in schools, henceforth.On July 31, the Punjab government announced the reopening of schools for all classes in the state from August 2 with proper maintenance of Covid-19 protocols. A notice issued by the state home affairs and justice department said the department of school education will issue instructions on Covid-19 norms that all schools need to mandatorily adhere to.Also Read | Punjab schools reopen for all classes; children happy, many parents apprehensive“District authorities shall also continue to ensure strict implementation of all the extant directives of Union ministry of home affairs/state government on Covid appropriate behaviour including social distancing, wearing of face masks, etc,” the notice read.The Punjab government had already given its nod to the reopening of schools for classes 10 to 12 from July 26 before allowing all classes to restart on August 2. Online classes will also continue for students who are unable to attend physical classes.Earlier, Punjab Assembly Leader of Opposition and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Harpal Singh Cheema had sought to know on the basis of which “report of doctors and education experts” did the state government make “such a big decision” as the matter pertains to the life of 60.5 lakh children – constituting 20 per cent of the state’s population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/8-days-after-schools-reopen-in-punjab-20-students-test-positive-for-covid19-101628613452604.html
10-08-2021||India||RT-PCR test report mandatory for buying liquor from shops in Kerala||The Kerala government made a negative RT-PCR test report mandatory for people queuing up at liquor shops as the test positivity rate of Covid-19 reached the highest in three months on Tuesday. The state, which is contributing more than 50 per cent of the country's daily caseload, on Tuesday reported 21,119 new infections, and the test positivity rate was 15.91. Those who have been vaccinated will have to show their vaccine certificates at the liquor shop, the new directive issued late on Tuesday night said. The state government is trying to strike a balance between restrictions and relaxations as in the last few days, it has issued orders withdrawing Saturday lockdown and allowing shops in the malls to be open. But at the same time, it has warned of imposing a triple lockdown if there is a sudden spurt in the number of cases in any area. The government also mandated vaccination for visiting any shops, an order which has drawn flak and created confusion. Health minister Veena George in the state assembly justified the move and said these restrictions are only for the time being. With a reproduction rate of 1.12, Kerala is projected to witness cumulative incidence cases of 4.64 lakh, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday, warning against crowding during the upcoming Onam festivities. The state government too on Tuesday evening barred big gatherings for Onam.Regarding the new vaccination rule for visiting shops, Congress leader K Babu in the assembly said that going by the new rules, only senior citizens will be able to visit shops as they are fully vaccinated. Only 28 per cent of the youth have been vaccinated in the state, the Congress leader had said.The Centre on Tuesday said Kerala's Covid-19 situation spiralled for many reasons. Delta, less seroprevalence, in-house transmission, older population with a higher prevalence of diabetes all contributed to turning Kerala into a Covid hotspot again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rtpcr-test-report-mandatory-for-buying-liquor-from-shops-in-kerala-101628613878323.html
10-08-2021||India||9 civilians injured in grenade attack in Srinagar ahead of Independence Day||At-least nine persons were injured in a grenade attack by suspected terrorists in Srinagar on Tuesday, officials said. The terrorists attempted to hurl the grenade towards a bunker vehicle of paramilitary SSB forces and it exploded on the roadside at Hari Singh High Street in the city centre after hitting the vehicle. The area remains very busy with people owing to congested business establishments and installations.“The SSB were the target of the grenade but there were no injuries to the security forces,” deputy inspector general (DIG) of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Kishore Prasad told media persons.The explosion led to injuries to the passersby who were taken to Shri Maharaja Hari Singh hospital for treatment.“We are treating nine people for splinter injuries –seven males and two females,” said medical superintendent of SMHS hospital, Dr Kanwarjit Singh.He said that all the injured were stable. “Mostly the injuries are not grave but we are doing all the tests only then they will be discharged,” he said.Police did not release any details of the incident till late evening. Nor did police control rooms furnish any information.Meanwhile, police said they arrested a youth of south Kashmir along with two grenades in Srinagar.“Journo-terrorist Adil from Pampore Pulwama arrested along with two grenades in the heart of Srinagar City. More arrests are expected. Investigation is going on. Further details shall follow,” Kashmir police said in a tweet.There has been a spurt in terror attacks in Kashmir in the run up to Independence Day celebrations on August 15.On Monday, BJP’s Kisan Morcha president of Kulgam, Gulam Rasool Dar, and his wife were killed by terrorists in the Lal Chowk area of Anantnag.On Saturday, a policeman was killed in Kulgam district after terrorists opened fire at a police party. On Thursday, a grenade blast took place in the Nawhatta area of the old city.On August 3, a police personnel and a civilian were injured after suspected terrorists opened fire on a police vehicle at Khanyar in Old City.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-civilians-injured-in-grenade-attack-in-srinagar-ahead-of-independence-day-101628610503076.html
10-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Punjab CM meets Congress president Sonia Gandhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Extremely satisfying': Captain on first meet with Sonia post Sidhu's elevationPunjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat said Gandhi is likely to have advised the state government and party organisation to work together. Read more here.Manish Tewari shares an old photo when his weight was 100 kg, explainsThe photo with Sonia Gandhi and other Congress leaders was taken in Chandigarh in 1998, Manish Tewari said adding that he was "literally" the first political appointee of Sonia Gandhi. Read more here. Need for Covid booster dose in India under close watch, says GovtCovid booster shot and whether India will need a third dose of vaccine against Covid is under the watch of the experts. Read more here. What If...? review: Marvel at its middling worst; even a Chadwick Boseman tribute can't save itWhat If...? review: Marvel's placeholder animation series is too slight to be taken seriously. Even a Chadwick Boseman tribute isn't enough to save it. Read more here. Fed up with ‘no cash’ in nearest ATMs? Banks to pay fines from OctoberThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has mandated all the banks to submit system-generated statements on the downtime of ATMs due to the non-replenishment of cash. Read more here. Google Chrome update: Protect yourself from getting hacked, download now, says governmentGoogle Chrome update: The country’s nodal agency for cyber threats has issued an advisory for users to update their Chrome browser from being compromised by hackers. Here’s what you need to do to stay safe. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-punjab-cm-meets-congress-president-sonia-gandhi-and-all-the-latest-news-101628609403946.html
10-08-2021||India||Indians told to leave Afghanistan, officials to be evacuated from Mazar-e-Sharif||India on Tuesday advised its nationals in Afghanistan to make immediate arrangements to return home even as it began the process of evacuating its officials and citizens from the northern city of Mazar-e-Sharif following advances made by Taliban fighters. A security advisory issued by the Indian embassy in Kabul called on Indians to make travel arrangements before commercial air services are discontinued, and asked Indian firms operating in Afghanistan to immediately withdraw Indian employees from project sites before air services get affected. All India-based officials and security personnel from the Indian consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif and a small number of Indian nationals living in and around Afghanistan’s fourth-largest city were to be evacuated in a special flight late on Tuesday, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The exact number of people being brought back to India couldn’t be ascertained. The move came exactly a month after India evacuated some 50 officials and security personnel from the consulate in the southern city of Kandahar on July 10 following intense clashes between Afghan forces and Taliban fighters in the area. The Indian consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif, which was the only fully functional consulate out of four such missions across Afghanistan, asked Indian nationals to take the evacuation flight. “A special flight is leaving from Mazar-e-Sharif to New Delhi. Any Indian nationals in and around Mazar-e-Sharif are requested to leave for India in the special flight scheduled to depart late today evening,” the consulate tweeted. It asked Indian citizens wishing to take the flight to provide their names and passport numbers. There was no official word on the development from the external affairs ministry. Fears of a Taliban assault on Mazar-e-Sharif, the capital of Balkh province, have grown since the group took over the northern cities of Kunduz and Aibak. However, hours after the Indian consulate posted its tweet, the Afghan media quoted Balkh governor Mohammad Farhad Azimi as saying that the Afghan troops had pushed back a Taliban offensive on Mazar-e-Sharif. Azimi said the Taliban retreated after facing strong resistance from Afghan forces during clashes on Monday night. “The Taliban have focused their attention on Balkh province to take control,” Azimi told Tolo News. The people cited above said the strength of the Indian consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif was reduced recently because of the Taliban intensifying its campaign to overrun provincial capitals and urban centres. The consulate has been without a head since the last consul general, Vinesh Kalra, died of Covid-19 in Kabul in May. Tuesday’s security advisory from the Indian embassy in Kabul was the third such alert issued since June 29 and reiterated a warning to avoid non-essential travel because of a serious threat of kidnapping. It added commercial air travel services to many provinces and cities were being discontinued with the escalation of violence. “All Indian nationals visiting, staying and working in Afghanistan are strongly advised to keep themselves updated on the availability of commercial flights from various parts of Afghanistan and make immediate travel arrangements to return to India before commercial air services are discontinued to their place of stay/visit in Afghanistan,” the alert said. “Indian companies operating in Afghanistan are strongly advised to immediately withdraw their Indian employees out of project sites in Afghanistan before air travel services get discontinued. Indian nationals working for Afghan or foreign companies in Afghanistan should immediately request their employer to facilitate their travel from project sites to India,” it added. The embassy said the advisory was also valid for Indian media personnel, who should contact the mission’s public affairs and security wing for a personalised briefing, “including specific advice for the location they are travelling to”. This, it added, will help the media make a better assessment of “risks involved, given the rapid changes in security situation taking place in different parts of the country”. According to information provided by the government to Parliament last week, there are currently some 1,500 Indian nationals in Afghanistan. Most of them are workers and professionals engaged for the hundreds of development projects being implemented by the Indian government under its pledges of $3 billion for reconstruction and development efforts. The last security advisory issued on July 24 had said the security situation “remains dangerous in several provinces”. It said terror groups had escalated violent activities including targeting civilians. “Indian nationals are not exceptions, and they additionally face a serious threat of kidnapping,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-told-to-leave-afghanistan-officials-to-be-evacuated-from-mazaresharif-101628609182286.html
10-08-2021||India||'Extremely satisfying': Captain on first meet with Sonia post Sidhu's elevation||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh met Congress president Sonia Gandhi in Delhi on Tuesday evening amid talks of a possible cabinet reshuffle in the state. This is the first meeting between Singh, a former Army captain, and the Congress interim chief since the elevation of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the party’s Punjab unit president despite the CM’s opposition.Quoting the CM, Singh’s media advisor Raveen Thukral wrote on Twitter, “Met Congress president Sonia Gandhi in Delhi this evening to discuss various state-related issues. Spent an extremely satisfying one hour with her.”Later, Punjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat said Gandhi is likely to have advised the state government and party organisation to work together. “Both of them (Singh and Sidhu) have to work within their respective limits, but by cooperating with each other,” Rawat was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Rawat was part of a team that was assigned the task of resolving infighting and dissent within the Punjab Congress. The state is set to see Assembly election next year.When asked if all issues between the two senior leaders of Punjab have been resolved, Rawat said, “Singh has not said that he is upset with Sidhu. You (media) yourself are contemplating this. This is not the statement of the Captain.”Singh also met Union Home Minister Amit Shah during his visit to the National Capital when he sought 25 companies of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) and anti-drone gadgets for the BSF amif a heightened security threat ahead of Independence Day on August 15 and Assembly election next year.Punjab CM @capt_amarinder urges @AmitShah to intervene to resolve #FarmerProtest & repeal #FarmLaws to prevent inimical forces from exploiting their anger. Cites social, economic & security implications of prolonged farmers’ agitation. pic.twitter.com/toso4fLEkoSingh also urged the home minister’s intervention to resolve the months-long farmers’ protest along the borders of Delhi seeking repeal of three central farm laws. Singh cited social, economic and security implications of the prolonged farmers’ agitation.'While the farmers’ protest has so far been largely peaceful, one can sense rising tempers, especially as Punjab moves towards elections in early 2022. There's urgent need to review and repeal the farm laws,” Thukral quoted the chief minister as telling Shah.“At the meet with Shah, Singh also raised concerns over DAP shortage aggravating farmers' resentment. Urged him to direct the fertilizers department to increase stocks' allocation to state and to also ask suppliers to ensure that supplies are given as per schedule,” Thukral further wrote on Twitter.The chief minister’s office later said Singh also spoke about some leaders, including those belonging to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Shiv Sena, refusing to take security despite inputs of threats. “Citing inputs from central and state agencies, Punjab CM said potential targets incl trains, buses and temples, prominent farmer leaders (specific inputs on 5 such leaders was received but they had refused to take security), RSS offices, RSS/BJP/Shiv Sena leaders based in Punjab,” the CMO said.Later, Singh hosted a dinner for Congress MPs from Punjab at his Delhi residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-meets-sonia-in-delhi-for-first-time-post-sidhu-s-elevation-101628608441213.html
10-08-2021||India||8 states still have active Covid cases between 10,000 and 1 lakh, Maha tops list||Even as the single-day case count of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India has been on a downward trend, there are eight states that have active cases between 10,000 and 1 lakh, according to data shared by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Tuesday.Addressing a press briefing on the country’s Covid-19 situation, joint secretary of the Union health ministry Lav Agarwal said districts that were earlier reporting high cases have now begun to show a progressive decline. As many as 279 districts across India were reporting over 100 daily coronavirus cases on the week ending June 1, which gradually decreased to 107 on the week ending July 1. As of August 8, a total of 48 Indian districts are reporting more than 100 daily Covid-19 cases.Also Read | These 37 districts showing an increasing trend in daily Covid-19 cases, Kerala worst-hitOne of the worst-hit since the first wave of the pandemic, Maharashtra continues to have a high coronavirus active caseload (74,944) even though the state has been reporting a dip in the daily cases for the past few days. On Monday, the state reported 4,505 fresh cases, down from 5,508 on Sunday. Apart from Maharashtra, there are seven additional states, including many in the east and northeast that have active cases ranging between 10,000 and 1 lakh.Here’s the list of the eight states:1. Maharashtra (74,944)2. Karnataka (23,956)3. Tamil Nadu (20,407)4. Andhra Pradesh (19,949)5. Mizoram (12,146)6. Assam (11,059)7. West Bengal (10,719)8. Odisha (10,485)Meanwhile, India on Tuesday reported 28,204 fresh coronavirus cases – the lowest in 147 days, thereby taking the overall tally of the country to 3,19,98,158, according to data shared by the Union health ministry. This marks an improvement as the country reported 35,499 new cases on Monday. The daily death toll also saw a drop from 447 on Monday to 373 on Tuesday, which pushed the cumulative count to 428,682. The active case count in India stands at 388,508 – a decline of 13,680 from Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-states-still-have-active-covid-cases-between-10-000-and-1-lakh-maha-tops-list-101628606595696.html
10-08-2021||India||Manish Tewari shares an old photo when his weight was 100 kg, explains||Congress leader Manish Tewari on Tuesday shared an old photograph on Twitter in which he is almost beyond recognition. The veteran Congress leader himself put it out on his social media platform that at that time he used to weigh 100 kg or above. He even clarified that he is the person standing in the extreme right (left of the photograph), assuming that many who follow him on Twitter won't be able to spot him on the photograph.This was in Chandigarh in December 1998 . I was then National President of @IYC -literally @INCIndia President Mrs Sonia Gandhi’s first political appointee. I was also 100 kg or above ( Extreme Right ) . A street fighting pre-requisite. https://t.co/YcBMPm4834The photo dates back to 1998 and was taken in Chandigarh, Tewari wrote as he shared the original post by Pawan Dewan. "Congratulations for foundation day Indian youth Congress. 21 years old picture with Smt Sonia Gandhi ji president Indian National Congress," Dewan wrote on Monday tagging Tewari.Manish Tewari shared the photo on his Twitter and divulged some other information as well regarding the photo. In fact, he offered an explanation for his weight too. "A street fighting pre-requisite," he said, apparently explaining his weight.Manish Tewari said when the photo was taken he was national president of the Indian Youth Congress. He was also Sonia Gandhi's first political appointee, Tewari said. He was the president of the National Students' Union of India between 1988 and 1993 and served as the president of Youth Congress between 1998 and 2000. He was the information and broadcasting minister from 2012 to 2014 and now represents Anandpur Sahib in the Lok Sabha. He was one of the leaders of G-23 who wrote to Sonia Gandhi demanding major overhaul of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manish-tewari-shares-an-old-photo-when-his-weight-was-100-kg-explains-101628607005126.html
10-08-2021||India||Reservation and reconciliation both have to go hand in hand: RSS leader||Referring to caste-based reservation as an instrument of affirmative action that has an important role to play in social justice and equality, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale on Tuesday said that reservation and reconciliation (between communities) have to go hand in hand.He also said that the political, cultural, social and spiritual history of India will be incomplete and untrue without the contribution of Dalits.Speaking at the launch of a book, Makers of Modern Dalit History, authored by Guru Prakash Paswan and Sudarshan Ramabadran, Hosabale asserted that he and his organisation were staunch supporters of caste-based reservation.“I have been a staunch supporter of reservation…In western countries, in Europe and in America, there has been an effort for reconciliation on the part of the African Blacks. Reservation and reconciliation both have to go hand-in-hand,” he said. He later argued that while reservation was a historic necessity, reconciliation was for the future.While the opponents of the Sangh have accused it of opposing caste-based reservation that allows quotas for Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities in government jobs and education institutions; Hosabale reiterated that the RSS has been at the forefront of denouncing casteism.“When we discuss the various aspects of Dalit community and the Scheduled Tribe sections of the society, invariably certain aspects come to the fore; one of them is reservation. My organisation and I have been staunch supporters of reservation since decades. In 1980, when there was an anti-reservation movement on some campuses, we passed a resolution [in its favour] and organised a seminar in Patna. Time and again we have said [that] reservation is a historic necessity for the country for many more decades, as long as there is any inequality being experienced by [a] particular section or segment of the society,” he said.On the issue of identities within the Dalit communities, he said he has observed that it was emerging, but it was too early to say whether it was good or bad for society. “I stay in Uttar Pradesh and travel across the country, and I meet a lot of people across sections. I have felt an experience … identity is not limited to Dalit itself; within Dalits the question of identities is being deliberately raised by intellectuals. I am not saying whether I am for it or against it, I am only making an observation. It is too early to say whether such a development is good for the society or not,” he said.The RSS functionary went on to say that social harmony and social justice were not political strategies but articles of faith for the Sangh.The RSS, which is the ideological fount of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, has been running samajik samarasta or social harmony campaigns to end discrimination on the basis of caste. The campaign had become the genesis for the BJP’s social engineering strategy which aims to expand its base among the other backward castes that have been socially and economically deprived by giving them political representation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reservation-and-reconciliation-both-have-to-go-hand-in-hand-rss-leader-101628607081999.html
10-08-2021||India||Meghalaya: Low intensity IED blast in Shillong market injures 2||A popular market hub in Meghalaya’s capital Shillong’s most cosmopolitan locality was hit by a low intensity bomb blast on Tuesday afternoon causing minor injuries to two persons, police said.The proscribed Bangladesh-based local insurgent outfit Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC) has claimed responsibility for the blast through a facebook post by HNLC general secretary cum spokesperson Saińkupar Nongtraw. The blast took place at 1.30pm in the parking lot of Iew Shillong market.The injured have been identified as Christine Nongkynrih, a resident of Mawiong in the suburbs of Shillong and Alan Laloo, a resident of Laitumkhrah. Nongkynrih, who was busy cleaning her tiny tea shop under the parking lot, was thrown a few feet away by the impact of the blast. She and the other injured have been discharged after required medical intervention, police said.East Khasi Hills superintendent of police (SP) S Nongtnger confirmed that the blast was caused by an IED (improvised explosive device). “It was a low intensity blast and only two persons received minor injuries. The HNLC has already claimed responsibility on its fb page and we are already on the job we have been tasked to do,” he said.Though the police claim that HNLC is now weakened, lately the outfit has triggered low intensity blasts in several areas, particularly in Khasi and Jaiñtia hills, which is rich in coal and also home to over a dozen cement companies. The last blast took place in the Police Reserve quarters of the special Meghalaya police unit at Khliehriat on July 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghaylaya-low-intensity-ied-blast-in-shillong-market-injures-2-101628605282557.html
10-08-2021||India||Need for Covid booster dose in India under close watch, says Govt||With several countries making giant leaps regarding Covid vaccine's booster dose, India is also closely watching the situation, Niti Aayog (health) member Dr VK Paul said on Tuesday. The issue of booster dose and whether India's vaccination drive will require this has recently been discussed by the national expert group, Dr Paul said."We are watching the science for the need for such booster dose. World Health Organization has called for a moratorium. Booster dose and whether there is a need for it and who will need it is a very relevant issue. Let's say it's a work in progress -- in fact, science is a work in progress," Dr Paul said.A booster dose is a third dose which some countries are seriously considering to increase the protection against Covid infection. Israel has started administering this dose while reports are claiming that unauthorised booster doses are being administered in the United States. France, Germany, Finland are also mulling booster doses.Also Read | Covaxin booster dose: What is it? What does govt say about this?Why WHO has opposed to booster shots nowThe World Health Organization has ethical objection to the third dose of Covid vaccine at a time when some countries have not proceeded beyond the first dose. High-income countries that can now afford to jump into a booster dose represent a very less proportion of the world's population. WHO's call for a halt at present is more for an ethical reason while the medical need for a booster dose is still an issue for debate.Will Indian need a booster dose? What experts sayAs Dr Paul said, the issue is being studied. Many doctors have said that booster doses may be required every year if new strains keep on emerging. AIIMS chief Dr Rabndeep Guleria earlier said that booster shots might be required for emerging variants. But before a booster dose, people should get their first two doses on priority, Dr Paul said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-for-covid-booster-dose-in-india-under-close-watch-says-govt-101628603810842.html
10-08-2021||India||J&K youth travelling to Pakistan on visas, coming back as terrorists: DGP||Expressing concerns over local youth going to Pakistan on student or tourist visits and ending up becoming terrorists, Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police Dilbag Singh spoke about the need to tighten security clearance measures. He said, “I think guns are given preference over pens in Pakistan and therefore, there is a need to strengthen our measures to give security clearance for Pakistani visas."“If youths go for study (in Pakistan) and join terrorism there, then we definitely need to tighten the process of security clearance for study and other visas for travel to Pakistan."Many young men went to Pakistan on valid documents pertaining to student or tourist visas in 2017-18. We have come across 57 such cases where these youth got involved in terror activities and 17 of them were killed in encounters after infiltrating through the border," the top police officer said.There are still 13 more such young men who have been identified and are active terrorists, he said, adding 17 more are still in Pakistan and “we are watching their activities"."There was a talk about why strictness was imposed on travel to Pakistan…This is the main reason for it. What type of atmosphere they come across in Pakistan and they become terrorists. It is evident we need to take strict measures and strengthen the security clearance system before giving student visas," he said.He further said that following a phase of 'zero infiltration' in the wake of a renewed ceasefire agreement between India and Pakistan in February, fresh attempts are being made to push terrorists from across the border where 250 to 300 militants are trained and waiting on the launch pads. Shelling and firing had also stopped completely."The training camps and launch pads being run by Pakistan's ISI and other agencies are full to their capacity. We generally assume the number of terrorists at such camps remains between 250 and 300 who are trained and ready for launching into Jammu and Kashmir," Singh said whil talking to reporters in the border district of Rajouri."The infiltration (of terrorists) from different launch pads has started again recently. We had three encounters in Rajouri-Poonch, including Dadal in Nowshera, Sunderbani and the recent Pangai (Thanamandi) and one in Bandipora. All these were fresh groups of infiltrators and we have information that the activity across the border is still on and there is a possibility of more such attempts (in future),” the police chief said.There has been a spurt in militant attacks in Kashmir over the past few days. A grenade was hurled earlier in the day at security forces in Srinagar. On Monday, a BJP leader and his wife were shot dead in Kulgam.He said the security forces are fully alert and as “impure actions (of Pakistan) is continuing, our border grid is working satisfactorily” which led to the foiling of four infiltration attempts since July.The DGP said four terrorists who had infiltrated from Machil-Gurez sector of north Kashmir were eliminated in Bandipora on July 23-24."They were launched from the Kail sector of Pakistan and as per our information, there were 14 more people when they were launched into this side,” Singh said.He said three to four groups crossed from Pakistan into Rajouri-Poonch sector and a joint search operation is on to track down the terrorists who managed to flee the three encounters in July and August."As per our assessment, three to four groups crossed into this side and some of them were neutralised in the first two contacts (in Nowshera and Sunderbani in July). Two more terrorists were eliminated in the latest encounter (in Thanamandi) on Friday last, while the search is on for two others who are believed part of the group," he said.He said there is a possibility of one more group which has managed to sneak into this side (Rajouri) and is believed to have either crossed into Shopian district of south Kashmir or still holed up in the region. The operation to track them down is on.The DGP said a family from Shopian claimed that one of the two terrorists killed in Thanamandi was their son Rameez Ahmad who had gone to Pakistan some time back."We have taken the DNA sample and the things will get cleared once the report is received," he said. Singh said the infiltrating group comprised both local and Pakistani terrorists."In the Bandipora encounter, two locals and Pakistani militants were killed," the police chief said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-youth-travelling-to-pakistan-on-visas-coming-back-as-terrorists-dgp-101628603552487.html
10-08-2021||India||Rules you should know before buying railway tickets from reservation counters||Indian Railways made it mandatory for passengers to enter their destination address and pin code while booking a ticket from reservation counters. The move by the Indian Railways was initiated last year in order to carry out contact tracing during the first wave of the pandemic.Indian Railways will also not issue any railway ticket if the full address and pin code are not mentioned while booking the ticket. A recent report said there were long queues of passengers at the Dhanbad railway station as they searched for their pin codes of their destinations at the reservation counter. The report also highlighted that several passengers who are not literate faced troubles while booking their tickets.Indian Railways introduced this rule last year during Covid-19 citing that if a passenger tests positive then the Railways would have their travel history.Railways record surge in ticket bookingsAs the Covid-19 second wave wanes, the Indian Railways reported a boost in the number of passengers. The Indian Railways in June said that it carried 32.56 lakh passengers from states like Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand, with a huge chunk of passengers being migrant workers returning to their workplaces.No plans to restore concessionsThe government told the Parliament that there is no proposal yet to restore concessions offered to certain categories of people due to the ongoing pandemic. “In view of the pandemic and Covid protocol, concession to all categories of passengers (except four categories of Divyangjan, 11 categories of patients and students) have been withdrawn from March 20, 2020, till further advice. At present, there is no proposal to restore the concessions,” Union minister for railways Ashwini Vaishnaw told Parliament last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rules-you-should-know-before-buying-railway-tickets-from-reservation-counters-101628602232900.html
10-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: Wild elephant died due to electrocution in Jashpur||A wild elephant was found dead on Tuesday morning after it was electrocuted in Jashpur district of Chhattisgarh, officials said. “The elephant came into the village smelling the stock of rice in a warehouse, kept under Public Distribution Scheme (PDS) and ransacked it before coming in contact with a live wire supplying electricity to a sub health centre,” said Shrikrishna Jadhav, a forest official. The incident took place in Amdiha village under Tapkara forest range of the district.Forest officials have said that separate herds of over 50 elephants have been roaming in forests of Pathalgaon, Tapkara and Kunkuri areas of Jashpur district for the last couple of days. As per the forest department, 45 elephants have died due to various reasons while 204 people were killed in elephant attacks across Chhattisgarh in the last three years. Total 18 elephant deaths took place in 2020 while 2019 and 2018 saw 11 and 16 elephant deaths respectively. Recently, Chhattisgarh government decided to dump paddy outside north Chhattisgarh villages, falling in elephant pathways, to lure them away from human habitations, where they are drawn by the smell of stored Mahua (a wild flower with strong smell) or paddy.However, several activists alleged that the forest department’s plan to procure paddy for this drive was without a scientific basis and appeared to be an attempt to compensate the state government for losses incurred in acquiring surplus paddy in 2019-20. North Chhattisgarh was home to around 240 wild elephants, which roam in the forest lands in Surguja and nearby regions of the state, often triggering human-elephant conflicts. In the last decade, the state recorded an increase in its wildlife population including elephants, whose numbers rose from 225 to 290, as per the state forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-wild-elephant-died-due-to-electrocution-in-jashpur-101628599761419.html
10-08-2021||India||15,000 Covid reinfections in Kerala district? 10 findings of Central team||The six-member central team which visited the eight districts of Kerala to investigate the sudden surge in the number of Covid cases on Tuesday presented its findings and sounded an alert that though the state government has taken timely action, the situation may worsen. Kerala is projected to witness cumulative incidence cases of 4.64 lakh as the state has a high transmission rate, the report said. Kerala has a reproductive value of 1.12, which means every 100 infected people are spreading the infection to 112 other people, the report added. National Centre for Disease Control's director Dr Sujeet Kumar Singh who headed the central team said that the reopening of tourism, the approaching Onam festival pose a serious threat to Kerala's Covid situation.RT-PCR test for visiting shops is justified, says Kerala health ministerHere are the 10 findings of the central team1. Kerala did not define containment zones according to the Centre's guidelines. There was no buffer zone between containment zones and areas which were not contained.2. Kerala reviewed its containment classification as per 7-day moving average but it actually takes 14 days, Dr Singh said.3. 55 per cent population in Kerala, as found in ICMR's national serosurvey, is still susceptible to Covid infection.4. Delta is another reason for the huge spike as the central team found that 88 to 90 per cent of cases are that of Delta strain.5. Kerala has witnessed a high number of reinfections that is people got infected even after two doses of the vaccine. While this is never ruled out and breakthrough infection is not a new thing either in the world or in India, the number is very high in Kerala.Delta enhances hospitalisation, Delta Plus not that virulent: Health ministry6. According to data, submitted by the district authorities to the Central team, Kerala's Patnamthitta has reported 14,974 cases of reinfections. Among these reinfection cases, 5,042 are those who have been vaccinated with both doses, as claimed by the district authorities.7. Dr Sujeet Singh said the Centre has asked the district authorities to provide more information about reinfection as to how many days after the second dose the reinfection happened, or whether these reinfection cases were severe or not. Only after going through these details, it will be possible to ascertain why Kerala and Patnamthitta specifically reported such a high number of reinfections.8. Kerala is home to a high number of the older population, which too contributed to the unnatural rise. The presence of diabetes in the state is 30 per cent, which also helped in creating a susceptible pool in the state, as this is a co-morbid condition.9. Intra-house transmission is very high in Kerala as 80 per cent of people are on home isolation10. The state had no measure to cut transmission and depended on passive surveillance which involved strict tracking and tracing of new infections. "But it is also important to cut the transmission. We should not achieve herd immunity through natural infection because that will lead to an uncontrollable rise in the number of cases," Dr Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15000-reinfections-in-kerala-district-10-findings-of-central-team-101628598747357.html
10-08-2021||India||India to citizens in Afghanistan: Make immediate arrangements for return||India on Tuesday advised its nationals in Afghanistan to make immediate travel arrangements to return home before commercial air services are discontinued amid intense fighting between security forces and the Taliban across the war-torn country.A security advisory issued by the Indian embassy also called on Indian companies operating in Afghanistan to immediately withdraw Indian employees from project sites before air services get discontinued. This was the third security alert issued by the mission for Indian citizens since June 29 and it reiterated a warning to avoid non-essential travel because of a serious threat of kidnapping.The alert was issued hours after Indian began the process for evacuating its officials and nationals from the northern city of Mazar-e-Sharif on Indian Air Force aircraft amid reports of an advance by the Taliban.Tuesday’s security advisory said that with the escalation of violence in many parts of Afghanistan, commercial air travel services to many provinces and cities were being discontinued.Also Read | US asks Pakistan to eliminate Taliban safe havens along Afghan-Pak border“All Indian nationals visiting, staying and working in Afghanistan are strongly advised to keep themselves updated on the availability of commercial flights from various parts of Afghanistan and make immediate travel arrangements to return to India before commercial air services are discontinued to their place of stay/visit in Afghanistan,” the alert said.“Indian companies operating in Afghanistan are strongly advised to immediately withdraw their Indian employees out of project sites in Afghanistan before air travel services get discontinued. Indian nationals working for Afghan or foreign companies in Afghanistan should immediately request their employer to facilitate their travel from project sites to India,” it added.The embassy said the security advisory was also valid for Indian media personnel in Afghanistan, who should establish contact with the mission’s public affairs and security wing for a personalised briefing, “including specific advice for the location they are travelling to”. This, it added, will help the media make a better assessment of “risks involved, given the rapid changes in security situation taking place in different parts of the country”.According to information provided by the government to Parliament last week, there are currently some 1,500 Indian nationals in Afghanistan. Most of them are workers and professionals engaged for the hundreds of development projects being implemented by the Indian government under its pledges of $3 billion for reconstruction and development efforts.The last security advisory issued by India on July 24 said the security situation in Afghanistan “remains dangerous in several provinces”. It said terror groups had escalated violent activities including targeting of civilians. “Indian nationals are not exceptions, and they additionally face a serious threat of kidnapping,” it added.Since the previous advisory was issued, the security situation has further deteriorated as the Taliban pushed ahead with their campaign targeting provincial capitals and urban centres after capturing wide swathes of territory in rural areas. The Taliban campaign gained momentum with the withdrawal of most of the US and NATO forces. With the drawdown of foreign troops to be completed by August 31, experts believe the security situation will worsen.Earlier on Tuesday, the Indian consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif, which was the only fully functional consulate out of four such missions across Afghanistan, asked Indian nationals to take a special flight that will evacuate officials, diplomats and security personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-advises-citizens-in-afghanistan-to-make-immediate-arrangements-for-return-101628598081327.html
10-08-2021||India||In a first, forthcoming census to go digital: Centre informs Lok Sabha||The forthcoming census will be the first digital census and there is a provision for self-enumeration for it, the Centre told Lok Sabha on Tuesday in response to a question by Congress lawmaker Shashi Tharoor on whether there will be any changes or any additional information required in the 2021 Census as compared to previous editions.In a written response, the Centre said a mobile app for the collection of data and a census portal for management and monitoring of various census related activities have been developed. The portal will require the mobile phone numbers and other details of individuals for logging in. In the case of self-enumeration, an individual will have to fill in the required details with the help of relevant codes for each field. After self-enumeration, an identification number will be sent on the registered number provided by the individual. The same number can be shared with the enumerator to help officials sync the data automatically.Also Read | Pegasus row: Have faith in the system, says SC to petitionersThe Centre said the data collected will not be used for the preparation of any other databases such as the National Register of Citizens. “The individual data collected in Census under the Census Act, 1948 are not made public as per the provisions contained in the Act,” the Centre said.Minister of state for home Nityanand Rai also said there is no proposal to release the caste data at this stage.The enumeration exercise is undertaken every 10 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forthcoming-census-will-be-the-first-digital-census-says-centre-101628596941404.html
10-08-2021||India||SC grants bail to Azam Khan, son in forgery case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted bail to former Uttar Pradesh minister Azam Khan and his son, Abdullah Khan, in a forgery case. It said the two will be released only after the trial court records the statement of the complainant in the case. The court directed the trial court to complete the exercise within four weeks and file a compliance report before the top court.The two approached the top court after they were denied bail by the Allahabad high court in November 2020. The case against them was filed on the basis of Bharatiya Janata Party leader Akash Saxena’s complaint in 2019. Saxena has accused Azam Khan of obtaining forged identity documents such as a PAN card and Passport for his son to enable him to fight the 2017 assembly elections. A person needs to be aged above 25 to contest elections.The prosecution has said the original birth certificate of Abdullah Khan showed his date of birth as January 1, 1993. But to be eligible to contest elections, he allegedly obtained a new birth certificate showing his date of birth as September 30, 1991. The charge sheet filed in the case accuses the two of forging the PAN card and passport to establish the changed date of birth.Also Read | States cannot withdraw cases against MPs, MLAs without HC nod: SCAppearing for the Uttar Pradesh government, additional solicitor general SV Raju described Azam Khan as a “habitual forger” and cited a case of grabbing property using forged land records pending against him.The Supreme Court noted it was a fit case for bail as Azam Khan was arrested in this forgery case in February 2020 and since then an investigation had been completed and a charge sheet was filed in May last year.A bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna said this is a case based on documentary evidence. “Is it fair to keep a person in custody when there is evidence on both sides? Already the courts are overflowing with cases, and delay is a systematic problem unless you can assure that the trial will be completed within a fixed time.”Raju said that the accused have moved an application seeking discharge in this case which is listed on Wednesday before the trial court. “The accused is influential, and witnesses are scared of him.” He sought protection for the complainant whose statement is yet to be recorded by the trial court.Senior advocates Kapil Sibal and S Wasim Qadri, who appeared for the two accused, argued this was a case of political vendetta as multiple cases were filed against the two accused without reason.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-grants-bail-to-azam-khan-son-in-forgery-case-101628596341325.html
10-08-2021||India||MP assembly passes supplementary budget amid protests by Opposition||The Madhya Pradesh assembly on Monday passed a supplementary budget of ₹4,587 crore, passed important bills related to excise and municipalities without discussion before the House was adjourned sine die amid protests by the opposition over Other Backward Class (OBC) reservation, atrocities against tribals, and scheduled castes and inflation. Congress lawmakers attended the assembly proceedings wearing black aprons and demanded 27% reservation for OBCs. Leader of Opposition Kamal Nath said, “We proposed to hold a discussion on inflation, reservation for OBCs, farmers issues and also on atrocities on Dalits and tribal. We want adjournment motion on inflation and 27% OBC reservation but we were not allowed to raise the issues.”Also Read | MP board special exam rules released; students allowed to withdraw candidatureKunal Choudhary, a Congress MLA, accused the state government of running away from the discussion.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who asked the opposition leaders to remove black aprons in the House as it was unparliamentary, said Congress leaders were misleading the OBCs.“Kamal Nath cheated people. They come up with a 27% reservation for OBCs, but they did not do anything to stop the stay by the court. Then Congress-led state government had nine days between the filing of a petition and the court’s stay. It did not present the case before the court with a strong reason to increase the quota from 14% to 27%,” said Chouhan. “Now, the matter is pending before the court... they are demanding reservation. Are they not aware of the law or they are just doing drama to mislead people?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-assembly-passes-supplementary-budget-amid-protests-by-opposition-101628595921572.html
10-08-2021||India||Lawyers of Lalu, other accused seek adjournment in Doranda treasury case||Citing difficulty in arguing in a virtual court due to voluminous documents and a high number of witnesses to be examined, the lawyers of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad and other co-accused have prayed before the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Ranchi to adjourn the hearing in Doranda treasury case. The case is related to the fodder scam.The prosecution completed its arguments on August 7 and the defence was to cross examine witnesses next. However, lawyers of 89 out of 110 accused currently on trial in the case prayed before the court on Monday to defer the hearing. The special court has directed the CBI to file its reply by August 11, the next date fixed by the court to hear the matter. Also Read | On its 25th foundation day, RJD bets on Lalu to fire up rank and file“The prosecution has produced 570 witnesses besides exhibiting around 4,000 documents. We have prayed before the court that it would be difficult for the defence to make its arguments in virtual mode. We also want to produce documents before the court. The honourable high court has also given relief in other cases on similar grounds,” said Prabhat Kumar, counsel of Lalu Prasad.CBI counsel BMP Singh, while refusing to share details on the details of their reply, said they would oppose the defence plea. The case is related to fraudulent withdrawal of ₹139.35 crore from Ranchi’s Doranda treasury during 1995-96. Its charge sheet was filed in 2005. Of the different fodder scam cases, the aforesaid case---numbering RC 47 (A)/96---is the biggest case as it involves maximum number of accused (170), highest amount of alleged defalcation money and highest number of prosecution witnesses. The CBI had filed charge sheet against 170 accused in this case, but 70 of them, including former Bihar chief minister Jagannath Mishra, died during the course of trial. Currently, only 110 accused, including Lalu Prasad are facing trial.The RJD chief is currently out on bail after his conviction in three separate fodder scam cases in quick succession. However, if convicted in the Doranda treasury case, he could go back to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lawyers-of-lalu-other-accused-seek-adjournment-in-doranda-treasury-case-101628595441308.html
10-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delta variant of Covid-19 detected in 80% samples in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi Covid-19: Delta variant detected in 80% samples sent for genome sequencingDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday the Delta variant of coronavirus (Covid-19) disease has been detected in at least 80 per cent of the samples sent for genome sequencing during the second wave of the pandemic in the national capital. Read more.India to evacuate officials and nationals from Mazar-e-Sharif in northern AfghanistanIndia on Tuesday began evacuating its diplomats and nationals from Mazar-e-Sharif in northern Afghanistan following reports of the advance of Taliban fighters amid a violent assault by the group on key cities and urban centres. Read more.At least 1,000 vehicles entered Mizoram from Assam since blockade liftedWithin 60 hours of lifting of the unofficial economic blockade on Assam side of the state border on Saturday night, more than a thousand vehicles have moved towards Mizoram safely as the situation normalises. Read more.Tejpal’s acquittal left ‘impression on victims of sexual violence’: Goa govtFormer Tehelka magazine editor Tarun Tejpal’s acquittal of rape and sexual assault charges has left an “inevitable impression on all victims of sexual violence” and has “a deterrent effect among those who are potential victims”, additional solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the Bombay high court at Goa on Tuesday. Read more.Army unfurls 100-ft-high national flag in GulmargThe army on Tuesday installed a 100-feet-tall national flag in Gulmarg as part of the 75th Independence Day celebrations. Read more.Greta Thunberg on Vogue Scandinavia’s cover: Countless exploited for fashionAll of 18, Greta Thunberg catapulted to global recognition at a very young age all thanks to her passion for climate activism, consequent Nobel Prize nominations (three of them), her sharp tongue, online sparring with former President of the United States Donald Trump and a no nonsense attitude despite her young age. Now, the climate activist can add another feather to her cap, that of Vogue cover girl, something one may have never thought would be possible or even an aspiration for Greta. Read more.'That's one of the things he did exceptionally well': Gower lauds Rahul, explains reason behind success in 1st TestKL Rahul's impressive comeback into India's Test side, after a gap of nearly two years, has got everyone talking and the opener has been receiving heavy praise from experts and fellow cricketers. The latest person to praise KL Rahul is former England captain David Gower. Read more.Aamir Khan had assured a dialysis centre for Anupam Shyam but stopped picking calls later, claims brotherAnurag Shyam, brother of late actor Anupam Shyam, says that actor Aamir Khan had given them an assurance of a dialysis centre in Pratapgarh, but stopped picking their phone calls after some time. He also said that Anupam was upset with the news that his show would soon be pulled off air. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delta-variant-of-covid-19-detected-in-80-samples-in-delhi-101628593565887.html
10-08-2021||India||These 37 districts showing an increasing trend in daily Covid-19 cases, Kerala worst-hit||The Union health ministry has identified 37 districts across India showing an increasing trend in average daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases amid a continued decline in overall fresh infections in the country. The joint secretary of the ministry of health and family welfare, Lav Agarwal, told a press briefing Tuesday that 51.51% of last week’s total Covid-19 cases were reported from Kerala, with 11 of its districts showing a concerning trend.Kerala is the only Indian state with more than one lakh active Covid-19 cases and eight other states have between 10,000 to one lakh active cases, the health ministry data showed. While Kerala’s contribution to total active cases is 43.77%, Maharashtra (18.48%), Karnataka (6.01%), Tamil Nadu (5.26%), and Andhra Pradesh (5.03%) are other major contributors.Apart from Kerala, seven districts from Tamil Nadu, six from Himachal Pradesh, five from Karnataka, two each from Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, and West Bengal, one each from Meghalaya and Mizoram are showing an increasing trend in Covid-19 cases.Also Read | Covid-19: Kerala, Maharashtra continue to top list of worst-hit Indian statesHere’s the list of 37 districts showing an increasing trend in Covid-19 cases:Kerala - Malappuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Palakkad, Kollam, Kannur, Kasargod, Wayanad, Pathanamthitta, IdukkiTamil Nadu - Coimbatore, Chennai, Erode, Chengalpattu, Thiruvallur, Pudukkottai, AriyalurHimachal Pradesh - Hamirpur, Kangra, Bilaspur, Chamba, Mandi, ShimlaKarnataka - Kodagu, Uttara Kannada, Chamarajanagar, Dakshina Kannada UdupiAndhra Pradesh - Srikakulam, East GodavariMaharashtra - Solapur, BeedWest Bengal - 24 Parganas North, NadiaMeghalaya - West Khasi HillsMizoram - SaihaThe health ministry said Tuesday morning that India reported 28,204 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the lowest daily increase in 147 days. The total active caseload is currently at 3,88,508, which constitute 1.21% of the total infections to date. The ministry stated that 51.45 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under its nationwide vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-37-districts-showing-an-increasing-trend-in-daily-covid-19-cases-kerala-worsthit-101628593952069.html
10-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Kerala, Maharashtra continue to top list of worst-hit Indian states||India registered 28,204 new cases of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease on Tuesday, marking a significant drop from the 35,499 cases reported only a day ago. The cumulative tally of cases in the country now stands at 3,19,98,158.While most states have seen gradual improvement in the pandemic situation following which some of the virus-induced lockdown measures have been relaxed, some are still reporting a large number of cases on a daily basis leading to fears of an imminent third wave. According to latest data available with the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the following are states that have been recording the maximum number of Covid-19 cases.KeralaKerala continues to top the list with 13,049 new cases of Covid-19 being reported on Monday, taking the state’s total tally to 35,65,574 cases. In the last 24 hours, 105 patients died from the virus, pushing the death toll now in the southern state to 17,852. The state has put 4,86,836 individuals under surveillance in various districts, of whom, 4,57,494 are in home or institutional quarantine, while 29,342 others are being treated at hospitals. A multi-disciplinary central team that visited Kerala in the beginning of August had urged the state government to concentrate on areas of testing, contact tracing, including surveillance and containment, encouraging Covid-appropriate behaviour, proper availability of hospital beds, and a faster vaccination drive.MaharashtraMaharashtra reported 4,505 fresh infections on Monday, its lowest single-day spike in the last six months. The active case count in the state now stands at 68,375. In the last 24 hours, the death toll jumped to 1,34,064 after 68 new deaths were recorded. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray met with the state task force on Covid-19 on Monday evening to discuss further relaxations in curbs and to chalk out a strategy to contain an imminent third wave of the pandemic.Tamil NaduTamil Nadu recorded 1,929 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, pushing the state’s cumulative tally of cases to 25,77,237. The districts of Coimbatore with 235 new cases, Chennai with 182 cases, Erode with 178 cases, and Chengalpattu with 107 cases, added the most number of infections to the state’s tally. After logging 21 fatalities in the last 24 hours, the death toll in the state now stands at 34,340.KarnatakaKarnataka logged 1,186 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the state’s cumulative figures to 29,19,711. At 296, Bengaluru Urban contributed the highest number of cases to the state’s tally, followed by Dakshina Kannada (273), Kodagi (83), Mysuru (82) and Udupi (81). Bengaluru has imposed Section 144 (curfew) till August 16 to curb the surge in cases. Karnataka has also imposed strict restrictions on the movement of people from neighbouring Kerala.Andhra PradeshAndhra Pradesh reported 1,413 new cases and 18 fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s cumulative tally to 19,83,721, and death toll to 13,549. The state currently has a positivity rate of 7.9 per cent. The district of East Godavari (458) added the most number of cases to Monday’s tally, followed by SPS Nellore(207), Chittoor (201), and Krishna (113).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-kerala-maharashtra-continue-to-top-list-of-worst-hit-indian-states-101628592618893.html
10-08-2021||India||Delta increases hospitalisation, Delta Plus not that virulent: Health ministry on Covid strains in India||The Union health ministry on Tuesday said in the last four months, 86 Delta Plus cases have been detected in the country, which proves that this variant does not have any over and above impact than the Delta variant. Niti Aayog (health) member VK Paul said some new findings on Delta, on the other hand, reveals how strong and fast transmissible the variant is. It also increases hospitalisation, Dr Paul said. But as established by recent studies, India has vaccines that are effective against the Delta variant. "We are better placed against Delta," Dr Paul said."Delta variant is ruling the nation, in fact, the world. This variant is responsible for the fresh surge in the world. Delta's transmissibility, the attack rate is more. If I explain it in simple terms, then the transmissibility of the original virus was 100, Alpha was 160 and Delta is 250. Its strength is emerging in front of us now. It is fast and many people are getting infected by one person.," Dr Paul explained."New cases coming from Wuhan has shown that the gap between being exposed to the virus and getting infected is shorter than the previous strains. And the virus load is much bigger. This explains why it's more transmissible. It has also emerged that Delta increases hospitalisation," Dr Paul said.The ministry also published the reproduction rate of the states and said that if the reproduction rate of Covid-19 is higher in any state, it indicates that there will be a rapid spread in future, even if the number of fresh infections at present may not be alarming. The reproductive number helps experts understand the rate at which the virus is spreading. In its weekly briefing on Tuesday, the joint secretary of the Union health ministry Lav Agarwal said the R number of India at present stands at 1, which means one person is spreading the infection to one another person. The R factor will be below the danger level only when it dips below 1.According to health ministry data, Himachal Pradesh, which was flooded with tourists soon after restrictions were eased after the second wave of the pandemic, has a reproduction number of 1.3 and it has an increasing trend. In Punjab, the number is 1.3, which is also increasing. The spread of the infection in Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh is 1.1, and the trend is stable. Uttar Pradesh has a reproductive rate of 1.1 with a likely increasing trend. Similarly, Andhra Pradesh has an R factor of 1.0 and a likely increasing trend.The ministry on Tuesday said that 37 districts falling in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Meghalaya and Mizoram are still reporting an increasing trend in daily new cases during the last two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-enhances-hospitalisation-but-delta-plus-not-virulent-health-ministry-101628593746880.html
10-08-2021||India||Delhi Covid-19: Delta variant detected in 80% samples sent for genome sequencing||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday the Delta variant of coronavirus (Covid-19) disease has been detected in at least 80 per cent of the samples sent for genome sequencing during the second wave of the pandemic in the national capital. He further said that more than 80 per cent of fresh cases being reported in Delhi are also of Delta variant, Jain said.Delhi reported 52 new Covid-19 cases, 45 recoveries and one death in the last 24 hours. At present, there are 504 active cases.According to a report in The Times of India, data shared by the health department during a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) found delta variant of Covid-19 was present in 83.3 per cent samples sent for genome sequencing in July. The figures were 81.7 per cent and 88. 6 per cent in May and June, respectively, while in April it was detected in 53.9 per cent. The Delta variant (B.1.617.2) is a sublineage of the Kappa variant that was first detected in Maharashtra.The other strain of the virus that was detected in samples sent for genome sequencing to the National Centre for Disease Control by the Delhi government was the Alpha variant. Dr Arun Gupta, president of the Delhi Medical Council, said the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic is not over yet and dominance of the Delta variant in samples is proof of that. At its peak, the second wave of the virus had wreaked havoc across the national capital earlier this year with a large number of cases and deaths being reported on a daily basis, coupled with a massive shortage of medical oxygen.“The variant is still in circulation. We are seeing fewer cases in Delhi because many people have been exposed to it already,” Dr Gupta was quoted as saying in the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-covid-19-delta-variant-detected-in-80-samples-sent-for-genome-sequencing-101628592357477.html
10-08-2021||India||Army unfurls 100-ft-high national flag in Gulmarg||The army on Tuesday installed a 100-feet-tall national flag in Gulmarg as part of the 75th Independence Day celebrations. Lt Gen YK Joshi, army commander, northern command, presided over the ceremony where he also honoured the next of kin of martyrs.Also Read | Terrorist slain in Rajouri’s Thannamandi encounter identified“The army commander also felicitated members of civil society who have contributed immensely towards nation building through various endeavours,” army’s press statement said. It said the flag is set amid beautiful and salubrious surroundings of Gulmarg, and “the monument has already become a major draw for tourists who have been flocking to the monument to take selfies against backdrop of the National Flag.”During the ceremony, Joshi said the flag is a tribute to the countless Kashmiris who have made the ultimate sacrifice while safeguarding the unity and integrity of the nation. “Incidentally, Gulmarg is one of the locations along the Line of Control wherein Pakistani troops infiltrated in 1965 and owing to the prompt response of young shepherd Mohd Din, who alerted the security forces about the same, the Indian Army was greatly benefitted in defeating the nefarious designs of Pakistan,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-unfurls-100-ft-high-national-flag-in-gulmarg-101628591301178.html
10-08-2021||India||Why Canada again extended ban on direct flights from India | Explained||At a time when several European countries, including the United Kingdom, France, have relaxed travel restrictions on India because India's Covid-19 situation is improving, Canada again extended the ban of direct flight from India. The decision will be reviewed on or before September 21. This extension will impact students as they will now have to travel to a third country to reach Canada.5th extension in 4 monthsThis is the 5th extension of the ban on direct Indian flights since April. The ban was imposed in April because of the second wave of the pandemic and was later extended. With the consecutive extension of the ban on direct flights, the only way for Indian students who have got admission to Canada schools and varsities is to take a connecting flight to Canada where they will have to obtain a negative RT-PCR certificate from a third country, not India. That third country has to be on the approved list of Canada.Canada opens for US travellers, not IndiansExtending the ban on direct flights from India, Transport Canada said the decision was based "on the latest public health advice from the Public Health Agency of Canada".However, Canada has opened its border for the United States which is reporting new Covid cases crossing 100,000.Who can travel to Canada?Apart from fully vaccinated US citizens, Canada has allowed some relaxation to some other categories as well. Permanent residents of Canada, newly approved immigrants can now travel to Canada. Among these categories, those who are fully vaccinated travellers will not need to quarantine.How Indian students can travel to Canada?The Indian government has asked the Canadian government to lift the ban of direct flights in July, as there is a huge demand for both-way traffic. India's high commissioner to Ottawa Ajay Bisaria held meetings with the officials from Air India and Air Canada. The diplomatic push resulted in a leeway for Indian students which is inconvenient but a passage to enter Canada. They have to travel to a third country and get tested there as Canada is not accepting Covid-19 molecular test reports from India. They will also have to stay in that third country for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-canada-again-extended-ban-on-direct-flights-india-explained-101628590538232.html
10-08-2021||India||Terrorists hurl grenade at security forces in Srinagar, five civilians injured||Terrorists hurled a grenade at security forces at Hari Singh High Street in Srinagar on Tuesday injuring at least a few civilians. The attack came a day after a BJP leader and his wife were shot dead in south Kashmir's Anantnag district.While police are yet to come out with any confirmation, doctors at Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital said the five persons were being treated for injuries.Later, DIG of the Central Reserve Police Force, Kishore Prasad, in Srinagar said around 2.40pm, a miscreant targeted a bunker of the SSB with a grenade. "There has been no injury to any security force personnel," Prasad was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.There has been a spurt in militant attacks in Kashmir in the run up to Independence Day on August 15.On Monday, BJP’s Kisan Morcha president of Kulgam, Gulam Rasool Dar, and his wife died after terrorists fired bullets at the couple in the Lal Chowk area of Anantnag.On Saturday, a police personnel was killed in Kulgam district after terrorists opened fire at a police party. On Thursday, a grenade blast took place in the Nawhatta area of old city.On August 3, a police personnel and a civilian were injured after suspected militants opened fire on a police vehicle at Khanyar in Old City.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-hurl-grenade-at-security-forces-in-srinagar-five-civilians-injured-101628588799287.html
10-08-2021||India||PM Modi lauds conservation efforts to improve lion population in Gujarat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded the conservation efforts in Gujarat to increase the population of lions in recent years.“The lion is majestic and courageous. India is proud to be home to the Asiatic Lion. On World Lion Day, I convey my greetings to all those passionate about lion conservation. It would make you happy that the last few years have seen a steady increase in India’s lion population,” PM Modi tweeted on Tuesday. “When I was serving as Gujarat CM, I had the opportunity to work towards ensuring safe and secure habitats for the Gir Lions. A number of initiatives were taken which involved local communities and global best practices to ensure habitats are safe and tourism also gets a boost.”Also Read | ‘Gave unprecedented benefit to women’: PM Modi launches Ujjwala scheme 2.0The Gujarat Forest department said last June that the Asiatic Lion population in Gir national park has increased by 29% in the past five years — from 523 in 2015 to 674 in 2020. The department also said the distribution area of lions in the Saurashtra region of Gujarat, where Gir is situated, has increased by 36% from 22,000 sqkm in 2015 to 30,000 sqkm.The forest department conducted an exercise in which 1,400 forest guards of 13 divisions were asked to spot lions and report their presence. Based on their reports, the population was estimated. The exercise was called Poonam Avlokan (because it was conducted on full moon night).The Centre hasn’t conducted any census of lions in Gujarat. “We plan to soon start Project Lion which will ensure conservation gaps are addressed,” said a senior environment ministry official who did not wish to be named. He, however, did not comment on whether lions from Gujarat will be translocated to Madhya Pradesh. There was a plan to translocate lions from Gir to Madhya Pradesh’s Kuno Palpur wildlife reserve which has been pending since the 90s.“Project Lion will involve the conservation of lions and their habitat in a holistic manner. There will be a focus on conflict mitigation and technology for management. Reintroduction... we have to see what are the possibilities. Last year, only some financial measures were announced but this project is new and long term,” Soumitra Dasgupta, additional director general (wildlife) had said last year.“Conservation of lions in and around Gir has been a tremendous success. It has staved off extinction which seemed imminent more than a 100 years ago. Even conservation successes need careful long-term monitoring and management. In the case of lions, the single most important conservation action that is needed is the implementation of the Supreme Court mandated translocation to establish a second free-ranging population of lions in Kuno,” said Ravi Chellam, conservation scientist, CEO, Metastring Foundation and member Biodiversity Collaborative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lauds-conservation-efforts-to-improve-lion-population-in-gujarat-101628588421094.html
10-08-2021||India||J&K: Terrorist slain in Rajouri’s Thannamandi encounter identified||Jammu and Kashmir Police on Tuesday identified one of the two terrorists killed in an encounter on August 6 in Pangai village in Thannamandi area of Rajouri district as Ramees Ahmad Tantray, son of Mohammad Yusuf Tantray of Ramnagri in Shopian district. A police spokesman said that records show that Tantray had travelled to Pakistan legally but never returned.“One of the terrorists has been identified as Ramees Ahmad Tantray, son of Mohammad Yusuf Tantray of Ramnagri in Shopian, who had travelled to Pakistan on a valid Indian passport in February 2018 and was not known to have returned thereafter. Further verification of this is in process. The identity of the second terrorist is yet to be ascertained,” the police spokesman said.Ramees Ahmad Tantray was killed in a joint operation On August 6 by the Indian Army and Jammu and Kashmir Police in an encounter during a search operation in the general area of village Pangai.Two AK 47 assault rifles with nine magazines and 232 rounds, four grenades, ammunition pouches, batteries, bandages, pills and other materials of day to day use were recovered from their possession, said police.The joint cordon and search operation is still in progress while parallel investigation in the case continues following the registration of a case under the Explosive Substance Act at Thannamandi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-terrorist-slain-in-rajouri-s-thannamandi-encounter-identified-101628586620651.html
10-08-2021||India||Throwing love chit at a married woman is insulting, says Bombay HC in a 10-year-old case||Throwing a chit professing love to a married woman is sufficient to outrage the modesty of the woman, the Nagpur Bench of the Bombay high court has ruled in a case that took place in Akola in 2011. Modesty is a woman's most precious jewel, the high court said, adding that there cannot be any "straitjacket formula to ascertain whether it is outraged"."The complainant is a married woman, aged 45 years and the very act of throwing a chit on her person which professes love for her and which contains poetic verses, albeit extremely, purely written is sufficient to outrage the modesty of a woman," the court said, as reported by news agency PTI.Also Read: PIL urges Bombay high court to scrap PG-NEETThe incident took place between a shopkeeper, who was the petitioner of the case, and some Mrs S. On October 3, 2011, the shopkeeper, Shrikrushna Tawari, approached her when Mrs S was washing utensils. The shopkeeper wanted to give her a chit which she refused to accept. He then threw the chit and also said, 'I love you'. The next day, he made some obscene gestures and warned her not to tell anyone about the chit.Based on the complaint, a case was registered against the shopkeeper under Sections 354, 506 and 509 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).In 2018, the sessions court convicted him under Sections 354, 509 and 506 of IPC and sentenced him to two years of rigorous imprisonment. A hefty amount of fine was imposed on Tawari, including the amount that he was asked to pay to the woman as compensation.Tawari challenged the verdict claiming that the woman brought a false case against him. He said the woman had "purchased groceries on credit from his shop and was not inclined to pay the amount". The judge, however, said that he had no reason to disbelieve the evidence of the complainant."I have noted that the applicant has already undergone 45 days of incarceration and considering the date of the incident or commission of the offence, as the provisions of the law stood then, there was no minimum sentence provided for an offence punishable under Section 354 of the IPC. It is only by the 2013 amendment that a minimum sentence is provided. I, therefore, find it appropriate to modify the sentence of imprisonment imposed for offences punishable under Section 354 and 509 of the IPC to the period already undergone," the court added.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/throwing-love-chit-at-a-married-woman-is-insulting-says-bombay-hc-in-a-10-year-old-case-101628584965106.html
10-08-2021||India||India to evacuate officials and nationals from Mazar-e-Sharif in northern Afghanistan||India on Tuesday began evacuating its diplomats and nationals from Mazar-e-Sharif in northern Afghanistan following reports of the advance of Taliban fighters amid a violent assault by the group on key cities and urban centres. India also advised all its nationals in Afghanistan to make immediate travel arrangements to return before commercial air services are discontinued.All Indian diplomats and officials from the Indian consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif and Indian nationals living in and around the city are to be evacuated in Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft by Tuesday evening, people familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity. The exact number of people being evacuated couldn’t immediately be ascertained. The move comes exactly a month after India evacuated some 50 officials and security personnel from the consulate in the southern city of Kandahar on July 10 following intense clashes between Afghan forces and Taliban fighters. Also Read | After PM Modi, Jaishankar heads for UNSC with terrorism on agendaThe Indian consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif, which was the only fully functional consulate out of four such missions across Afghanistan, on Tuesday asked Indian nationals to take the special evacuation flight. “A special flight is leaving from Mazar-e-Sharif to New Delhi. Any Indian nationals in and around Mazar-e-Sharif are requested to leave for India in the special flight scheduled to depart late today evening,” the consulate said in a tweet. The consulate asked Indian citizens wishing to leave by the special flight to provide their names and passport numbers. There was no official word on the development from the external affairs ministry. The people cited above said the strength of the Indian consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif had been reduced recently in the wake of the Taliban intensifying its campaign to capture territory in rural areas and overrun provincial capitals and urban centres. The consulate has also been without a head since the last consul general, Vinesh Kalra, died of Covid-19 in a hospital in Kabul in May. The Taliban have so far taken over Kunduz and Aibak cities in the north, triggering fears of an assault on Mazar-e-Sharif, the fourth-largest city in Afghanistan and the capital of Balkh province. The officials and security personnel in the consulate in Kandahar were evacuated last month after the Taliban seized key areas near the city in southern Afghanistan. The Indian side has been closely tracking the deteriorating security situation across Afghanistan and officials had previously said all steps will be taken to ensure that Indian officials and nationals are not put in harm’s way. According to information provided by the government in Parliament last week, there are currently some 1,500 Indian nationals in Afghanistan. A majority of them are workers and professionals engaged in the hundreds of development projects being implemented by the Indian government. The presence of hundreds of terrorists from Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed in different parts of Afghanistan has also emerged as a key security concern for the Indian side. New Delhi has been working on plans to ensure the safety of diplomats and all Indian nationals in Afghanistan in view of what officials have described as a “fluid and dynamic” situation because of the fierce fighting across the country. In April last year, India shuttered its consulates in Herat and Jalalabad, ostensibly because of the spread of Covid-19, though some reports suggested security was a factor behind the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-evacuate-officials-and-nationals-from-mazar-e-sharif-in-northern-afghanistan-101628586020724.html
10-08-2021||India||Census 2021 to be digital, says home ministry: All you need to know||The Census 2021 exercise is going to be all digital this year, the Union home ministry informed Lok Sabha. This will be the first time that the counting exercise will be held digitally, the ministry said.Minister of state for home, Nityanand Rai, further told the lower house of Parliament that there is no proposal to release the caste data at this stage.This is going to be 16th Census since the enumeration exercise began in 1860s.How will technology change Census this year?The home ministry said that Census 2021 will be carried out using a mobile phone app. It will be used to collect data by school teachers who will double up as enumerators during the Census exercise.The ministry also said that a Census portal for management and monitoring of various related activities has been developed.There will also be a provision for self-enumeration, the home ministry said.Recording data directly into a mobile phone is likely to speed up the process of data collection and the analysis that follows.The process to be followed during digital CensusThe Census portal which has been developed by the central government, will require the mobile phone numbers and other details of individuals for logging in.In case of self-enumeration, the individual will fill in the required details with the help of relevant codes for each field. After self-enumeration is done, an identification number will be sent on the registered number provided by the individual.The same ID number can be shared with the enumerator, which will help the official to sync the data automatically.What was happening till now?The enumerators used to visit the every household with a set of questions and enter the details in a form.The questions included were about the amenities available in a household, source of drinking water and power, occupation and the languages spoken by the family members.Other countries undertaking digital CensusOnly a handful of countries have done away with paper records for the census. Vietnam and Swaziland are first to take this leap along with India.In other two countries, Census officials had trained graduate students for about a year to double up as enumerators. India will be using an estimated 30 lakh enumerators for the Census.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while presenting the budget this year, had announced an allocation of ₹3,378 crore for digital Census.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/census-2021-to-be-digital-says-home-ministry-all-you-need-to-know-101628583054092.html
10-08-2021||India||TN’s DVAC registers case against AIADMK leader; searches 50 premises||Tamil Nadu’s Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) registered a case against opposition All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader and former minister SP Velumani on Tuesday and conducted searches at over 50 premises belonging to him and his relatives.A First Information Report (FIR) registered against Velumani accuses him of “large-scale favouritism” by “abusing his official position” in awarding contracts to his close associates, including his brother. It alleges Velumani illegally allotted tenders worth ₹464.02 crore of Greater Chennai Corporation and ₹346.81 crore of Coimbatore Corporation to his relatives by misusing his official powers between 2014 and 2018.Velumani, who was the municipal administration minister from 2014 to 2021, is a close aide to former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami.Also Read | Online classes may leave trail of health issues, says Kerala education ministerThe FIR said the case was registered following a complaint by ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) lawmaker RS Bharathi and anti-corruption NGO Arappor Iyakkam.DVAC earlier registered a case against AIADMK leader and former transport minister MR Vijayabhaskasr in July.When DMK was in the opposition, it submitted a list of corruption charges against the then AIADMK ministers including Velumani and Palaniswami to governor Banwarilal Purohit in December 2020. Establishing a special court to prosecute AIADMK leaders over alleged corruption was one of DMK’s poll promises. HT has reached out to AIADMK for comments and the copy will be updated accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tns-dvac-registers-case-against-aiadmk-leader-searches-50-premises-101628582601271.html
10-08-2021||India||Govt approves Covaxin manufacturing facility in Gujarat’s Ankleshwar||Union minister of health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya took to Twitter on Tuesday to announce the government’s approval of BharatBiotech's Covaxin manufacturing facility in Gujarat’s Ankleshwar.“Govt of India approves vaccine manufacturing facility for production of BharatBiotech's Covaxin in Ankleshwar, Gujarat,” the minister tweeted.“Following PM NarendraModi ji's vision of SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine, this will increase vaccine availability & accelerate the world’s largest vaccine drive,” he added.Govt of India approves vaccine manufacturing facility for production of @BharatBiotech's #Covaxin in Ankleshwar, Gujarat.Following PM @NarendraModi ji's vision of #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine, this will increase vaccine availability & accelerate the world’s largest vaccine drive.Mandaviya had informed the Rajya Sabha on August 6 that the facility augmentation of Bharat Biotech and three public sector enterprises (PSEs) – Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation Ltd, Indian Immunologicals Ltd (IIL) and Bharat Immunologicals Biologicals Corporation Ltd - was being supported to enhance production of Covaxin. Before that NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul told reporters on August 3 that IIL has started an additional facility at Ankleshwar in Gujarat where 60 lakh doses of the vaccine will be manufactured.Bharat Biotech had said in a press statement that IIL’s Ankleshwar-based production facility will add another 200 million doses to its overall vaccine production. The Ankleshwar based manufacturing facility is expected to roll out vaccine doses from the fourth quarter of the year, PTI had reported on May 20. “The current production capacity is 25 million doses per month and this is likely to be maintained till August-September this year, after which more supplies will happen. In the next two months we will be starting production in two of our facilities in Ankleshwar, Gujarat, and Bengaluru, Karnataka. These facilities are being repurposed and the production is likely to start in next two months,” an executive from the company told Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-approves-covaxin-manufacturing-facility-in-gujarat-s-ankleshwar-101628581173267.html
10-08-2021||India||'Gave unprecedented benefit to women': PM Modi launches Ujjwala scheme 2.0||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday launched the second phase of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY). Known as Ujjwala 2.0, phase 2 of the scheme kicked off in Mahoba, Uttar Pradesh, with PM Modi inaugurating it virtually.Also Read | PM Modi to launch Ujjwala 2.0 virtually from UP’s Mahoba today“Ujjwala Yojana benefitted women’s lives in an unprecedented way," PM Modi said, mentioning names of some prominent personalities associated with Mahoba. He made a particular mention of another prominent personality from the region, Major Dhyan Chand, recalling the decision to rename the country's highest sporting award after the hockey legend. PM Modi also hailed performances of India's men and women hockey teams in the recently concluded Olympics in Tokyo.PM Narendra Modi launches Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana 2.0, hands over LPG connections to several women beneficiaries, at Mahoba via video conferencing. pic.twitter.com/DoPfy2RA1bHe then listed some steps taken by the Union government in the last six years, explaining how each of those benefitted women. "In the first phase of Ujjwala Yojana, 80 million women received free LPG connections. These connections benefitted families during the lockdown. Imagine what would have happened if Ujjawala Yojana was there?" PM Modi said.In the last seven years, we gave more gas connections than the total number of connections given before 2014, the prime minister further said.On the occasion, 1000 women beneficiaries were present, out of whom, 10 were given LPG cylinder connections by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath in a symbolic gesture. The event also saw PM Modi interact with five women beneficiaries, one each from Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, respectively.Also Read | PM Modi to launch Ujjwala Yojana 2.0 today: All you need to know about schemeBesides PM Modi, UP CM Adityanath, too, addressed the gathering. Union petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Uttar Pradesh deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma were among those who attended the ceremony.Ujjwala 1.0 was launched on May 1, 2016, by PM Modi in Ballia, also in Uttar Pradesh. The first phase was completed in August 2019, seven months before the March 2020 deadline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-ujjwala-scheme-20-101628578725188.html
10-08-2021||India||India, Saudi Arabia begin first naval exercise||A frontline Indian warship is currently participating in the first naval exercise with Saudi Arabia, reflecting the growing defence ties between the two sides in the wake of the Indian Army chief’s first visit to the West Asian country last year.INS Kochi, the flagship destroyer of the Indian Western Naval Fleet, arrived at Port Al-Jubail on Monday for the “Al-Mohed Al-Hindi 2021” exercise. The warship sailed to Saudi Arabia after conducting the “Zayed Talwar” drill with the United Arab Emirates (UAE) off the coast of Abu Dhabi on Saturday.India’s defence and military ties with Saudi Arabia received a major boost with Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane’s visit to Riyadh – the first such trip by an Indian service chief – last December. Naravane had also visited the UAE on the same tour.Also Read | India has discussed air bubble with Saudi Arabia: GovernmentThe Al-Mohed Al-Hindi exercise began with the harbour phase on Monday, and the Indian embassy said the drill “heralds a new chapter in the bilateral defence ties”. INS Kochi was welcomed at the port by officials of the Royal Saudi Naval Forces, Border Guards and the Indian embassy.Al-Mohed Al-Hindi comprises a number of shore and sea-based drills between the two navies. During its stay at Jubail port, the Indian warship will follow all Covid-19 protocols laid down by Saudi authorities.Planning by India and Saudi Arabia for their first naval exercise had begun in 2019 but the move was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. The Indian Navy held a few minor exercises amid the pandemic but plans for larger drills were recently revived. Warships from India, Australia, Japan and the US – the four members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad – will participate in the Malabar exercise in the Western Pacific later this month.The Indian Navy’s exercises with the UAE and Saudi Arabia are being held against the backdrop of growing tensions in the Persian Gulf following a drone attack on the tanker MV Mercer Street off Oman that killed a Briton and a Romanian citizen.The UAE fielded a guided missile corvette and a Panther helicopter for the exercise with INS Kochi. The two sides carried out tactical manoeuvres, search and rescue operations, and an electronic warfare drill to enhance interoperability.The exercise came a week after the Indian Air Force chief, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, visited the UAE.The visit of INS Kochi, an indigenously designed and built Kolkata-class stealth guided missile destroyer, also gives India an opportunity to display its ship-building capabilities in West Asia. The warship incorporates new design concepts for stealth and has a large component of indigenous combat suites.It is equipped with sophisticated digital networks, and a unique feature of the warship is the high level of indigenisation, with most systems sourced from within India. Some of the major indigenised systems on INS Kochi include the electronic warfare suite and the ship’s stabilisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-saudi-arabia-begin-first-naval-exercise-101628579181223.html
10-08-2021||India||Naidu irked with MPs for disrupting House seeking discussion on Pegasus issue||Rajya Sabha was adjourned within minutes of the House taking up business for the day on Tuesday.As soon as chairman Venkaiah Naidu said a discussion will be taken up on the famers’ issue, the Opposition members sought a discussion on the Pegasus snooping controversy. Trinamool MPs raised slogans and trooped into the well of the House. Also Read | Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi says her Pegasus question disallowed in HouseNaidu told the MPs that if the House is disrupted when farmers’ plight is scheduled for discussion, a wrong message will go to the people.“Today is the 16th sitting of the monsoon session of this august House. The House functioned at the rate of just one hour per day. Important subject of farmers’ issue is scheduled for discussion today in the House. If the House is not allowed to function today also, a message will go out that this House has no concern for the plight of farmers who are the bread givers for our people,” he said.As the Opposition MPs continued to raise slogans, the House was adjourned till 12 noon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naidu-irked-with-mps-for-disrupting-house-seeking-discussion-on-pegasus-issue-101628579180038.html
10-08-2021||India||PM tells BJP MPs to focus on mass campaigns on malnutrition||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmakers to take up mass campaigns for eradication of malnutrition, encourage sports in their constituencies, and create awareness about the golden card under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana. The card allows cashless treatment of the beneficiaries of the scheme launched in 2018 to provide the poor free access to private healthcare.Speaking at a BJP parliamentary party meeting, Modi said the lawmakers must ensure that social schemes aimed at providing nutrition are implemented on the ground, a person aware of the details said.In the wake of India’s performance in the Tokyo Olympics, Modi said there is a need to encourage the young to take up sports. “He said the MPs (members of Parliament) should ensure that there is provision for teaching games from the gram panchayat level upwards,” said the person cited above, who did not want to be named.The Indian contingent won seven medals in Tokyo, the biggest ever tally. Neeraj Chopra gave India its first Olympic gold in athletics on Saturday.Also Read | After PM Modi, Jaishankar heads for UNSC with terrorism on agendaUnion sports minister Anurag Thakur gave a presentation on India’s performance at the Olympics. His predecessor Kiren Rijiju, who now holds the law portfolio, briefed the lawmakers about the preparations made for the event.Modi asked his party colleagues to focus on the implementation of Ayushman Bharat and ensure that cashless treatment facilities reach the beneficiaries.Welfare schemes such as Ayushman Bharat are widely believed to have helped the BJP return to power in 2019 with a bigger majority.The person cited above said external affairs minister S Jaishankar made a presentation regarding the UN Security Council (UNSC) meeting. On Monday, Modi became the first Indian Prime Minister to preside over a meeting of the UNSC when he chaired an open debate on enhancing maritime security.According to a second person, Modi also urged the lawmakers to remain present in the Parliament during the sessions. He is learnt to have expressed concern over the absence of MPs while business is conducted in the House, said the second person.Modi was particularly peeved that several MPs were absent from the Rajya Sabha when the Tribunals Reforms Bill was passed on Monday, said the persons cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-tells-bjp-mps-to-focus-on-mass-campaigns-on-malnutrition-101628578579868.html
10-08-2021||India||Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi says her Pegasus question disallowed in House||Shiv Sena Member of Parliament Priyanka Chaturvedi on Tuesday said her parliamentary questions related to the alleged use of Pegasus spyware were disallowed.“My Parliamentary Questions regarding Pegasus & spyware/surveillance - to both IT (information technology) ministry and Home ministry surprisingly haven’t made it, either as starred (Question Hour) or unstarred (written reply) question. Reason: ballot selection. Hail transparency. Okay then,” Chaturvedi tweeted.This comes a day after the defence ministry on Monday told the Rajya Sabha that it has had no dealings with Israeli cybersecurity firm NSO Group, which is at the centre of a global controversy over the misuse of its Pegasus spyware.The Opposition parties have continuously disrupted the functioning of the Parliament over the Pegasus snooping controversy and demanded a discussion on the matter in the House.Also Read | Potholes caused 3,564 accidents in India in 2020: Govt in Rajya SabhaOn August 6, Hindustan Times reported that the Centre sought to disallow in the Rajya Sabha a question seeking details from the external affairs ministry on whether the government entered into a contract with NSO Group, stating that “the ongoing issue of Pegasus” is sub-judice after “several PILs have been filed in the Supreme Court.”The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international investigative consortium reported that the phones of Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 numbers from around the world that were potentially targeted by the NSO Group’s phone hacking software. The list database was first obtained by France-based non-profit Forbidden Stories, which shared the information with the reporting partners. The devices of at least 67 of the numbers were analysed by Amnesty International and of these, 37 had signs of being hacked by Pegasus. Of these 37, 10 were in India. NSO has said its software is sold only to governments.The Indian government has neither confirmed nor denied that it used Pegasus and has ruled out any illegal surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-mp-priyanka-chaturvedi-says-her-pegasus-question-disallowed-in-house-101628576960984.html
10-08-2021||India||DGCA in new advisory amid complaints of surge: Check airline website for fares||Aviation regulator Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Tuesday issued an advisory for international passengers to check fare on the websites of airlines before booking tickets amid complaints of a surge in fares in economy class.“Passengers travelling to international destinations are requested to check the fare preferably from the website of the concerned airline as the metasearch engines at times do not reflect the actual point to point fare and do make combinations of multiple airlines and end up with an exaggerated figure,” DGCA said on Tuesday.The matter came to light after Sanjeev Gupta, secretary, interstate council secretariat, union home ministry, on Saturday tweeted that an economy-class ticket on British Airways’s Delhi-London flight for August 26 was priced at ₹3.95 lakh. He added that economy-class ticket on Delhi-London flights of Vistara and Air India for August 26 was also priced between ₹1.2 lakh and ₹2.3 lakh.Also Read | IndiGo partners with IATA for international travel passGupta, on Monday, said he “alerted” union civil aviation secretary PS Kharola about this matter.“Fare of ₹ 3.95 lakh one way Delhi to London on Aug 26. No, it’s not 1st class. It’s economy on @British_Airways @airindiain @airvistara etc. also 1.2 to 2.3 lakh. College admission time! See minimum fare on @GoogleTravel in August. Have alerted Secretary @MoCA_GoI @JM_Scindia,” read his initial tweet from a thread highlighting the rise in airfares.Fare of ₹ 3.95 lakh one way Delhi to London on Aug 26. No, it's not 1st class. It's economy on @British_Airways. @airindiain @airvistara etc. also 1.2 to 2.3 lakh. College admission time! See minimum fare on @GoogleTravel in August. Have alerted Secretary @MoCA_GoI. @JM_Scindia pic.twitter.com/uxFF8dgaLkAviation regulator DGCA, on learning about the massive surge in flight prices between India and the UK, has also asked the airlines to submit details about the airfares they have been charging.In response, the civil aviation ministry on Monday tweeted: “There are media reports claiming India-UK one-way economy class fares have touched Rs. 4 lakhs. These reports have no proven basis. The veracity of Sh Sanjeev Gupta’s claim has been thoroughly checked by @DGCAIndia.”“The fares offered on the Delhi-London sector (Economy class) range from 1.03-1.21 lakhs for Indian carriers and 1.28-1.47 lakhs for UK carriers for travel during August 2021,” it added.There are media reports claiming India-UK one-way economy class fares have touched Rs. 4 lakhs. These reports have no proven basis. The veracity of Sh Sanjeev Gupta’s claim has been thoroughly checked by @DGCAIndia.Responding to the tweet, Gupta said, “My subsequent tweets on August 7... mentioned the same price as above while highlighting the issue... If that technical glitch is corrected, true prices will be shown and people won’t complain unnecessarily.”While the Centre has imposed a fare cap for domestic flights since their resumption in May last year, no such limit was imposed for international flights.Regular international passenger flights also remain suspended but limited special international passenger flights have been operating since July 2020 under the air bubble arrangements formed with 28 countries, including the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/check-airline-websites-for-fares-says-dgca-in-new-advisory-amid-complaints-of-surge-101628576479793.html
10-08-2021||India||Army chopper crash rescue ops: Experts flown in, international assistance sought||Experts, specialised equipment, and divers were being flown in and international assistance has also been sought for the deep underwater search operation for the chopper that crashed into Ranjit Sagar Dam in Jammu & Kashmir’s Kathua on August 3, the Army said on Tuesday.In a statement, the Army said the operation remains challenging due to the near-zero visibility below 50 metres due to the colloidal nature of water in this season, which adversely impacts the accuracy of sonars and other sensors. It did not elaborate on the nature of the international assistance.Two pilots of the Army Aviation Corps have been missing since the chopper crashed.Also Watch | J&K chopper crash: Hope fades for missing army pilots; helmets, I-cards found“Indian Army is coordinating the efforts of Indian Navy deep divers team consisting of two officers, four JCOs (junior commissioned officers) and 24 other ranks, Indian Army Special Forces divers’ team consisting of two officers, one JCO and 24 other ranks, multi-beam sonars, side scanners, remotely operated vehicles and underwater manipulators which have been flown in from Chandigarh, Delhi, Mumbai and Kochi and pressed into action at the crash site of the dam,” said defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand. He added the search operation continued despite bad weather and rain.Anand said expertise and equipment of the army, navy, Indian Air Force, other agencies and private firms from all over the country have also been put into action. “A small area of 60m by 60m has been localised and special sonar equipment flown in from Kochi is being employed to enable the search operations to enter their final phase.”The dam is 25 km long, 8 km wide and over 500 feet deep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chopper-crash-experts-equipment-divers-flown-in-for-rescue-operation-101628574979636.html
10-08-2021||India||DGCA asks passengers to check fares from airline website and not search engines||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Tuesday issued a travel advisory to passengers flying to international destinations to check the fare from the official website of the concerned airline as the ticket prices shown on metasearch engines are often “exaggerated”. This comes a day after the DGCA asked airlines to ensure that the fares on metasearch engines are not higher than the ones displayed on the carriers' websites.“Passengers travelling to international destinations are requested to check the fare preferably from the website of the concerned Airline as the metasearch engines at times do not reflect the actual point to point fare and do make combinations of multiple Airlines and end up with an exaggerated figure,” DGCA tweeted on Tuesday.pic.twitter.com/gHS7vb936pThe aviation regulatory body’s word of caution comes days after IAS officer Sanjeev Gupta tweeted that the one way trip fare of a British Airways flight from Delhi to London scheduled for August 26 was priced at ₹3.95 lakh on Google travel. Gupta also alerted the civil aviation ministry on the same.“Fare of ₹3.95 lakh one way Delhi to London on Aug 26. No, it's not 1st class. It's economy on @British_Airways @airindiain @airvistara etc. also 1.2 to 2.3 lakh. College admission time! See minimum fare on @GoogleTravel in August. Have alerted Secretary @MoCA_GoI @JM_Scindia,” tweeted Gupta on August 7.The Ministry of civil aviation took to Twitter on August 8 to refute claims of one way trip fare charging ₹4 lakh. “There are media reports claiming India-UK one-way economy class fares have touched Rs. 4 lakhs. These reports have no proven basis. The veracity of Sh Sanjeev Gupta’s claim has been thoroughly checked by the DGCA,” the ministry tweeted.“The fares offered on the Delhi-London sector (Economy class) range from 1.03-1.21 lakhs for Indian carriers and 1.28-1.47 lakhs for UK carriers for travel during August 2021,” it further clarified.The UK recently moved India, UAE, Qatar, and Bahrain from its ‘red’ to ‘amber list’, thereby facilitating travel for vaccinated travelers without the 10-day mandatory quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-asks-passengers-to-check-fares-from-airline-website-and-not-search-engines-101628573048446.html
10-08-2021||India||India has administered at least 510 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 510 million Covid vaccine doses by Monday, August 9.Meanwhile, the Delhi education department issued guidelines for educational institutes ahead of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority allowing students of classes 10,11, and 12 to go to school for admissions and board exam-related work.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Monday, 513,914,567 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 4,906,273 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 3,680,340 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 1,225,933 for the second dose.Also Read | Canada extends ban on direct passenger flights from India until September 21In the 18-45 age group, 2,666,611 were given the first dose while 459,352 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 179,570,348 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 12,491,475 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 10 million vaccine doses in the 18-45 years age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.On Tuesday, the Covid tally in India jumped by 28,204 cases, pushing the cumulative number to 31,99,8158, according to the data released by the Union health ministry at 9am. The daily death toll saw an increase of 373, the daily bulletin showed, which took the overall fatality count to 428,682.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-510-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101628572999424.html
10-08-2021||India||Potholes caused 3,564 accidents in India in 2020: Govt in Rajya Sabha||The government on Tuesday said in Rajya Sabha that 3,564 accidents took place in India due to potholes in 2020 compared to 4,775 and 4,869 in 2019 and 2018. The road traffic movement was restricted to a large extent due to the Covid-19 lockdown in the country in 2020.The government gave the information in response to Trinamool Congress lawmaker Derek O’Brien’s question on the number of road accidents due to “road engineering issues” and initiatives for road safety and the funds allocated for it.Click here for LIVE Updates of Parliament proceedings“No separate data/record is maintained for an accident occurring due to road engineering (issues),” Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari said.In response to a separate by Sushil Kumar Modi, Gadkari said that toll collection has increased by three per cent. Gadkari added since 2017, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has availed external borrowing of ₹ 3,000 crore. “Further, total borrowing of NHAI has increased from ₹ 74,742 crore outstanding as of March 2017 to ₹ 306,704 crore in March 2021. The debt of NHAI as of March 31, 2021 has reached ₹ 3.07 trillion, which is up by approximately 24% from ₹ 2.49 trillion in March 2020,” Gadkari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/potholes-caused-3-564-accidents-in-india-in-2020-govt-in-rajya-sabha-101628570659487.html
10-08-2021||India||World Lion Day 2021: History and significance||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday tweeted on the occasion of World Lion Day saying lion's population in India has witnessed a steady increase in the last few years. “The lion is majestic and courageous. India is proud to be home to the Asiatic Lion. On World Lion Day, I convey my greetings to all those passionate about lion conservation. It would make you happy that the last few years have seen a steady increase in India’s lion population,” PM Modi tweeted.World Lion Day is celebrated on August 10 of every year to raise awareness about lions and to mobilise support for their protection and conservation. According to the World Wide Fund for animals (WWF), even though a lion is often referred to as the “king of the jungle,” it actually only lives in grasslands and plains.When I was serving as Gujarat CM, I had the opportunity to work towards ensuring safe and secure habitats for the Gir Lions. A number of initiatives were taken which involved local communities and global best practices to ensure habitats are safe and tourism also gets a boost. pic.twitter.com/0VEGmh7YgjIndia is home to the majestic Asiatic Lion, who inhabit the protected territory of Sasan-Gir National Park. Read on to find out more about World Lion Day.History of World Lion DayThe initiative to protect the big cats started in 2013 and the first World Lion Day was celebrated that year. Since then, it has become a symbol in the fight to protect the majestic species.SignificanceAccording to the WWF, lions were once found throughout Africa, Asia and Europe but their numbers have dwindled over the years in these continents. These majestic cats that symbolise courage, ferocity, and power are threatened by extensive habitat loss.The last remaining population of the Asiatic Lions can be found in Gujarat's Gir National Park. These lions face significant threats of poaching. The Asiatic lion also faces the threat of genetic inbreeding arising from a single population inhabiting one place.WWF has recorded instances of lions dying after falling into unguarded wells around Gir. The animal welfare body has so far barricaded 180 wells with local partners and Gujarat Forest Department. It also credits the Gujarat government for providing subsidies to local farmers for barricading their wells in a bid to protect the lion population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-lion-day-2021-history-and-significance-101628569746141.html
10-08-2021||India||BJP got over 75% of electoral bonds sold, Congress 9% in 2019-20||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2019-20 got over 75% of the total electoral bonds sold while the Congress managed just 9% of the total amount of ₹3,435 collected, according to Election Commission of India (ECI) data.Electoral bonds are sold four times a year in January, April, July, and October. They allow political parties to accept money from donors whose identity is kept anonymous. The scheme was first introduced in 2018 and has since faced criticism over the lack of transparency.The BJP continued to get the bulk of the money donated-- ₹2,555 crore-- via electoral bonds. This was up from ₹1,450 crore it received the previous year. The BJP’s cash flow, according to its audit report filed with the ECI, remains the highest among political parties at ₹3,501 crore, up from ₹1,904 in 2018-2019.Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress collected ₹100.46 crore, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam ₹45 crore, Sharad Pawar’s Nationalist Congress Party ₹29.25 crore, Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party ₹18 crore, and Lalu Prasad Yadav’s Rashtriya Janata Dal ₹2.5 crore.Also Read | BJP plans outreach programmes for new ministersThe Congress received ₹383 crore in 2018-19 or 17% of the total share from the bonds. In 2019-20, it dipped to ₹318 crore.As per the annual audit report of BJP submitted to the ECI, the party received ₹210 crore contribution in form of electoral bonds in 2017-18.In a report released on Monday, Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) said this constituted nearly 95% of all the electoral bonds purchased in 2017-18. “For FY 2018-19, BJP had received ₹1,450.89 cr worth electoral bonds and INC (Indian National Congress) had received ₹383.26 cr worth electoral bonds,” the report said.ADR said between 2017-18 and 2018-19, political parties received ₹2,760.20 crore from electoral bonds. “A whopping 60.17% or ₹1,660.89 cr of this was received by a single party which is the ruling political party...,” said the report. It added over 52% of the total income of national parties and 53.83% of the total income of regional Parties analysed by ADR for 2018-19 came from donations received through electoral bonds.The BJP also got the highest donations from electoral trusts in 2019-20. Overall, BJP received ₹276.4 crore while Congress ₹58 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-got-over-75-of-electoral-bonds-sold-congress-9-in-201920-101628569879182.html
10-08-2021||India||Policing takes back seat as cops take care of rescued camels in Rajasthan||For three weeks, policemen at Sidhmukh police station in Rajasthan’s Churu district have been taking care of 13 camels rescued from smugglers last month. They have been feeding, providing water, and also arranging medical check-ups for the animals as policing has taken a back seat.“We do not mind taking care of them, but they ate and damaged trees on the police station premises,” said a policeman. Rajasthan in 2014 declared the camel as the state animal to check its dwindling numbers.Also Read | MP, Rajasthan battle floods; monsoon loses steam“A team of three policemen headed by head constable Brijesh Singh is looking after the camels. The expenditure of food and other expenses are borne by the police,” said Krishna Kumar, the in charge of the police station. Kumar said the camels frequently require medical attention as they are old and in bad shape.On July 19, the 13 camels were rescued from a truck and a case under the Rajasthan Camel (Prohibition of Slaughter and Regulation of Temporary migration) Act was filed.Kumar said a man was arrested for the alleged smuggling while a court on August 6 directed that the camels be handed over to an NGO in Sirohi, over 500 km away. Until the authorities arrange for their transportation that will require around three-four trucks, police have no option but to continue taking care of the camels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/policing-takes-back-seat-as-cops-take-care-of-rescued-camels-in-rajasthan-101628569219300.html
10-08-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 tally dips to 28,204 fresh cases; 373 new fatalities||The coronavirus tally in India jumped by 28,204 cases on Tuesday, pushing the cumulative number to reach 31,998,158, according to the data released by the Union health ministry at 9am. The daily death toll saw an increase of 373, the daily bulletin showed, which took the overall fatality count to 428,682 .The number of active cases in the country stood at 388,508 - a dip of 13,680 from Monday - while the number of cumulative recoveries reached 31,180,968 .As the authorities are ramping up nationwide testing, a total of 48,32,78,545 samples have been tested for the viral disease as of Monday. Out of this, 15,11,313 samples were tested in a day, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said.India’s Cumulative Covid vaccination coverage has crossed the landmark of 510 million (513,914,567), as per the provisional report released by the Centre on Monday.India's Covid-19 infection tally had crossed the two million mark on August 7 last year, three million on August 23, four million on September 5, five million on September 16, six million on September 28, seven million on October 11, eight million on October 29, nine million on November 20 and 10 million on December 19.The country crossed the grim milestone of 20 million cases on May 4 and 30 million on June 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-tally-dips-to-28-204-fresh-cases-373-new-fatalities-101628564812750.html
10-08-2021||India||After PM Modi, Jaishankar heads for UNSC with terrorism on agenda||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi, External Affairs Minister (EAM) S Jaishankar is leaving for New York next Monday to chair United Nations Security Council (UNSC) special sessions on terrorism and peacekeeping on August 18 and 19. India is President of UNSC for this month.According to UN diplomats, the EAM’s session on peacekeeping will be centered on securing the peacekeepers through a new application. India has a proud history of UN peacekeeping going all the way back to 1950s. It has contributed over 1,95,000 troops, the largest number from any country, participated in more than 49 missions and 168 Indian peacekeepers have lost their lives while serving the missions. India also provides eminent force commanders for key UN missions.However, the meeting on terrorism at the UNSC will be important in the context of rise of Taliban in Afghanistan and the umbrella it provides to global terrorist groups based in Pakistan. Since 1986, India has proposed a Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism, but the said document has not been adopted as there is no unanimity on the definition of terrorism among member states.It is understood that Jaishankar will leave for UNSC on August 16 to chair the two meetings. He will return to India and then fly to Mexico, Guyana and Panama via New York for long pending bilateral visits two days later.Terrorism is antithesis to all that UN stands for with non-state actors targeting innocents to achieve political objectives either for themselves or for their political masters. India has been special target of Islamist terror groups based in Pakistan with thousands of innocents losing their lives all over the country particularly Jammu and Kashmir since the 1990s. Besides, countries in West Asia, Europe and the US have also been at the receiving end from terrorist and terror group like the so called Islamic State.The UNSC meeting on terrorism has come at a time when the ultra-conservative Islamists of Taliban are terrorising the innocents in a bid to grab political power in Kabul after the US-led coalition forces leave Afghanistan on August 31. The Sunni Pashtun group has covert support of neighbouring Pakistan in terms of cadre, weapons, fuel, food and medical supplies through trans border Khyber and Spin Boldak passes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-pm-modi-jaishankar-heads-for-unsc-with-terrorism-on-agenda-101628566857264.html
10-08-2021||India||PM Modi to launch Ujjwala Yojana 2.0 today: All you need to know about scheme||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will, at 12:30pm on Tuesday, launch Ujjwala scheme 2.0 via video conferencing. On the occasion, beneficiaries from Uttar Pradesh’s Mahoba will received liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinder connections. Union petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath will also attend the event.Here’s all you need to know about Ujjwala Yojana:(1.) The Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) was launched on May 1, 2016, by PM Modi from UP’s Ballia. The scheme, introduced by the Union petroleum ministry, aims to make available cooking fuel such as LPG to rural households.Also Read: Ujjwala scheme 2.0 beneficiaries to get free stove, refill(2.) Under Ujjwala 1.0, the target was to provide LPG connections to 50 million women from the below poverty line (BPL) households, by March 2020. However, in August 2018, women from seven other categories were brought under the purview of the scheme: SC/ST, those under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), beneficiaries of the Antyoday Anna Yojana (AAY), forest dwellers, most backward classes, tea gardens and Islands).(3.) Also, the target of the scheme was later revised to 80 million LPG connections. This was achieved in August 2019, seven months ahead of the March 2020 deadline. As of July 30, 2021, the number of connections provided under the scheme stand at 79,995,022.(4.) Under Ujjwala 2.0, an additional 10 million LPG connections will be provided to the beneficiaries. The provision for these additional connections was announced in the Union Budget for the financial year 2021-22.(5.) In the second phase, beneficiaries need not pay anything for the first refill, as well as the hotplate. Additionally, the enrolment process will be easier as it won’t require minimum documentation. Migrants will not have to submit ration cards or address proof; a self-declaration will suffice for “family declaration”, and as an address proof.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-ujjwala-yojana-2-0-today-all-you-need-to-know-about-scheme-101628564247749.html
10-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: OBC Bill likely to be passed in Lok Sabha today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.OBC Bill likely to be passed in Lok Sabha todayUnion minister for social justice and empowerment Dr Virender Kumar will move the Constitution (127th) Amendment Bill for passage in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. Read MoreIndia says UN report on climate change a clarion call: 10 pointsGlobal warming is dangerously close to spiralling out of control, a UN climate panel said in its report on Monday. Read MorePowered by Pakistan, Taliban racing towards KabulWith its weapons, logistics and medical supplies intact from Pakistan, the Taliban are on a military rampage in north Afghanistan with the objective of cutting off Ashraf Ghani government's trade revenue and supply lines from Central Asia and Iran. Read More'Getting out on first ball is no big deal': Former Pakistan captain Salman Butt on Virat Kohli's formIndia captain Virat Kohli is going through a rough patch at this point. It has been since November 2019 that Kohli has been unable to score a hundred, and while he has been among the runs in the home Tests series, his form in away Tests has not been the best. Read MoreAkshay Kumar trolls Kapil Sharma after comedian claims actor sought blessings for BellBottom by touching his feetA picture of Akshay Kumar supposedly touching Kapil Sharma's feet on the sets of The Kapil Sharma Show was shared by the comedian-TV host on Instagram. Read MoreAther opens its proprietary fast-charging connector to rival electric scootersAther Energy on Tuesday informed that it has opened it proprietary fast-charging connector to electric scooters from rival brands in a bid to promote quicker EV adoption in India. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-obc-bill-likely-to-be-passed-in-lok-sabha-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101628565458114.html
10-08-2021||India||India says UN report on climate change a clarion call: 10 points||Global warming is dangerously close to spiralling out of control, a UN climate panel said in its report on Monday. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) also said that the world is already certain to face further climate disruptions for decades, if not centuries, to come.The deadly heatwaves, massive hurricanes and other extreme events of weather will become more severe, the report further said.It noted that carbon dioxide has been and will continue to be the dominant cause of global warming under all greenhouse gas emissions scenarios.Here are the key developments on the report which has painted a grim future:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-says-un-report-on-climate-change-a-clarion-call-10-points-101628565048034.html
10-08-2021||India||OBC Bill likely to be passed in Lok Sabha today||Union minister for social justice and empowerment Dr Virender Kumar will move the Constitution (127th) Amendment Bill for passage in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday.The constitutional amendment, which aims to restore the power of states to identify backward castes, was introduced in the Lower House on Monday. Since it is a constitutional amendment, it needs to pass in both the Houses.On Monday, the Opposition decided it will cooperate with the government to clear the constitutional amendment. At a meeting held at Rajya Sabha Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge’s office, while two parties were in favour of protests, others were of the opinion that the constitutional amendment should be cleared as it empowers the states on a very sensitive subject.The 127th Constitution Amendment Bill 2021 aims to bypass a May 2021 Supreme Court ruling that said only the Centre could notify socially and educationally backward classes (SEBCs) — and not the states.Also Read | Parliament passes 6 Bills amid protestsApart from this, the Union minister for AYUSH will also move the National Commission for Homoeopathy (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the National Commission for Indian System of Medicine (Amendment) Bill, 2021 for passage. Both the Bills were introduced on Monday, but couldn’t be discussed due to repeated adjournment of the House -- the Lower House was adjourned five times.Meanwhile, Rajya Sabha will also not see any new Bill on Tuesday. Rajya Sabha’s list of business for Tuesday lists the same Bill, except one, as those for Monday -- the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, the Appropriation (No.4) Bill, 2021, and the Appropriation (No.3) Bill, 2021.The Rajya Sabha was supposed to discuss these on Monday but discussed the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Central Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021 which were added to the supplementary list of businesses. Both the Bills were passed in the Lok Sabha.The Opposition objected to the inclusion of new bills to the supplementary list, citing a lack of time to prepare for a discussion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/obc-bill-likely-to-be-passed-in-lok-sabha-today-101628565259153.html
10-08-2021||India||Padma Awards 2022: Nominations open, last date Sept 15, announces MHA||The Union home ministry on Monday announced that the nominations for the pretigious Padma Awards are open. That the last date for online nominations or recommendation is September 15, the ministry further said.The Padma Awards, which include three prestigious accolades of Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri, are announced every year on Republic Day, and was instituted in 1954. The awards are given in three categories: for exceptional and distinguished service; for distinguished service of higher order and for distinguished service. The awards are conferred on the recommendations made by the Padma Awards Committee chaired by the Prime Minister every year.The nomination process is also open to the public and self-nominations can also be made. The home ministry said in a statement that all nominations for Padma Awards will only be received via the government’s portal. All individuals are eligible for these awards without distinction of race, occupation, position or sex. However, government servants including those working with Public Sector Units, except doctors and scientists, are not eligible for these awards.Also Read: Delhi to nominate doctors, healthcare workers for Padma awards"The government is committed to transforming Padma Awards into People's Padma. All citizens are, therefore, requested to identify talented persons whose excellence and achievements really deserve to be recognized from amongst women, SC or STs, divyang persons and who are doing selfless service to society and make their nominations or recommendations," the ministry said.Padma Awards recognise and honour achievements in all fields of activities or disciplines where an element of public service is involved. To nominate individuals for the Padma Awards, the home ministry has issued some guidelines. "The nominations or recommendations should contain all relevant details specified in the format available on the above said Padma Portal, including a citation in narrative form (maximum 800 words), clearly bringing out the distinguished and exceptional achievements or service of the person recommended in her or his respective field or discipline," the ministry stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/padma-awards-2022-nominations-open-last-date-sept-15-announces-mha-101628563306082.html
10-08-2021||India||Tallest tricolour of J&K to be unfurled today at historic Hari Parbat fort in Srinagar||Ahead of the 75th Independence Day celebrations, the Jammu and Kashmir administration is set to unveil a national flag at a height of 100 feet on Tuesday. Reportedly to be the tallest flag of the Union territory, the Tricolour will be unfurled at historic Hari Parbat fort in Srinagar.It has been erected by the Indian Army in sponsorship with Solar Industries India Limited. The proposal for the same was made by the Flag Foundation of India and the foundation stone was laid on February 7 this year.The flag - 24 feet x 36 feet - was installed at the hilltop fort after permission from the Archaeological Survey of India.The Hari Parbat is located atop the Koh-i-Maran hillock overlooking the Srinagar city. Currently, the CRPF is deployed there and a prior permission is required for a visit. The tourism department has held some musical shows there in the past.This fort is maintained by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and still stands impressive with old apartments and tall pillars. Hari Parbat provides a top view of the Makhdoom Sahib shrine.Tallest flags in the countryThe tallest tricolour in the country has been installed at in Belagavi in Karnataka. It is 361 feet tall and is located near the historic Belagavi Fort in Kote Kere. This is followed by the one at Attari border in Punjab (360 ft) and the ones at Bhakti Shakti Chowk, Pune (351 ft).The fourth highest national flag is in Guwahati which was installed on the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tallest-tricolour-of-j-k-to-be-unfurled-today-at-historic-hari-parbat-fort-in-srinagar-101628562936295.html
10-08-2021||India||Probe against e-com firms to go on: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to stay the antitrust probe against e-commerce giants Amazon and Flipkart, observing that the firms must submit themselves to the inquiry by the Competition Commission of India (CCI).“We expect big organisations like Amazon and Flipkart to voluntarily go for an inquiry,” a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, remarked while declining to entertain the petitions by Amazon and Flipkart against an order of the Karnataka high court.The bench, which also included justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant, told the counsel for the companies: “You have to submit to an inquiry. You must go.”On a request made by Flipkart’s lawyer Abhishek Manu Singhvi, the court gave the companies four weeks for appearing before the Director General (DG) of the CCI to join the investigation. Singhvi pointed out that the time to show up before the DG was expiring on Monday.“We see no ground to interfere with the impugned judgment of the high court. However, we grant four weeks for the parties to submit to the inquiry,” the court recorded in its order.Senior counsel Gopal Subramanium represented Amazon before the top court while solicitor general Tushar Mehta appeared for the CCI.When contacted, an Amazon spokesperson said: “Amazon has a high bar on compliance and we comply with all applicable laws. We will extend full cooperation to the CCI investigation”.A Flipkart spokesperson said while the company has not received the order yet, it respects the decision of the Supreme Court. “We are in compliance with applicable Indian laws and will cooperate with the investigation,” the spokesperson added.The case arises out of the CCI’s order last year, directing a probe against the two e-commerce firms into their practices such as discounting, exclusive tie-ups and private labels.Flipkart contended that the manner of questioning by the CCI is “invasive” in nature, citing its questionnaire that asked for a list of Flipkart’s top sellers, online discounts and pacts with smartphone makers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-against-e-com-firms-to-go-on-sc-101628557949966.html
10-08-2021||India||Bombay HC to hear appeal against Tarun Tejpal's acquittal in rape case today||The Goa bench of the Bombay high court will on Tuesday hear an appeal against the acquittal of journalist Tarun Tejpal in a rape case. It was deferred for August 10 after Tejpal's lawyer Amit Desai told the high court that his instructing counsel Ankur Chawla had "bereavement" and some documents were yet to be furnished.Tejpal, the former editor of Tehelka magazine, is accused of raping a junior colleague inside the elevator of a five-star resort in Goa in 2013 during an event. The Goa police registered an FIR against him in November 2013 following which he was arrested. Tejpal was out on bail in May 2014.On May 21 this year, additional sessions judge Kshama Joshi acquitted Tejpal at a fast track court in Goa, saying that there wasn’t "enough evidence to warrant a conviction" giving him the benefit of doubt.Soon after the acquittal, the Goa government approached the Bombay high court to challenge the order.Tejpal faced the trial under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354 (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage modesty), 354-A (sexual harassment), 354-B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 376(2)(f) (person in a position of authority over women, committing rape) and 376(2)(k) (rape by a person in a position of control).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-to-hear-appeal-against-tarun-tejpal-s-acquittal-in-rape-case-today-101628555906900.html
10-08-2021||India||PM Modi to launch Ujjwala scheme 2.0 today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday launch the Ujjwala 2.0 scheme by handing over LPG cylinder connections to beneficiaries from Uttar Pradesh's Mahoba. During the event, scheduled to take place at 12:30pm via video conferencing, PM Modi will also interact with the beneficiaries and address the nation.Also Read | Ujjwala scheme 2.0 beneficiaries to get free stove, refill“Tomorrow, 10th August is a special day for India’s development trajectory. At 12:30pm, Ujjwala 2.0 will be launched with connections being handed over to people in Mahoba, U.P. Will also interact with the beneficiaries of the scheme. Since its launch, Ujjwala has ensured a life of dignity to our citizens, especially women. In August 2019, the target of eight crore connections was completed seven months before the decided time frame,” PM Modi tweeted on Monday.Ujjwala 1.0 was launched in May 2016. Since its launch, it has ensured a life of dignity to our citizens, especially women. In August 2019, the target of 8 crore connections was completed 7 months before the decided time frame.On Sunday, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) had informed in a statement that the prime minister will launch the second installment of the scheme on August 10. “During Ujjwala 1.0 launched in 2016, a target was set to provide LPG connections to five crore women members of BPL households. Subsequently, the scheme was expanded to include women beneficiaries from seven more categories. In the Union Budget for financial year 2021-22, provision for an additional one crore LPG connections under the scheme was announced. These additional connections aim to provide deposit-free PG connections to those low-income families who could not be covered under the earlier phase,” the statement had read.The statement further stated that Ujjwala 2.0 will also provide first refill and hotplate free-of-cost to the beneficiaries, adding that the enrolment procedure will require minimum paperwork. “Ujjwala 2.0 will help achieve the Prime Minister’s vision of universal access to LPG,” it said.Union petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, too, will be present at the ceremony.Ujjwala Yojana, or the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), was launched in May 2016 by PM Modi as a flagship scheme. Its objective was to make clean cooking fuel, such as LPG, available to the rural households. The launch took place in Ballia in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-ujjwala-2-0-today-101628555008181.html
10-08-2021||India||LeT terrorists kill BJP leader, his wife in Anantnag: Police||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) sarpanch and his wife were shot dead by two Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists in south Kashmir’s Anantnag town on Monday afternoon, police said.According to locals, the terrorists barged into the rented accommodation of Ghulam Rasool Dar (68) and his wife Jawhara Banoo (60) in Lal Chowk area, and shot at them from close range.The couple was rushed to a government medical college in Anantnag where doctors declared them dead, police said.Dar was the president of BJP Kisan Morcha of Kulgam district and was also serving as the sarpanch from Redwani village in the district. His wife was a member of the panchayat from the same village.Inspector general of police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said: “Two motorcycle-borne terrorists of the banned LeT outfit were involved in this barbaric terror incident.” “His PSO (personal security officer) has been suspended.”J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha assured prompt action against the perpetrators. “I strongly condemn the brutal terrorist attack on the Sarpanch GH Rasool Dar and his wife Jawhara Banoo of Redwani Bala, Kulgam. This is an act of cowardice & perpetrators of violence will be brought to justice very soon. My deepest condolences to the bereaved family in this time of grief.”Union minister of state Jitendra Singh tweeted: “Extremely shaken by the dastardly terror killing of BJP leader & Sarpanch from Redwani, Kulgam,J&K,Sh Ghulam Rasool Dar & his wife. One feels short of words in condemning the cowardly attempt to discourage PM @narendramodi’s determined commitment to grassroot democracy in the Valley.”The incident was also condemned by leaders across the political spectrum in the Union territory.The BJP claimed that 19 of its leaders were killed in 2020 and 21 so far, by terrorists in various attacks across Kashmir.“He (Dar) was without security and lived in a rented accommodation. Like Dar, there are many BJP leaders who have no security,” BJP’s J&K spokesperson Altaf Thakur said.“Once again the cowardly Pakistani-sponsored terrorists have bled Kashmir by killing our Kisan Morcha leader and his wife...,” J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina told PTI.IGP Kumar, however, said that Dar was initially living in a secure hotel but decided to shift to a rented accommodation later.Former J&K chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti tweeted: “Extremely sorry to hear that the BJP District President and his wife have been shot dead by militants today. My condolences to their families and loved ones.”National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah said the deceased join a long list of mainstream politicians killed for their political beliefs. “I unequivocally condemn the assassination of Ghulam Rasool Dar & his wife. They join a long list of mainstream politicians killed for their political beliefs. My condolences to his family & colleagues. May Allah grant the departed place in Jannat,” he tweeted.Peoples Conference (PC) chairman Sajad Lone said: “Yet again a Kashmiri family is a victim of violence. Yet again, more addition to the community of orphans and hapless victims of gun. May the killers rot in hell,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-terrorists-kill-bjp-leader-his-wife-in-anantnag-police-101628552855902.html
10-08-2021||India||NIA raids 5 more J&K areas in JeI terror funding case; Mufti calls it govt self-goal||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday conducted raids at five more locations linked to the alleged members of the banned Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) group in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district, as part of its probe into a terror funding case. On Sunday, the central agency raided 56 locations linked to the alleged JeI members across 14 districts in Jammu and Kashmir.The Centre banned the JeI for five years after the Pulwama attack, in which 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) troopers were killed, under anti-terror laws on the grounds that it was “in close touch” with terror outfits and was likely to “escalate secessionist movement” in the region.“During the searches, various incriminating documents and electronic devices were seized from the premises of the suspects,” an NIA spokesperson said.PDP president Mehbooba Mufti termed the NIA raids a “self-goal” for the Centre. “NIA raids on Jamaat is emblematic of GOI (Government of India) waging a war against its so called ‘integral part’. Instead of fighting an ideology with a better idea it is crushing contrarian thought with an iron fist,” she tweeted.Terror plot foiled in J&K ahead of I-Day: ForcesSecurity forces in on Monday claimed to have foiled a terror plot, ahead of the 75th Independence Day, by recovering a large cache of arms and ammunitions including AK 47 assault rifles, hand grenades, detonators and pistols in Jammu’s Poonch. In a separate incident in Kishtwar district, police arrested two terrorists of Hizbul Mujahideen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-raids-5-more-j-k-areas-in-jei-terror-funding-case-mufti-calls-it-govt-selfgoal-101628551681664.html
10-08-2021||India||Marriages under special law can be registered virtually: SC||Law has to march with technology, said the Supreme Court on Monday as it asserted that a marriage under the Special Marriage Act can be registered through video-conferencing, without insisting on the physical presence of both spouses.A bench of justices Indira Banerjee and V Ramasubramanian said that letters of law cannot work in a manner that makes it impossible for people to follow them even when they desire to. “Special Marriage Act was enacted in 1954. The technology of computer and Internet has come much later. Therefore, the law has to march along with technology,” said the bench while dismissing an appeal filed by the Haryana government against an order of the Punjab and Haryana high court that allowed a couple to depose remotely under the special law.“Where there is difficulty, the letter of law cannot be so rigid that it makes it impossible for the parties to follow them. Moreover, the registration department is there to facilitate the parties and not to create obstruction or hurdles,” it observed.The court directed the Haryana government to comply with the high court order within 45 days and make sure the couple has a marriage certificate.The order has come in the wake of a couple expressing inability to show up before a marriage officer in Haryana’s Gurugram for getting their marriage registered under the Act.The man is an IT consultant based in the United Kingdom while the woman is a resident doctor in the United States. They got married in India in December 2019 and travelled back.They applied for registration of their marriage and the marriage officer sought their presence on April 3, 2020. However, due to Covid-19, all flights were cancelled and they could not travel to India. In August 2020, the couple moved a plea to let them process the registration through video-conferencing, but the marriage officer declined it.The couple then moved the Punjab and Haryana high court where the man pointed out that he couldn’t travel to the US to meet his wife without the marriage certificate. The plea asked for the woman to be exempted from physical appearance being on emergency Covid duty in US.A single-judge bench dismissed the request last December, holding that there is no provision in the law for marriage registration without the physical presence of the couple and two witnesses. This order was challenged before a two-judge bench of the high court, which ruled on March 9 that no provision of the SMA would be violated if the woman could be present through video-conferencing and the husband could be physically present with the witnesses. Haryana filed an appeal against the order in SC, saying that couple’s signatures were needed to register marriage.But the bench was unimpressed. “We do not deem it appropriate to interfere with the practical directions given by the high court by its impugned judgment and order. The special leave petition is, accordingly, dismissed. The order of the division bench shall be complied with within 45 days,” directed the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marriages-under-special-law-can-be-registered-virtually-sc-101628545749805.html
10-08-2021||India||SC pulls up Centre over ‘huge paucity of judges’||Citing massive vacancies of judges across the high courts in the country, the Supreme Court on Monday came down heavily on the Union government for bringing the “third pillar of democracy to a standstill” by not appointing judges and warned that the government’s administration will also come to a standstill if this attitude continues.“The government authority must realise that this is not how it will work. If you want to bring the judicial system to a standstill, your system will also come to a standstill...The line has been crossed by the government. You cannot let the third pillar of democracy come to a standstill,” rued a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy.“There is a huge paucity of judges but you are not interested... If the judicial system is sought to be brought to a working halt, then your administrative system will also come to a working halt. It is time you (government) realise this,” it told additional solicitor general Madhvi Divan, who was appearing for the central government.As of August 1, a total of 455 posts of high court judges were lying vacant in the 25 high courts across the country against the total strength of 1,098.The vacancy translates to more than 41% of the total strength. High courts of Delhi, Allahabad, Calcutta, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Patna, Punjab and Haryana, Rajasthan and Telangana face shortages of more than one-third of their total judges’ strength.The bench was hearing an appeal filed by the Centre against an order of the Delhi high court in an anti-dumping duty matter when it remarked that the top court was “exasperated” by the “recalcitrant attitude of the government in not appointing high court judges for years together” despite final recommendations made by the collegium and timelines laid down through judicial orders for appointments.The comment came even as the ASG complained about the delay that may be caused before the expert body of anti-dumping because of the pendency of the matter before the high court. But the court shot down her request to interfere.“The government of India cannot take an argument that a judge is not able to hear cases expeditiously because the government itself does not appoint judges in the high courts. The Chief Justice of India (CJI) has last week talked about tribunals. The situation in the high court is also the same. You (government) have reduced the number of judges to almost half the sanctioned strength,” the bench told the ASG.On Friday, a bench led by CJI NV Ramana asked the Union government if it wants all tribunals wrapped up since they were unable to function due to a massive shortage of manpower.On Monday, the Justice Kaul-led bench trained its gun at the Centre.The bench told the law officer: “The scenario of inability to hear your petition early arises out of your inability to appoint judges. This is our view and grievance, both. You want to have a time-bound investigation but you cannot have it without time-bound scrutiny and that will require appointment of judges. The government does not take this point. You don’t make appointments after collegium recommends. We also gave you time-bound directions to appoint judges but you have not done that either.”The ASG, on her part, submitted that she was appearing only for one department (department of revenue) and that delay in deciding the present matter would impact the domestic industry which will not be in the public interest.At this, the court retorted: “It is also in the public interest that people get their adjudications done within a reasonable time and that they have enough judges to do it. But since you cannot do it, let the domestic industry realise that you cannot help them because you cannot appoint judges. You are therefore taking all the burden to the apex court. But we cannot ask the high courts to hear you expeditiously since you have not appointed judges and they are already overburdened.”While dismissing the petition by the Centre, the court recorded in its order: “The recommendations take months and years to reach the collegium and thereafter for months and years no decisions are taken post the collegium, the judicial institution of the high courts is manned by a number of judges where it will become almost impossible to have an early adjudication even on important issues.”“The real rub is in the fact that the high court does not find it feasible to accommodate such matters at an early date. This is the direct result of there being inadequacies of the number of high court judges including in the capital of the country where the Delhi high court is located,” said the court while noting that the Delhi high court is at present working with 50% of judges (30 of 60) and one more judge will retire in less than a week.The order added: “The government must realise that early adjudication of commercial disputes is the necessity for which there has to be an adequate number of judges which in turn would require them to follow the timelines.”Earlier in April, the Supreme Court had in a judgment set down 18 weeks as an outer time limit within which the Centre is expected to process the names for appointments of the high court judges, besides notifying appointments once the names are reiterated by its collegium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-pulls-up-centre-over-huge-paucity-of-judges-101628545461337.html
10-08-2021||India||Give me books, not flowers: K’taka minister’s push to promote Kannada||A simple request to gift books instead of flowers by a newly elected minister in Karnataka has turned into a campaign of sorts to promote and save the Kannada language as people came forward and gifted him thousands of books. V Sunil Kumar, the newly sworn in minister for Energy, Kannada and Culture on Monday requested people who come to congratulate him not to gift flowers and other items but present books instead. “I request that no one give me flowers and other items but instead give me Kannada books,” the minister had said, adding, “Read one paper a day and buy a book a month and if we do this, we can save Kannada.” Talking about the response he received from people, Kumar said, “People gave books and the chief minister gave me Kannada and the Culture department. “It is a good response and I had stated that I would donate them to the library. I received thousands of them and will give them to the library in Karkala (Udupi district) and any additional ones will be given to gram panchayats,” he added. In Karnataka, like the common practice in other states across India, there is a culture of felicitating ministers with expensive shawls, bouquets, figurines or statues among other items as a mark of respect. Karnataka attracts migrants--both white and blue—from across the country and the globe. However, there has been little done to promote the language which has been threatened by the excessive use of Hindi and the push to promote it as a national language which pro-Kannada activists and others have termed as an imposition and threat to the native tongue. Non-Hindi speaking states have protested the union’s push to make Hindi the common tongue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/give-me-books-not-flowers-k-taka-minister-s-push-to-promote-kannada-101628536757206.html
10-08-2021||India||Karnataka’s BJP govt moves forward with NEP implementation despite opposition||Bengaluru The Karnataka government on Monday said that the admission module under National Education Policy (NEP) will be launched on August 23 through the Unified University & College Management System.Dr.C.N.Ashwatha Narayana, the minister of higher education, said that he held a meeting with vice-chancellors of various universities with regard to preparation of a curriculum as per NEP. “ All the institutions including private, aided, and government colleges will be able to make use of the admission module that will be launched,” he said.He added that all the information regarding major subjects, minor subjects, core electives, open electives, vocational training among others will be provided in this module.“In all 32 subject-wise and faculty-wise committees have been constituted to prepare the curriculum as per the NEP principles. For the current year, the curriculum has to be prepared for 1st year of degree courses and 1st year of post-graduation courses before the commencement of classes by the 1st week of October,” he added.Karnataka wants to be the first to implement the contentious NEP, promoted by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led union government in July 2020 despite objection from the opposition parties and other activists.“The Central government has set a time limit of 15 years for the complete implementation of NEP. However, it has been decided in the meeting to completely implement it within 10 years in the state,” Naryana said.He said that the NEP will bring in flexibility in learning and teaching process by eliminating the rigidities and it will allow students to design their own courses based on their interest. “Further, it will also provide scope for blended learning by allowing the use of online content. This policy focuses on conceptual learning, critical thinking, and analytical thinking rather than rote learning,” he said.There are fears that the NEP will continue to impose Hindi on non-Hindi speaking states as the BJP believes in a common unifying language that threatens the diversity of the country.“The regional languages including Kannada will be strengthened by adopting this policy. For instance, in Karnataka, earlier, learning in degree courses was not mandatory. However, under this policy, learning Kannada is mandatory, and in addition to this students will have to learn one more language of their choice in the first two years of degree courses,” Narayana said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnatakas-bjp-govt-moves-forward-with-nep-implementation-despite-opposition-101628536697212.html
10-08-2021||India||K’taka minister defends controversial remark justifying violence against rivals||Karnataka rural development and panchayat raj minister K S Eshwarappa on Monday defended his statement encouraging Bharatiya Janata Party workers to “hit back with the same strength” if any party worker is harmed by any political adversary. However, Opposition Congress criticised the minister’s remarks and called for his dismissal from the cabinet.The minister made the controversial remarks on Sunday, while addressing party workers at an event held in his home district of Shivamogga. “Today, the BJP has grown the world over, and if a BJP worker is touched anywhere in any corner, the instruction is to hit back with the same stick. In the past, the decision was to stay calm at all costs... We have become very strong,” Eshwarappa said.Defending his statement on Monday, Eshwarappa told reporters “Do we have to be silent even if our women are raped? Our cows are stolen and killed, and our youth assaulted and killed -- you want us to remain silent?” At the Sunday meeting, the minister also told the party workers that there was a time when Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological mentor of the party, and BJP top leaders used to ask party workers “to stay calm at all costs”, but now the situation has changed. “... We had to be calm, irrespective of the situation and how much we were attacked. We did not have the strength.”Eshwarappa’s remarks drew sharp criticism from the Opposition Congress, which demanded that the Governor immediately sack him. “His (Eshwarappa’s) remarks are against the spirit of the Constitution. He has made such remarks to draw attention from the RSS because he didn’t get the deputy chief minister post,” said senior state Congress leader, VS Ugrappa. Afsar Kodipet, the spokesperson for the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), also echoed Congress’s stance and said that Eshwarappa must be removed from the cabinet immediately. “The Speaker must expel him from the Legislature, the chief minister must drop him from the Cabinet,” he said. State home minister Araga Jnanendra refused to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-minister-defends-controversial-remark-justifying-violence-against-rivals-101628536637310.html
10-08-2021||India||Bommai dismisses any confusion over portfolio allocation||Bengaluru Dismissing any confusion over Cabinet formation and rumblings over portfolios, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said that all issues will be resolved at the earliest. Since Bommai took over as chief minister from BS Yediyurappa, his two-week-old government have been facing dissent from sitting legislators, who were not accommodated in the Cabinet, and also from newly sworn-in ministers who have been demanding changes in portfolios. “There is no confusion (regarding portfolio allocation). Anand Singh (one of the disgruntled ministers) had come yesterday (and) I have spoken to him on several issues, he is satisfied. I will call him in a couple of days and speak to him once again. There is no confusion in any way,” Bommai said on Monday. The statements come even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Karnataka seems to have become a divided house over the recently formed Cabinet and portfolio allocations. There are ministers who are dissatisfied with the allocations while a section of the BJP’s core legislators are fuming after being overlooked by the newly sworn in chief minister. The decision to make Bommai, who has been with the BJP just for 13 years now, as chief minister itself had stirred disgruntlement among core-BJP legislators who were overlooked for the top job and now sidelined for the Cabinet. N Nagaraj (MTB) and Anand Singh have openly aired their dissatisfaction while the likes of Satish Reddy, Arvind Bellad, SA Ramdass and several others have made the chief minister well aware of their protest. There are just four vacancies in the 34 member Cabinet and at least three times the aspirants, people aware of the developments said. Even B Sriramulu, who has been allocated transport and ST welfare ministry, said that he hoped the BJP high command would consider him for a better portfolio as he was considered to be in the race for at least the deputy chief minister’s post. “I am neither happy nor unhappy,” Sriramulu told TV9 news channel on Monday. He said that the BJP is a national party which decided to do away with the deputy chief minister post for which he was a strong contender. “Ours is a national party and I am not sure why this happened in the past but I am confident that if there is such a situation in the future, they will create an opportunity for me,” Sriramulu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bommai-dismisses-any-confusion-over-portfolio-allocation-101628536577203.html
10-08-2021||India||99.9% students pass K’taka SSLC exams||Bengaluru All the students who appeared for the Class 10 or State Secondary Leaving Certificate (SSLC) conducted by the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board have passed, BC Nagesh, Karnataka’s minister for primary and secondary education said on Monday.“I am happy that 99.9% students who appeared for the exams have passed,” he said, adding that the pass percentage this year is 99.99% compared to 71.80 last year, he added.He said that just one girl failed since it was noticed that another person was sent to write the exam for her. “Out of the total 871,442, only one girl did not pass the exam,” the minister said. The exams were conducted under the shadow of Covid-19 on July 19 and 22 were held on the ‘OMR sheet’ unlike the traditional way of writing exams on the answer sheets.The first paper held on July 19 was a combination of core subjects Maths, sciences and social studies -- in three hours while the second paper conducted on July 22 pertained to languages such as Kannada, English or Sanskrit.S Suresh Kumar, the former minister for primary and secondary education, had said that conducting the exams would be important as it is a crucial juncture in a child’s education and would help them choose their stream of choice in higher studies. Nagesh said that 128,931 students secured A+ grade (90 to 100 marks) which accounts for 16.52% while 250,317 students got A grade (80-89 marks) which accounts for 32.07%. A total of 287,684 students secured B grade (60-79 marks) that accounted for 36.86% and 113,610 students got C grade (35 to 59 marks) that accounts for 14.55%. The minister said 157 students scored 625 on 625, 289 got 623, two students secured 622, 449 secured 621 and 28 got 620 marks. Among those who appeared for the exam were 126 private candidates, who were above 50 years while 287 were between 46 to 50 years.The government had made it clear that it will not fail anyone as the exams were held in abnormal conditions when regular classes were not held and most students attended online classes due to Covid-19 related restrictions. The minister informed that nine students were given grace marks as high as 28 to ensure they pass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/999-students-pass-k-taka-sslc-exams-101628536457481.html
10-08-2021||India||Odisha govt bars devotees from congregating at puja pandals during festive season||The Odisha government on Monday announced that all pujas during the upcoming festive season will be held without the congregation of devotees and with no more than 7 people, including organisers, priests and support staff present at the puja pandal at any given time despite a dip in Covid-19 cases in the state.“Congregations for celebration of Ganesh Puja, Durga Puja, Laxmi Puja, Kali Puja and other festivals would not be allowed in public throughout the state. However, religious rituals in churches/ temples/ mosques/ places of worship will continue as usual with a limited number of people with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols,” a notification from the office of the Special Relief Commissioner said.On Monday, the state reported 886 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, a huge decline from the 12,852 cases reported in the peak of the second wave of Covid-19 in May. There have been 6601 deaths due to the viral disease so far in Odisha.Last year too, the state government had not allowed any congregation at puja pandals.The Odisha government said puja pandals would need to be covered on three sides while the 4th side would be covered in a way so as not to allow any public view of the idols. The size of the idols would be less than 4 feet and public address systems have been barred. There would be no immersion procession and the idols will be immersed in artificial ponds created by the local administration.“The persons present at the Puja Pandal/Mandap would have to follow all Covid-19 protocols of social distancing, masks, personal hygiene and sanitation issued by the government. The citizens are allowed to observe the said pujas/ festivals in their premises without causing any congregation at any place and maintaining all safety protocols, such as social distancing, wearing of masks, proper sanitisation, etc. For conducting puja in puja pandals/mandaps, the organizers have to apply to and obtain necessary permission from the district magistrate or any other officer authorised by him/her,” the SRC guidelines said.However, the state government allowed Ganesh Puja in educational institutions with participation of a limited number of students observing Covid-appropriate behaviour.The state government has also allowed opening of temples and religious institutions in Khordha, Cuttack, Puri, Sambalpur, Koraput and Jajpur districts amid Covid-19 protocols. However, restrictions have been imposed on some of the famous Shiva shrines in anticipation of heavy congregation of devotees.The Jagannath Temple will open for devotees on August 16. However, no decision has been taken on reopening of temples and religious sites in Bhubaneswar city. Devotees have to show Covid-19 vaccine double dose certificates or Covid-19 negative reports to gain entry into the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-bars-devotees-from-congregating-at-puja-pandals-during-festive-season-101628536398548.html
10-08-2021||India||Protests continue at K’taka borders over Covid-19 curbs||Interstate commuters from Kerala continued with their protests over travel restrictions imposed by the Karnataka government at the border areas on Monday. The Karnataka government on Saturday had made RT-PCR negative report mandatory for those entering the state from various entry points. The restrictions had sparked protests among a section of the population from Kerala, for whom Mangaluru is the closest city. Despite the protest, the Karnataka government has continued the restrictions as the number of cases in the border district of Dakshina Kannada are on the rise. For the residents of Kasaragod in Kerala, Mangaluru city in Dakshina Kannada is a lifeline. Even though Mangaluru and Kasaragod are on either side of a map, they are closely knit, say local residents. “Mangaluru is the closest city to Kasaragod. From anywhere in Kasaragod, Mangaluru is just 10-50 km away. At the same time, the closest city in Kerala, Kannur, is more than 100 km away,” said Prakash Manjeshwar, a resident of Manjeshwaram, in the northern tip of Kasargod. The district administration however claimed that Dakshina Kannada district had a 60% increase in Covid-19 cases in the past two weeks. On July 25, the district had reported 2,010 active cases, however, the number rose to 3,294 by August 7. Out of these cases, 2,376 were reported during the last week. The state reported 1,776 new cases on Monday, taking the active caseload to 23,316. Bengaluru accounted for 296 new infections, taking its active cases to 8,378. The only other state to have recorded cases in triple digits was Dakshina Kannada which recorded 273 cases taking the active cases in the district to 3321. As many as 30 fatalities were reported across the state on Monday, which took the state’s toll to 36,817.“Compared to other districts there is a rise in Covid cases in Dakshina Kannada district. Interstate travel is the main reason for it. We are not opposed to people traveling to Mangaluru for work, we are allowing them to enter by showing an RT-PCR test report that is one week old. We are also not stopping any medical emergency. We don’t want people coming to the city to visit malls and other non-essential activities,” said Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K Rajendra, who said the restrictions will continue. The protesters also questioned the validity of the demand for RT-PCR tests for those who have been vaccinated. With Karnataka government imposing severe restrictions at borders, they argued that the Supreme Court has directed states not to interrupt interstate movement. “The central government has already directed that those who have taken two doses of vaccine should not be prevented from interstate movement. Hence, Karnataka chief minister Bommai should review his decision and allow people from Kerala, who have received both doses of vaccine, to enter Karnataka,” one of the protestors told the media. Meanwhile, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said he has decided to visit all the border districts of the state that have reported a surge in Covid-19 cases and review the situation there in the days to come. “I will be traveling in Mysuru district today. I will have a discussion with officials on the Covid situation there. In the same way, I have decided to visit all the border districts, where there are more Covid cases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-continue-at-k-taka-borders-over-covid-19-curbs-101628536279135.html
10-08-2021||India||SC issues notice on petition seeking clinical trial data of Covid-19 vaccines||The Supreme Court on Monday sought the response of the Centre on a petition seeking transparency of data on clinical trials conducted for Covid-19 vaccines. However, the Court cautiously avoided passing any order stalling compulsory vaccine mandates noting that the pandemic situation in the country was still grave and any order passed at this stage could lead to a bigger problem. The matter will be taken up after four weeks. The bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose said, “We will issue notice on the petition. But we don’t want that our notice should send a signal on safety of the vaccines.” The petition has been filed as a public interest litigation by Jacob Pulayil, a former member of the Government’s apex body on immunization - National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization. It has named Centre, Central Drugs Standards Control Organization represented through Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and vaccine manufacturers Bharat Biotech (Covaxin) and Serum Institute of India (Covishield) as respondents. The petition argued by advocate Prashant Bhushan demanded that the Government and the DCGI should provide segregated data for each of the phases of clinical trials undertaken with regard to the vaccines administered in India. Bhushan said though vaccination has not been made mandatory by the Government, compulsory vaccine mandates are being issued depriving persons of their livelihood and access to essential services for not being vaccinated. Bhushan sought an interim order staying such mandates. The bench said, “We cannot take responsibility of passing any order which can increase the number of casualties or endanger public health.” The judges appreciated the petitioner for raising a good legal point on personal autonomy of citizens and right to their livelihood vis-à-vis right to public health but did not lose sight of the “bigger picture”. “As it is, we are fighting with vaccine hesitancy. Almost 50 crore citizens in the country have already got their vaccine. The situation is so grave that we are still not out of the pandemic. Looking at this position, we cannot decide if any order passed by us can lead to a bigger problem,” the bench said. Before issuing notice, the Court raised its apprehensions that a notice by the Court could lead to more doubts in public mind about efficacy and safety of vaccines. “You know the ground situation. Vaccine hesitancy is coming from rural areas and not from the educated class in urban areas. Our apprehension is that a detailed enquiry into this issue will amount to throwing a spanner into what is already existing, leading to more doubts,” the bench observed. Bhushan submitted that never before has a universal vaccination programme in the country been given emergency use authorization without disclosing data on the approval process, clinical trials and post-vaccination effects. “This is a clear violation of the basic norms of scientific disclosures and the guidelines with respect to disclosure of clinical trial data, as laid down by the World Health Organization (WHO) and followed by the ICMR,” the petition said. Further, the petition quoted the Helsinki Declaration of 2013 on Ethical Principles for Medical Research involving Human Subject adopted by the World Medical Association which casts a duty on researchers to publicly disclose all negative, inconclusive and positive results of their research. Contrary to creating doubts, Bhushan said that interference by the Court will reassure citizens. The bench said that globally, this issue of compulsory vaccination without informed consent had been engaging the attention of courts across various jurisdictions. The judges cited a ruling by an Indiana court in the U.S which approved a vaccine mandate issued by Indiana University to its students. This ruling has been challenged before the Supreme Court of the United States. It also made reference to a recent European Union decision upholding Czech Republic’s decision on mandatory vaccination of children. Bhushan said, “This is not an anti-vaccine petition.” He referred to a 2011 decision passed by the top court in Aruna Shanbaugh matter where Court upheld the citizen’s right to refuse medical treatment as part of their right to live with dignity and make an informed choice. He cited examples of 16 countries which had banned the use of Astra-Zeneca vaccine (branded as Covishield in India)Bhushan said that circumstances warranting emergency approvals to vaccines cannot be a reason for trial data (that has been collected and on the basis for which approvals have been given), to be withheld from public scrutiny. He alleged suppression of data on Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) which was endangering more people to suffer the same fate. As per data maintained by AEFI Secretariat of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, 492 severe and serious (including death) AEFI have been classified. The petition quoted a news report stating that as on March 29, a total of 180 deaths have been reported in the country following vaccination. In a lighter vein, the Court noted, “The country is fighting COVID vaccine shortage and now we are dealing with another dimension in this case.” Another bench of the Supreme Court is already examining the issue of vaccine preparedness in a suo moto petition where the Government had disclosed a comprehensive plan to vaccinate all citizens by this year end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-issues-notice-on-petition-seeking-clinical-trial-data-of-covid-19-vaccines-101628535197073.html
10-08-2021||India||Oppn leaders discuss 2024 poll strategy at dinner hosted by Sibal||Top Opposition leaders gathered at Congress member of parliament (MP) Kapil Sibal’s residence on Monday evening and informally discussed how they could work together ahead of the next general elections in 2024 to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), according to three people who attended the event.The leaders were called for a dinner a day after Sibal’s 73th birthday.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and leader Praful Patel, Biju Janata Dal (BJD) MP Pinaki Misra, Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders Derek O’Brien and Kalyan Banerjee, National Conference (NC) leader Omar Abdullah, Samajwadi Pary (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, Left leaders Sitaram Yechury and D Raja, Shiromani Akali Dal’s Naresh Gujral, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (DMK) Tiruchi Siva, and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad attended the event.At least 20 of the so-called “G-23” group of leaders, who wrote a letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi last year asking for an overhaul in the party organisation, were present at the dinner, as was former finance minister P Chidambaram.One person who attended the dinner said all leaders focused on things that the parties could work on together ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls and also spoke about the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, scheduled in early 2022, as being the first challenge to the BJP.“We should aim for a one-on-one contest in 2024,’’ Pawar told the gathering, according to this person.The NCP chief backed an election strategy of fielding a united Opposition candidate to take on the BJP in a particular constituency, and cited the coalition government in Maharashtra as proof that Opposition forces could coalesce. “Who would have thought that the NCP, Congress and Sena can work together?’’ he said. Raut agreed, saying Maharashtra had been able to show how new experiements can work in alliances.O’Brien talked about following the example of West Bengal, where the TMC managed to defeat the BJP after a acrimonious, high-voltage campaign. “Today is the 100th day since Mamata Banerjee defeated the BJP,’’ he said, according to a second person present at the event.Yechury pointed out to all the attendees that Sibal’s home at 8, Teen Murti Lane was where former Communist Party of India(Marxist) leader Harkishan Singh Surjeet lived.Surjeet was known as one of the principal architects of the United Front government in the 90s and also for his role in bringing together the Congress and Left together to form the United Progressive Alliance, which formed the government in 2004.“This is where it all happened so I think it is an auspicious beginning,’’ said Yechury.A surprise inclusion was that of Pinaki Misra, who told the gathering that the BJD was fighting the BJP in Odisha, according to a third person who attended the event.A member of the G-23 group who didn’t want to be identified said many Opposition leaders commended them. Congress MP and one of the signatories to the letter to Gandhi, Manish Tewari, talked about the need for the Opposition to come together to “keep the idea of India alive’’, said the third person quoted above.Sibal explained how the G 23’s push was to ensure that these ideas kept the “ball rolling’’ on democracy. “’If you can strengthen the Congress, then you’ll be strengthening the entire Opposition.’’ Abdullah told Sibal, according to this person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-leaders-discuss-2024-poll-strategy-at-dinner-hosted-bysibal-101628535017090.html
10-08-2021||India||HC nod should be made must to withdraw cases against MLAs: Report||State governments should be allowed to withdraw cases against former or sitting legislators only after the relevant high court’s approval, a report has proposed to the Supreme Court.The proposal was made in a petition relating to fast-tracking of criminal trials against sitting and former Members of Parliament and Legislative Assemblies (MPs/MLAs) by court-appointed amicus curiae senior advocate Vijay Hansaria.The report by Hansaria noted four instances wherein the state governments had issued orders to end criminal cases against politicians by using its power under section 321 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). This provision allows a public prosecutor in charge of a case to move a request before the trial judge for permission to withdraw further prosecution of a case.If the trial judge accepts the request for withdrawal of prosecution, the accused stands discharged (if charges not framed) or acquitted in respect of that particular offence(s).“This court may be pleased to direct that no prosecution against a Member of Parliament and/or Legislative Assembly/Council (both sitting and former) shall be withdrawn without leave of the High Court,” Hansaria said.The senior advocate also cited a July 28 judgment of the top court which laid down the principles required for entertaining a request for withdrawal of prosecution under section 321 CrPC, saying that these principles be considered by the high court while considering requests for withdrawal of prosecution.The July 28 judgment came on an appeal filed by Kerala government, seeking permission to withdraw criminal cases against six of its legislators (four former and two sitting) for alleged acts of vandalism inside the Assembly during budget presentation in March 2015.Turning down the state’s request, the court noted that the decision to withdraw the cases must subserve the larger interest of administration of justice. It further stated that the court, before allowing such requests, should scrutinise the nature and gravity of offence and its impact upon public life, especially in matters involving public funds and the discharge of a public trust.The amicus curiae, in his report, also highlighted recent examples from four states – Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Maharashtra – where orders under section 321 CrPC were issued to dismiss various cases.In August last year, the Karnataka government had ordered the withdrawal of 61 criminal cases, many of which were filed against sitting legislators of the state assembly.Similarly, the Uttar Pradesh government last year chose to withdraw the case against political leader Sadhvi Prachi and three sitting MLAs – Sangeet Som, Suresh Rana and Kapil Dev – for their alleged inflammatory statements during the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. The amicus cited news reports to show that the withdrawal of prosecution was applicable to 76 criminal cases related to the riots.Another report from Maharashtra indicated that the state government had decided in December last year to withdraw political cases against activists registered prior to December 31, 2019. This trend was spotted in Uttarakhand too where the high court informed the amicus that in September 2020, the state government had sought withdrawal of prosecution against sitting MLA Rajkumar Thukral in an alleged murder case.In June this year, the Andhra Pradesh High Court took suo moto cognizance of 11 separate orders passed by various magistrates allowing withdrawal of prosecution in criminal cases pending against chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. The suo motu petition is still pending before the high court. This case, however, was not cited by the amicus in his report.“Withdrawn from prosecution u/s 321 CrPC is permissible in public interest and cannot be done for political considerations. Such application can be made in good faith, in the interest of public policy and justice and not to thwart or stifle the process of law,” Hansaria said.Hansaria requested the top court to ensure that the principles laid down in the Kerala case be applied by high courts to examine cases under section 321 of CrPC involving sitting and former legislators.The case to fast-track trials against legislators is pending in the Supreme Court since 2016 in a PIL filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Hansaria said, the past one year saw no effective trial in cases against politicians. He further informed the court that the Centre had not supplied data on pending cases with regard to offences tried by the Central Bureau of Investigation, Enforcement Directorate among other central agencies against sitting/former legislators.This information was first sought by the court on September 16, 2020, and since then on two occasions, the Centre sought time.Hansaria requested the court to direct the Centre to inform the stage of investigation in these cases, share the status of grant of sanctions for prosecution, expected time for completion of the investigation and reasons for delay in the same before the next date of hearing.Hansaria said that based on periodic reports submitted by high courts, the number of pending cases against sitting and former legislators as of September 2020 was 4,859.In December 2018, this number stood at 4,122 and gradually increased to 4,222 by March 2020.Last week, Hansaria had requested the bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana to take up the matter as no hearing in this case has taken place since November last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-nod-should-be-made-must-to-withdraw-cases-against-mlas-report-101628534777140.html
10-08-2021||India||Munger girl killed in ‘human sacrifice ritual’, 4 held: Police||An eight-year-old girl, whose mutilated body was found on the banks of the Ganga in Bihar’s Munger district on August 5, was killed allegedly as part of a human sacrifice ritual devised by a local mystic, police said on Monday.The victim’s parents rejected the allegation and said that their daughter was raped and killed. An autopsy has ruled out rape. Police have arrested four people and charged them with kidnapping (Section 363 of the IPC) and murder (Section 302) .Munger superintendent of police (SP) JJ Reddy told reporters that Parvez Alam, who claims to be a tantric, told local villager Dilip Kumar Choudhary that he needed to sacrifice a girl to avert the possibility of his pregnant wife’s miscarriage.Choudhury, who was present at the press conference and is one of the four accused, said he had four children -- two sons and two daughters -- but wanted a fifth. He said he got in touch with Alam, a resident of Khagaria district.Alam, Choudhury claimed, asked for the eye of 10-year-old boy or a girl so that he could prepare an amulet for the woman “consecrated” with the blood and eyes of a minor. “We committed the crime on the instigation of Alam,” said the main accused, Dilip to police.The other two arrested accused people are Tanvir Alam and Dasrath Kumar who allegedly were accomplices of Alam and Choudhury, police said.The girl, a student of class 3, went missing on the evening of August 4 and her mutilated body was found on the banks of Ganga the next day.According to police, Choudhary, Tanvir and Dasrath assembled near a brick kiln and caught the girl when she was returning home after delivering lunch to her father, who is a fisherman.A complaint was lodged on August 4 evening when she did not reach home. Her body was found the next morning.The three dragged her inside the brick kiln and thrashed her before strangulating her and gouging her right eye. Her body also bore injury marks, giving rise to initial suspicion that she was raped, police said.The SP said police recovered bloodstained cloth and a pendant and sent it for forensic examination. “The medical board report did not confirm rape,” said Reddy.The police earlier detained 12 people in the case but all were freed after questioning. Alam was arrested from his home at Khagaria after Dilip Choudhary confessed to his crime.The girl’s mother and father trashed the police theory, claiming their child was raped before being killed.. “Police have cooked up a story. We need justice,” the father said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/munger-girl-killed-in-human-sacrifice-ritual-4-held-police-101628534480774.html
10-08-2021||India||Kerala landslide survivors move HC for better land||A year after a massive landslide decimated a colony of tea plantation workers in Pettimudi in Idukki district, killing 70 persons, relatives of the deceased on Monday moved the Kerala high court with a plea to allot land and houses in live-able areas. In their plea, they said some of the allotted land and houses were in remote areas without motor-able roads and they need a proper dwelling, which ensures proper commuting and hassle-free life. The high court later sent notices to the state government and Kannan Devan Hill Plantation (KDHP). Most of these employees were working with the KDHP when the tragedy occurred. Survivors want the government to take over “excess land” occupied by the KDHP and distribute them to the landless. After the mishap, the state government announced that houses will be built for the affected under the Life Mission project. But many inhabitants said most of the houses were situated in inhospitable locations and they find it difficult to lead a normal life. Tragedy struck Pettimudi on the night of August 6 last year after a portion of the hill came down due to incessant rain, destroying a settlement of tea workers, and people came to know about the mishap only the next day. Some of the bodies were recovered 14 km away from the landslide site. Only 64 bodies were recovered, and last week a special order was issued by the government certifying that missing were also dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-landslide-survivors-move-hc-for-better-land-101628534478280.html
10-08-2021||India||Online classes trigger many health issues, says Kerala education minister||Online classes trigger several health problems, with about 36 per cent of students reporting neck pain and another 28 per cent complaining of eye ailment, Kerala education minister V Sivankutty said in the state assembly on Monday, suggesting that regular classes need to commence at the earliest. Sivankutty read the statement from a survey conducted by the state council of education research and training, which further stated that “about 22% have anxiety and stress”. Children in schools have been forced to opt for online classes since April 2020, when the first Covid lockdown was announced in the country. After that, while secondary and higher secondary classes have opened in some states for a short duration, the schools till upper primary level have remained shut in most of the states. Kerala is not an exception. Sivankutty said the government is waiting for the Centre’s directive to open schools, and a final decision will be taken soon. It is planning to open schools for senior students, but the high volume of virus cases in the state leaves it in a quandary. Neighbouring states Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have already announced their plan to open educational institutions in a structured manner. “We can’t continue online classes forever. Our study shows students suffer from some ailment or the other due to online classes. We have to go back to the old system as soon as possible,” he said in the assembly. The minister said to reduce Covid-related mental stress students will be given free counselling. Some children lost their parents and relatives in the pandemic and turned orphans. The state had announced several plans to look after them. “We have to make parents also aware of the inherent dangers of overuse of the internet. We will give training to them also. Many non-government bodies have come forward,” he said. “Schools will reopen in different phases. We have to inoculate students before opening. We will ensure a smooth opening after meeting all norms,” he said. Many experts said strict adult guidance or monitoring is needed for internet use by younger children, and parents will have to lay down ground rules for the usage to avoid overexposure and exploitation. Some parents also complained that after each class, schools often take a long break keeping children glued to the screen for a long. “Strict parental guidance needed for younger children. They have to ensure a balance between the use of gadgets and avoiding their harmful effects,” said P Niveditha, a teacher, adding that the parents will have to keep a vigil. “Digital world opens a new vista for students. But they will have to be careful. Children with behavioural issues can spin into gadget addiction fast,” said child psychologist Dr T V Anil Kumar. He said online classes will leave a spectre of screen addiction in many children. Many students also admitted that online classes can’t be compared to traditional classes, which help them to embrace many qualities. Besides this, another danger lurks the digital classes, complained teachers and parents. Some anti-social elements have started hacking and posting vulgar posts in groups meant for online classes. At least 51 such complaints surfaced in the state in the last three months, and cybersecurity experts said the majority of such posts are created outside the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/online-classes-trigger-many-health-issues-says-kerala-education-minister-101628534477086.html
10-08-2021||India||Nitish Kumar reiterates demand for caste-census, hints Centre needs to take a call||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday once again reiterated his demand for caste-based census, saying it would be in the best interest of the country and it was for the Centre to take a call on the matter. “I have always been advocating it for a long time. My letter has also reached the Prime Minister on August 4 in this regard. We want a caste-based census. In Bihar, both the Houses had passed a resolution for it in 2020 also; the Legislative Assembly passed a resolution again. This will benefit all. There should be caste-based census at least once to get a hang of the real status of various castes, which will help in making development plans,” he said, after his weekly ‘Janata ki durbar mein mukhyamantri’ programme to listen to people’s problems directly and address them. The CM said figures for all the castes would help everyone. “We have been demanding it since 1990. It is not a political issue. It is a social issue. But it is for the Centre to decide. If the PM gives time, we will also meet him. Other states are also discussing it. Our MPs also wanted to meet PM, but they were asked to meet the home minister and they met him and presented their views,” he added. Kumar said that the caste-based census was an issue which only the Centre could decide. “If we have to do it, it will be counting, not census to get information. Census is done only at the national level. Some states have done it at their level. Karnataka did it. If we have to decide on caste census in Bihar, we will decide it later on after discussing the matter. But we want it to be done at the national level so that it happens across the country,” he added. The CM said it was last done in 1931 and all the people were for it, as it would help in inclusive development. “Some sections are educationally backward; there are other kinds of backwardness. It will be in the interest of the country,” he added. As per projections from figures of 1931 Census for specific Hindu castes and the 1961 Census for all others, backward castes consisted of 51.3% of the population in the state. However, many political parties feel that the numbers might have changed, and a fresh caste-based census is the need of the hour. In February this year also, Kumar had batted for a caste-based census, but now his statements have assumed greater significance, as the Opposition is trying to make it a rallying point to corner the BJP ahead of the crucial UP elections. In 2017, the Centre had set up the Justice Rohini Commission, which favoured sub-categorisation of reservation for other backward castes (OBCs) in the government sector by splitting 27% quota into different categories of OBC for equitable distribution of benefits among different sub-castes. After several extensions, it could submit its report, dividing 2633 OBC sub-castes in the central list into four sub-categories with 2%, 6%, 9% and 10% quota to add up to 27%. Before that, in 2011, socio-economic and caste census was done in 2011, though caste data could never be made public due to several discrepancies. Till date, Census only makes the count of population based on religion and SC/ST population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-reiterates-demand-for-caste-census-hints-centre-needs-to-take-a-call-101628534357002.html
10-08-2021||India||Now foreigners can also get Covid-19 vaccine in India: Health ministry||Foreign nationals residing in India can now receive the Covid-19 vaccine by registering themselves on the CoWin platform, the Union health ministry announced on Monday.Like other eligible beneficiaries, the foreign nationals can book a slot via the portal and use their passport as a document to verify their identity for the registration process, it added.“Together We Fight, Together We Win. Govt has now allowed foreign nationals residing in India to register on CoWin portal and take #COVID19 vaccine. This will ensure overall safety from the transmission of the virus,” the office of Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said.Providing more details, a statement from the health ministry read: “In a landmark initiative to ensure safety from Covid-19, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has taken a decision to allow foreign nationals residing in India to get registered on CoWin portal to take Covid-19 vaccine. They can use their passport as identity document for the purpose of registration on CoWIN portal. Once they are registered on this portal, they will get a slot for vaccination.”“A significant number of foreign nationals are living in India, especially in large metropolitan areas. In these areas, the potential of spread of Covid-19 is high due to higher population density. To counter any possibility of such occurrence, it is important to vaccinate all eligible persons,” the ministry statement added.According to the ministry, the latest initiative will ensure the safety of foreign nationals residing in the country. It will also bring down the possibilities of transmission of infection from unvaccinated persons in India. It will further ensure overall safety from further transmission of Covid-19 virus, the government said.“As it has been said that no one is safe until everyone is safe, so the government is also ensuring that everyone in the country is able to receive the Covid-19 vaccine shot. This is an attempt in that direction,” a senior central government official aware of the matter said, wishing not to be named.The vaccination drive in the country began on January 16 this year by covering all eligible healthcare workers and frontline workers in the first phase.The drive was gradually extended to citizens above 60 years of age and those above 45 years of age suffering from 20-specified co-morbidities from March 1 as part of second phase.On May 1, the government opened the drive to those who were 18 years and above as part of a liberalised and accelerated phase 3 strategy of Covid-19 vaccination in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-foreigners-can-also-get-covid-vaccine-in-india-health-ministry-101628534180288.html
10-08-2021||India||Parliament passes 6 bills amid protests||NEW DELHI: The last week of Parliament’s monsoon session started with fresh momentum in the government’s legislative agenda on Monday. Both House passed three bills each, ignoring protests and objections of the Opposition.In the Rajya Sabha, a motion to refer bills to select committees was defeated, some Opposition members staged a walkout in protest against the last-minute inclusion of bills in the day’s agenda -- which gives them little time to prepare.The government agreed to debate farm issues in the Rajya Sabha—one of the key demands by the Opposition.But Opposition parties will meet on Tuesday morning to take a call on participation as they’re insisting on a debate on the Pegasus snooping row before any other issue. The quick pace of the passage of bills has also raised doubts on whether the government wants to end the session earlier than scheduled.Late on Monday, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said the Centre’s scheduled discussion on ‘The agricultural problems and solutions’ has “nothing to do with my notice given on July 23rd on the ongoing farmers’ agitation”, where he had sought a discussion in Parliament over the issue.The Tribunal Reforms Bill was passed after a division on the motion to refer it to a select committee was defeated with 79 votes against it and 44 in favour. The Congress, Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) staged a walkout after the bill was passed, protesting the last-minute inclusion of key bills in the supplementary list of business.Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, earlier lashed out at the government over the inclusion of the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill in the supplementary list of business, alleging that it was the government’s way of ensuring the passage of bills.In the Lok Sabha, the Congress, TMC and some other Opposition parties protested against the introduction of two bills-- The National Commission for Homoeopathy (Amendment) Bill, and The National Commission for Indian System of Medicine (Amendment) Bill, 2021—replacing ordinances.Congress leader Manish Tewari objected to the introduction of the bill on homeopathy and said, “The manner in which the legislative business is being conducted in this House is in violation of Article 107 of the Constitution. It is in violation of Rules 74 and 76 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha.”TMC’s Saugata Ray alleged, “It will distort the homoeopathy profession,” and demanded a division or voting.Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury also objected to the bill on Indian system of medicine as it was brought in “a brazen manner” and underlined that “for past few days, we have been demanding the discussion on Pegasus.”The Lok Sabha passed The Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill, The Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) (Amendment) Bill, and The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2021.The Rajya Sabha cleared Tribunal Reforms Bill, 2021, the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Central Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021.Both Houses lauded Indian Olympians, including gold medalist Neeraj Chopra. Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu described it as “the first moment of national awakening in sports” and said “Indian athletes lifted the nation out of the mood of desperation, despondency, dejection and disbelief that prevailed for long due to poor performance in Olympics every four years and heralding an era of confidence and hope.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-passes-6-bills-amid-protests-101628533998716.html
10-08-2021||India||Imperative for Centre to act on task force’s proposal on oxygen supply: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said that it was “imperative” for the Centre to act on the recommendations given by a 12-member National Task Force on oxygen allocation to states and Union territories and directed the government to file an action taken report within two weeks.The bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah, which had gone through the recommendations of the Task Force, asked the Centre on Monday about the progress on implementing them. “The Task Force consists of experts and senior doctors across the country. It is imperative for the Centre to take steps and ensure that their recommendations are duly implemented.”The report of the National Task Force (NTF), constituted by the top court in May this year, was submitted in June and included proposals for building strategic oxygen reserves to tide over a possible third wave of Covid-19 infections.Additional solicitor general (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati, who appeared for the Centre, informed the top court that the central government will file its action taken report before the top court.The bench posted the matter for hearing after two weeks along with a related suo motu petition on Covid-19 preparedness.The bench further directed the Centre to supply its report to the two amici curiae - senior advocates Jaideep Gupta and Meenakshi Arora, who are assisting the court in passing effective directions. The bench asked the two senior lawyers to prepare a note indicating the way forward to meet the exigencies of the situation, should there be a third wave of cases.The top court was hearing a plea by the Centre against a Delhi high court order initiating contempt proceedings against central government officials for not complying with a ruling to supply 700 MT of liquid medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients in the national capital at the peak of the second wave in late April. On May 5, the top court stayed the contempt proceedings.The NTF report made crucial recommendations on allocation and supply, prescribing a formula of 1.5 metric ton (MT) liquid medical oxygen for a 100-bed hospital with 25 intensive care unit (ICU) beds a day. “Such a formula will be a part of a dynamic, evolving process and open to modification and consultation with states as the situation evolves,” the Task Force stated in its report.For allocation of oxygen, the Task Force recommended taking into account active Covid-19 caseload in respective a region along with the doubling rate. By applying this standard, the requirement could be addressed for future demand as well, the report said.Akin to petroleum reserves, the expert panel said the Centre must come out with a plan for strategic oxygen reserves to cover consumption for two-three weeks.It also proposed that states and UTs should develop a mechanism to predict daily and weekly inventory of oxygen and send the information to an Oxygen War Room maintained by the Centre. The report emphasised that audit of oxygen usage by hospitals should be mandatory and required oxygen committees to be set up at state level to ensure a buffer of at least six oxygen cylinders in rural areas to make up for any delay in arranging last-minute demand for oxygen in remote areas.In addition to the NTF report, a sub-group on oxygen allocation and usage focusing on Delhi also submitted its interim report to the Court in June this year. Though the final report of the sub-committee, headed by AIIMS director Randeep Guleria is awaited, the findings in the draft showed “gross discrepancy” in recording the requirement of medical oxygen by 183 hospitals in Delhi. The report said that a demand of 1,140 MT was made as against the actual requirement of 209 MT.The report relied on responses received from Delhi government, a study by Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization (PESO) and data provided by 183 city hospitals to show that on May 12, actual consumption of oxygen was shown to be 1,140 MT. This exaggeration was denied by Delhi government. Later, the sub-group chairman clarified that the controversy was unnecessary as requirement of medical oxygen is dynamic in nature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imperative-for-centre-to-act-on-task-force-s-proposal-on-oxygen-supply-sc-101628533942787.html
10-08-2021||India||SC seeks govt’s reply on Covid-19 vaccine trials data plea||The Supreme Court on Monday sought the Centre’s response on a petition seeking transparency of data on clinical trials conducted for Covid-19 vaccines even as it avoided passing any order that could add to vaccine hesitancy, noting the still grave pandemic situation in the country.A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose said, “We will issue notice on the petition. But we don’t want that our notice should send a signal on (the) safety of the vaccines.”The petition has been filed by Jacob Pulayil, a former member of the government’s apex body on immunisation, National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization, and is being argued by advocate Prashant Bhushan. It has named the Centre, Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation represented through Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and vaccine manufacturers Bharat Biotech (Covaxin) and Serum Institute of India (Covishield) as respondents.The petition has demanded that the government and DCGI provide segregated data for each of the phases of the clinical trials. Bhushan said though vaccination has not been made mandatory by the government, people are being deprived of their livelihood and access to essential services for not being vaccinated. Bhushan sought an interim stay on such mandates.The bench said, “We cannot take responsibility for passing any order which can increase the number of casualties or endanger public health.” The judges appreciated the petitioner for raising a good legal point on the personal autonomy of citizens and the right to their livelihood vis-à-vis their right to public health, but they did not lose sight of the “bigger picture”.“As it is, we are fighting with vaccine hesitancy. The situation is so grave that we are still not out of the pandemic. Looking at this position, we cannot decide if any order passed by us can lead to a bigger problem,” the bench said. Till Monday night, India has fully vaccinated 513, 914,567 people.Before issuing the notice, the court raised its apprehensions that a notice could lead to more doubts in people’s minds about the efficacy of vaccines.“You know the ground situation. Vaccine hesitancy is coming from rural areas and not from the educated class in urban areas. Our apprehension is that a detailed enquiry into this issue will amount to throwing a spanner into what is already existing, leading to more doubts,” the bench observed.Bhushan submitted that never before has a universal vaccination programme in the country been given emergency use authorisation without disclosing data on the approval process, clinical trials and post-vaccination effects. “This is a clear violation of the basic norms of scientific disclosures and the guidelines with respect to disclosure of clinical trial data, as laid down by the World Health Organization and followed by the ICMR,” the petition said.Further, the petition quoted the Helsinki Declaration of 2013 on Ethical Principles for Medical Research involving human subject adopted by the World Medical Association which casts a duty on researchers to publicly disclose all negative, inconclusive and positive results of their research. Contrary to creating doubts, Bhushan said that interference by the court will reassure citizens.The bench said that globally, this issue of compulsory vaccination without informed consent has been engaging the attention of courts across various jurisdictions. The judges cited a ruling by an Indiana court in the US that approved a vaccine mandate issued by Indiana University to its students. This ruling has been challenged before the Supreme Court of the United States. It also referred to a recent European Union decision upholding the Czech Republic’s decision on mandatory vaccination of children.Bhushan said, “This is not an anti-vaccine petition.” He referred to a 2011 decision passed by the top court in Aruna Shanbaugh matter where the court upheld citizens’ right to refuse medical treatment as part of their right to live with dignity and make an informed choice. He cited examples of 16 countries that had banned the use of Astra-Zeneca vaccine (branded Covishield in India).Bhushan said that circumstances warranting emergency approvals to vaccines cannot be a reason for trial data to be withheld from public scrutiny. He alleged that data on Adverse Events Following Immunization was being suppressed, endangering more lives.The court said it would hear the matter again after four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-govt-s-reply-on-vaccine-trials-data-plea-101628533817713.html
10-08-2021||India||Farmers to decide India’s future: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday interacted with farmers from various parts of the country at a virtual event held to disburse about ₹19,500 crore to over 90.7 million farmers under the cash transfer scheme, PM-KISAN. There he asked growers to collectivise and shift towards scarce commodities such as edible oils.The PM talked to farmers selected to converse with him from states such as Uttar Pradesh, Manipur and Jammu and Kashmir, who shared success stories in the agriculture sector, even as farm unions from many states continued their protests of three agricultural laws enacted by his government.With the latest instalment, the government has so far transferred nine instalments amounting to ₹1.57 lakh crore to farmer families under PM-KISAN (Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi). Under the scheme, an annual direct cash transfer of ₹6,000 is provided to farmers, which is directly deposited into their registered bank accounts. The amount is paid in three equal instalments of ₹2,000 each paid every four months.“I am grateful for the saffron park. This has doubled my income from saffron in 2021. We have got new technology and market linkages,” said Abdul Jaleel, a saffron grower from Kashmir.The Prime Minister also talked about the role of farmers in the country’s future. “Where do we want to see India in the coming 25 years? When the country will complete 100 years of Independence, what will be the state of the country? This will be decided by the farmers of this country,” he said.Modi said his government had undertaken the “largest-ever purchases” of wheat and rice from farmers at minimum support prices. The government had purchased ₹1.7 lakh crore worth of rice from paddy growers and paid about ₹85,000 crore to wheat farmers.Referring to the forthcoming 75th anniversary of India’s Independence, Modi said: “Apart from being an occasion of pride, it is also an opportunity for new resolutions. We have to take this opportunity to decide where we want to see India in the coming 25 years”.“Agricultural practices have to change according to changing times. There is a huge demand for millets and farmers, especially small farmers, should grow them to get good value.”The PM said while fertiliser prices have doubled, his government shielded farmers from inflation. “We made quick arrangement to increase the fertiliser subsidy by ₹12,000 crore,” he said, adding the government has ensured uninterrupted supply of seeds, fertilisers and access to markets.Modi also announced the launch of a new initiative called National Edible Oil Mission-Oil Palm to achieve self-reliance in edible oils, two-thirds of which India imports to meet its domestic needs. “Today, when the country is remembering the Quit India Movement, on this historic day, this resolve fills us with new energy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-decide-india-s-future-pm-101628533756927.html
10-08-2021||India||SC asks Jharkhand HC to track CBI probe into judge’s death||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is yet to ascertain if there was any foul play in the death of additional district and sessions judge Uttam Anand, who was fatally knocked down by a vehicle on July 28 in Jharkhand’s Dhanbad.The Supreme Court on Monday noted that the investigating agency has not made any progress on the reason or motive behind the hit-and-run incident that claimed Anand’s life.“There is nothing in your sealed cover. We want something concrete. Arrest and seizing of vehicles were done by the state. You (CBI) have not indicated anything about intention or motive or any reason,” a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana told solicitor general Tushar Mehta.Mehta was representing the CBI in the public interest litigation registered by the court on its own over the death of the judicial officer in suspicious circumstances. The S-G replied that the interrogation of the two arrested persons was on and that any disclosure about the ongoing investigation may impact the probe.At this, the bench, which also included justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant, said that the agency should submit weekly status reports before the Jharkhand high court that will henceforth monitor the CBI’s investigation.“We will keep the matter pending here and we will request the chief justice of the high court to examine your reports. Let the high court monitor your progress on a weekly basis,” it told the S-G.The court then recorded in its order: “Taking into account the gravity of the matter, we deem it appropriate to direct the CBI to file a report before the high court of Jharkhand every week and we further request the chief justice of the high court to monitor the investigation.”Apart from the specific instance of Dhanbad’s judge, the top court underlined that registration of the suo motu (on its own motion) case intends to resolve the alarming situation in the country where judicial officers and lawyers are being pressurised and intimidated by threats of violence or actual violence.“There is, therefore, an institutional need to create an environment where judicial officers feel safe and secure,” said the bench in its order as it tagged the suo motu case with a public interest litigation of 2019 which pertained to the security of judicial officers.Advocate Karunakar Mahalik had filed the PIL seeking a specialised force for security to all courts, judges, lawyers, litigants and witnesses in the country. In December 2019, the court had issued notices to the Union government and all the states. On Monday, the bench asked the Centre and states to put in their replies as soon as possible.Judges’ security had drawn the bench’s concerns on Friday last week too when it lamented that Intelligence Bureau (IB) and CBI “are not helping the judiciary at all. CJI Ramana rued that judges are not on priority for the investigating agencies and that their complaints are not heeded despite specialised body like the CBI getting roped in.“In one or two places, the court ordered a CBI inquiry. I am very sorry to say that the CBI has done nothing in more than one year. At one place, I know, the CBI has done nothing. I think we have expected some changes in CBI’s attitude. But there is no change in the attitude of the CBI. I am sorry to observe this but this is the situation,” the CJI had told attorney general KK Venugopal, who was called by the bench for assistance.On July 30, the bench had emphasised that it is the State’s obligation to protect judges to ensure they can discharge their duties fearlessly as it took suo motu cognisance of Anand’s death. A day later, the Jharkhand government recommended the CBI probe into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-jharkhand-hc-to-track-cbi-probe-into-judge-s-death-101628533698546.html
10-08-2021||India||BJP plans outreach programmes for new ministers||Over the next couple of days, Bharatiya Janata Party president J P Nadda will brainstorm with his party colleagues and state leaders to put together a major outreach programme for the 43 new ministers in the Narendra Modi government, said people aware of the details.Other than junior Jal Shakti minister Bisheshwar Tudu, who is in hospital due to Covid-19, all other new faces in the Union council of ministers will go on a three-day outreach programme to their constituencies and nearby areas to underline how the government has focussed on economically deprived groups like other backward castes (OBCs) and far-flung regions in this cabinet reshuffle.“All 40 new faces will spend three days and two nights at least in their areas. If they are Lok Sabha MPs, they will cover two other constituencies other than their own,” said a BJP office-bearer involved in the planning, requesting anonymity. “Some of the ministers will head out on August 16, after Independence Day, while cabinet ministers will go after the cabinet meeting on August 18.’’Called the Jan Ashirwad Rally, the three-day events are being carefully curated so that they underline the social message sent out by last month’s cabinet expansion that expanded the council of ministers to 77. There were key appointments from election-bound states like Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. As many as 27 OBCs were also accommodated in Team Modi as were 11 women.“For the first time since Independence, someone from Tripura has made it as a central minister,” said minister of state for social justice and empowerment Pratima Bhowmik who will be landing in Agartala on August 16 and will slowly make her way from one district to another. “I will travel for five days and cover all districts in my state, doing public meetings in each of them. I will be going to temples in each of the districts,” Bhowmik told HT.Party’s national secretary Sunil Deodhar said,” Take Kapil Patil (MoS Panchayati Raj) who belongs to the aagri community which got its first Union minister since Independence.”The ministers will take out ‘rath yatras’ on modified vehicles. “The plan will include paying tributes to any Ambedkar statue in the area or to meet a key community leader. We are working out the finer details,” said the office-bearer quoted above.Ministers who are Rajya Sabha members may cover more than one state. For instance, labour minister Bhupendra Yadav who was a key party leader before being appointed cabinet minister will travel to both Haryana and Rajasthan. HT has learnt that the minister is expected to hold public meetings in half a dozen constituencies starting August 19.The offices of law minister Kiren Rijiju and education minister Dharmendra Pradhan said they were waiting to hear from the party about the areas they would be travelling to. Petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri will join minister of state for external affairs and culture Meenakshi Lekhi reach out to people in Delhi.“It is a mass outreach programme but we are making sure that it will be done keeping all Covid protocols in mind,” said the party office-bearer.Most of the messaging will hinge on Covid management, and in the opposition-ruled states, the focus will be on attacking the local governments on Covid issues.With key state elections lined up in the coming year, the ministers are unlikely to find rest after the monsoon session of Parliament ends.“We have lost a year and a half due to Covid hence we have to work hard to strengthen the organisation,” Deodhar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpplans-outreach-programmes-for-new-ministers-101628533577022.html
10-08-2021||India||Implication for India: Glacial retreat, cyclones and intense heat||Here’s a quick list of what a warming world means for India: glacial retreat in the Hindu Kush Himalayas; compounding effects of sea-level rise and intense tropical cyclones leading to flooding; an erratic monsoon and intense heat stress.Many of these are irreversible and cannot be remediated even if greenhouse gas emissions decline dramatically, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has indicated in a report released on Monday.And not only will India be hotter, it will be more humid.The report titled Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis released on Monday said heat waves and humid heat stress will be more intense and frequent during the 21st century over South Asia.The Indian Ocean which includes the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal has warmed faster than the global average, the IPCC said with “very high confidence.” Its oceans fact sheet indicates that sea surface temperature over the Indian ocean is likely to increase by 1 to 2 degree C when there is 1.5 degree C to 2 degree C global warming. For a country with a 7,516 km-long coastline, and an agricultural and rural economy still dependant on annual monsoon rains, that’s bad news.In high mountains in Asia, which includes the Himalayas, snow cover has reduced since the early 21st century, and glaciers have thinned, retreated, and lost mass since the 1970s, the IPCC said, although the Karakoram glaciers haven’t recorded any major retreating trend.Rising global temperatures and more rain can increase the occurrence of glacial lake outburst floods (GLOFs) and landslides over moraine-dammed lakes, IPCC warned.India recently suffered a spate of flooding and landslide disasters in the high mountains of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. A snow-ice avalanche on February 7 in Uttarakhand triggered flash floods in the Rishiganga and Dhauliganga valleys, killing at least 200 people.Heat extremes have increased while cold extremes have decreased, and these trends will continue over the coming decades over Asia, according to the report. Annual mean temperatures in Asia will increase by 1-2 degree C relative to 1850-1900 period in case of 1.5 to 2 degree C global warming. There are likely to be 90 to 120 days in a year with maximum temperatures above 35 degree C in case of 1.5 to 2 degree warming and over 180 days in case of 4 degree C warming. The impact oof that on Indian agriculture could be catastrophic.Marine heat waves will continue to increase. And sea levels around Asia in the North Indian Ocean have increased faster than the global average, with coastal area loss and shoreline retreat. The regional-mean sea level will continue to rise, IPCC has said.“About 50% of the sea level rise is due to the thermal expansion. Also, Indian Ocean region is warming at a higher rate that means the relative sea level can also increase over the regions. Hence, the coastal regions will see the sea level rise through the 21st century, and it will contribute to more frequent and severe coastal flooding in low level areas and coastal erosion. Along with this, extreme sea level events that were previously seen once in a hundred years, could also happen every year by the end of the century,” said Swapna Panickal, IPCC author and climate scientist from Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.The ministry of environment, forest and climate change said on Monday that it welcomes the IPCC report, which “vindicates India’s position” on differentiated action needed by developed and developing countries. “Developed countries have usurped far more than their fair share of the global carbon budget. Reaching net zero alone is not enough, as it is the cumulative emissions up to net zero that determine the temperature that is reached. This has been amply borne out in the IPCC report. It vindicates India’s position that historical cumulative emissions are the source of the climate crisis that the world faces today... India’s cumulative and per capita current emissions are significantly low and far less than its fair share of global carbon budget,” a ministry statement said.Union environment minister Bhupendra Yadav also said in a tweet that the report was a clarion call for the developed countries to undertake immediate emission cuts and decarbonise their economies.Impact on monsoonThe monsoon has weakened in the second half of the 20th century mainly due to aerosols from human activity. Atmospheric aerosols are suspended liquid, solid, or mixed particles with highly variable chemical composition and size distribution.Though in the near term (the next 20 years) South and Southeast Asian monsoon and East Asian summer monsoon rains will be dominated by the effects of aerosols and internal variability, in the long-term, monsoon rain will likely increase.At 1.5 degree C global warming, heavy precipitation and associated flooding are projected to intensify and be more frequent in most regions in Africa and Asia, the report said.The global water cycle will continue to intensify as global temperatures rise, with rainfall and surface water flows projected to become more variable and unpredictable within seasons.At the global scale, extreme daily rainfall events are projected to intensify by about 7% for each 1 degree C of global warming. Extreme rainfall events are defined as the daily precipitation amount over land that was exceeded on average once in a decade during the 1850–1900 reference period.The proportion of intense tropical cyclones (categories 4-5) and peak wind speeds of the most intense tropical cyclones are projected to increase at the global scale with increasing global warming.Rainfall variability related to the El Niño–Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is projected to be amplified by the second half of the 21st century, it added. The Indian monsoon is affected by ENSO.Many regions are projected to experience an increase in the probability of compound events (i.e different types of extreme events happening at the same time or one after the other). This can be particularly alarming for India, experts pointed.“2 degree C global warming has serious implications due to possible increases in extreme weather events like heat waves, heavy precipitation, intensification of tropical cyclones, etc. Also, the variability of climate will increase suggesting dry becomes drier and wet becomes wetter. Another worrying fact is that we should expect compounding extreme weather events. For example, drought followed by heat waves. A flood followed by another flood. We have not documented this very well,” said M Rajeevan, former secretary, ministry of earth sciences.Irreversible climate impactsThe IPCC report has flagged that the climate crisis has caused certain impacts globally which are irreversible. Mountain and polar glaciers will continue melting for decades or centuries, the IPCC said with ‘very high confidence’ implying that Himalayas in India and neighbouring countries could be facing irreversible changes.It is also certain that global mean sea level will continue to rise over the 21st century. In the longer term, sea level is committed to rise for centuries to millennia due to continuing deep ocean warming and ice sheet melt, and will remain elevated for thousands of years even if warming is limited to 1.5 degree C, the report said.“Some of the changes are locked in — these include increase in sea level rise, melting of glaciers and thawing of permafrost. In India, the increase in heat waves is masked by aerosol emissions; if these are cut down, further increases in heat waves are likely. Very strong increase in heat waves, heavy rainfall events, further melting of glaciers can be expected. Sea level rise will cause flooding when tropical cyclones hit. These impacts are here and will not go away,” said Friederike Otto, associate director, Environment Change Institute, University of Oxford during a media briefing on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/implication-for-india-glacial-retreat-cyclones-and-intense-heat-101628532256325.html
10-08-2021||India||Climate report unlikely to lead to extra efforts||The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report on Monday, which said that extreme weather events have increased due to the rise in carbon emissions and the planet will reach 1.5 degrees Celsius warming threshold much earlier than anticipated, may not result in higher ambition at the Glasgow climate conference in November, said experts on climate change negotiations.IPCC’s Physical Science Basis report, the first of its three sixth assessment report, tells the world that oceans could rise by 1-2 feet even in one of the better scenarios (it considered five) by turn of this century, and heat waves occur 14 times as often if warming touches 2 degrees C.“The report tells us, we have a small window to act,” said Govindasamy Bala, professor at the Center for Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences in Indian Institute of Sciences, Bangalore, and one of the lead authors of the report.The report clearly mentioned that limiting temperature rise to 1.5 degree Celsius by turn of the century is becoming beyond reach. “Earlier, we had given 20 years for 1.5 degree temperature rise, now it is 10 years,” he said, adding that carbon emissions have already increased the temperature by 1.1 degree Celsius in the last 100 years. So, the world has window for only 0.4 degree C.To ensure that window remains open, Bala said the five scenarios presented by the report clearly show that there is no longer an option of a peaking year (when a country’s carbon emissions would peak) available with the planet to save it from dramatic danger of climate change.“We have to go for emission reduction and that is net zero,” he said.In the net zero concept, the world, as a whole, theoretically, will stop emitting carbon dioxide by 2050. A country will be able to emit carbon equal to the carbon sinks it has and the amount of carbon credits it can buy.Several European countries such as France, United Kingdom and Sweden have brought law to achieve net zero by 2050 and many others are on way to have similar laws.However, India and China, the world’s two biggest emitters have opposed net zero, saying it would go against the United Nations Climate Framework that provides for differentiated responsibility among developed and developing world and equity to carbon space. Net zero, they said, would impose binding restrictions on the developing world, which is historically not responsible for the problem of climate change.Sunita Narain, director general of Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said net zero was zero gain for developing countries as it would benefit the rich world, which has already exhausted its carbon space, and the developing world would continue to suffer in the absence of free technology transfer. “This report from global scientists must be a wake-up call. We can no longer lose time in prevarication or in finding new excuses not to act—including empty promises of net zero by 2050,” she said.Bala, however, said climate science supports net zero as the world cannot look at 2 or higher degree C climate scenarios anymore. “We have to aim for 1.5 degree temperature rise. Time to first allow emissions to rise and then reduce is not there.”A senior environment ministry official, who has been part of the climate negotiating team for long, said the IPCC report will not alter India’s climate negotiating strategy. “It is clear to us and several other developing countries that the Glasgow conference is to make Paris agreement operational. That will happen,” the official said. He added that the review of the target under the Paris climate deal would happen in 2023-24 and anything before that would depend on enhanced climate finance by the developed world.Climate talks have got more impetus in 2021 with appointment of John Kerry as US President Joe Biden’s special climate envoy. Kerry, since taking over in March, has visited several important countries for climate talks including biggest carbon emitters after United States, China and India. The US is keen to have higher ambition for Paris agreement, which becomes operational from January 2022.Kerry was in New Delhi in April 2021 for three days, but environment ministry officials said former environment minister Prakash Javadekar was very clear that the net zero concept was alien to the Paris agreement.Dr. Arunabha Ghosh, CEO of Council on Energy, Environment and Water, said, “Given that India is one of the most climate-vulnerable countries, we must recognise that even geographically faraway climatic changes can have consequences for our monsoons and intensity of extreme events. India should nudge the international community to capitalise a Global Resilience Reserve Fund to help lower the peaks of climate risks for the most vulnerable countries and create an insurance cushion against severe climate shocks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/climate-report-unlikely-to-lead-to-extra-efforts-101628532197279.html
10-08-2021||India||‘Global warming can’t be limited without drastic changes’||Hot extremes, humid heat stress, high sea-level rise, and more tropical cyclones. This is what is in store for India at 1.5 degrees C global warming, according to IPCC’s sixth assessment report ‘Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis’. In an email interview to HT, Swapna Panickal, climate scientist and co-author of the report said without immediate and large-scale reduction in global greenhouse emissions, even the 2 degree C warming threshold will be exceeded. Edited excerptsWhat are the climate change impacts already being documented in India? The South and Southeast Asian monsoon has weakened in the second half of the 20th century. Heat extremes have increased while cold extremes have decreased, and these trends will continue in the coming decades. The surface Indian Ocean has warmed faster than the global average. As a result, sea level will continue to rise in the 21st century. Sea level around Asia has increased faster than global average.Which of these are irreversible? The increase in ocean heat content and sea level rise are irreversible. Oceans will continue to warm. By 2050, sea level is expected to rise an additional 10–25 cm globally, whether or not greenhouse gas emissions are reduced. This is because sea level responds more slowly to changes in CO2 than other components of the climate system and will continue for some time even if emissions are stopped.How will climate change impact our glaciers? Snow cover has reduced since the early 21st century, and glaciers over the high mountain regions have thinned, retreated, and lost mass since the 1970s, although the Karakoram glaciers have either slightly gained mass or are in an approximately balanced state. Rising temperature and precipitation can increase the occurrence of glacial lake outburst, floods and landslides over high mountain regions.How will it affect the southwest monsoon? Projected precipitation changes in the near term (next 20-30 years) are uncertain due to natural variability, and this is an area of active research. Over South Asia, East Asia and West Africa, increases in monsoon precipitation due to warming from GHG (green house gas) emissions were counteracted by decreases in monsoon precipitation due to cooling from human-caused aerosol emissions over the 20th century, leading to a weakening of monsoon. But extremely heavy rain events will continue to rise.How is tropical cyclone frequency and intensity likely to change? The tropical cyclone intensity will increase; however, their genesis frequency will decrease or remain unchanged.How do you think India should prepare for 1.5 degree to 2-degree warm world? Unless there are immediate, rapid and large-scale reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, limiting warming to close to 1.5 degree C or even 2 degree C will be beyond reach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-warming-can-t-be-limited-without-drastic-changes-101628532138033.html
10-08-2021||India||PM Modi lists maritime security solutions||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday proposed five principles to ensure global maritime security, including responsible connectivity and peaceful resolution of disputes, as he chaired a UN Security Council debate that was joined by Russian President Vladimir Putin and US secretary of state Antony Blinken.India’s presidential statement on maritime security, which contained a tacit reference to China’s aggressive actions in the South China Sea by calling for ensuring the freedom of navigation in accordance with international laws, was adopted by the Security Council despite China holding out till the last minute, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.The rotating presidency of the Security Council is held by India for August and this was the first stand-alone discussion on maritime security by the UN’s highest body. India adopted a consensus-building approach by initiating consultations among all Security Council members several months in advance and prepared a concept note that incorporated ideas of all members.Modi, who became the first Indian premier to chair a meeting of the Security Council, called for a cooperative framework to deal with maritime disputes, climate change and natural disasters. He proposed five principles to develop a road map for global maritime security in his address in Hindi.The principles are removing barriers from legitimate maritime trade, encouraging responsible maritime connectivity, settling maritime disputes through peaceful means and on the basis of international law, jointly facing natural disasters and maritime threats created by non-state actors, and preserving the maritime environment and resources.“Oceans are our shared global commons. They are also the lifeline of international trade. Above all, they are key to our planet’s future,” the Prime Minister said. “However, today, this common heritage of ours faces various types of threats. Maritime routes are being misused for piracy and terrorism. There are maritime disputes between countries. And climate change and natural disasters are also challenges to our maritime domain.”“In this context,” Modi said: “We need a framework for mutual understanding and cooperation in order to conserve and utilise our shared maritime heritage. Such a framework cannot be created by any country alone. It requires a joint effort by all of us.”Modi highlighted the steps taken by India, including creating the maritime information fusion centre, responding to maritime disasters in the region, settling the maritime boundary with Bangladesh, and said such measures help build cooperation and trust.The debate on maritime security was one of three signature events being organised by India during its presidency of the Security Council – the other two will focus on counterterrorism and peacekeeping – and the presidential statement was the first outcome document by the UN body on maritime security.The presidential statement has to be adopted unanimously, but the process was not smooth as China held out till the very end because of language related to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), the people cited above said. Indian negotiators helped find language acceptable to all members without dropping the reference to UNCLOS, which the four other permanent members of the Security Council insisted on retaining, the people added.The presidential statement focused on the primacy of international law, noting UNCLOS is the legal framework for all activities in the oceans, including countering illicit activities at sea. It also highlighted the importance of enhancing global and regional cooperation to counter threats to maritime safety and security.The statement promotes safe and secure shipping while ensuring freedom of navigation in line with international laws, and welcomes mutual legal assistance and other types of law enforcement cooperation on transnational organised crime.It calls for strengthening cooperation for maritime security, including against piracy and terrorist activities, as well as against transnational organised crimes. It also seeks enhanced cooperation to protect critical infrastructure, including cross-border infrastructure.Blinken, in his address, referred to India’s leadership on issues such as a free and open Indo-Pacific and collaborative efforts such as the maritime fusion centre that has enhanced cooperation among Indian Ocean partners. The freedom of navigation and overflight, and unimpeded flow of maritime commerce is critical to security of nations but there are also critical areas where maritime rules are under threat, such as the South China Sea, he said.Without naming China, Blinken said the South China Sea had witnessed dangerous encounters, “provocative actions to advance unlawful maritime claims” and to intimidate and bully states. “When nations ignore or purport to redraw the borders of other nations, whether by land or by sea, they undermine the sovereign equality of member states – a guiding principle of the UN,” he added.China’s deputy permanent representative to the UN, Dai Bing, sought to counter Blinken’s remarks by saying a “few countries are pursuing exclusive regional strategies in Asia-Pacific in an attempt to create and intensify maritime conflict” and weaken regional stability. He opposed the mention of the South China Sea and accused the US of “stirring up trouble out of nothing”.Putin said Russia wants to build productive cooperation with the Indian Ocean Rim Association and Indian Ocean Commission and help ensure security in the Persian Gulf and Atlantic Ocean. He called for a special structure within UN to fight maritime crimes in various regions.Four heads of state and government, including Modi and 10 ministers participated in the debate, including French foreign minister Jean-Yves le Drian and UK defence secretary Ben Wallace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-lists-maritime-security-solutions-101628531896195.html
10-08-2021||India||Opposition says it will back govt on OBCs bill||Opposition parties on Monday decided to “cooperate” with the government to pass the 127th amendment to the Constitution, restoring the power of states to identify socially and economically backward classes for reservation (quotas) in jobs and college admissions -- something that was taken away after a May verdict of the Supreme Court’s Constitution Bench that said only the President of India had this power.The decision of as many as 14 Opposition parties means that a Bill will finally be passed peacefully in the Monsoon Session that has suffered unabated disruptions and protests from the beginning. The Opposition, however, also decided to continue, inside and outside Parliament, its agitation over the Pegasus snooping controversy, the farm laws and spiraling price rise.In the Opposition’s meeting on Monday to decide a collective strategy for the last week of the ongoing session, Rajya Sabha Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge initiated the discussion, highlighting the need to reach a consensus on the 127th constitutional amendment. According to two leaders present in the meeting, he highlighted how states would benefit and how this important legislation has been brought to bypass the Supreme Court ruling.“All parties agreed to support the legislation to ensure that the Constitutional amendment is passed in unanimity,” said Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) leader NK Premachandran.The Union government’s review petition on the May verdict was also dismissed by the Supreme Court, necessitating the legislative approach even as states accused the Centre of taking away their rights in violation of the federal structure of the Constitution.Last month, social justice minister Virendra Kumar assured the Upper House that the government was in consultation with legal experts to find a way around the apex court’s ruling.The Centre’s position has all along been that the President’s power is restricted to identifying and categorising socially and educationally backward communities (SEBC) for the central list .The Opposition’s decision to support the move is understandable. It cannot oppose the amendment without looking anti-other backward classes (or OBCs, the most powerful political base in the country), and the change will help opposition parties in states where they are in power (just as it will with the Bharatiya Janata Party in states where it is).“The reason for the Opposition to come together to support the 127th Constitutional Amendment Bill, 2021, is the upcoming early elections next year in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab and Manipur. Almost all the states going to the polls have a substantial OBC vote bank. Moreover, with the TMC (Trinamool Congress) winning in West Bengal, the Opposition has got a moral booster not only in opposing issues in Parliament jointly but also giving strategic support as an Opposition for election convenience. If this strategic behaviour of the Opposition is reflected in the elections, then the BJP might face a tough election battle,” said Achiransu Acharyya, economist, Visva Bharati University.The opposition parties also decided at Monday’s meeting that no other business would be allowed as long as the government doesn’t agree to their demand to discuss Pegasus in the House. Te government, which has neither confirmed nor denied the use of the spyware, has not agreed to this.“The meeting also discussed that some form of agitation should be launched to protest against the rising fuel prices in a day or two ,” said Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Elamaram Kareem.So far, the Monsoon Session of Parliament, which began on July 19, has been rocked by frequent protests and disruptions. Both Houses have seen Opposition lawmakers troop to the Well, hold placards and shout slogans against the government over their demand to discuss the Pegasus row, the three farm laws and rising fuel prices. Seven Trinamool MPs have faced suspension for “unruly” behaviour, even as opposition leaders accused the Chair of not allowing them to express their views.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-says-it-ll-back-govt-on-obcs-bill-101628531776838.html
10-08-2021||India||Code red: UN report rings climate alarm||The world may have lost the opportunity to keep global warming under 1.5 degree C over pre-industrial levels, the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said in a new report on Monday, highlighting the climate crisis that the world faces.One of the report’s authors, Linda Mearns said it more evocatively during the release: “ I don’t see any area that’s safe... Nowhere to run, nowhere to hide.”That isn’t hyperbole. Each of the five scenarios, based on varying levels of emission cuts, will see the world exceeding the 1.5 degree C mark set in Paris in 2015. And it will do this in the decade of the 2030s. And in three, it will exceed the 2 degree C mark, with “far worse heat waves, droughts and flood-inducing downpours”.India is no stranger to any of those.Glacial retreat in the Hindu Kush Himalayas; compounding effects of sea-level rise and intense tropical cyclones leading to flooding; an erratic monsoon and intense heat stress are likely to impact India in the years ahead, the report warned, even as it claimed that the Indian ocean has already warmed up faster than the global average.Most worryingly, one of the five scenarios is a best-case one: carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions declining rapidly to net zero around 2050. Even in this, the rise in global mean sea level could be 1-2 feet by 2100, and “6-12 inches” by the middle of the century, according to Bob Kopp, one of the authors.And to round off the summary of really bad news: the Arctic, according to the report, is now melting three times faster than originally estimated.In a stark warning to world leaders, the 42-page summary for policy makers titled: “Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis” drafted by 234 scientists from 66 countries (the report itself is an impressive 3,949 pages long, and based on an analysis of 14,000 scientific papers by experts) warned that global warming of 1.5 degree C relative to 1850-1900 levels would be definitely exceeded under intermediate, high and very high emission scenarios and will be “more likely than not to be exceeded” even when countries agree to switch to net-zero emissions by 2050.A net zero emission target implies that all human-caused greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are balanced out by removing GHGs from the atmosphere in a process known as carbon removal.But all may not be lost if the easier of the two Paris goals is met.The IPCC report underlines that human actions still have the potential to determine the future course of climate change and can strive to keep global warming under 2 degree C.That would involve zero emissions by the middle of the century, an immediate move away from fossil fuels, and a sustained effort at what is called engineered carbon removal (ways to suck CO2 from the air).The Paris Agreement goal, agreed upon by 195 countries is of limiting global warming to well below 2 degree C and pursuing efforts to limit it to 1.5 degree C. At 2 degrees global warming, according to a simulation presented in the report, the Arctic will warm by at least 4-5 degrees C.There is a near-linear relationship between cumulative CO2 emissions from anthropogenic sources and global warming, the report shows. Each 1000 GtCO2 (gigaton) of cumulative CO2 emissions is likely cause a 0.45 degree C increase in global surface temperature. This relationship implies that reaching net zero anthropogenic CO2 emissions is a requirement to stabilise global temperature increase at any level because of a very limited carbon budget, the report said.“Stabilizing the climate will require strong, rapid, and sustained reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, and reaching net zero CO2 emissions. Limiting other greenhouse gases and air pollutants, especially methane, could have benefits both for health and the climate,” said IPCC Working Group I Co-Chair Panmao.The report shows that emissions of greenhouse gases from human activities are responsible for approximately 1.1 degree C of warming compared to pre-industrial levels, and finds that averaged over the next 20 years, global temperature is expected to reach or exceed 1.5 degree C warming.“Warming is an established fact. We are seeing widespread and rapid changes in every region of the world, affected in multiple ways by this changing climate. This includes heat waves, heavy rainfall events, droughts, compound extreme events see kit in every region of the earth. There is no going back from some of these changes even if we limit warming to 1.5 degree C. Compound flooding events, storm surges etc will continue. From a physical science point of view, it is still possible to limit global warming to 1.5 degree C and that would mean these changes could be slowed. If we reduce GHG emissions to net zero by 2040 there is still a two-thirds chance to limit global warming to 1.5 degree C and if we manage to reach net zero emissions by middle of the century there still a one third chance…” said Friederike Otto, associate director, Environment Change Institute, University of Oxford.In the next decade-and-half as the world heads towards 1.5 degree C warming, it will witness an increasing occurrence of extreme weather events, which are unprecedented in the observational record, IPCC said, adding that with every additional 0.5 degree C warming there will be a discernible increase in intensity and frequency of heat waves, extremely heavy rain events, as well as agricultural and ecological droughts (a period with abnormal soil moisture deficit, which happens due to rain deficit and excess evapotranspiration).The world will likely cross the 2 degree C threshold between 2041 and 2060 in the intermediate scenario when emissions decline slowly. And global temperature rise is likely to be 3.3 degree C to 5.7 degree C by 2100 under the very high greenhouse gas emissions scenario where little action is taken to reduce emissions. The IPCC considers five socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs), which are essentially possible paths of growth human societies could follow over the next century.SSP2-4.5 or the intermediate scenario most closely mirrors the emissions trajectory that the total ambition of climate pledges (NDCs) submitted by 195 countries currently has the world on. CO2 continues to rise and stabilise around the mid-century, before finally starting to decrease, with the steepest drop just before the end of the century in this intermediate scenario. Under this scenario, the world is headed for a 2.7 degree C rise in global temperature by end of the century.The last time global surface temperature was sustained at or above 2.5 degree C higher than 1850–1900 was over 3 million years ago.How bad is it? As Paola Andrea Arias Gomez, another of the report’s authors said during its release, extreme heat waves, which are now occurring “five times as often as before” could occur “14 times as often” at 2 degrees C of global warming.“This report reflects extraordinary efforts under exceptional circumstances,” said Hoesung Lee, chair of the IPCC in a statement. “This report is a reality check. We now have a much clearer picture of the past, present and future climate, which is essential for understanding where we are headed, what can be done, and how we can prepare,” said IPCC Working Group I co-chair Valérie Masson-Delmotte.IPCC, however, clarified that occurrence of individual years with global surface temperature rise of 1.5 degree C or 2 degree C, relative to 1850–1900 does not imply that this global warming level has been reached.Through its assessments of all five scenarios, the IPCC said it is certain that the land surface will continue to warm more than the ocean surface -- by around 1.4 to 1.7 times. It is also certain that the Arctic will continue to warm more than global surface temperature at two times the rate of global warming.Some mid-latitude and semi-arid regions, and the South American Monsoon region, are projected to see the highest increase in the temperature of the hottest days, at about 1.5 to 2 times the rate of global warming. Extremely heavy rainfall events will intensify and become more frequent in most regions with additional global warming. At the global scale, extreme daily rain events are projected to intensify by about 7% for each 1 degree C of global warming. The proportion of intense, category 4/5 tropical cyclones will increase and the Arctic is likely to be practically sea ice free in September at least once before 2050 under all the five scenarios considered in the report.“The IPCC numbers sadly show that as humans we have failed to curb the emissions that would have kept global warming under 1.5 degree C or 2 degree C limits. The mitigation and adaptation strategies submitted by nations through the Paris Agreement are insufficient, and we have even failed to reach near the committed curbs on emissions,” Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.“This points to the fact that we need urgent measures to evaluate and adapt to the increasing risk due to intense cyclones, floods and heat waves in the near future. While climate change is global, the challenges are always local. IPCC reports provides only a global assessment, and it is our task to identify the local challenges and disaster proof those regions where the risk and vulnerability is the highest.”India needs a plan, said M Rajeevan, former secretary, ministry of earth sciences.“The present assessment report is based on much improved climate models and also using more observed and paleoclimatic data. Therefore, future projections of the climate could be considered to have reduced uncertainty…India should raise to the occasion and plan how to mitigate things. We need to develop technologies for mitigating these extreme weather events. Prediction capability should be improved. Disaster management system should be strengthened. A lot of coordination should happen between ministry of earth sciences, national disaster management authority (NDMA) and state governments also participation of industries. We should not delay. Anyway, MoES has plans to improve their forecasting skill of extremes,” he said.The IPCC projections are expected to be a wake up call for world leaders ahead of UN climate negotiations (COP 26) in November. “The new IPCC report tells government leaders exactly what is at stake at COP26. Without rapidly cutting carbon dioxide emissions to net zero levels, we are headed for a 3 degree C hotter world with more frequent weather extremes, and dangerous disruptions in the climate. It is high time that developed countries seal the deal on adaptation finance and clean technology partnerships at COP26,” said Ulka Kelkar, director of the climate programme at the World Resources Institute, India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/code-red-un-report-rings-climate-alarm-101628531776264.html
10-08-2021||India||No deal with Pegasus maker NSO Group: Defence ministry||The defence ministry on Monday told the Rajya Sabha that it has had no dealings with Israeli cybersecurity firm NSO Group, which is at the centre of a global controversy over the misuse of its Pegasus spyware to hack phones of journalists, activists and politicians. In response to a question on the subject in the Upper House, minister of state for defence Ajay Bhatt said, “Ministry of Defence has not had any transaction with NSO Group Technologies.”The minister responded to a question from CPI-M’s V Sivadasan, who asked about the expenditure incurred by the ministry including money spent on purchases made from foreign countries during the last three years.The ministry’s one-line response to the query pertaining to the NSO Group comes at a time when the Opposition parties have continuously disrupted the functioning of the Parliament over the Pegasus snooping controversy. The Opposition has been consistent in its demand for a discussion on the matter in Parliament.On August 6, Hindustan Times reported that the Centre sought to disallow in the Rajya Sabha a question seeking details from the external affairs ministry on whether the government entered into a contract with NSO Group, stating that “the ongoing issue of Pegasus” is sub-judice after “several PILs have been filed in the Supreme Court.”That question asked whether the government entered into a contract with Israeli cybersecurity firm NSO Group, at the centre of a global controversy over the misuse of its Pegasus spyware to hack phones of journalists, activists and politicians.The Centre wrote to the Rajya Sabha secretariat earlier this week seeking that a “Provisionally Admitted Question”(PAQ) asked by CPI MP Binoy Viswam scheduled to be answered on August 12 in the Upper House, not be allowed .“I have been informed informally that my question was disallowed but I am yet to get a formal response... the government is misusing Rajya Sabha rules and taking an alien stand on truth. They must face questions on the issue of the Pegasus,” said Viswam.The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international investigative consortium reported that the phones of Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 numbers from around the world that were potentially targeted by the Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. The list database was first obtained by France-based non-profit Forbidden Stories, which shared the information with the reporting partners. The devices of at least 67 of the numbers were analysed by Amnesty International and of these, 37 had signs of being hacked by Pegasus. Of these 37, 10 were in India. NSO says its software is sold only to government customers.The Indian government has neither confirmed nor denied that it used Pegasus and has ruled out any illegal surveillance.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation into the alleged snooping explains, the presence of a number on the database of the alleged targeted numbers does not indicate an individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-pegasus-row-mod-tells-rajya-sabha-no-dealings-with-nso-group-101628511195943.html
10-08-2021||India||Congress to hold year-long celebrations to mark 75 yrs of Independence||The Congress on Monday said it will be organising year-long celebrations across India to mark the 75 years of the country’s Independence. The party held a meet on Sunday where it decided to form state-level committees to organise these celebrations.“This August 15, 2021, when India enters 75th year of its Independence, Indian National Congress deems it imperative to celebrate the immense sacrifice of our freedom fighters and their families & successors… On the occasion of the nation entering the 75th year of Independence, the Indian National Congress has decided to form committees in all states to organise year-long celebrations,” a statement issued by All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary KC Venugopal said.The meeting of AICC general secretaries also discussed programmes for August 14 and 15. The party will be celebrating “Swatantra Senani & Shaheed Samman Divas” , a public event to “honour and facilitate the freedom fighters, their families, and martyrs’ families on August 14 evening”.Also Read | Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to arrive in Srinagar today for a 2-day visitOn August 15, the party workers will be taking out the “Swatantra March (Freedom March)” in the morning between 7-9am.In the statement, AICC also condemned the suspension of party leader Rahul Gandhi’s Twitter account after he shared pictures of his meeting with the parents of a minor rape victim in Delhi. Twitter brought down the tweets showing the faces of the girl’s parents, and Gandhi’s account was also suspended temporarily.“The atrocious stance is nothing but another instance of anti-SC and women mindset and inherent prejudice of Modi govt as also violation of freedom of expression by Twitter India under the diktat of Modi government,” Venugopal said.While Congress had said that Gandhi’s handle was “temporarily suspended”, Twitter said the account was “temporarily locked.”The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights also requested the Delhi Police and Twitter last week to act against Gandhi for his post. The commission had said that Gandhi’s post violated the Juvenile Justice Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-hold-year-long-celebrations-to-mark-75-yrs-of-independence-101628500994832.html
10-08-2021||NA||Parliament Highlights: Congress, opposition parties walk out of Rajya Sabha||In the final week of the monsoon session the central government is looking to introduce a crucial bill that restores the states power to identify Other Backward Classes (OBC). This will require a constitutional amendment that needs the support of two-thirds majority of lawmakers who are present during the proceedings, with at least 50% in attendance, making the Opposition's support crucial. Opposition parties, especially Congress, have however stated that they will not budge from their demand for a debate on Pegasus and repeal of the farm laws.Follow all the updates here:Rajya Sabha adjournedRajya Sabha adjourned for the day, to meet at 10am on Tuesday. Taxation Laws Bill, 2021 returnedThe Taxation Laws Bill, 2021 returned.Taxation Laws Bill, 2021: BJD, AIADMK support the BillYSRCP also supports the Bill and said that the amendments brought disrepute from international quarters.Sitharaman says Congress cannot speak in one voiceSitharaman while speaking on the Taxation Laws Bill, 2021 says the 'former finance minister from the Congress' welcomed it and Shashi Tharoor said that the budget did not repeal the retrospective tax bill. She also gave references to TMC leader Saugata Ray's comments made in 2014 regarding the retrospective tax bill. "They say one thing, and when they realise the credit will come to us, they do not remain when the time comes for correction," says Sitharaman. She made it clear earlier that it is a clarificatory amendment as 'Congress brought a wrong law by amendment'.We are keeping the sovereign right of India to tax intact: SitharamanUnion minister Nirmala Sitharaman speaks on the Taxation Laws Bill, 2021. She said that the amendments could not be brought during Budget Session as Covid-19 second wave was on begin.Rajya Sabha resumes, Kharge says supplementary bills being brought in a hurryLoP Kharge requests that bills for discussion should be informed beforehand. He says that he feels 'disheartened' and says he wants to walkout of the Upper House.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 3.30pmRajya Sabha adjourned till 3.30pm.Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021 passed in RSThe Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021 passed in the Upper House.I will look at the members and speak: SitharamanThe Union finance minister expresses her disappointment over the sloganeering, asks an Opposition MP to let her speak.Surprised that people who misuse the law is speaking about judicial independence: SitharamanSitharaman says Congress opposing the Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021 is 'astonishing' and says that Congress suppressed judiciary during the Emergency. She says that Congress should not speak on independence of judiciary.Manoj Jha opposes billThe RJD MP said that he felt disheartened that on the eve on Independence Day, the Opposition, farmers and the unemployed youth were ignored by the government.Jaya Bachchan opposes Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021Bachchan says she opposes the Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021, but she says that she opposes the government for not letting the Opposition speak.AIADMK supports Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021AIADMK M Thambidurai supports the bill. He says tribunals are there to help the Supreme Court and the high courts.59 lakh cases pending in various HC: BJD MPBJD MP Sujit Kumar says vacancies in tribunals should be fulfilled, highlights that at least 59 lakh cases are pending across several high courts in India. Expresses support for Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021. However, DMK MP NR Elango does not support the bill but demanded a tribunal be set up to investigate Pegasus spyware issue. MP Sasmit Patra who is in the Chair requests Opposition MPs to sloganeering. Lok Sabha adjournedLok Sabha adjourned for the dayLoP Kharge demands discussion on PegasusCongress' Maliikarjun Kharge says discussion should be held on Pegasus and price rise. Opposition leaders restart sloganeering. Discussion resumes on The Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021. Lok Sabha adjourned till 2pmLok Sabha adjourned till 2 pm pic.twitter.com/kzCfyhjaJELok Sabha passes the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) BillLok Sabha passes the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2021Lok Sabha passes Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) BillLok Sabha passed the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 on Monday. The Bill was introduced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman who asked the Opposition leaders to co-operate as many Member of Parliaments like NCP's Supriya Sule had reached out to her for the same. Lok Sabha passes Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) BillLok Sabha passes the Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill, 2021Rajya Sabha proceedings adjourned till 2pmRajya Sabha proceedings adjourned till 2pm following sloganeering by Opposition MPs on 'Pegasus project' media report pic.twitter.com/waNvvGSMlIRajya Sabha adjourned till 12pmRajya Sabha adjourned till 12 noon as Opposition MPs raise slogans over 'Pegasus project' media report pic.twitter.com/rZJhJ6sC3YLok Sabha adjourned till 11:30 amLok Sabha proceedings have been adjourned till 11:30 am today amid continued sloganeering by Opposition Member of Parliaments in the House.Rajya Sabha members pay homage to martyrs of Independence movement on the 79th anniversary of the Quit India MovementRajya Sabha members pay homage to those who laid down their lives during India's independence struggle on the 79th anniversary of the Quit India Movement pic.twitter.com/QI1JCv9ZvCOpposition parties decide to support 127th constitution amendment billAll Opposition parties will support The Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill 2021 being introduced in Parliament today: Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge pic.twitter.com/hWCWIgrVQPManish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok SabhaCongress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to discuss 'Pegasus Project' media report(file photo) pic.twitter.com/SHc4sEG1sUCongress MP gives adjournment motion notice in Lok SabhaCongress MP Manickam Tagore gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to discuss 'Pegasus Project' media report(file photo) pic.twitter.com/ybGVYA1T7ZOpposition to chalk out a common strategy14 leaders from various Opposition parties is set to meet Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge at his chambers to chalk out a common strategy as the Parliament gears up for last week of monsoon session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-live-opposition-to-chalk-out-a-common-strategy-101628472717716.html
10-08-2021||NA||Breaking News: 9 die in Russia's Covid-19 hospital after oxygen pipe ruptures||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Nine die in Russia's Covid-19 hospital after oxygen pipe rupture, reports AFPNine persons die in Russia's Covid-19 hospital after oxygen pipe rupture, reports news agency AFPOdisha govt approves 89 multipurpose indoor stadiums for sports, disaster shelters and field hospitals at a cost of ₹693.35 croreOdisha Cabinet headed by CM Naveen Patnaik approves 89 multi-purpose indoor stadiums with utility for sports, disaster shelters & field hospitals at a total project cost of ₹693.35 crores to be completed over the next 18 months pic.twitter.com/YLNBGgVlb0One car and seven bikes were gutted in fire that broke out at a firecrackers shop in Gujarat earlier in the day#WATCH | One car & seven bikes were gutted and a fireman was injured in a fire that broke out at a wholesale firecrackers shop in Anand, Gujarat earlier today pic.twitter.com/nlrh9Kw93PA Naxal couple with a bounty of ₹8 lakh on their heads surrendered in Chhattisgarh: CRPFA Naxal couple carrying a bounty of ₹8 lakhs on their heads surrendered in Bijapur, Chhattisgarh today: CRPF pic.twitter.com/ZRmIOYJphNBioNTech-Pfizer vaccine doesn't need to be adapted yet for Covid-19 variants, says company chiefBioNTech chief has said that there is no requirement yet to adapt BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine for Covid-19 variants, AFP reported.Rahul Gandhi arrives at Srinagar Airport ahead of his two-day visit to J&KCongress leader Rahul Gandhi arrives at Srinagar airport, on a two-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir. pic.twitter.com/L3JKCf9V9ZFiscal sustainability must be kept in mind while building infrastructure projects: PM at UNSCWhile chairing the UNSC High-Level Open Debate on 'Enhancing Maritime Security: A Case For International Cooperation', Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, "We must keep in mind fiscal sustainability, capacity of countries while building infrastructure projects to enhance maritime trade."BJP leader and his wife killed my militants in south KashmirTaliban capture sixth Afghan provincial capital, Aibak, reports AFPTaliban has captured the sixth Afghan provincial capital, Aibak, deputy governor said.UK high court allows Nirav Modi to appeal against extradition to IndiaNirav Modi has been granted permission by the UK high court to appeal his extradition from the UK to India, where he faces charges of defrauding state-run Punjab National Bank of around $2 billion. The court approved his appeal on mental health grounds, reported ANI.Delhi reports 39 new Covid-19 cases, 1 deathDelhi reported 39 cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the tally of cases to 14,36,800. In the last 24 hours one death has also been reported, the death toll now stands at 25,067, as per the state health bulletin.BSF seizes huge cache of arms and ammunitions from a hideout in J&K's PoonchBSF averted a big terrorist activity before Independence day by seizing a huge cache of arms/ammunitions from a hideout in Poonch today. Joint operations of BSF was launched with RR & SOG Poonch in the forest area at village Sangad in Poonch: PRO, BSF Jammu#JammuAndKashmir pic.twitter.com/hgGMd3ngvlBJP parliamentary party meeting to be held tomorrowBJP parliamentary party meeting to be held tomorrow.Nomura India Business Resumption Index for week ending Aug 8 rises to record 99.4The Nomura India Business Resumption Index rose to a record high of 99.4 for the week ending 8 August, as mobility improved, Covid cases remained flat and power consumption rose.Mufti meets PDP youth wing leaders; calls for release of political detaineesPeoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday chaired a meeting of youth workers of her party in Srinagar where the release of political detainees was sought. The meeting was the first of its kind since the arrest of PDP youth wing president Waheed ur Rehman Parra. Read MoreSC refuses to interfere with CCI probe against Amazon, Flipkart over alleged violations of lawSupreme Court declines to interfere with Competition Commission of India investigation against e-commerce giants Amazon and Flipkart for alleged competition law violations.Supreme Court extends the time by four weeks for the companies to join the investigation.SC issues notice to Centre on a plea seeking public disclosure of vaccine clinical trial data and post-vaccination dataSupreme Court issues notice to Union of India on a plea seeking public disclosure of vaccine clinical trial data and post-vaccination data, as the petitioner claims that it is mandatory and required that the govt must publish these as per the international medical norms.Zydus Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine is expected to get approval this week: ReportZydus Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine is expected to get approval this week, news agency ANI reported qouting sources.Taliban capture key cities in north Afghanistan, US deploys B-52 bombersThe Taliban are continuing with their offensive in Afghanistan, seizing more territory - this time in the northern part of the country - including the city of Kunduz. Taliban forces mostly overran the provincial capital city of Sar-e-Pul, also in the country's north, marking another loss for the government amid a series of unprecedented advances by the insurgent group.Opposition parties to co-operate with government in passing 127th Constitution Amendment BillAt strategy meeting, opposition parties decide to co-operate with Centre in passing bill to restore states' power to identify backward classes.Inflammatory slogans raised at Delhi event; Police file FIRCase registered under relevant sections of the law after inflammatory slogans were allegedly raised at an event titled "Colonial Laws & Make Uniform Laws" which was held near Jantar Mantar in Delhi on Sunday, news agency ANI reports citing Delhi police. The investigation into the incident is underway, it also reported.India records 35,499 new Covid-19 cases, 447 deaths in a dayIndia on Monday reported 35,499 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) over the last 24 hours, according to the data released by the Union health ministry at 8am. The number is slightly lower than yesterday's 39,070 cases. The death toll saw a rise of 447 fatalities and now stands at 428,309, according to the ministry's data.Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to meet Covid Task Force todayMaharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to hold a virtual meeting with the Covid Task Force today at 8:30 pm. Discussion over easing of restrictions is expected.Sensex opens 161 points up, currently trading at 54,439; Nifty trading at 16,301Sensex opens 161 points up and is currently trading at 54,439. Nifty was trading at 16,301.NCB nabs foreigner trying to smuggle drugs worth ₹1 croreNarcotics Control Bureau in Mumbai arrested a foreign national from the airport on Sunday night with drugs worth approximately ₹1 crore. The police recovered the drugs from inside his body, news agency ANI reported.NY governor's top aide Melissa DeRosa resigns amid harassment scandalMelissa DeRosa, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo’s highest-ranking aide, resigned on Sunday as the embattled governor contends with possible criminal charges over multiple sexual harassment claims and a potential impeachment trial.Govt may begin migrant data collection this weekThe Union government is likely to launch by this week a digitised platform for migrant workers that will enable authorities to direct state-run benefits to them and intervene during crises, people aware of the matter said on Sunday. This follows a Supreme Court order in June that set a deadline of July 31 for the move.PM Modi to release 9th instalment of PM-KISAN scheme todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will release the next instalment of financial benefit under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme on Monday at 12:30pm via video conferencing. The Prime Minister will address the nation on the occasion and interact with the beneficiaries. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar will also be present on the occasion.Delhi schools to reopen partially for classes 10-12 from todaySchools in Delhi will partially re-open for students of classes 10 to 12 from Monday. This follows an order from the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). Officials on Sunday said that the state education department is expected to release detailed guidelines and reopening protocol for schools and students.Heavy rain in Sichuan caused economic losses of $38.57 million: ReportHeavy rain in the southwestern Chinese province of Sichuan has caused 250 million yuan ($38.57 million) in economic damage, news agency Reuters reported citing Chinese state media.Govt to push legislation in final week of sessionWith just five days left until the end of Parliament’s monsoon session, the central government is looking to push through a constitutional amendment that aims to restore the power of states to identify backward castes, at a time the Opposition has indicated that it will stick to its strategy of demanding a debate on the Pegasus spyware controversy and the contentious agriculture laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-breaking-news-updates-august-9-2021-101628466612031.html
