11-08-2021||India||Kejriwal, Sisodia given clean chit in ex-chief secretary assault case||A Delhi court on Wednesday exonerated chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia, and nine Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs over the alleged assault on the former Delhi chief secretary (CS) Anshu Prakash during a midnight meeting in 2018, ruling that there was no “unlawful assembly” or “criminal conspiracy” that led to the incident.“…There was no prior meeting of minds, prior concert, conspiracy or pre-meditation amongst the accused persons to commit any offence against the complainant (Prakash),” the court said in its verdict.In his police complaint in February 2018, Prakash alleged that Kejriwal, Sisodia, and 11 AAP MLAs assaulted him in a midnight meeting called by the CM’s former adviser VK Jain on February 19, 2018, to discuss release of the party’s advertisements related to the government completing three years in Delhi.Prakash alleged that he was manhandled and assaulted in the course of the meeting.Metropolitan magistrate Sachin Gupta ruled that the incident happened suddenly, after some of the MLAs started questioning Prakash over some issues and in the spur of the moment, and two of the MLAs — Amanatullah Khan and Parkash Jarwal -- allegedly assaulted him without any conspiracy or pre-meditation.“During the course of a meeting called by the Chief Minister, whose own conduct is not suspicious at all, if something untoward allegedly happened, that itself does not render the meeting an unlawful assembly or does not make the presence of CM, deputy CM and other accused MLAs as part of or acting under a criminal conspiracy or sharing common intention or even abetting in any manner, commission of alleged offence,” the court said. It also refused to make anything of the fact that the meeting was scheduled at midnight. It said that labelling a meeting called by the CM at his residence, attended by his deputy and eleven other MLAs, as unlawful assembly or part of any criminal conspiracy, “can seriously hamper the smooth functioning of the government and public interest would suffer ultimately”.The court added that if Prakash had felt any threat to his life, he would have raised an alarm and certainly called his PSO (personal security officer) immediately after he came out of the meeting room , which he did not do, and this conduct speaks volume.It also said that Prakash neither made a call to 100 (police helpline) nor lodged the police complaint immediately thereafter, clearly demonstrating that there was no threat to his life.The court, however, framed charges against Khan and Jarwal for obstructing a public servant on duty, assaulting him, and voluntarily causing hurt to him, taking note of the statement by Jain.Soon after the verdict was passed, Kejriwal tweeted: “Satyamev Jayate” (truth will prevail).Sisodia told reporters that the whole case was a conspiracy by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which was scared of Kejriwal’s popularity. “A false police case was made against him by the BJP which misused its power in the central government. Delhi Police reports to them,” he claimedA Delhi BJP spokesperson dismissed these charges as “baseless” and contended that the CM and deputy CM were exonerated only due to “lack of evidence”.Delhi Police, which probed the incident, filed a 1,300-page charge sheet on August 13, 2018, against 13 AAP leaders -- including Kejriwal and Sisodia -- for offences including criminal conspiracy, assaulting a public servant, threatening to cause death or grievous injury, and wrongful confinement.On Wednesday, the court said that there was no evidence to suggest that the accused persons perpetrated or abetted the crime. “There is also no material available on record to infer that the alleged act of assault and intimidation by some of the accused persons present there was done in furtherance of common intention of all present there or that there was any pre-arranged plan or prior meeting of minds or prior concert amongst the accused persons present there,” the court added.The judge also said that just because the meeting was at midnight, it did “not give rise to the proposition that it was under a pre-planned conspiracy,” the court said.“Hence, plea..the meeting was intentionally scheduled at midnight under a preplanned conspiracy, whereas no such issue was raised during the day time meetings, which he attended with the Chief Minister and Deputy CM, is also not sustainable,” it added.The court noted the statement of CM’s former advisor VK Jain, who said that the MLAs started aggressively questioning Prakash on several topics. Jain added in his statement that he went to the washroom, and when he came back, he saw two of the MLAs -- Khan and Jarwal -- pushing Prakash, and putting their hands on his chin. He added that the CM asked them to refrain from doing so, and was unhappy with the conduct of the MLAs.The judge also did not accept the allegation that specific MLAs were chosen by the CM and deputy CM for the purpose of the meeting. He said that they had all gathered on the CM’s directions to discuss various issues, including doorstep delivery of ration, TV advertisements, etc, and hence “referring to those MLAs as ‘specific MLAs’ chosen for some ‘specific purpose’, does not make any sense and does not fortify the theory of conspiracy, as portrayed”.The court said that Prakash had the option of putting a dissent note over the issues being discussed, and that he was not the final authority on any of them.Taking note of the statements of two witnesses, former North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NrDMC) chief Varsha Joshi and the then managing director of DTTDC Shurbir Singh, the court noted that even on February 12, the CM firmly asked Prakash to complete the work. The high court on August 24 last yeardirected the trial court to only pass orders on the charges levelled by the police, and not on any other issues. This was after Kejriwal challenged an order of the trial court allowing a Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) to represent him in court On October 22, 2018, a city court had allowed Prakash to have an SPP instead of a regular public prosecutor to represent him in court. On November 20, 2018, the CM and his deputy had moved court challenging this order following which the order was stayed on March 14, 2019. The matter would be now heard on September 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-sisodia-given-clean-chit-in-ex-chief-secretary-assault-case-101628705190701.html
11-08-2021||India||Amarinder meets PM, urges him to repeal three farm laws||New Delhi/Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately initiate steps for the repeal of three controversial farm laws, arguing that the prolonged stir by farmers could have national security implications. The chief minister, who met the PM in Delhi on Wednesday evening, submitted two separate letters, one calling for the immediate review and revocation of the three farm laws passed last year and another asking for legal aid for cultivators. “In my meeting with Prime Minister @narendramodi ji today, have urged upon him for initiating immediate steps to revoke farm laws which have triggered resentment amongst farmers. Have also requested him to amend the relevant law to provide free legal services to farmers,” Singh tweeted after the meeting. The CM, who shares a stormy relationship with longstanding rival and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, met party chief Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday. He also met Union home minister Amit Shah and demanded 25 Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) for Punjab and anti-drone gadgets for BSF.Over a dozen farm unions, especially from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting the three laws by sit-in demonstrations outside the Capital. Cultivators say the laws will leave them at the mercy of large corporations and jeopardise their livelihoods. They have also said the new laws would lead to the dismantling of a system of MSP. The government has billed the laws as necessary reforms to modernise India’s farming sector deemed largely unproductive. and has refused to repeal them. Despite 11 rounds of talks -- the last one was held on January 22 – there has been no point of agreement between the government and the farmers. The government offered to freeze the laws for 18 months, a proposal the farmers rejected.  At the meeting, Singh said around 400 farmers and farm workers had died in the protest, according to the official statement by the state government after the meeting. He argued that the stir had the potential of posing security threats for Punjab and the country with Pakistan-backed anti-India forceslooking to exploit the farmers’ disgruntlement, according to government press release. He also urged the PM to intervene and redress the farmers’ legitimate concerns. The CM said the continued agitation was not only impacting economic activities in Punjab but also had the potential to affect the state’s social fabric. He further underlined the need to compensate farmers for the management of paddy straw @ Rs.100 per quintal and address the fears of D-ammonium phosphate (DAP) fertilizer shortage. In another letter, the CM stressed that due to the fragmentation of landholdings, and persistent disputes with lessees and various market operators and agents, farmers were facing heightened litigation, causing stress on their meagre financial resources. He said that there was a need to reduce the farmer’s ’ financial burden due to litigation and noted that the Central Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987 provides free legal aid to certain categories of people, according to government’s official statement.“It is, thus, the need of the hour to amend Section 12 of the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987, to include farmers and farm workers in the category of persons entitled to free legal services to pursue and defend themselves in the courts to secure their livelihood,” Singh told the PM, according to official press release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-meets-pm-urges-him-to-repeal-three-farm-laws-101628704835737.html
11-08-2021||India||Bengal governor Dhankhar meets PM Modi in Parliament, TMC takes a potshot||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Parliament House in Delhi on Wednesday afternoon, triggering speculation and criticism from the Trinamool Congress, the ruling party in Bengal. However, Dhankar described his meeting as a “courtesy” call.“WB Governor Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar called on the Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi at Parliament House office @PMOIndia,” Dhankhar tweeted around 8 pm and posted a photograph.Modi was in the Parliament to attend the last day of the monsoon session of the Lok Sabha.The meeting made Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), which shares an acrimonious relationship with Dhankhar, take apotshot at him.“We don’t know why the governor met the Prime Minister. Probably he is making preparations to formally join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which he represents anyway,” said TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh."It was a courtesy call," Dhankhar told reporters in Delhi after the meeting. He did not elaborate.Raj Bhawan officials said Dhankhar did not specify how long he will stay in the national capital and whether he will meet Union home minister Amit Shah.During his earlier trips to Delhi, the governor met Shah and submitted reports on law and order situation in the state.The governor has been extremely vocal on political violence since the March-April assembly polls."Probably he informed the Prime Minister about the ongoing political violence. He can always do that," said Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-governor-dhankhar-meets-pm-modi-in-parliament-tmc-takes-a-potshot-101628704174366.html
11-08-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM meets Amit Shah with request for an AIIMS in Kumaon region||Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Wednesday requested Union home minister Amit Shah for setting up an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in the Kumaon region of the state. Dhami made the request during a courtesy meeting with Shah in Delhi.Dhami told Shah that thought there was one AIIMS in Rishikesh, but due to difficult hilly terrain, people in far-flung areas of the state are missing out on super-specialty healthcare. “If an AIIMS is set up in Kumaon, it will not only cater to the people of the region but also to those living in bordering districts of Uttar Pradesh. Dhami said land will be provided for AIIMS by the state government, said a statement issued by the state government.Dhami also requested Shah for help in establishing an Indian Science Education and Research Institute in Dehradun.Earlier in the day, Dhami met defence minister Rajnath Singh in Delhi and urged him to recommend conversion of the proposed Tanakpur-Bageshwar narrow gauge railway line into broad gauge by the Railways keeping in mind tourism potential and strategic concerns.“The proposed narrow gauge will not address the basic requirements, transport problems or the strategic concerns in the area. As the area is near Nepal and China, rail-line in this area has significant strategic importance. So, this narrow gauge should be changed to broad gauge. The rain line will also link new trade centres in the region”, he saidThe chief minister also requested Singh that the memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed with Uttarakhand for the proposed Military School at Jakholi in Rudraprayag district, be amended to include financial assistance for development of infrastructural facilities there.Dhami has already met Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Union minister of state for tourism and defence Ajay Bhatt, Rajya Sabha MP from Uttarakhand Anil Baluni and Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat since arriving in Delhi on Tuesday.Dhami was assured during his meeting with Shekhawat that the Centre will soon sanction ₹4,673 crore for the 300 MW Lakhwad multi-purpose project located on Yamuna river in Dehradun district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-meets-amit-shah-with-request-for-an-aiims-in-kumaon-region-101628703375934.html
11-08-2021||India||'Whatever brings you joy': Tina Dabi's social media post goes viral||An Instagram post of IAS officer Tina Dabi has now gone viral after a family court in Jaipur granted divorce to Dabi and Athar Khan. The post was made on Tuesday, when the duo, the two IAS toppers, were officially divorced. "People are going to talk about you. No matter what you do. So you might as well do whatever brings you joy and live your best life," the post shared by Tina Dabi on Instagram said.A post shared by Tina Dabi (@dabi_tina)The duo got married in 2018 and came into the limelight as their wedding was seen as a symbol of communal harmony. But before their wedding, they were in the limelight as both of them were toppers in the UPSC in 2015. Dabi became the first-ever Dalit woman to top the UPSC examinations. Kashmir's Athar stood second. The duo filed for mutual divorce in 2020.Watch: 'Whatever brings you joy': IAS officer Tina Dabi after formal divorce with Athar Aamir KhanThe court granted them divorce under Section 28 of the Special Marriage Act.Both Tina Dabi and Athar Ahmed were allotted Rajasthan cadre. Despite the interest their marriage, which had three receptions in Jaipur, Pahalgam and Delhi, garnered, Tina Dabi at the time of wedding said their marriage was above religious divides.In 2020, the rift in their marriage was out in the open as Tina, who is active on social media, dropped Khan from her surname and it was reported that at the same time, Athar too unfollowed Tina on some social media platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatever-brings-you-joy-tina-dabi-s-social-media-post-goes-viral-101628702646968.html
11-08-2021||India||Assam: 4-year-old girl allegedly sacrificed; two including father arrested||Assam Police have arrested a priest and the father of a four-year-old girl for killing her on Sunday night at Sonari in Charaideo district as an act of sacrifice to cure the priest from some unknown illness.“We were informed on Monday by the victim’s eldest sister that her sister, who was sleeping with two other siblings and their grandmother, had been abducted by some unknown persons,” said Sudhakar Singh, superintendent of police, Charaideo district.A search operation was launched, and on Tuesday, the victim’s body was found in a nearby river. Police also found the child’s clothes and some other items associated with religious rituals from the bank of the river.“The recovery of the body and other items led us to suspect that it could be a case of witchcraft or human sacrifice. Our teams questioned several people and finally the victim’s father and a local priest have been arrested for involvement in the child’s murder,” Singh said.The victim’s father and the priest were co-workers at the Safrai tea garden and were very close. The victim’s father also used to work as a part time help in the priest’s house, police said.“Both accused have confessed to their involvement in the murder. Preliminary investigation revealed that the priest claimed to have dreamt that he had some incurable illness, which could be cured only with the sacrifice of a child. He disclosed this to the victim’s father who decided to help him by offering his own child for the sacrificial ritual,” said Singh.The duo strangled the victim and threw her body in the river, from where it was recovered and sent for post-mortem. Further investigation was underway and more people could be arrested, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-4-year-old-girl-allegedly-sacrificed-two-including-father-arrested-101628701692805.html
11-08-2021||India||Opposition walks out of Rajya Sabha, govt wants special committee probe||The government on Wednesday said a special Rajya Sabha committee should investigate all incidents of protest and indiscipline by Member of Parliaments (MPs) from Opposition parties in the Upper House during the monsoon session.Leader of the House Piyush Goyal said the protests that saw some Opposition MPs tear papers, fling files and manhandle the marshals in the House cannot be tolerated. “Just as a special committee was set up in the Lok Sabha, a similar committee should be constituted to carry out an investigation (into the protests in Rajya Sabha),” he said.Shortly before the Upper House was adjourned sine die, Opposition MPs staged a walkout following a ruckus. They objected to the presence of security personnel during the passage of the insurance amendment Bill. The opposition has been accusing the government of putting key bills to vote without discussions amid din in the Parliament.Leader of the Opposition (LoP) Mallikarjun Kharge said there were more marshals then members present in the house. He said marshals had manhandled some of the women MPs and women were not safe even within Parliament.Speaking in the House, Goyal said the protesting MPs violated all Covid protocols while protesting in the well of the House. He said the disruptions were “pre- planned” and claimed that an opposition leader was quoted to have said that the aim was to ensure that the session was a washout, and that another one had said that no matter how hard the government tries the session will not be allowed to work till August 13.“When the government agreed to have a discussion on all the issues raised by the Opposition there were no chances of a washout so eventually the Opposition kept changing its stand. There was competitive opposition on how to disrupt the house,” he said. Goyal went on to say that on the day when India was observing the anniversary of the Quit India movement, the opposition continued to disturb the house and their behaviour “will be recorded in black letters.”He also took potshots at the Congress and said the party did not even attend the all-party meeting chaired by the Prime Minister on the issue of Covid crisis.Objecting to how the bills were passed, Congress MP Jairam Ramesh tweeted, “Insurance Amendment Bill to privatise GIC was passed in RS with a large force of security personnel present. The Govt refused to send it to a Select Committee — a demand by all Opposition parties including those close to BJP. What happened this evening was worse than atrocious!”CPI’s Binoy Visvam also tweeted, “A black day for parliament. They have virtually made it a military barrack. Brute force was used against members including women. What was our crime? We opposed the insurance bill. It, in fact was insurance annihilation Bill. 'Atmanirbhar BJP' has surrendered India to capitalists.”Congress MPs Phulo Devi Netam and Chayya Varma alleged that they were pushed around by male marshals. They told media persons outside the House that the marshals did not show respect even to women MPs.Parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi said there was CCTV footage to prove that some Opposition MPs attempted manhandling inside the house. He said the government will give a request in writing to the Rajya Sabha chairperson to set up a committee to take strict action against the Opposition MPs who indulged in such behaviour.On the last day of the session, the Upper House passed the Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021 to restore the states’ powers to have their own list of OBCs for reservation in jobs in educational institutions.The House also passed the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021 without discussion and amid sloganeering by the Opposition MPs. The Bill seeks to provide greater private participation in the public sector insurance companies. Earlier, the Opposition parties had demanded that the bill be referred to a select committee of the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-walks-out-of-rajya-sabha-govt-wants-special-committee-probe-101628700367589.html
11-08-2021||India||As UK relaxes curbs, 19 per cent increase in admission of Indian students||The number of Indian students taking admission into UK university and higher education courses has increased 19 per cent in 2021 as the United Kingdom moves India from its Red list to the Amber list. According to the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service acceptance figures, released a day after the UK moved India from the red list to the amber list, a record number of 3,200 students have been accepted onto UK institutions, news agency PTI reported.Until August 8, India was on the Red List of the United Kingdom's advisory. People travelling to the United Kingdom from a red-listed country will have to book a quarantine hotel package, while passengers from amber-list countries can quarantine at any place. The National Indian Students and Alumni Union, UK, was pushing the government to upgrade India's status as the hotel quarantine will cost 1,750 pounds. The red list rules also say passengers from red list countries will only be allowed to enter the UK if they have residence rights in the UK or are British or Irish nationals.Though students who have got admission to UK varsities might have been allowed to enter the country, the additional cost of a government-managed facility for 10 days would have added to the financial burden.“We know India being moved from the Red to Amber list will be a significant and welcome move for those Indian students due to travel to the UK soon. Those students should stay in touch with their university and be aware of the latest procedure for amber list arrivals to ensure a smooth arrival,” Vivienne Stern, Director of Universities UK International, which represents over 140 universities, told PTI.Air India has recently announced non-stop flights to London from six Indian cities, including Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Amritsar and Kochi between August 16 and September 1.Though India has been moved to the amber list, Pakistan is still on the Red list, which has led to diplomatic push from Pakistan. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan's special assistant Dr Faisa Sultan has written to the UK health secretary explaining how Pakistan has the lowest daily Covid surge in the region. As the listing is a dynamic process, Pakistan may be moved to the amber list in future.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-uk-relaxes-curbs-19-per-cent-increase-in-admission-of-indian-students-101628698988059.html
11-08-2021||India||'Itni Shakti Hame Dena Daata' singer urges PM Modi, Maharashtra government for financial help||Singer Pushpa Pagdhare, who sang the famous song 'Itni Shakti Hame Dena Daata', told news agency ANI that the government should raise the amount of monthly honorarium given to artists as the pension she receives is insufficient. "Government gives me a pension but it's insufficient. Government should look after the artists who have earned respect for the country," the singer said.Media reports of Pagdhare facing penury have been doing the rounds. The singer told reporters that her monthly pension of ₹3,150 is not only insufficient but also never reaches on time, and her financial troubles have been exacerbated by the lack of royalty payments for her cult hit song. Pagdhare urged chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and PM Modi to help out artists by raising the monthly pension.With theatres and performance spaces shutting down due to Covid-19, artists have fallen into particularly hard times. On August 5, the Maharashtra government announced a ₹34 crore relief package for folk music artists, producers of folk art, touring talkies and organisations associated with them to help them overcome the impact of the pandemic coupled with the lockdown. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray okayed this package after meeting with the state’s culture minister Amit Deshmukh. The chief minister's Office (CMO) said 56,000 folk artists will receive a grant of ₹5,000 each as financial assistance. This relief package is expected to cost the state exchequer Rs.28 crore. Maharashtra is slowly starting to ease Covid-induced restrictions but the state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday that theatres and multiplexes will remain shut until further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itni-shakti-hame-dena-daata-singer-urges-pm-modi-maharashtra-government-for-financial-help-101628698545191.html
11-08-2021||India||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee invited to attend peace conference in Rome||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been invited to attend an international peace conference in Rome in October this year. Pope Francis, German chancellor Angela Merkel and the Grand Imam of Egypt's Al-Alzhar, Ahmad al-Tayyib, among others, are expected to attend the conference scheduled on October 6 and 7, 2021.The invitation for the meet, titled World Meeting for Peace “People as Brothers, Future earth” was sent to the chief minister by Macro Impagliazzo, the president of Community of Sant'Egidio, a Catholic association based in Rome.The invitation letter congratulated the Trinamool Congress chief for her “significant election” victory in the recently held assembly polls and “for the important work for social justice, for the development of your own country, and therefore, for peace, which you have been doing for over ten years now.”The TMC returned to power in the state of West Bengal for the third time in a row after a thumping victory in the March – April assembly polls this year by winning 213 out of the 292 assembly seats.“I feel your commitment and your generous battles in favour of the weakest and most disadvantaged very close to my sensitivity and the work of the Community of Sant'Egidio in Rome and in all the world,” the letter states.This invitation comes at a time when the TMC is trying to expand its base to other states and trying to unite all forces opposed to the BJP's rule at the Centre.“This shows how the entire world was watching the Bengal elections. It proves that Mamata’s stand on protecting peace and upholding human values has been noticed by the entire world,” said a senior TMC leader who refused to be quoted as Banerjee herself is yet to comment on the invitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-chief-minister-mamata-banerjee-invited-to-attend-peace-conference-at-rome-101628698080852.html
11-08-2021||India||In a first in 40 years, ULFA-I not to boycott Independence Day celebrations||For the first time in its 42-year-old history, the banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) has decided not to boycott the Independence Day celebrations this year or call for a shutdown on the occasion.In a statement released on Wednesday, Rumel Asom, a member of the outfit’s publicity wing, also expressed willingness to talk to the Centre on the question of Assam’s sovereignty. HT has seen a copy of the two-page statement written in Assamese.“In view of the Covid-19 situation….and other problems like flood, erosion and unemployment affecting indigenous populations, ULFA-I has refrained itself this time from armed protest of the fake Independence Day of colonial India or called for a ‘bandh’,” the statement read.Since its inception in 1979 with the aim of an armed struggle to create an independent Assam, ULFA has been boycotting Independence Day and Republic Day celebrations and indulged in violent activities on those days.Though it refrained from issuing a boycott call this time, the outfit asked the public to protest against Independence Day celebrations by wearing black badges, flying the ULFA-I flag and other means while following Covid-19 protocols.“Our organization is not against talks or belligerent. But it is not possible to deny historic facts or waver from our ideological goals in the name of talks. Indian authorities have maintained that talks with ULFA-I can’t include the question of (Assam’s) sovereignty,” the statement added.The statement cited the Treaty of Yandaboo, 1826 signed between the king of Myanmar (Burma) and the British, which ended Myanmar’s claim on Assam and Manipur, to claim Assam has always been “independent and autonomous”.ULFA-I sought “restoration of sovereignty on historical facts” as a pre-condition for talks with the Centre.“The constitution of India has been amended nearly 100 times. Why can’t it be amended again to allow for talks with ULFA-I? If India wants talks, it should amend the constitution to approve the right to secede by communities or allow a plebiscite participated by bonafide indigenous communities,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-in-40-years-ulfa-i-not-to-boycott-independence-day-celebrations-101628696505836.html
11-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kerala govt says no new variant of Covid in state and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.No, Kerala does not have any new variant of Covid, clarifies health ministryWhile it is true that coronavirus infection is spreading fast in Kerala and cases of reinfections have been reported from the state, the surge is not linked to any new variant. Read more here.These states in India offer best quality of life for elderlyThe study found out that Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Mizoram and Chandigarh are states which lead in the categories - aged states, relatively aged states, northeastern states and Union Territories. Read more here. Singapore deputy PM for greater economic integration between India and AseanAsean and Australia, China, Japan, New Zealand and South Korea signed RCEP last November. Japan led the drafting of a declaration that left the door open for India to join the world's largest trading bloc later. Read more here. Saba Ali Khan shares video on 'misrepresentation of surrogacy' in Mimi: 'Enjoyed it but...'Saba Ali Khan has shared a video that highlights 'complete misrepresentation of surrogacy' in Kriti Sanon-starrer Mimi. Read more here. 'As a team, we were not pleased': Virat Kohli after India lose two WTC points for slow over-rateIndia's captain Virat Kohli reacted after ICC docked two WTC points from India for slow over-rate in the first Test against England. Kohli said they were disappointed as it was in their control and they would improve in future. Read more here. China jails Canadian businessman for 'spying' amid Huawei row, Trudeau fumes﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kerala-govt-says-no-new-variant-of-covid-in-state-101628695460509.html
11-08-2021||India||India to join meeting on Afghanistan situation in Qatar on Thursday||India is set to participate in a meeting of key countries being hosted by Qatar on Thursday to discuss the situation in Afghanistan against the backdrop of the Taliban’s massive offensive that has already resulted in the fall of nine provincial capitals.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that India will be represented at the meeting in Doha that will also be joined by nations such as Indonesia and Turkey, which is set to take over the security of Bagram airbase.There was no official word on the matter from the external affairs ministry and the people cited above were tight-lipped about the level of India’s participation. The invitation to join the meeting was extended by Mutlaq bin Majed Al-Qahtani, Qatar’s special envoy for counter-terrorism and conflict resolution, when he visited New Delhi last week.Qatar on Wednesday hosted a meeting of the “extended troika” that was convened by Russia and was joined by the US special envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad, and his counterparts from Russia, China and Pakistan.On Tuesday, Qatar had hosted a meeting of representatives from China, the US, the UK, Pakistan, Uzbekistan, the UN and the European Union (EU) to assess the rapidly evolving situation in Afghanistan.The focus of these meetings is on reviving the stalled Afghan peace process amid the Taliban’s campaign of violence and attacks that has already resulted in the fall of nine provincial capitals in just five days – Sheberghan, Sari Pul, Aybak, Kunduz, Taluqan, Pul-e-Khumri, Farah, Zaranj and Faizabad.India has already said any forcible takeover of Kabul will not be legitimate and backed calls for a negotiated political settlement that preserves the gains under a democratic system over the past two decades and ensures the rights of minorities, women and ethnic groups.New Delhi also advised all Indian nationals in Afghanistan on Tuesday to make immediate arrangements to return home as it evacuated some 50 officials and security personnel from the consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif. According to figures provided by the government to Parliament last week, some 1,500 Indian nationals are currently in Afghanistan.During a meeting with Al-Qahtani in New Delhi on Saturday, external affairs minister S Jaishankar expressed concern at the rapid deterioration of the security situation in Afghanistan. Jaishankar also shared concerns from across the region about the situation in the wake of the Taliban’s campaign to capture urban centres after taking over wide swathes of territory in rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-join-meeting-on-afghanistan-situation-in-qatar-on-thursday-101628695310050.html
11-08-2021||India||No, Kerala does not have any new variant of Covid, clarifies health ministry||Around 88 to 90 per cent of Covid cases in Kerala are driven by Variant of Concern Delta, but no new variant has been found in Kerala, the Union health ministry clarified refuting some media reports. "The news about new variants suspected in Kerala is without any basis and absolutely false," the ministry said. Continuing its upward trend, the state, which is the main cause for concern in India now, recorded 23,500 fresh Covid cases on Wednesday.A six-member central team recently visited a few worst-hit districts of the state and submitted a report to the Centre. In the report, several factors including laxity in containment, a higher percentage of elderly and diabetic population etc., have been pointed out. The team has also sought more information regarding the cases of reinfections, Dr Sujeet Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control said.15,000 Covid reinfections in Kerala district? 10 findings of Central teamWhile the state government has been quick to announce measures for fresh restrictions, mandating either vaccination certificate or negative RT-PCR report for visiting shops, the health ministry on Tuesday said that the daily cases may go up in the state as the state has a high reproductive rate and low seroprevalence. If crowding takes place during the upcoming Onam, the situation will take a more concerning turn, the ministry said. Meanwhile, the state government has barred any gathering for Onam festivities.According to data, submitted by the district authorities to the Central team, Kerala's Patnamthitta has reported 14,974 cases of reinfections. Among these reinfection cases, 5,042 are those who have been vaccinated with both doses, as claimed by the district authorities. The central team said it is probing into the reason for these breakthrough cases. The Covid situation of the country has been stabilising in July-August, while Kerala is steadily contributing the maximum to India's daily caseload.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-kerala-does-not-have-any-new-variant-of-covid-clarifies-health-ministry-101628692599645.html
11-08-2021||India||Singapore deputy PM for greater economic integration between India and Asean||India should consider greater economic integration with Southeast Asia, including through the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), to unlock the country’s full potential, Singapore’s deputy prime minister Heng Swee Keat said on Wednesday.Heng, who is also the coordinating minister for economic policies, made the remarks while addressing the opening session of the Confederation of Indian Industry’s virtual annual meeting against the backdrop of concerns among Southeast Asian nations about lack of focus in India’s economic ties with the region.He noted that the Indian government has itself recognised that “a self-reliant India is not an insular India”, and said the “door remains open” for India to join RCEP when it is ready. At the same time, Heng said, India has an important role to play in contributing to the diversification of the global supply chain and making it more resilient.Heng made three broad points in his speech – relations between India and Singapore have been propelled by steps such as the signing of the Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA) in 2005, the potential to collaborate in new areas such as fintech and sustainability, and the importance of collaborating with Southeast Asia.“The importance of collaboration to unlock India’s vast potential means that India should consider greater economic integration with the region,” he said. While acknowledging that globalisation comes with costs, Heng said if India can address “these downsides well – through reform, transformation and attracting new investments – it will be in a good position to ride the post-Covid wave of globalisation”.Describing RCEP as an “important regional agreement”, Heng said it comprises the ten Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) members and five major trading partners and is the “largest agreement of its kind in history”. He added, “We fully appreciate why India is unable to join the RCEP at this moment. But the door remains open, and we welcome India to do so when you are ready.”Asean and Australia, China, Japan, New Zealand and South Korea signed RCEP last November. Japan led the drafting of a declaration that left the door open for India to join the world's largest trading bloc, covering nearly a third of the global economy, at a later stage. Indian officials have said the country didn’t join RCEP because it would have had negative consequences, including China using the trade deal to get unfettered access to the vast Indian market at the cost of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), farmers and start-ups.Heng contended that the campaign for a self-reliant India is also about building a “stronger and more cohesive” country and said India must work with partners beyond its shores in a world disrupted by Covid-19.“India has an important role to play in contributing to the diversification of the global supply chain and making it more resilient,” he said. “Indian companies have the capability, scale and resources to serve more than just its domestic market, huge as it is.”He said there are tremendous opportunities for India to partner economies in Southeast Asia, with the ASEAN-India Free Trade Area established more than a decade ago helping to almost double two-way trade. “Asean and India have many complementary strengths. We should build on these to restore connectivity, and enhance supply chains in the post-pandemic era,” he said.Heng, who was Singapore’s chief negotiator for CECA, also said Singapore has been India’s largest source of FDI in recent years, with direct investment growing 50 times to $45 billion. He also highlighted recent cooperation between the two sides on the Covid-19 response, including India keeping the supply chain for essential goods open early in the crisis, and Singapore sending oxygen-related supplies when India experienced its second wave of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singapore-deputy-pm-for-greater-economic-integration-between-india-and-asean-101628692251794.html
11-08-2021||India||These states in India offer best quality of life for elderly||The government on Wednesday released an index to measure the quality of life led by the elderly in India. The study was released by Bibek Debroy who is the chairman of the economic advisory committee of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The study carried out by the Institute for Competitiveness aims to reflect upon the problems faced by the elderly.The study identifies the overall ageing situation of India and focuses on the regional patterns of ageing across states and Union Territories. The study found out that Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Mizoram and Chandigarh are states which lead in the categories - aged states, relatively aged states, northeastern states and Union Territories.The framework of the index included four pillars: financial well-being, social well-being, health system and income security. It also included eight sub-pillars: economic empowerment, educational attainment and employment, social status, physical security, basic health, psychological well being, social security and enabling environment.The study revealed that states and Union Territories have poorly performed in the income security parameter. The states scored below the national average of 33.03 in the case of income security. The financial well-being index also performed poorly (44.7) owing to the low performance of 21 states in the educational attainment and employment pillar.It also highlighted that the highest average was scored by the health system pillar across India with a score of 66.97 followed by 62.34 in social well being.Among all the states, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh are top-scoring regions in the aged states and relatively aged states categories. Rajasthan has a score of 54.61 in the aged states category while Himachal Pradesh has a score of 61.04 in relatively aged states. Mizoram has a score of 59.79 among northeastern states while Chandigarh scored 63.78 among the Union Territories.Jammu and Kashmir scored the lowest 46.16 among Union Territories. Arunachal Pradesh, among the northeastern states, scored the lowest score with 46.16. In the aged states and relatively aged states categories, Telangana and Gujarat scored the lowest with 38.19 and 49.00, respectively.Debroy said that the nation faces an ageing and greying problem. “India is often portrayed as a young society, with a consequent demographic dividend. But, as with every country that goes through a fast process of demographic transition, India also has a greying and ageing problem. EAC-PM requested Dr Amit Kapoor and his team at Institute for Competitiveness to do a report on an issue that is often not mentioned which are problems faced by the elderly,” Debroy was quoted as saying in a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-states-in-india-offer-best-quality-of-life-for-elderly-101628690573107.html
11-08-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi takes stock of Varanasi flood situation, assures all help||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday took stock of the flood situation in Varanasi due to the continuous rise in the level of Ganga river, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Kashi region spokesperson Navratan Rathi said.Rathi said that the PM spoke to the BJP’s Varanasi city unit chief Vidyasagar Rai to find out about the status of water level in the Ganga and the relief work, especially on the part of the party organisation. Rathi said Modi assured all possible help to the flood-affected people, during the interaction on phone.He added that the PM said, “In case of any need, please inform me. All possible help will be given.” Varanasi is the prime minister’s parliamentary constituency.Rai gave the PM a detailed account of the flood situation and the relief work by the party workers, who were distributing relief material along with the district administration. The party workers were also providing snacks and other food items to people in flood-relief camps, he added.Modi also spoke to district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma about the flood situation and relief work, an state official said.Sharma told Modi that the situation was being monitored and the affected people were being given assistance.PM assured all possible help and instructed the DM to ensure that all flood affected get relief material.The Ganga was flowing at 72.01 metres in Varanasi on Wednesday above the danger mark of 71.262 metres, the Central Water Commission said.A total of 30,921 residents of 58 villages, mohallas (localities) and wards in the district were affected, an official press statement said. It added that 2,848 people have taken shelter in over 21 flood relief centres and flood outposts in Varanasi and 1,353 dry ration kits have been distributed so far.Eighty-five boats, including 31 motorboats, 39 medium and 15 small boats, were being operated to shift people from flood-hit areas to the relief camps as well as to monitor the flood-affected areas.Uttar Pradesh minister of state, holding independent charge for tourism, culture and religious affairs, Neelkanth Tiwari, who is the MLA from Varanasi South assembly constituency, said relief material will continue to be distributed among flood-affected people until the flood waters recede.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-takes-stock-of-varanasi-flood-situation-assures-all-help-101628688133803.html
11-08-2021||India||'Waited over an hour for shooting stones to stop': What happened in Himachal's Kinnaur||Himachal Pradesh landside toll rose to 10 on Wednesday evening as rescue operation is going on. The figure could go up, while over 50 are feared trapped, officials said. Around 14 people have been rescued after seven hours of rescue work, which got delayed because of the weather. A 30-seater Himachal Road Transport Corporation bus, a truck and four cars came under the rubble of the landslide which took place around noon. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah talked to Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur and assured all possible help from the Centre.Where did the landslide take place?The landslide took place at the Reckong Peo- Shimla Highway near Nugulsari in Kinnaur. The bus was moving from Murang to Haridwar and has not been traced so far. It might have fallen into the Sutlej river.Took an hour for boulders to stopThe landslide took place around noon and the ITBP got a call at 12.15pm. But the rescue team could not start operation for the next one hour as they had to wait for the rolling boulders to stop, ITBP spokesperson Vivek Pandey told ANI.Recent landslides in Himachal PradeshEarly this month, a landslide hit Himachal Pradesh's Solan district killing 1 22-year-old man and injuring two others. Before that, another landslide was reported in Sirmaur of Himachal Pradesh in which an entire road caved in. In July, Himachal Pradesh's Kangra witnessed a massive flash flood after a cloudburst. According to experts, both Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur are vulnerable as they are situated in the Himalayan ranges, while this landslide has been caused by heavy rainfall continuing for the past few days. Chamba, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Sirmaur and Una are prone to flash floods, landslides and cloudbursts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-dead-dozens-trapped-what-happened-in-himachal-s-kinnaur-101628687461129.html
11-08-2021||India||'No carbs for dinner': Manish Tewari divulges secret of his weight loss journey||A day after posting his photo from the time when his weight used to be 100 kg, Congress MP Manish Tewari on Wednesday divulged the secret of his weight loss as he said that from 102 kg in 1999, he came down to 71 kg in 2000. One-hour workout every day and a no-carbohydrate dinner was what slimmed him down so fast, the veteran Congress leader said. “Those asking how I came down from 102 Kg’s to 71 kg in four months between October of 99 and March of 2000. Key is a daily one hour workout and no Carbs for dinner. I am 81 Kg again,” Tewari tweeted.“Carbohydrates are a killer. Alcohol is also avoidable. Vigorous daily one-hour workout mandatory. A high-protein and high-fibre diet. No carbs at night. You will lose weight,” he added.Also Read: Manish Tewari shares an old photo when his weight was 100 kg, explainsTalks of Tewari’s physique and diet started doing the rounds after he shared a picture originally posted by Pawan Dewan, which was taken back in 1999. "Congratulations for foundation day Indian youth Congress. 21 years old picture with Smt Sonia Gandhi ji president Indian National Congress," Dewan tweeted on Monday.Tewari jocularly told his followers that his weight in his Youth Congress days was a “street fighter prerequisite”. "This was in Chandigarh in December 1998. I was then National President of @IYC -literally @INCIndia President Mrs Sonia Gandhi's first political appointee. I was also 100 kg or above ( Extreme Right). A street fighting pre-requisite." Tewari tweeted on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-carbs-for-dinner-manish-tewari-divulges-secret-of-his-weight-loss-journey-101628684879532.html
11-08-2021||India||The curious case of an ATS in Karnataka; no case, no investigation||Sixteen years after the first terror attack on the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), the first terrorist attack in Bengaluru, Karnataka now has three different anti-terrorism squads with the third being added last year. Even though Bengaluru has witnessed three major terror attacks since the IISc attack on December 28, 2005, one of the ATS units has a peculiar track record of not being part of any of the terror-related investigations.At present Karnataka Police operates three the Anti-Terror Squads (ATS) and they come under three different departments within the police force -- the Internal Security Division, State Intelligence Department and the Central Crime Branch. The third ATS unit under Central Crime Branch was added last year.The ATS which comes under the Internal Security Division -- has a unique track record. The unit has neither registered a single FIR nor has it investigated any terror case since its formation in 2009 following the 26/11 terror attacks in Mumbai. Similar units were raised by the Maharashtra and New Delhi Police as well.Like their counterparts, ATS had the mandate of being the state police’s nodal agency for all counter-terror operations in the state. However, unlike Mumbai and New Delhi, ATS was not given any powers to register FIRs and investigate terror-related cases in Karnataka, officials, requesting anonymity said.Since the formation of the ATS under the Internal Security Division, Bengaluru witnessed three major terror strikes – the 2010 Chinnaswamy stadium blast, the 2013 BJP headquarters blast and the 2014 Church Street blast. Even though ATS was the nodal agency for counter-terrorism, all three cases were investigated by the local police or Central Crime Branch.According to the records of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), 15 people have been arrested in Karnataka since 2014 for their alleged connection with Islamic State (IS) agents. The state intelligence records show that 30 people have been arrested so far in the state, for radicalisation and having links with members of the IS.The arrest of Mehdi Masroor Biswas, an engineer who allegedly ran a pro-Islamic State Twitter handle, in 2014, has been one of the biggest catches for the Bengaluru police. In its charge sheet, the police claimed that Biswas would monitor the developments of IS on the internet and television and assist his followers, who were willing to enter the IS territory.Even in these cases, the investigations were carried out by local police and Central Crime Branch.Two officers who served in the ISD’s ATS referred to the unit as a paper tiger. According to one officer, the job of the ATS, despite being the nodal agency for counter-terrorism, was to collect memos from central agencies and pass them to relevant units. “In my time in the unit, we have not done any investigation or any serious intelligence collection for that matter. We took inputs from different units and send them across. This job was done by the intelligence department also,” said one of the officers, who didn’t want to disclose his identity.The second officer said that a posting in the unit could be perceived as a “punishment” or “soft posting”, depending on the officer. “How can ATS be a nodal agency, when the officers from different ATS units go directly to Bengaluru police or the CCB for inputs? This unit is certainly not doing the job its counterparts are doing,” said the officer who had worked briefly in the unit.Karnataka police chief, DG&IGP Praveen Sood said that even though the state has three different ATS units their roles are well defined. “Last year we have started the ATS in the Bengaluru police since the city had witnessed multiple terror attacks in the past. This unit comes under the Central Crime Branch (CCB). For the other two agencies, their role is to provide intelligence and inputs. ATS (ISD) liaisons with NIA and IB (Intelligence Bureau),” said Sood.Despite the police chief's claim that the roles are well-defined, officers in the ISD’s ATS are still unclear about their role, as the intelligence on counter-terrorism is handled by state intelligence and investigations are handled by either Central Crime Branch or local police.On Tuesday, newly appointed Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra told the top brass of the department to give more powers to the ISD. An officer who was part of the meeting however said that apart from the single instruction, no detailed propositions were made by the home minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-ats-hasn-t-solved-one-case-filed-one-fir-since-formation-101628684010124.html
11-08-2021||India||India receiving record FDIs, forex reserve at an all-time high: PM Modi at annual CII session||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that India is receiving record foreign direct investments (FDIs) and the country’s forex reserve is at an all-time high. Speaking at an annual session of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), PM Modi said Indian start-ups have the same level of self-confidence as displayed by Indian athletes and sportspersons at Tokyo Olympics.“When today's youth of India come out on the field, they don't have any hesitancy in their minds. They want to work hard and take risks. They want to yield results. Yes, we belong to this place - we see this emotion in our youth today,” he said.PM Modi highlighted the collaboration between the government and the Indian industries to make available face masks, PPE kits, and other essential supplies needed to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Citing the reports of "record hiring" in the IT sector, the prime minister said it was only possible due to the growth of digitisation and demand.Also Read | UP floods: PM Modi takes stock of situation in flood-hit VaranasiPM Modi told the industry veterans that the psychology of “foreign is better” forced Indian brands, built after years of hard work, to promote under foreign names only.“Today the situation is changing rapidly. Today the sentiment of the countrymen is with the products made in India. It is not necessary that the company should be Indian, but today every Indian wants to adopt products made in India,” the prime minister said.He also noted the big leap made by India on the Ease of Doing Business Index."Today's new India is ready to walk with the new world. India, which was once apprehensive of foreign investment, is now welcoming all types of investment," he added.Also Read | BJP to oppose FDI in multi-brand retailThe theme of the two-day session of the CII, scheduled for August 11-12, is 'India@75: Government and Business working together for Aatmanirbhar Bharat'.Singapore's deputy prime minister Heng Swee Keat will address the session as Special International Guest Speaker. The event will also witness participation from ministers, senior officials, academics and prominent representatives of Indian industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-receiving-record-fdis-forex-reserve-at-all-time-high-pm-modi-101628683105669.html
11-08-2021||India||Speaker summons home, IT, telecom secys for not appearing before House panel||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has summoned secretaries of three ministries -- home, IT and telecom -- and spoken to them over the issue of seeking exemption from appearing before a parliamentary committees at the last minute, said a person aware of the details. According to the person, the Speaker acted on a complaint filed by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor about the secretaries not appearing before the panel that was examining the the issue of Citizens Data and Security and Privacy.“Tharoor met the Speaker thrice to resolve the stalemate. And he was assured that the Speaker will hold an informal meeting with the members, but that has not happened so far. The tenure of the committee will end on September 12 and two reports are pending, one on Internet shutdown and the second on media ethics,” said the person quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speaker-summons-home-it-telecom-secys-for-not-appearing-before-house-panel-101628682570144.html
11-08-2021||India||Tripura CM in Delhi to meet senior leaders; agenda not clear yet||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb left for New Delhi on Wednesday to meet senior leaders there. The visit comes a day after some Trinamool Congress heavyweights, including Lok Sabha MP Abhishek Banerjee, and Rajya Sabha MP Dola Sen, were booked for allegedly misbehaving with Tripura police on August 8. West Bengal minister Bratya Basu, Trinamool Congress leader Kunal Ghosh, and Tripura unit leaders Subal Bhowmik and Prakash Das were booked in the case that was lodged two days after 14 Trinamool Congress leaders and activists were arrested for allegedly violating Covid-19 curfew guidelines while coming back from Ambassa in Dhalai district after a clash a clash with the ruling BJP people. Deb’s visit to Delhi is considered to be vital ahead of the state assembly elections in 2023. Official sources said he is going to meet senior leaders to discuss organisational matters. Also Read | Abhishek Banerjee, other TMC leaders booked for misbehaving with Tripura policeHowever, BJP sources said state unit party chief Dr Manik Saha is also going to Delhi today. He is expected to discuss organisational matter with the senior leaders. “Our chief minister visits Delhi two-three times a month. Though we don’t know much, but the purpose of his visit has always been the development of Tripura,” said BJP spokesperson Subrata Chakraborty. There are speculations that the attempt of Trinamool Congress to form its base in the northeastern state ahead of the polls would be taken up for discussion. There was no comment from the party on whether Deb was called by senior leaders in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-cm-in-delhi-to-meet-senior-leaders-agenda-not-clear-yet-101628682270306.html
11-08-2021||India||No, Supreme Court is not expanding with three more branches, clarifies govt||The government has clarified that the viral news that the Supreme Court is opening more branches in Chennai, Mumbai and Kolkata, doing rounds on social media, is fake.“A forwarded message is being shared on WhatsApp claiming that the government has decided to expand the branches of the Supreme Court of India to three more locations. This claim is fake. No such decision has been taken by the government,” PIB tweeted.A forwarded message is being shared on #WhatsApp claiming that the government has decided to expand the branches of the Supreme Court of India to three more locations. #PIBFactCheck: ▶️This claim is #FAKE. ▶️No such decision has been taken by the government. pic.twitter.com/GFY75FcxSjThe fact-checking arm of PIB called PIB fact check was launched in December 2019 with the objective of identifying misinformation related to the government's policies and schemes that are circulating on various social media platforms. It has handles on social media platforms like Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter. PIB fact check has so far successfully debunked many untrue WhatsApp forwards and social media posts.PIB also shared an image of the message that is circulating on messaging platform WhatsApp along with the fact check tweet. "Now Supreme Court in Chennai, Mumbai and Kolkata. Congratulations to our Prime Minister Mr Modi. The Central Government has decided to expand the branches of the Supreme Court to three locations, Chennai, Mumbai and Calcutta, for the first time since India's independence..." the viral message read.“The Supreme Court branch in Chennai is considered to be beneficial not only to the people of Tamil Nadu but also to the people living in other southern states like Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Kerala. Lawyers and the people of Tamil Nadu have been expressing their appreciation and congratulations to the Central government led by the Prime Minister of India Mr Modi for taking this historic decision,” it further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-supreme-court-is-not-expanding-with-three-more-branches-clarifies-govt-101628680651545.html
11-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: M Venkaiah Naidu breakdown over 'acts of sacrilege’ in RS and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Anguished Naidu breaks down over ‘acts of sacrilege’ in RSRajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday broke down as he expressed “deep anguish” over “acts of sacrilege” by some MPs, a day after Opposition lawmakers protesting against the contentious farm laws stormed the well of the House, sat on its table and even climbed it. Read MoreArmy helicopter wreckage located 80m inside Ranjit Sagar Dam 9 days after crashThe remains of the army aviation helicopter that crashed into Ranjit Sagar dam in Jammu’s Kathua district with two pilots onboard nine days ago were finally located on Wednesday at a depth of nearly 80 meters. Read MoreKerala high court stays judicial inquiry against EDThe Kerala high court on Wednesday stayed the judicial inquiry ordered by the state government against the Enforcement Directorate (ED) over its alleged attempt to implicate chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the July 2020 gold smuggling case. Read MoreWatching Neeraj Chopra I fell in love with javelin throw: PT UshaPT Usha remembers watching a teenaged Neeraj Chopra running in, loading up and hurling the javelin inside the Zdzislaw Krzyszkowiak Stadium in Bydgoszcz, Poland, to win the World U-20 Championships in 2016. Read MoreShershaah: Kiara Advani in beige gold metal-work saree exudes glamour with Sidharth MalhotraActor Kiara Advani has been actively promoting her film Shershaah with her co-star and rumoured boyfriend, Sidharth Malhotra. Read More2022 Kawasaki Ninja 650 launched in India at ₹6.61 lakh2022 Kawasaki Ninja 650 has been launched in the Indian market at a price tag of ₹6.61 lakh (ex-showroom). Read MoreIndian Air Force drone crashes in field in Punjab; probe initiated, says reportAn Indian Air Force drone reportedly crashed in a field in Punjab. The unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) fell in a field in Gurdaspur. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-m-venkaiah-naidu-breakdown-over-acts-of-sacrilege-in-rs-and-all-the-latest-news-101628679492752.html
11-08-2021||India||Anguished Naidu breaks down over ‘acts of sacrilege’ in RS||Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday broke down as he expressed “deep anguish” over “acts of sacrilege” by some MPs, a day after Opposition lawmakers protesting against the contentious farm laws stormed the well of the House, sat on its table and even climbed it. “The Parliament, the apex legislature of our country is regarded as the temple of democracy. The table area where the officers and reporters of the House, the secretary general and the presiding officer are seated, is considered the holy sanctum sanctorum of the House. A certain degree of sacredness is attached to this place,” Naidu said. He said he was distressed by the way that sacredness was destroyed on Tuesday. Unruly scenes played out in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday as the Opposition ratcheted up its protests against the farm laws during a short duration discussion on agricultural problems and solutions. Also Watch | Rajya Sabha chairman in tears after MPs climb tables & throw files“In our temples, devotees are allowed only up to the sanctum sanctorum and not beyond. Entering this sanctum sanctorum of the House in itself is an act of sacrilege and it has been happening as routine over the years…While some members sat on the table, some others climbed on the table of the House, perhaps to be more visible with such acts of sacrilege. I have no words to convey my anguish and to condemn such acts,” the chairperson said. Breaking down, he said he spent a sleepless night on Tuesday struggling to find the provocation or reason for forcing the House to hit a new low. He said the short duration discussion on agricultural problems and solutions was a “golden opportunity” for the members protesting against the farm laws to have gone on record with their position on issues relating to the plight of the farmers. He said right at the start of the proceedings of the House on Tuesday, he had cautioned that not taking up the listed discussion on farm sector issues would send out a negative message that the House is not interested in discussing the problems of India’s bread givers. “Unfortunately, it went unheeded. In the process, some sections of the House have inflicted incalculable damage to the dignity and stature of this House. As the chairman, I am deeply distressed over it and so is the nation,” Naidu said. He pointed out that it was worrisome that some members shot the “sad moments of sacrilege in the House” on their phones and posted it on social media. “While doing so, they only ended up showing to the people the extent to which this august House can degenerate due to the new-found competitive and aggressive disruptions by some sections,” he said. He appealed to the “collective conscience of this House” to seriously reflect on what happened and explore remedies, if any. “Failure to do so would certainly render our parliamentary democracy irrelevant. I would like to remind all of you that we begin to celebrate the 75th year of our Independence in a few days from now. The choice before each one of you is very clear. It is either to be the best parliamentarian or the worst disruptor,” he added. The Opposition, however, continued with its protests against the farm laws, forcing an adjournment after Naidu made his observations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anguished-naidu-breaks-down-over-acts-of-sacrilege-in-rs-101628679991930.html
11-08-2021||India||India-UAE flights: Why passengers have to reach airport 5-6 hours before departure||As India-UAE flights have resumed from August 7 under specific guidelines, airlines have started issuing directives for the passengers. Air India's subsidiary Air India Express on Wednesday issued guidelines asking passengers to reach the airports six hours in advance. A similar directive was issued by IndiGo earlier. The UAE has mandated a negative PCR test of every passenger conducted not more than four hours before the flight. Because of this time stipulation, the tests have to be done at the source airports. "The teat counters will start 4 hours before the departure time and would close 2 hours prior to departure," the Air India Express said, asking flyers to reach the airports at least six hours prior to the scheduled departure.#FlyWithIX: Attention passengers traveling to UAE from India!@IndembAbuDhabi @cgidubai pic.twitter.com/O74tVx3dueThis test is mandatory not only for passengers from India but also from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. This is the reason why many Pakistani fliers were stranded as there was no rapid PCR test facility in Pakistan airports. While Pakistan civil authorities said they were negotiating with the UAE authorities, reports said that Pakistan's Sialkot international airport has introduced a rapid PCR test facility which will be available from August 12.After banning all passengers from India, including UAE residents, the UAE government in the first week of August decided to allow partial relaxation to Indian flyers. Apart from allowing transit passengers, the UAE also allowed UAE residents with residence proof, students, medical professionals and professionals working for the UAE government or government agencies.UAE's national carrier Etihad Airways has updated its guidelines for passengers and said that UAE residents flying to Abu Dhabi from India must quarantine at home for 12 days. "When you arrive in Abu Dhabi, you will be required to quarantine for 12 days and wear a medically approved wristband for the duration of your quarantine," the revised protocol read. The passengers will also have to take a PCR test on arrival, on day six and day eleven.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiauae-flights-why-passengers-have-to-reach-airport-5-6-hours-before-departure-101628679671334.html
11-08-2021||India||Man from Bhatkal held for terror links; wave of arrests sounds IS alarm in south India||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday arrested a man from Karnataka’s Bhatkal town in connection with terror activities of a group propagating the violent ideology of the Islamic State (IS), making it the third arrest in as many days from the state, an official said. The accused has been identified as Zufri Jawhar Damudi of Bhatkal town in Uttara Kannada district. On Wednesday, NIA arrested Ammar Abdul Rahman of Mangalore and Shankar Venkatesh Perumal of Bengaluru in connection with the case after conducting simultaneous searches in Jammu and Kashmir and Karnataka. According to the central agency, Damudi is alleged to have created fake identities on different chat platforms to communicate with people and was involved in radicalising and recruiting youths to join the group. With these arrests, the total number of IS sympathizers arrested from Karnataka till date has gone up to 15. In October 2019, NIA inspector general Alok Mittal announced that the central agency had arrested 127 IS sympathizers from across India between 2014 and 2019. According to the NIA list at the time, maximum 33 people have been arrested from Tamil Nadu, followed by Uttar Pradesh (19), Kerala (17), Telangana (14), Maharashtra (12) and Karnataka (8). Since 2019, as per the information listed on NIA’s website, three IS-related cases have been reported. The first case was reported on September 19, 2020, in which four men from Karnataka were arrested. The second case was reported on March 5, 2021, in which seven people from Kerala were arrested and the third case of arrests was reported after Wednesday’s raids. With these arrests, Kerala moved to the second spot in the list with 24 arrests while Karnataka jumped to the fourth with 15 arrests, followed by Telangana (14), as per the NIA information. While answering a question regarding ‘reports of the presence of Islamic terrorists in southern states of India’, during the monsoon session in September 2020, the Union ministry of home affairs told parliament: “Some instances of individuals from different States, including the Southern States, having joined Islamic State (IS) have come to the notice of Central and State Security Agencies.” NIA has registered 17 cases related to the presence of IS sympathizers in Telangana, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu. “Investigations by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) have revealed that IS is most active in Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Jammu & Kashmir,” read the MHA statement in Rajya Sabha. B Dayananda, additional director general of police (Intelligence), Karnataka, said the numbers mentioned by the MHA are only pertaining to the cases registered by NIA. “As per the state government’s records, 30 people have been arrested for links with the Islamic State,” he said. The state intelligence chief added that so far the arrests have been made in connection with radicalisation and evidence of contact with members of the Islamic State. “We have come across people who have been following IS propaganda constantly and some of them have made contact with people in IS. Most of the arrests are related to this,” said the officer. The arrest of Mehdi Masroor Biswas, an engineer who ran a pro-Islamic State Twitter handle, in 2014, has been one of the biggest catches for the Bengaluru police. In its charge sheet, the Bengaluru police claimed that Biswas would monitor the developments of ISIS on the internet and TV and assist his followers, who were willing to enter the ISIS territory. He would tweet about vulnerable sections along the border on the basis of which volunteers entered the ISIS territory, the charge sheet added. “For enforcement agencies, radicalization is a big concern. As far as Karnataka is concerned, we have been very clear that online radicalization has to be taken seriously as lone-wolf attacks are being witnessed across the world. Certainly, more attention is needed on this front,” said a former IPS officer, who was intelligence chief during his tenure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-from-bhatkal-held-for-terror-links-wave-of-arrests-sounds-is-alarm-in-south-india-101628679090306.html
11-08-2021||India||Nine days on, army helicopter wreckage located 80m inside Ranjit Sagar dam||The remains of the army aviation helicopter that crashed into Ranjit Sagar dam in Jammu’s Kathua district with two pilots onboard nine days ago were finally located on Wednesday at a depth of nearly 80 meters.“The wreckage of the #ArmyHelicopter that had crashed into the #RanjitSagarReservoir has been identified at a depth of approx 80m from the surface of the reservoir. Heavy duty #RemotelyOperatedVehicles are being flown in to assist the recovery operations,” the Western Command of Indian Army wrote in a post on its Twitter handle.The families of the two pilots, one of them a lieutenant colonel and the second a captain, have been camping at Mamun cantonment at Pathankot, from where the Rudra helicopter took off for a training sortie involving low-level flying over the lake before crashing into it around 10.43 am on August 3. The chopper was from the army’s Pathankot-based 254 ALH-WSI squadron, which earlier lost a Rudra chopper in January 2021. The search and recovery operations had found some broken parts of the chopper and gear of the pilots including the helmets floating into the lake the same day but search for the wreckage and the pilots had not yielded any satisfactory result for the last nine days despite intense operations in 25km long, 8km wide and more than 500 feet deep dam.“The Indian Army is coordinating the efforts of Indian Navy deep divers team consisting of two officers, four JCOs and 24 other ranks, Indian Army Special Forces divers team consisting of two officers, one JCO and 24 other ranks, multi beam sonars, side scanners, remotely operated vehicles and underwater manipulators which have been flown in from Chandigarh, Delhi, Mumbai and Kochi and pressed into action at the crash site of the dam,” Defence spokesperson lieutenant colonel Devender Anand said on Tuesday, adding that search operations continued despite bad weather and rain.Army, navy, air force, national disaster response force (NDRF), state disaster response force (SDRF), NGOs, state police, dam authorities and private firms from all over the country were involved in the recovery operation which was challenging due to the near zero visibility below 50 meters owing to the colloidal nature of water in this season adversely impacting the accuracy of sonars and other sensors, the army spokesperson had said. However, the operation continued with experts, specialised equipment and divers flown in.“No efforts are being spared for early conclusion of the search operation. A small area of 60m by 60m has been localized and special sonar equipment flown in from Kochi is being employed to enable the search operations to enter their final phase,” the defence spokesperson said onTuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-helicopter-wreckage-located-80-m-under-ranjit-sagar-dam-9-days-after-crash-101628678669920.html
11-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh funding tribal places of worship to prevent conversions: Minister||The Chhattisgarh government has been funding tribal communities to develop and maintain their traditional places of worship, known as Devgudis, so that they aren’t lured by anyone to convert to another religion, said state industry minister Kawasi Lakma on Tuesday.Lakma, a senior Congress leader from Bastar, which has a large tribal population, also claimed that no tribal has converted to Christianity during the past 2.5 years of Congress rule in the state.Lakhma was responding to allegations by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that religious conversions were taking place in Bastar.“During the 15 years of BJP rule, 30 churches were constructed (in Sukma district) but not a single one came up in the last two years. To ensure that conversions do not take place and people do not visit churches, the state government has been providing ₹5 lakh (each) to ‘Devgudis’ and ₹10 lakh to ‘Ghotuls’ in Bastar…We want our temples and Devgudis to be in good shape. In the last two years, no religious conversion has taken place,” Lakhma said during an interaction with the local media.For the last one year, the Bastar district administration has been funding the beautification and maintenance of Devgudis that are temple-like structures housing deities of the tribal community and where their rituals take place. Devgudis play a pivotal role in the lives of the Bastar tribals. The local administration has also been developing Ghotuls, the place where tribal boys and girls celebrate festivals and meet to choose life partners.BJP spokesperson Gauri Shankar Srivas claimed that Lakma’s statement was “contradictory to the realities on the ground”.“A month ago, the Sukma police chief asked officials for strict surveillance over the activities of Christian missionaries and the converted tribals, and now Lakhma is saying that no conversion is taking place. Both the statements are contradictory. The Congress is trying to propagate soft Hindutva to win elections but they have no faith in Hinduism,” said Srivas.Reacting to Lakma’s statement, Chhattisgarh Christian Forum said it was “unfortunate” and “far from the truth”.“The fact is that the Congress government is providing funds for the construction of temples in tribal villages. Newly constructed temples of Lord Ram and Lord Shiva have been appearing in the tribal villages. The saffron fundamentalists are trying to claim that the tribals are Hindus. We perceive that the minister’s statement is part of the strategy to declare tribals as Hindus,” said Arun Pannalal, president of Chhattisgarh Christian Forum.Pannalal added that Christians are falsely accused of forcing people to convert by vested interests who want to take away lands and rights of the tribal community by falsely establishing them as Hindus as against the Supreme Court’s opinion that the tribals were religiously independent hence enjoyed the benefits of government reservations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-funding-tribal-places-of-worship-to-prevent-conversions-minister-101628676030518.html
11-08-2021||India||Around 250 cases in 5 days: Bengaluru sees spike of Covid cases among youth, children||Around 250 children have tested Covid positive in the last five days in Bengaluru, data from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has revealed. This comes at a time when neighbouring Kerala is witnessing a sudden surge in the number of Covid infections and the apprehension of a third wave of the pandemic is looming large.Going by the civic body's Covid bulletin, between August 5 and August 10, there have been around 250 children, aged between o to 19 years.Here is a date-wise break-up of children testing positiveAugust 100 to 9 years - 18 cases10 to 19 years - 27 casesAugust 90 to 9 years -- 18 cases10 to 19 years - 24 casesAlso Read: Bengaluru Lockdown: Night curfew, Section 144 till August 16; 141 containment zones in cityAugust 80 to 9 years - 13 cases10 to 19 years -- 25 casesAugust 60 to 9 years - 32 cases10 to 19 years - 34 casesAugust 50 to 9 years - 21 cases10 to 19 years - 38 casesThe figure is in tune with the overall increase in Covid positive cases in Bengaluru, which started in July last week. Around 50 children have been testing Covid positive every day since the last week of July.Children below the age of 18 years are thought to be at greater risk in the possible third wave of the pandemic, though experts have asserted that there is no scientific base behind this assumption. The assumption is based on the concept that children have not been affected much in the first two waves. But serosurvey data shows children have been equally exposed to the infection in the first two waves as they too have developed antibodies against the virus naturally.During the second wave of the pandemic, Karnataka reported a considerable number of children testing Covid positive.Bengaluru Police have imposed Section 144 in the city while several restrictions have been put in place in the entire state. Schools for classes 9 to 12 will reopen from August 23, the state government announced a few days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/around-250-cases-in-5-days-bengaluru-sees-spike-of-covid-cases-among-youth-children-amid-3rd-wave-fear-101628673970224.html
11-08-2021||India||Prioritise school reopening with adherence to Covid norms: WHO scientist||World health organisation's chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan on Tuesday said that reopening of schools must be prioritised while maintaining proper health and hygiene as the Covid-19 pandemic continues to prevail on worrisome levels.She also noted that the impact of the pandemic will last a long time on children's mental, physical and cognitive well-being. School openings must be prioritised with distancing, masking, avoiding indoor singing and gatherings, hand hygiene and vaccination of all adults," Swaminathan said onTwitter. She also tagged India's NITI Aayog and UNICEF in the tweet. Dr Yasmin Ali Haque, UNICEF Representative in India was also marked.Earlier on August 6, the senior doctor had cautioned people to not let their guards down against the Covid-19 as social activities started resuming. She also urged people to continue to strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour for at least another six months. "I know everybody is tired, everyone wants to meet their family, organise parties. But this is not the time to let down your guard. Let's be careful for another six months. By then, if the vaccination coverage is very high, then things should definitely start improving," the WHO chief scientist had said.Schools across the country started reopening as the overall nationwide infections started receding after the deadly second wave of Covid-19. Since the beginning of the pandemic last year, classes have been erratic due to the brief closures of schools due to the pandemic. Most schools have also moved on to online education because of the pandemic.On June 19, the Union education ministry had released the guidelines for parent participation in home-based learning during school closure and beyond.Former education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank in his tweet said that "in this 'new normal' of the pandemic, considering parents' role as pivotal to children's growth and learning, these Guidelines aim to provide information on the 'why', 'what', and 'how-to' of participation and engagement in supporting children during the school closure, irrespective of their literacy levels. Home is the first school, and parents are the first teachers".The guidelines on home-based learning emphasise on the need for parents to create a safe and engaging environment and a positive learning environment, have realistic expectations from the child, take care of health and eat healthy, while at the same time having fun with children.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prioritise-school-reopening-with-adherence-to-covid-norms-who-scientist-101628671501791.html
11-08-2021||India||Nirbhay cruise missile test-fired; indigenous engine a success, say officials||After the October 2020 failed test, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Wednesday fired the 1,000-km range Nirbhay cruise missile from Chandipur testing facility in Odisha. The sub-sonic cruise missile was fired at 9:55am and was tested for 100 km in flight and 15 minutes in time.The firing was a partial success. According to DRDO sources, the indigenous engine was successfully tested but the delivery platform came down due to inexplicable reasons. "Maybe a snag in the controller, but the engine worked well. Next test firing will be done in mission mode before user trial for air force and navy," said an official.This was the first successful test-firing with the indigenous booster engine after the previous one had to be aborted after eight minutes flying time.Nirbhay is a subsonic missile, flying at a speed of 0.7 to 0.9 Mach, with sea-skimming and terrain-hugging capability that helps the missile stay under enemy radar to avoid detection. It is a two-stage missile with first stage using solid fuel and the second using liquid fuel. It carries a convention warhead of 300 kilograms weight and can hit targets upto 1500 km range. The missile is capable of flying between 50 metres to four km from ground and pick up the target before engaging and destroying it.The missile also has a loitering capability that allows the delivery platform to manoeuvre mid-flight and at the end to hit the target by doing inflight course corrections. It can be fired from sea, land and through mobile launchers.The missile is now going to be handed over to the army, which will conduct three more tests before inducting it. After induction, Nirbhay is expected to be deployed along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) amid the stand-off with China at multiple points in East Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirbhay-cruise-missile-test-fired-drdo-says-indigenous-engine-a-success-101628656458294.html
11-08-2021||India||UP floods: PM Modi takes stock of situation in flood-hit Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday spoke to the local administration of Varanasi to take stock of the flood situation in his constituency. He also assured the administration of all possible help support from the Centre, news agency ANI reported.Continuous heavy rains over Uttar Pradesh have triggered a flood-like situation as water levels of the Ganga and Yamuna rivers have crossed the danger mark at several places. The administration in Prayagraj, where these two rivers meet at the Sangam, announced a high alert and started evacuating families affected by floods.Thousands of houses built in the low-lying areas of several districts in Uttar Pradesh are submerged in floodwater, forcing people to move to safer places. Some of them shifted to the upper floors of their houses.Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed to various districts, including Prayagraj, to rescue those stranded due to severe waterlogging. The Indian Air Force (IAF) had deployed three helicopters for flood relief operations in Jalaun district.On Monday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath conducted an aerial survey of the flood-hit areas in the Auraiya and Etahwah districts. He also distributed relief material to the affected people.The chief minister also held a meeting with the local administration to take stock of the situation.He also informed that the government is monitoring the situation. Two ministers of the state are constantly supervising the relief and rescue operations in the flood-hit areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-floods-pm-modi-takes-stock-of-situation-in-flood-hit-varanasi-101628667606652.html
11-08-2021||India||Major landslide in Himachal's Kinnaur, more than 40 feared buried||A major landslide was reported from the Kinnaur district in Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday. The incident is feared to have buried more than 40 people under the debris, according to news agencies. Citing deputy commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq, PTI reported that several vehicles, including a Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus carrying over 40 passengers, are currently buried under the debris.Providing further details on the landslide, the Indo-Tibetan border police (ITBP) said that the incident occurred at around 12:45pm on the Reckong Peo-Shimla highway in the Kinnaur district. The aforementioned HRCTC bus, a truck, and other vehicles are reported to have come to under the rubble.A landslide reported on Reckong Peo- Shimla Highway in #Kinnaur District in Himachal Pradesh today at around 12.45 Hrs. One truck, a HRTC Bus and few vehicles reported came under the rubble. Many people reported trapped. ITBP teams rushed for rescue. More details awaited. pic.twitter.com/ThLYsL2cZKThe border patrol organisation said that its troops rushed to the landslide site for rescue and are currently engaged in an operation to save the people who are reported to be trapped.Speaking to reporters on the landslide, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur said that police and the local administration have been directed to carry out rescue operations, while the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has also been put on alert."I have directed the police and local administration to carry out rescue operations," the chief minister said. "The NDRF has also been put on alert. We have received information that one bus and a car could have been hit; we are awaiting detailed information on the matter."I've directed police and local administration to carry out rescue operations. NDRF has also been put on alert. We have received information that one bus and a car could have been hit; awaiting detailed information: Himachal Pradesh CM Jairam Thakur on Kinnaur landslide incident pic.twitter.com/GNNZsSyJnGKinnaur has recently been the site of fatal landslides, triggered by inclement weather and the rainfall spell. As many as nine tourists were killed and three others, including a local resident, were injured when heavy boulders fell on their tempo traveller during multiple landslides on the Batseri-Sangla road in Kinnaur on Sunday.Reoccurrences of landslides and flash floods in Himachal Pradesh this monsoon season have left environmentalists and geological experts concerned. The state has recorded an increase of 116% in the landslide incidents while cloudburst occurrences have gone up by 121% this monsoon season compared to 2020. Himachal has recorded 35 major landslides from June 13 — the onset of monsoon season in the state — till July 30, a pointer to the fragile ecology of the Himalayan region. Last year, 16 landslides were recorded across the hill state. Similarly, 17 incidents of flash floods were reported across the state this year compared to just nine last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-landslide-in-himachal-s-kinnaur-more-than-40-feared-buried-101628669153501.html
11-08-2021||India||Rashtra Manch calls for full restoration of J&K’s statehood, free and fair elections||Former union minister Yashwant Sinha-led Rashtra Manch on Wednesday demanded the full restoration of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K)’s statehood before free and fair elections there while slamming the manner in which the government revoked the region’s semi-autonomous status in 2019.“Two years have passed since the Union Government annulled Article 370… and Article 35A, which protected the rights and privileges of its permanent residents… Simultaneously, the State itself was bifurcated into two parts… These actions and the utterly undemocratic manner in which they were taken have caused a deep sense of hurt, humiliation, and betrayal in the minds of the people of Jammu and Kashmir,” the group said in a statement. It added the government took these decisions unilaterally without consulting local people, the “principal stakeholders in a democracy”, and their elected representatives. The group lashed out at the government for detaining leaders in Kashmir who “repeatedly pledged their allegiance to India.”Also Read | Punjab CM likely to meet PM Modi today; discuss security threat, farm lawsHundreds of people, including three former chief ministers, were detained in 2019 to prevent protests against the revocation of the semi-autonomous status through nullification of the Constitution’s Articles 370 and 35A. A lockdown and communications blackout were also imposed in 2019 in J&K.Calling this situation “unacceptable in a free and democratic India,” the group said that even today people are not able to express their views freely. “(Prime Minister Narendra) Modi government’s actions have caused losses worth tens of thousands of crores to the economy of Jammu and Kashmir. Lakhs of youth have lost employment and there has been a worrisome increase in suicides among young people,” the group said. It added all explanations of the government to justify its actions have been “hollow.”The group asked Modi to announce full statehood for J&K before the end of 2021 in his Independence Day speech. It added the delimitation exercise in J&K should be deferred and held along with other states in India.The government has said it is committed to restoring the statehood and that elections in the region will be held after the exercise to draw new constituencies is over.The group also requested the apex court to hear petitions against the nullification of Article 370 and soon announce a decision keeping in view all the concerned people. It added since J&K is a border region, it is directly affected by the worsening of India’s relations with Pakistan and China.“The ongoing developments in Afghanistan (where Taliban is seeking to return to power in Kabul by force) are also a matter of grave concern since these could have a negative effect on peace in Jammu and Kashmir. Therefore, the Government of India must act with extreme care and alacrity to prevent anti-India forces from exploiting the situation of ‘Dil ki Doori’ and ‘Dilli ki Doori’,” it said.In his first such meeting with leaders from J&K following the nullification of Article 370, Modi on June 24 said that he wants to remove both Dil ki Doori (the distance between hearts) and Dilli ki Doori (the distance from Delhi and J&K).The group also called “separatism and communal politics” common enemies which should be fought together.There was no immediate response from the government or the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rashtra-manch-calls-for-full-restoration-of-j-k-s-statehood-free-and-fair-elections-101628666549329.html
11-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Amarinder Singh likely to meet PM Modi today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 12pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Punjab CM likely to meet PM Modi todayAmarinder Singh is likely to take up with the PM the growing threat to the state’s security from across the border following the recent influx of weapons, hand-grenades and IED. Read moreGovt to soon provide certificates to people who got Covid jabs outside India: ReportPeople who received the jab against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outside the country will soon be able to download their vaccination certificate through the CoWin. Read morePakistan among 9 countries barred by Saudi Arabia for Umrah, claims ministerPakistan is among nine countries, devotees from where have been barred from entering Saudi Arabia for the Umrah pilgrimage, the country’s federal minister for religious affairs, Noor ul Haq Qadri has claimed. Read moreIndia Predicted XI for 2nd Test against England: Ashwin question looms large, toss-up between Siraj and Ishant at Lord'sRain washed out the final day of the first Test and the game ended in a draw, but it's time to move on and shift focus on the next target – the Lord's Cricket Ground. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan completes 21 years on Kaun Banega Crorepati, gets love from Abhishek Bachchan-Navya Naveli NandaActor Amitabh Bachchan on Wednesday shared a picture collage as he completed 21 years on the game show Kaun Banega Crorepati. He has returned with season 13 of the show. Read moreA glowing Neha Dhupia in ₹24k printed nude kaftan dress aces pregnancy fashionNeha Dhupia, who is pregnant with her and Angad Bedi's second child, recently wore a gorgeous printed nude kaftan dress for a photoshoot. The kaftan is worth ₹24k. Read moreMaruti Suzuki may drive out Vitara Brezza with CNG kit soonMaruti Suzuki has been backing CNG technology and many of its cars factory-fitted with the kits have found favour among buyers. Vitara Brezza may be the next to offer CNG. Read moreR Madhavan shares clips of empty airport and aircraft during journey. WatchMadhavan shared a series of clips on his Instagram showcasing his journey to Dubai for a shoot and the videos are nothing less than spooky. The empty rows of seats inside the aircraft may make you uncomfortable. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-amarinder-singh-likely-to-meet-pm-modi-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101628665490921.html
11-08-2021||India||Punjab CM likely to meet PM Modi today; discuss security threat, farm laws||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh is likely to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi today.Singh is scheduled to meet the Prime Minister at 6pm, one of his aides said. The chief minister is likely to take up with the PM the growing threat to the state’s security from across the border following the recent influx of weapons, hand-grenades and Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs). Past Sunday, Punjab Police busted a terror plot with the recovery of a tiffin box fabricated into an IED. They also recovered five hand grenades and 100 rounds of a 9mm pistol from Daleke village in Lopoke sub division of Amritsar district. Director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said the operation was conducted following inputs of drone activity in border villages of Daleke, Bhikhiwind and Shohra.Also Read | Punjab on alert as drone-dropped tiffin bomb, grenades found in AmritsarBesides pressing for repeal of the three controversial farm laws against which farmers have been protesting for months now, and seeking an increase in the supply of Covid vaccine doses, the CM is also expected to make a request for enhanced allocation of fertiliser diammonium phosphate to Punjab to address the farmers’ apprehensions regarding fertiliser shortage in the state, said the person quoted above.Singh met Union home minister Amit Shah in the national capital on Tuesday and requested him to urgently provide 25 companies of central armed police forces and anti-drone gadgets for the Border Security Force for protection against Pakistan-backed terror outfits.“The security situation is grave and needs the Centre’s immediate intervention with Pakistan’s ISI also raising the ante ahead of the Independence Day and in the run-up to the Punjab assembly polls,” he told Shah, citing social, economic and security implications of the prolonged farmers’ agitation. He also expressed concern over the fear of “inimical powers” from across the border trying to exploit the resentment and disgruntlement against the government. The assembly polls in Punjab are due early next year. Singh is also scheduled to meet Union chemicals and fertilisers minister Mansukh Mandaviya to discuss fertiliser shortage in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-amarinder-to-meet-pm-modi-today-discuss-security-threat-farm-laws-101628662769010.html
11-08-2021||India||‘Views of Haryana, Punjab, Bihar, Bengal CMs taken before passage of farm laws’||The Centre onTuesday told Parliament that recommendations from chief ministers of Haryana, Punjab, Bihar, and West Bengal were taken into account before the three farm laws that have triggered protracted protests were passed last year. It added ministers of 10 states were part of a committee formed in 2010 and they recommended that the “monopoly” of Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees or corporate licensees should not be allowed.The Centre said this in response to Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) lawmaker Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s question to union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar whether Punjab objected to the framing of the laws when consultations were held between 2017 to 2020 and whether it submitted consent for the legislation.Tomar said the government felt the need to reform the agricultural marketing sector to ensure “better and competitive price” realisation to the farmers and encourage capital formation in the sector. He added the government constituted various committees including an Empowered Committee of 10 state ministers in charge of agriculture marketing in 2010 and a Working Group of Agriculture Production in May 2010 for recommending market reform measures. Tomar said the group said the market for agricultural produce “must be immediately freed of all sorts of restrictions on movement, trading, stocking, finance, exports, etc.”Also Read | MP clears Bill to curb illicit liquor trade, provides for capital punishment“The said Committee recommended that no monopoly, including that of Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) or corporate licensees should be allowed to restrict the market,” Tomar said. He added state governments were also consulted through video conferencing in May 2020 for feedback on the new legal framework facilitating barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade in agriculture produce. Tomar said officials representing states and union territories including Punjab attended it.The Left Front ruled West Bengal in 2010 before it lost power to Trinamool Congress (TMC) a year later. The Left parties as well as TMC have opposed the three farm laws. Congress, which has also opposed the legislation, ruled Haryana until 2014. SAD ruled poll-bound Punjab from 2007 to 2017 and quit the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre over the farm laws.Growers protesting against the farm laws renewed the push for their repeal last month as they began a sit-in near Parliament. They say the laws threaten their livelihoods and thousands of them have camped on highways near Delhi for months in protest against the legislation. Opposition lawmakers have protested against the farm laws during the ongoing Monsoon Session of Parliament.The government has maintained the laws, which were passed in September 2020, will boost the income of farmers even as growers insist the legislation favours private retailers by allowing them to buy farm goods outside government-regulated wholesale markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/views-of-haryana-punjab-bihar-bengal-cms-were-taken-before-passage-of-farm-laws-govt-101628661928972.html
11-08-2021||India||Venkaiah Naidu says opposition leaders who created ruckus in Rajya Sabha will face action||Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday said that action will be taken against members of opposition parties who created ruckus during a short-duration discussion on farm issues yesterday.This comes after Union home minister Amit Shah, leader of the house Piyush Goyal and other Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs met Naidu, news agency ANI reported.As the proceedings of the upper house began this morning, an emotional Naidu said, "All sacredness of this House was destroyed yesterday when some members sat on the tables and some climbed on the tables."There are no words to convey my anguish and to condemn such acts, Naidu added. "I spent a sleepless night as I struggled to find out the provocation of reason forcing this august House to such a low yesterday," said Naidu.His remarks were in reference to the debate held on Tuesday. While the discussion was underway, some members of the opposition parties, including Congress, Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), trooped into the well with sloganeering. Congress leader Pratap Singh Bajwa climbed atop a table and was seen throwing an official file at the Chair.Bajwa later said he has no regrets. "I will do this 100 times again if the government does not give us an opportunity to discuss the three black anti-agriculture laws," he told news agency PTI.Union minister Anurag Thakur slammed the Congress party for lowering the dignity of the House with their unruly conduct. "A party which has not been able to choose a new president, whose MPs tear the legislations of their own party and doesn't allow Parliament to function by indulging in condemnable behaviour shows that the democracy was shamed. People have elected these MPs to discuss issues in Parliament, but they have stooped to tearing papers and throwing files," said Thakur.He added that crores of rupees are spent on holding a session of Parliament. "Whatever happened yesterday shamed the democracy," said the minister.Several members of the opposition parties stood on the table where the parliamentary staff sits right below the Chair. A few of them squatted on the tables for over one-and-half hours during which proceedings were adjourned multiple times.Rajya Sabha television did not show the scenes of ruckus, but opposition MPs recorded the events and posted them on their Twitter handles.The Lok Sabha, meanwhile, was adjourned sine die, days before the monsoon session was scheduled to end on August 13. The Rajya Sabha too will be adjourned sine die later today after the passage of 127th constitution amendment bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naidu-says-opposition-leaders-who-created-ruckus-in-rajya-sabha-will-face-action-101628661576372.html
11-08-2021||India||Govt to soon provide certificates to people who got Covid jabs outside India: Report||People who received the jab against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outside the country will soon be able to download their vaccination certificate through the CoWin, a portal introduced by the Indian government to streamline the inoculation drive process, Livemint reported on Tuesday, quoting a government official.According to the report, the certificate will be given to both categories of people - those who have received one jab or fully vaccinated. It will also be opened for foreign vaccines that have not yet been approved by the country's drug regulatory authority, Livemint said.Currently, people entering India who were administered with the jab outside the country are unable to get a vaccination certificate in India."There are Indians or foreigners who have received one or two doses of vaccines such as Pfizer or Sinopharm in other countries and are planning to come and stay in India... In a bid to smoothen the process for such people, we are working out a provision," Livemint reported Dr NK Arora as saying. Arora is chairman of India’s Covid-19 working group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI).Arora also clarified that until the provision comes into effect, those who are already vaccinated are not required to take the vaccine again in the country in order to obtain the certificate. "We will ensure that such people can get vaccination certificates through Co-WIN platform. We will soon enable this feature in our nationwide covid-19 vaccination programme," the official also said as per the MINT report.The move holds significance as it is mandatory for various purposes, including crossing borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-soon-provide-certificates-to-people-who-got-covid-jabs-outside-india-report-101628660070062.html
11-08-2021||India||India has administered nearly 520 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered almost 520 million Covid vaccine doses by Tuesday, August 10. The country’s expert group on vaccinations, Negvac, has discussed the need for booster shots for Covid though more scientific evidence is being studied for any decision, a top official said.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Tuesday, 518,517,148 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 3,776,765 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 2,760,199 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 1,016,566 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine. In the 18-45 age group, 2,047,733 were given the first dose while 405,719 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 182,095,467 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 12,939,239 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 10 million vaccine doses in the 18-45 years age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.A research, published in The Lancet’s E clinical Medicine journal, says that people who have recovered from Covid possibly suffer from significant cognitive deficit. The study was conducted on more than 81,000 people in the UK who took an intelligence test online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-nearly-520-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101628657369571.html
11-08-2021||India||Isro to launch earth observation satellite aboard GSLV Mk III vehicle tomorrow||The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) will launch the earth observation satellite EOS-3 aboard its GSLV Mk III vehicle on August 12 at 5.43am from the country’s only spaceport at Sriharikota. With the mission, the agency will resume the country’s space activities after a gap of over four months due to the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.On Wednesday, the agency tweeted that countdown for the launch commenced at 0343 hours.Countdown for the launch of GSLV-F10/EOS-03 mission commenced today at 0343Hrs (IST) from Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) SHAR, Sriharikota#GSLVF10 #EOS03 #ISRO pic.twitter.com/ICzSfTHMBIThis will be the second operational flight of GSLV Mk III after the Chandrayaan-2 mission when the launch vehicle “over-performed” placing the spacecraft in a higher orbit and saving fuel for upcoming manoeuvres.This will be the first time that the vehicle’s payload fairing, the nose of the rocket where the satellites are carried, will be a 4m ogive (bullet-like shape). The changes will make the vehicle more aerodynamic and the same payload fairing is likely to be used for the country’s human spaceflight.Also Read | Four ISRO launches over next 5 months; Gaganyaan delayed, Centre tells LSThe EOS-3 satellite, also known as GISAT-1 as per previous nomenclature, is one of the two paired satellites, the other being GISAT-2 or EOS-5, that will be able to provide images of the Indian landmass every 30 minutes with a spatial resolution of 50 metres.The space agency is targeting four launches over the next five months – all earth observation satellites. One of the four will be carried by the small satellite launch vehicle in its maiden flight. All big-ticket missions, such as the first uncrewed flight under Gaganyaan mission, Chandrayaan-3 mission, and India’s first solar mission Aditya L1 have all been delayed due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-to-launch-earth-observation-satellite-aboard-gslv-mk-iii-vehicle-tomorrow-101628657308904.html
11-08-2021||India||Isro to launch GISAT-1 in less than 24 hours, a game-changer for India: 10 points||Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) said on Wednesday morning that countdown has already begun for the launch of India's "eye in the sky" - the GISAT-1 Earth observation satellite (EOS). The satellite is slated to be launched at 5:43am on Thursday on a geosynchronous satellite launch vehicle (GSLV) from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) at Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh as a part of the GSLV-F10 EOS-03 mission. India awaits the much-touted event, which has been set up days before people celebrate the country's achievements on Independence Day.Also Read | Isro to launch earth observation satellite aboard GSLV Mk III vehicle tomorrowThere are reasons why the GISAT-1 satellite launch is being termed a game-changer as far as India's space ambitions are concerned, owing to its functionality in Geosynchronous Transfer Orbit, before moving on to the final geostationary orbit. Here's a brief explainer on the scope of this satellite launch.1. Officially termed the Geo Imaging Satellite-1 (GISAT-1), the satellite launched by Isro will keep an eye out on "locations of interest" for India. Essentially, it will serve as India's "eye in the sky".2. While replying to a question in Parliament earlier this week, Union minister of state (MoS) in charge of the department of space, Jitendra Singh, said that the Earth observation satellite will send Isro 4-5 photographs from across the country daily.3. On the basis of these photographs, India will be able to monitor and respond to natural disasters and any other short-term events at an alarming pace, according to officials of the space agency familiar with the matter.4. Moreover, the GISAT-1 satellite will also obtain spectral signatures for agriculture, forestry, mineralogy, cloud properties, snow and glaciers, and oceanography, enabling researchers back home to gain new insight on a host of issues.5. Isro said that the Earth observation satellite will initially be placed by the launch vehicle in the Geosynchronous transfer orbit (GTO), a highly elliptic geocentric orbit that almost always serves as an intermediate step for satellites before reaching for their final orbit. The GTO Earth orbit has an apogee of 42,164 km (26,199 miles) above sea level, which corresponds to the geostationary altitude.6. EOS-03 will appear motionless in space once it is in orbit since it will travel at the rate of rotation of the planet. This is important since, unlike low-Earth satellites, the geostationary satellite will not have to constantly readjust its position, paving the way for round-the-clock, real-time monitoring of key areas of interest to India.7. Isro's GSLV-F10 rocket will install the 2,268-kg state-of-the-art agile satellite GISAT-1 in the geosynchronous orbit. This spacecraft, codenamed EOS-3, will be flown on the fourteenth flight of the GSLV.8. Isro has made some changes to the fairing capsule used in its satellite. In a first, the space agency said that it is sending an Ogive-shaped payload measuring a diameter of 4 metres this time.9. The GISAT-1 launch was originally slated for March 5 last year but it was delayed in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and subsequent technical glitches. It was later rescheduled twice, once for March 28 and then again postponed to May in view of the second wave of the pandemic, before settling for a final date on August 11.10. In its latest update, the space agency informed that the filling of oxidiser for the second stage (GS2) of GSLV-F10 has been completed, while the filling of propellant for the second stage has commenced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-to-launch-gisat-1-geo-imaging-satellite-in-less-than-24-hours-game-changer-for-india-10-points-101628653819321.html
11-08-2021||India||MP clears Bill to curb illicit liquor trade, provides for capital punishment||The Madhya Pradesh assembly on Tuesday passed the Madhya Pradesh Excise (Amendment) Bill that provides for the death penalty and fine up to ₹20 lakh for anyone convicted for the second time of making and supplying spurious liquor that causes death.Finance and excise minister Jagdish Deora, who tabled the bill, said the proposed law that has been sent to governor Mangubhai Patel for approval will curb the sale and manufacturing of illicit liquor in the state. “With the amendment in the Act, we are taking tough action. Recently, we raised a dhaba of illicit liquor supplier in Mandsaur,” he said.The excise law in the state earlier provided for imprisonment of two months to 10 years for those convicted of involvement in illicit liquor trade for the first time and life imprisonment for the second.Officials cited the deaths of about 50 people after consuming illicit liquor over the last 11 months and said this prompted the government to seek an amendment to the law.Also Read | MP assembly passes supplementary budget amid protests by Opposition“If consumption of illicit liquor causes the death of a human being, there is a provision of imprisonment which shall not be less than two years but may extend to life imprisonment and shall also be liable to a fine of ₹five lakh. When the person is convicted under this section for a second or subsequent offence there is a provision of imprisonment for capital punishment and shall also be liable to fine up to ₹20 lakh,” says the Bill.“In case of liquor is found unfit for human consumption, there is a provision of imprisonment which shall not be less than six months, but may extend to six years and shall also, be liable to fine up to ₹1 lakh. In a case of consumption of illicit liquor caused injury to human beings, there is a provision of imprisonment which shall not be less than two years but may extend to eight years and shall also be liable to a fine up to ₹2 lakh.”The Opposition welcomed the passage of the Bill. “Everybody knows the mafia became so active during the tenure of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government. During the 15-month tenure of (former chief minister), Kamal Nath, all land, sand, and illegal liquor mafias and anti-social elements went underground as tough action was being taken against them. But they again resumed their work when BJP came to power (in March 2020). Now, they are trying to rectify their mistake by increasing punishment,” said Congress leader Sajjan Verma.BJP leader Hitesh Bajpai said this is for the “first time any government has come up with tough laws against adulteration”. “Earlier, the government introduced capital punishment for adulteration in food products and now in liquor. Congress leaders believe in blaming... but the BJP government believes in working to bring change in the lives of people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-assembly-passes-bill-to-curb-illicit-liquor-trade-provides-for-capital-punishment-101628656769066.html
11-08-2021||India||Jaipur: 57-year-old recites Gayatri Mantra as doctors remove brain tumour||In a medical miracle, a man survived a complex brain surgery to remove a tumour. The surgery was carried out at Narayana Hospital in Jaipur, Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan reported on Tuesday. The patient - a retired constable - kept chanting the Gayatri Mantra during the surgery, according to Live Hindustan.The constable, identified as Ridhamlal Ram, had epilepsy which caused severe seizures and also affected his speech, Live Hindustan reported. The doctors diagnosed a low-grade tumour in the area of brain responsible for speech.Even a slight error during the surgical procedure could have resulted in loss of speech or even paralysis due to the location of the tumour. But a team under Doctor KK Bansal performed the complex surgery, which lasted for four hours, and saved the life of the 57-year-old.Live Hindustan quoted zonal clinical director Dr Mala Aron to report that the team used a high-end operating microscope to focus on the precise location of the tumour and eliminate the chances of error. The doctor said that such surgery is conducted at very few places in the country.The doctors kept Ram awake during the surgical procedure and he chanted the Gayatri Mantra. The doctors said that they usually give anesthesia to patients during a surgery, but Ram was operated upon in full consciousness to understand the impact of the procedure on various parts of the brain and remove any chances of error.A similar incident was reported in 2018 when a 30-year-old accountant kept chanting the Hanuman Chalisa during a brain surgery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaipur-57-year-old-recites-gayatri-mantra-as-doctor-removes-brain-tumour-101628655982711.html
11-08-2021||India||IAS toppers Tina Dabi, Athar Khan granted divorce by Jaipur family court||A family court in Jaipur granted divorce to IAS officers Tina Dabi and Athar Khan on Tuesday, Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan reported. Both had filed the application for divorce before the court in November last year with mutual consent.The application was filed just two years after the two got married.Their relationship apparently started at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy for Administration in Mussoorie and subsequent wedding grabbed the attention of the nation. Dabi ranked first in the UPSC examinations, Khan ranked second in 2015.Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu and many Union ministers were among those who had attended their wedding reception in Delhi.Their wedding was hailed as a symbol of communal harmony by many politicians.Both Dabi and Athar were allocated to the Rajasthan cadre of the IAS. Initially, both of them were in the same city, but Tina Dabi was later posted to Sri Ganganagar as Chief Executive Officer, Zila Parishad. Athar was posted to Jaipur as the CEO of Zila Parishad.In November last year, Dabi joined as the joint secretary (finance) of the government of Rajasthan. She announced about her joining on Twitter.A graduate in political science from the Delhi's Lady Shri Ram College, Dabi completed her schooling from the Convent of Jesus & Mary. Athar, meanwhile, was undergoing training at the Indian Railways Institute of Transport and Management in Lucknow when he appeared for examination in 2015. This was the Anantnag resident's second attempt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ias-toppers-tina-dabi-athar-khan-granted-divorce-by-jaipur-family-court-101628654309725.html
11-08-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 tally rises to 38,353; active cases lowest in 140 days||India on Wednesday logged 38,353 fresh Covid-19 cases, recording a rise from Tuesday's 28,204 infections in 24 hours, the data released at 8am by the Union health ministry showed. The daily death toll also a jump in number as 497 people succumbed to the disease.With the new cases, the cumulative tally of India has reached 32,036,511. The number of active cases dipped to 386,351, the lowest in 140 days.Of the people infected since the beginning of the pandemic, 31,220,981 patients have already recovered from Covid-19 and 855,543 recovered in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate has improved to 97.45 per cent.As per the Indian Council of Medical Research, a total of 485,056,507 samples were tested up to August 10, of which, 1,777,962 samples were tested yesterday.On Tuesday, the central government said that 37 districts across the country are showing a rising trend in the average daily new cases of Covid-19 over the last two weeks even as the corresponding nationwide figure is falling.The reproduction number or R number that indicates the speed at which Covid-19 is spreading is more than 1 in five states, the health ministry officials also mentioned at the briefing, adding that it is "a cause of concern." These five states are Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.R-value of 1 and below is considered safe as that means that 100 people are infecting either the same number of people or less. This is an indication that the number of new infections is not more than the number of existing infections.Meanwhile, on the vaccination front, nearly 520 million doses have been administered to the beneficiaries as of Tuesday. More than 3.7 million (37,76,765) doses were administered during the day, according to the 7 pm provisional report published by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-tally-rises-to-38-353-active-cases-lowest-in-140-days-101628652458849.html
11-08-2021||India||Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to provide technical support to Bihar govt||Bihar has signed a memorandum of cooperation with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for technical support to the departments of health, social welfare, agriculture, rural development, finance, and planning. Officials said this has been done to improve the reach, coverage, quality, and programme components of health, nutrition and sanitation services, agricultural productivity, financial inclusion and gender equality to ensure progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals 2030.“Bihar has made significant progress in improving various health, social, and development indicators. We are honoured to continue on this journey with the state, and support this work further to help improve health, and nutrition outcomes, and reduce the burden of disease and poverty by enabling livelihoods and access to quality services in line with the state’s development goals,” said Hari Menon, the foundation’s director.The two sides first signed such a memorandum in 2010, which was renewed in 2015 and continued till March 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-melinda-gates-foundation-to-provide-technical-support-to-bihar-govt-101628653528364.html
11-08-2021||India||ATM installed in Meghalaya hospital where inventor was born in 1925||A hospital in Meghalaya, where ATM inventor John Adrian Shepherd-Barron was born in 1925, has got an automated teller machine after 53 years of the first installation of such cash dispenser globally, an official of the health facility said on Tuesday. The ATM was installed at Dr H Gordon Roberts Hospital, which will turn 100 next year, he said. "The teller machine was installed on August 7 after a petition was submitted to State Bank of India for setting up an ATM on the premises before the centennial celebrations of our facility next year," Medical Superintendent of the hospital Dr Roken Nongrum told PTI. The access to an ATM in the facility will help patient parties and staffers immensely, he said. “We are grateful to the bank authorities for considering our request. The ATM is special as the inventor of automated teller machine was born in this hospital 96 years ago," Nongrum said. Shepherd-Barron came up with the concept of a self-service cash dispenser in 1965 and his "eureka" moment was inspired by a machine dispensing chocolate bars. The first ATM was installed at a bank in London in 1967. Reg Varney, one of the stars of a popular TV show became the first person to withdraw cash. Shepherd-Barron, India-born Scot, died at a hospital in Scotland in 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atm-installed-in-meghalaya-hospital-where-inventor-was-born-in-1925-101628652660175.html
11-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to address CII annual meeting today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to address CII annual meeting todayThe CII Annual Meeting 2021 will see the participation of many ministers, senior officials, academics, and prominent representatives of India, according to a post on PM Modi's official website earlier this week. Read moreWidespread, heavy rain likely over N-E for 4-5 days: IMDHeavy and widespread rain is likely over northeastern states, east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand for the next 4-5 days while subdued rainfall is likely over northwest India, according to IMD. Read more'Do not regret': US President rules out any change to troop withdrawal decisionAs the Taliban continued to tighten its grip over war-torn Afghanistan, US President Joe Biden on Tuesday ruled out any changes in the withdrawal of his troops from the South Asian country. Read more'Could see in the eyes, no one wanted to lose': Harmanpreet recalls how India bounced back to win bronzeIn an exclusive interaction, defender Harmanpreet Singh explained how the Indian defence kept up their morale to bounce back and win the bronze-medal match 5-3 against Germany. Read moreShamita Shetty says Bigg Boss OTT co-contestant Nishant Bhat 'crossed the line' with her once, 'did wrong'Shamita Shetty, who is a participant on Bigg Boss OTT while her family witnesses a particularly difficult phase on the outside, has said that her co-contestant, choreographer Nishant Bhat, once 'crossed the line' with her. Read moreLoved Katrina Kaif's floral wrap dress in Jee Le Zaraa announcement pic? It costs ₹16kPriyanka Chopra, Alia Bhatt and Katrina Kaif took to social media on Tuesday, August 10, to announce that they were coming together for Farhan Akhtar's film Jee Le Zaraa. Read moreBomb blast in Shillong’s market caught on camera, 2 injuredAt least two people were injured in a bomb blast in Shillong’s market on Tuesday. The low-intensity IED blast was reported from a parking lot in a market in Shillong. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-address-cii-annual-meeting-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101628649373727.html
11-08-2021||India||Himachal Pradesh schools closed, curbs increased to check Covid-19 spread||The Himachal Pradesh government announced the closure of schools across the state till August 22. The decision was taken at a cabinet meeting on Tuesday which was chaired by chief minister Jairam Thakur.The state government earlier had opened schools for Classes 10 and 12, but now they have been closed till August 22. However, teaching and non-teaching staff will continue to attend the school, according to government order.The education department has been asked to frame standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the residential schools to contain Covid-19, the order further said.The Himachal Pradesh government is concerned about the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state. The state recorded 419 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Tuesday, which took the total number of infections and fatalities to 2,08,616 and 3,521 respectively.Few days ago, the number of active cases had dipped to around 800 but the sudden surge took the figure to 2,318 on Tuesday. The state had recorded 2,086 active cases on Monday while the positivity rate stood at 1.9%, according to health department figures.There are six districts in Himachal Pradesh which have recorded a rising trend in daily new Covid-19 cases over the last fortnight, according to Union health ministry. The reproduction factor (R-factor) - or the ability of the virus to reproduce - has also stayed above 1 (currently at 1.3), the ministry said. The R-factor has to stay below 1 for an outbreak to be called under control.The state government is also concerned about the tourist inflow, and has decided to make it mandatory for tourists to carry RT-PCR negative reports of a minimum of 72 hours, Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) report of 24 hours or vaccination certificate with both doses to enter the state.The state government had earlier issued an advisory to the tourists entering the state to follow the above guidelines which have been made mandatory now.The inter-state, inter-district and intra-district movement of public transport buses has been allowed, but with 50 per cent of the registered seating capacity, according to state government order. However, only those passengers who have the above-mentioned test reports and certificates will be allowed to travel on these buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-schools-closed-curbs-increased-to-check-covid-19-spread-101628651244567.html
11-08-2021||India||Music helped people cope with Covid-19 stress: Study||Many people used music to relieve feelings of depression, anxiety and stress during the lockdown, a recent study revealed. The study found that people who had an increase in positive emotions were either listening to or making music to cope with their feelings during the Covid-19 pandemic.The study was carried out based on responses of 5,000 people from India, Germany, France, Great Britain, Italy, and the US through an online survey during the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic between mid-April and mid-May 2020. More than half the respondents reported using music to cope with emotional and social stressors.“It’s worth noting that music itself wasn’t the coping aid, but rather, music-related behaviour, specifically the ways people have adapted their musical behaviours during the crisis,” Melanie Wald-Fuhrmann, director of the Max Planck Institute for Empirical Aesthetics that conducted the study, said in a media statement. “In this regard, music listening and music-making appear to provide different coping potentials,” she added.Also Watch | Delhi: How widespread is Delta variant in 2nd wave? Health minister reveals During the lockdown, people used music mainly to positively influence their individual emotional valence and arousal levels, the study stated. “The top ten functions that increased most in importance for listening and making music all point towards mitigating negative states and emotions and boosting positive ones, most importantly via enjoyment in music itself.”Mumbai based psychiatrist Dr Sagar Mundada (not involved with the study) agreed that music can play a key role in coping with stress and anxiety. “I have often recommended calming music with instruments such as flute or violin to my patients with anxiety and sleep disorders,” said Mundada. “In simple terms, the brains of these patients are continuously emitting high-frequency waves. Music helps calm them down and reduce this frequency. It acts as a supplement to the medication in mild cases,” he said.The pandemic and the ensuing lockdown has resulted in a spurt in cases of phobia, anxiety and sleep disorders. “When recommending music as a supplement, one must ensure that the patient is fond of music. I don’t recommend it to patients who have no interest in music,” said Mundada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/music-helped-people-cope-with-covid-19-stress-study-101628651308088.html
11-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Bihar seeks deployment of Rapid Action Force during Muharram||Bihar on Tuesday sought at least four companies (around 400 personnel) of Rapid Action Force (RAF) from the Union home ministry for deployment during Muharram even as the government has banned religious gatherings and processions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Officials cited communal tensions in the past for seeking the deployment of RAF personnel in Patna, Siwan, Darbhanga, and Bhagalpur.The state home department said the RAF personnel will be deployed at sensitive places of the state, where they will also conduct flag marches.Also Read | Bihar man, wanted in murder and extortion cases, arrested from north DelhiThe state police brass held and meeting with top officers posted across the state and instructed them to remain alert and prepared for any eventuality.Police have appealed to all communities to maintain communal harmony and issued a set of advisories for tackling any tensions or untoward situations.“There is no question of taking out processions as no permission has been issued,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-seeks-deployment-of-rapid-action-force-during-muharram-101628650768124.html
11-08-2021||India||Maharashtra mulls extending eatery, restaurant timings to 10pm||The Maharashtra Covid task force has given its go-ahead to the state government reopen malls and extend the timings for eateries and restaurants. The task force is preparing a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the state to allow reopening of malls and extend timings of eateries and restaurants beyond the current 4pm. However, the final call will be taken by CM Uddhav Thackeray.On Tuesday, the state added 5,609 fresh Covid cases, taking the tally to 6,363,442. It added 137 fatalities, pushing the toll to 134,201. The active case count in the state stood at 66,123. Mumbai added 239 fresh cases and five fatalities, taking its total to 737,954 and toll to 15,959, respectively. Active cases in Mumbai stood at 4,501. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 179,402 samples, and had a positivity rate of 3.12%. Positivity rate is the percentage of tests returning positive out of the total tests done for an infection.Also Read | Covid-19: Schools closed till August 22 in Himachal Pradesh“The SOP to reopen malls and allow restaurants and eateries to operate till 10pm is being prepared. The task force said mall employees, workers in the shops have to be double vaccinated. A mechanism on who will be allowed inside malls is being worked out. The chief minister will take a call once the SOP is submitted,” an official said, requesting anonymity. Task force chief Dr Sanjay Oak refused to comment on the development.Mumbai and Mumbai Metropolitan Region collectively added 707 new cases and reported 19 deaths. A chunk of infections on Tuesday were reported from Ahmednagar, Pune, Solapur, Satara, Kolhapur, Sangli Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri districts. Collectively, the eight districts and urban (municipal corporation) areas added 4,326 fresh cases and 97 fatalities. These areas contributed 77.12% of the total cases and 70.8% of the fatalities reported on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-mulls-extending-eatery-restaurant-timings-to-10pm-101628650468144.html
11-08-2021||India||Widespread, heavy rain likely over N-E for 4-5 days: IMD||Heavy and widespread rain is likely over northeastern states, east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand for the next 4-5 days while subdued rainfall is likely over northwest India, according to India Meteorological Department.Eastern end of the monsoon trough continues running close to the foothills of the Himalayas while the western end is running north of its normal position. A cyclonic circulation is lying over Bihar and extends up to mid-tropospheric levels.Under the influence of these systems, current widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely to continue over northeast and Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during the next five days. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) is also likely over Assam & Meghalaya during August 10 and 13.Also Read | Delhi enters its second break monsoon phase, no rain likely till Aug 16: IMDFairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rain is likely to continue over East Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal during the next 4-5 days. Very heavy rain over Bihar is likely till Wednesday.Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls is very likely over Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday and Thursday.Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall is likely over Tamil Nadu and Kerala during the next five days with isolated heavy rain likely over Tamil Nadu during the next five days and over Kerala during the next two days. Subdued rainfall is likely over the rest of northwest India (Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan), adjoining central India and most parts of Peninsular India(outside Tamil Nadu and Kerala), including Maharashtra and Gujarat.Moderate to severe thunderstorm accompanied by cloud to ground lightning is very likely at isolated places over Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-heavy-rain-likely-over-n-e-india-for-4-5-days-101628649808094.html
11-08-2021||India||PM Modi to address CII annual meeting today. Details here||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) annual meeting on Wednesday (August 11). The address will take place at 4.30pm via video conferencing, confirmed former Union minister Dr Harsh Vardhan from his official Twitter handle on this day.The meeting, which is being held over a span of two days - Wednesday and Thursday - will also have an address by special international guest speaker Heng Swee Keat, who is the deputy prime minister of Singapore and also the coordinating minister for economic policies of the country.Hon’ble PM Sh @narendramodi Ji will address @FollowCII Annual Meeting at 4:30 PM, today.@PMOIndiaWatch Live !▫️https://t.co/zsWCYml5dJ▫️https://t.co/fJImeR9axx▫️https://t.co/OPeFB5gIQZ pic.twitter.com/NleMWUeK5CShri Narendra Modi, Hon'ble Prime Minister of India, will address the #CIIAnnualSession2021 on the theme 'India@75: Government and Business Working Together for Aatmanirbhar Bharat,' on 11 August 2021. @narendramodi @PMOIndia #AatmanirbharBharat #IndiaAt75 #CII4India pic.twitter.com/pIsDR9GjJbThe CII Annual Meeting 2021 will see the participation of many ministers, senior officials, academics, and prominent representatives of India, according to a post on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's official website earlier this week.The theme for the CII Annual Meeting 2021 is 'India@75: Government and Business working together for Aatmanirbhar Bharat'. The meeting comes days ahead of August 15, when the country celebrates its 75th Independence Day.Meanwhile, it was reported that the CII has decided to work along with the Serum Institute of India (SII) for the purpose of expanding the scope of the nationwide vaccination drive against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Serum Institute has agreed to provide additional complimentary vaccines under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative to the pan-India Covid-19 vaccination programme.The CII, founded in 1895, is a non-governmental trade association and advocacy group that "engages in academic, business, political and other leaders of the society to shape regional, global, and industry agendas". The CII is a membership-based organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-cii-annual-meeting-2021-this-evening-details-here-101628647788567.html
11-08-2021||India||DCGI accepts proposal to study mixing of Covid-19 vaccine doses||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has accepted a proposal that a research be conducted to analyse mixing a dose each of the two vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Covaxin and Covishield. "Permission has been granted for research study at CMC Vellore on mixing of vaccine doses," news agency ANI quoted Dr VK Paul, Niti Aayog, as saying.Permission has been granted for a research study by CMC Vellore (Tamil Nadu) on mixing of vaccines doses: Dr V K Paul, Niti Aayog during a press briefing on Tuesday pic.twitter.com/QogE9UwBWzThe Subjects Experts Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) had, on July 29, recommended that a study be conducted in this regard at Christian Medical College (CMC) in Vellore in the southern state. The proposed trial will see 300 volunteers being administered a dose each of Covaxin and Covishield.Also Read | Expert panel recommends trials on mixing Covid-19 vaccines - Covaxin, CovishieldThe study will aim to determine whether two different vaccine doses could be administered for a person to be fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease, instead of the existing practice of administering twin shots of the same vaccine.The exercise, however, is different from a recent research conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) which concluded that combining two different shots is “safe and effective.” The ICMR research had analysed an “accidental” mixing of Covishield and Covaxin in a village in Uttar Pradesh, in May. The incident saw recipients being administered Covaxin as second dose, six weeks after they received Covishield as first. On analysing this, the ICMR found that “combining two different Covid-19 vaccines gives better immune response than two doses of the same vaccine.”Also Read | Mixing shots safe and effective: StudyExperts, including top virologist Dr Gagandeep Kang, see combining two different vaccines as a way to tackle vaccine shortage, though they also warn that more studies are needed to reach a definitive conclusion to determine the efficacy of this method in preventing Covid-19. Dr Kang, incidentally, is a professor at CMC Vellore.Also Read | Mixing of vaccines could tackle shortage but more studies needed, says Dr KangCovaxin and Covishield are the first two vaccines which were approved by the DCGI for the nationwide inoculation drive, which began on January 16. Covaxin, developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited, is India’s first and thus far only indigenous anti-Covid shot. The Oxford University-AstraZeneca shot, on the other hand, is being manufactured locally as Covishield by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII). Besides these, three other vaccines, too, have been approved by the DCGI to be used in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dcgi-accepts-proposal-to-study-mixing-of-covid-19-vaccine-doses-report-101628648282031.html
11-08-2021||India||Telangana: Ex-BJP leader found dead in burnt car's trunk||V Srinivas Prasad, former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) district vice-president and businessman, was found dead in his burnt car's trunk in Telangana's Medak district on Tuesday, police said. According to the superintendent of police of the district, few accused persons set Srinivas on fire along with his car in the early hours of the day."After receiving information about the fire, we have noticed that Srinivas' body was lying in the car's trunk. The accused have set Srinivas along with his car on fire," said Chandana Deepti, IPS.As the probe is still on, the corpse has been shifted to the local government hospital for post -mortem examination. A case has been registered under Section 302 of the Indian penal code (IPC). Further information is awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-ex-bjp-leader-found-dead-in-burnt-car-s-trunk-101628646536307.html
11-08-2021||India||Isro all set to launch GISAT-1 Earth observation satellite tomorrow, countdown begins||Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) informed early on Wednesday morning that countdown has begun for the launch of the GSLV-F10 EOS-03 mission. The geosynchronous satellite launch vehicle (GSLV) is scheduled to launch the Earth observation satellite (EOS) - GISAT-1 at 5:43am tomorrow (i.e. on Thursday, August 12) from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) at Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh. The launch, which the country is eagerly looking forward to ahead of Independence Day, is, however, subject to weather conditions, the national space agency has warned.Also Read | Isro to launch GISAT-1 in less than 24 hours, a game-changer for India: 10 points"Countdown for the launch of GSLV-F10/EOS-03 mission commenced today at 0343Hrs (IST) from Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) SHAR, Sriharikota," tweeted Isro from its official handle on the microblogging website. The post included a photo of the GSLV-F10 mission, with the rocket decked at the Sriharikota spaceport waiting for its lift-off tomorrow. Hours later, the space agency informed that the filling of oxidiser for the second stage (GS2) of GSLV-F10 has been completed, while the filling of propellant for the aforementioned second stage has commenced.Countdown for the launch of GSLV-F10/EOS-03 mission commenced today at 0343Hrs (IST) from Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) SHAR, Sriharikota#GSLVF10 #EOS03 #ISRO pic.twitter.com/ICzSfTHMBIFilling of the oxidizer for the second stage (GS2) of GSLV-F10 completed#GSLVF10 #EOS03 #ISRO Stay tuned for more updates...Filling of propellant for the second stage (GS2) of GSLV-F10 commenced.#GSLVF10 #E0S03 #ISROThe GSLV-F10 mission carries a geo-imaging satellite GISAT-1. Once in orbit around the Earth, it is expected to essentially be India's "eye in the sky", monitoring locations of interest while appearing motionless in space (since it will travel at the rate of rotation of the planet). The geosynchronous satellite will also help India monitor and respond to natural disasters and any other short-term events at an alarming pace, according to officials of the space agency familiar with the matter.Also Read | Isro to launch EOS 3 aboard GSLV Mk III in its first flight since Chandrayaan-2Moreover, the GISAT-1 satellite will also obtain spectral signatures for agriculture, forestry, mineralogy, cloud properties, snow and glaciers, and oceanography, read an official bulletin from Isro detailing the mission description and the targeted transfer orbit.This is the fourteenth flight of the geosynchronous satellite launch vehicle. In a first, Isro is sending an Ogive-shaped payload measuring a diameter of 4 metres this time.Isro said that EOS-03, the 2,268-kg state-of-the-art agile Earth observation satellite, will be placed by the launch vehicle in Geosynchronous Transfer Orbit. Subsequently, the satellite will reach the final geostationary orbit using its onboard propulsion system, officials said.Also Read | Isro to expand reach of navigation system globally: New draft policyJitendra Singh, the Union minister of state (MoS) in charge of the department of space, had confirmed earlier this week in the Lok Sabha that the Earth Observation Satellite-03 is scheduled to be launched on August 12. PSLV-C52 is also scheduled to launch EOS-04, another Earth observation satellite, in the third quarter of 2021, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-gisat-1-earth-observation-satellite-launch-tomorrow-countdown-begins-101628643690263.html
11-08-2021||India||10 civilians hurt in Srinagar grenade attack||At least 10 civilians were injured in a grenade attack by suspected terrorists in Srinagar on Tuesday, officials said.The terrorists attempted to hurl the grenade towards a bunker vehicle of paramilitary SSB forces and it exploded on the side of a road after hitting the vehicle at Hari Singh High Street in the city centre, officials.The area remains very busy owing to congested business establishments and installations.“The SSB were the target of the grenade but there were no injuries to the security forces,” deputy inspector general, CRPF, Kishore Prasad told reporters.The explosion led to injuries to the passersby who were evacuated to Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) hospital.“We are treating ten people for splinter injuries,” said medical superintendent of SMHS hospital, Dr Kanwarjit Singh.Mostly the injuries are not grave but we are doing all the tests only then they will be discharged,” he said.Meanwhile, during a search operation, the police have apprehended a local journalist, Adil Farooq Bhat, and recovered a bag with two live grenades. He was earlier arrested in February 2019, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-civilians-hurt-in-srinagar-grenade-attack-101628644338895.html
11-08-2021||India||Twitter has complied with IT rules, says Centre||The Union government on Tuesday informed the Delhi high court that micro-blogging website Twitter is prima facie in compliance with the new Information Technology Rules, 2021 for appointing three-tier grievance redressal officers.Additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma, representing the Centre, told Justice Rekha Palli that resident grievance officer (RGO), chief compliance officer (CCO) and nodal contact officer (NCO) have been appointed in compliance with the law.He, however, said, “It would be better if our affidavit comes on record. The chief compliance officer, the nodal contact person and the resident grievance officer have been appointed and they (Twitter) are today in compliance with the law. That’s the email that I’ve received (from the instructing authority). It’s better to have an affidavit”.The submissions came while hearing a plea filed by lawyer Amit Acharya who had contended that IT Rules came into effect from February 25 and the Centre had given three months to every social media intermediary, including Twitter, to comply with them.However, the plea added that even after the lapse of the three-month period on May 25, till date no resident grievance officer has been appointed by Twitter to deal with complaints regarding tweets on its platform, due which, he could not take action against two alleged offensive tweets by Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Mohua Moitra and journalist Swati Chaturvedi.Twitter later disposed of his plea saying the tweets in question were not offensive according to its policies.On August 6, Twitter told the court it appointed Vinay Prakash, an Indian resident, as the RGO and CCO on August 4. It added that Shahin Komath has been employed as the NCO.However, the Centre said the position was “yet to be verified” and had sought time to recheck the same.Under Rule 3 of the new Rules, a social media intermediary must place a three-tier grievance redressal system and appoint a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer by May 25.On Tuesday, senior advocate Sajjan Poovayya told the court that their affidavit was “on record”.Following the submissions, the court granted time to the Centre to file an affidavit stating that Twitter has complied with the IT Rules.Poovayya said the appointed persons will work on a full-time basis and are fully capable of performing the functions in terms of the law.“Court gave us a long rope. Finally we have rectified the situation. We have permanent people occupying the position,” Poovayya submitted.On July 28, the court slammed Twitter for appointing CCO and RGO as a “contingent worker” while giving it last opportunity to comply with the new IT Rules “wholeheartedly”.Justice Palli had said it was “unacceptable” that the social media intermediary has not specified the third-party contractor via whom the services of the CCO and the RGO have been taken. The court had also expressed displeasure on the delay of appointment of nodal contact officer while taking strong exception to a contingent worker being hired as the RGO and CCO by Twitter.Twitter, in an affidavit filed on July 13, told the court it has appointed an Indian resident as the CCO and RGO whose services have been taken via a third-party contractor. However, they would perform they functions and duties as per applicable law, it said, adding that it would require two weeks to appoint a nodal contact officer through a third party.Twitter then asked for eight weeks to appoint the CCO, RGO and NCO as a direct employee and on a permanent basis.Centre and Twitter have been locking horns over the compliance of the IT Rules. Twitter had said it was committed to India as a vital market, but criticised the new IT rules and regulations, which it added, “Inhibit free, open public conversation”.Responding to the comments, the Centre said the messaging platform was levelling baseless and false allegations to defame India and dictating terms to the world’s largest democracy. The Centre added that only WhatsApp and Facebook have complied with the guidelines of appointing three separate officers for the grievance redressal.On July 22, the Union government informed the Rajya Sabha that even though Twitter was non-compliant of the IT Rules till May 26, it has subsequently appointed an RGO and CCO and submitted its first compliance report in June this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-has-complied-with-it-rules-says-centre-101628644099708.html
11-08-2021||India||Peace has returned to Assam, Mizoram: Himanta Biswa Sarma||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma speaks to Hindustan Times about the border dispute with Mizoram and the efforts that were made to ease tensions.Is the peace arrangement you have with Mizoram lasting?My ministers visited Aizawl and after that meeting, we issued a joint press release whose operative part was that no state will deploy their police forces at the border and they will try to resolve all the disputes peacefully. Second, both states have decided that CRPF will be at the border till we come to certain solutions. With these two statements, I think peace has returned and vehicular movement has resumed. You cannot keep on fighting with your sister state and I hope peace will be lasting.You met the home minister and the Prime Minister. What did they say about handling the situation?A) First of all, the home minister was involved from day one. When clashes broke out, it was he who advised me to hand over that police post to CRPF. On that day, he called both of us 4-5 times, so we handed over the disputed post’s force in our possession to CRPF. Initially, the post was with the Mizoram police, then the post was reclaimed by us because we consider it our territory. Then, on the home minister’s advice, we handed the post back to the CM and then Mizo police also entered in that police post. The home minister said “chhor do” (leave it) because, after all, CRPF is there. He started playing that critical role from day one. Finally, he was talking to both of us through those 6-7 days and daily 2-3 times, advising and counselling us, understanding our points of view and finally, it was he who drafted the joint press release. So, it was home minister Amit Shah who hand-held the entire event.As far as the PM is concerned, I talked to him over the phone. He said “the country is pained when I see people of two states fighting, especially in the North-East”. The PM has taken so many initiatives to keep N-E away from the underdeveloped tag. So, it was out of respect to him that both state governments have decided to respect his sentiment and signed the peace statement.Could you explain the issue to us?The issue is very, very complex. For Assam, the 1932 boundary, which was ratified by an Act of Parliament, has become the constitutional boundary. Mizoram nurtured a sense of historical injustice. When the state was carved out in 1985, these were dense forests and people of both states weren’t going to these border areas. At that point in time, you could have defined which parts were south, north, etc. You didn’t do that and referred to a geographical territory which is vague, and same with Nagaland and Meghalaya. These are injustices done to the region as a whole. But there are sensitivities and if you transfer that territory, where will the people go? If you transfer them to Nagaland or Arunachal, they are tribal states where non-tribal cannot have land. So, for our people, this is a battle for everything. These are very intense conflicts and even when Kiren Rijiju was home minister (MoS) in 2014, he visited the Assam-Nagaland border where 13 people died. So, it keeps happening every 4-5 years. On 26th July, I had to settle with three states; there was conflict with Mizoram, there was a problem at the Meghalaya border, there was a problem at Arunachal Pradesh and, at the same time, also with Nagaland. In all four states, at the same time, police were eyeball-to-eyeball.You say it is a legacy problem, but you have now been in government for two tenures in Assam. You can’t blame everything on the last 70 years?You cannot solve it. Habitation has come and Mizoram and Nagaland have protection against Article 370. So there are various issues involved there and if you try to solve it, there will be eruption. Today, we are trying to solve the problem in Meghalaya, and every day, there are disturbances. There was a chance when you carved out the state, but you missed that bus. In India, so far, no interstate dispute has been resolved except a small portion of land in Belgaum. It's not easy. It may be easy to advise but not easy to execute.The way you describe it, it sounds almost as fractious as the situation in the Valley.Ours is not comparable as people are not against India. It is a conflict between two states, both loyal to India and both look at Centre for mediation. The Supreme Court has tried to resolve it, but it could not be done. Home minister Amit Shah in Shillong advised us, that when India enters into the 75th year of Independence, you need to resolve at least some dispute to show work between some states through formal or informal negotiation. Something had taken proper shape but while the process was on, the unfortunate clash happened. Between July 26 and 28, I handled with colleagues like Conrad to not make it an issue right now.So, with three states, you managed to handle the situation but one remained (Mizoram)?Even that one has gradually come down.You spoke to Arunachal CM Pema Khandu, Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma, but not to Mizoram CM Zoramthanga?On July 26, I called him 8 times. He kept saying we will call back. I also kept reverting so if you look at my call logs of that day, you will see our interactions. When firing was going on, we were both just talking on the phone. I told him “look, my men have died”. Zoramthanga said “so sorry, how could it happen?” So when these things were going on from 11am to 5pm, we called each other 8 or more times.So the impression of you interacting only on social media is wrong? No, we were on the phone – the home Minister, Zoramthanga and I. We were all on the line at different times. The home minister called me to say: “Himanta, dekho, aage mat jaane do (Don't let them advance)”. Then I told Zoramthanga: “Firing ho gayi hai, abhi rukwana zaroori hai (firing has happened, we should stop them now)”. I called my DGP: “Bhai rukwao (make them stop)”. Between us, there was communication even when firing was on. We were talking and not through Twitter. Even after that, every day we talk.How does the police force of a particular state turn against another with machine guns?When there was conflict in 1989 between Assam and Nagaland, we lost many lives but we never saw those dead bodies. So these are very, very intense disputes. Today, we are fortunate we could resolve it in six days.How did they have machine guns though?It is called LMG (light machine guns) and they have it on both sides at the border in the North-East and between borders of two states.One of the new ministers who is from the BJP announced in Meghalaya that if they were voted to power there, they would bring in inner line permit in the state (ILP). Is that the party line?There are demands in Meghalaya, and the BJP has also made that demand. When the home minister visited Shillong, a memorandum was submitted and so the Centre and state will discuss. There are demands in Assam, too, but there is also opposition there. We feel that if we have ILP there, then our process of industrialisation will be stalled and tourism will be affected.As CM, you have taken quite a strident position vis-à-vis Hindutva. Do you think that Mizoram backlash is linked to that?I don't think that any policy I take for Assam will have any impact in other states. We banned transportation of cattle but we inserted a provision that other states can take cattle with a transit pass. Whatever we do in Assam, we take care of the sensitivity of other states. If there is any misgiving, I think it is unfounded.Finally, I know that you also had a meeting with national security adviser Ajit Doval. Can you tell us what that was about?In Assam, lower and middle regions are free of militants. If we resolve the ULFA issue, then Assam will see final lasting peace. I have appealed to them to extend their unilateral ceasefire by another three months. Meanwhile, I am speaking to the Centre about what we can offer. Paresh Barua has been in that organisation since 1982 and is now 65 years old. He fought for a cause his whole life and so bringing him back is not very simple. I believe that somehow, if I could ensure some agreement, some peace between Centre and ULFA, then Assam will go to a different level. My friends are talking to Barua and I am attempting for this. Whether it will become a reality, I don’t know. His stated line is that he won’t discuss anything but sovereignty, and I have told him that we can discuss everything except that. Having said that, both sides should agree for some discussion and a common ground is Assam. This won't happen immediately but people are talking to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peace-has-returned-to-assam-mizoram-himanta-biswa-sarma-101628642801858.html
11-08-2021||India||Kerala to allow shops in malls to reopen from today, Covid-19 norms mandatory||Even amid a recent surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Kerala, the Pinarayi Vijayan-led state government has allowed the reopening of shops in malls starting today (i.e. Wednesday, August 11). These shops will reopen in accordance with the guidelines issued for other shops and commercial establishments, requiring adherence to all necessary pandemic-related protocols. According to a government order, officials deployed at entry points of the mall shall need to ensure adherence to all Covid-19-related norms, including the wearing of masks, application of hand sanitisers, and maintenance of social distancing and temperature checks.Also Read | RT-PCR test report mandatory for buying liquor from shops in KeralaShops, markets, banks, offices, factories, tourist spaces, and other, financial, commercial, and industrial establishments in Kerala can presently function six days a week from Monday to Saturday, according to the latest guidelines issued last Wednesday by the state government. "The weekend lockdown will be imposed only on Sundays," Kerala health minister Veena George was quoted as saying. "Shop timings will be from 7am to 9pm for six days in a week; a maximum of 20 persons will be allowed in weddings and funerals."The order allowing the reopening of malls came as a follow-up on Sunday to the earlier directions.Kerala is also looking to deploy special teams under the jurisdiction of the district collectors to "monitor the effective functioning" of the rapid response teams (RRTs), according to the government order. These special teams shall also ensure that the RRTs significantly strengthen surveillance and contact tracing, it added.Also Read | 15,000 Covid reinfections in Kerala district? 10 findings of Central teamCovid-19 cases in Kerala have been surging in the recent weeks, with the test positivity rate reaching the highest in three months on Tuesday. The state, which is now contributing more than 50 per cent of the country's daily caseload, reported as many as 21,119 new Covid-19 infections and a test positivity rate of 15.91 yesterday. The government has also warned of imposing a 'triple lockdown' if there is a sudden spurt in the number of cases in any area.Kerala had earlier mandated vaccination for visiting any shops, an order which drew considerable flak from the opposition. The government later clarified that those who are yet to get vaccinated against Covid-19 or cannot take the vaccine due to drug allergy or other ailments can move out of their houses for essential activities like purchase of food items, including grocery, dairy, and meat products if there are no other persons in the household who have been vaccinated or have a negative RT-PCR report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-allow-shops-in-malls-to-reopen-from-today-covid-19-norms-mandatory-101628640894703.html
11-08-2021||India||Punjab CM meets Sonia Gandhi in Delhi||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday met Congress president Sonia Gandhi for the first time since the elevation of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the party’s state unit chief, with the two discussing issues relating to crucial work needed to be done before next year’s elections and the continuing criticism of the government from within the party.After the meeting, the All India Congress Committee general secretary incharge of Punjab affairs, Harish Rawat, said that Singh informed the Congress president about the action initiated by the state government on an 18-point agenda set by the central leadership. Rawat added that there was no discussion on cabinet reshuffle.Rawat said Gandhi advised the state government and the party organisation to work together. “The Congress president also asked me to ensure that both (Singh and Sidhu) work within their respective limits, but cooperate with each other,” he told journalists on continued factionalism in the state unit. “Met @INCIndia president #SoniaGandhi ji in Delhi this evening to discuss various state related issues. Spent an extremely satisfying one hour with her,” the chief minister said in a Twitter post.Singh calls on Shah, seeks repeal of 3 farm lawsThe Punjab CM also called on Union home minister Amit Shah and urged him to repeal the three farm laws, citing social, economic and security implications of a prolonged farmers’ agitation. “While these protests have so far been largely peaceful, one can sense rising tempers, especially as the state moves towards elections in early 2022,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-meets-sonia-gandhi-in-delhi-101628640913336.html
11-08-2021||India||HC nod a must to drop cases on politicians: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued directions that no criminal case against MPs or MLAs can be withdrawn without an approval of the high court of the concerned state, in a move that significantly clips the powers of the state governments at a time when the top court has expressed grave concern over the criminalisation of politics.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, said that the direction has to be issued urgently in view of a report by the amicus curiae (lawyer to assist the court) depicting several instances where state governments sought to drop charges against sitting and former legislators.“We deem it appropriate to direct that no prosecution against a sitting or former MPs or MLAs shall be withdrawn without the leave of the high court,” ordered the bench, which also included justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant, in a virtual clampdown on misuse of power by the state governments under Section 321 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) that authorises a prosecutor to seek withdrawal of a criminal case against the accused.On the same day, another bench, comprising justices Rohinton F Nariman and BR Gavai, warned that the nation is “losing its patience” in waiting for lawmakers to cleanse politics by making stronger laws to keep out those with criminal antecedents.Imposing monetary penalty on all major political parties for flouting its directives on disclosure of information about criminal background of their candidates during the 2020 Bihar assembly polls, this bench, in a separate judgment, exhorted lawmakers to “wake up from their deep slumber” to weed out the malignancy of criminalisation in politics.Meanwhile, the CJI-led bench cited its earlier order on September 16, 2020, by which the high courts were asked to register suo motu (on its own motion) writ petitions to monitor trials against MPs and MLAs, and asked them to examine the cases of withdrawals, whether pending or disposed of, since September 16, 2020.Referring to a July 28-judgment by the top court in which the Kerala government’s move to withdraw cases against some of state’s sitting and former MLAs was snubbed, the bench emphasised: “The power under Section 321, CrPC, is a responsibility which is to be utilised in public interest, and cannot be used for extraneous and political considerations. This power is required to be utilised with utmost good faith to serve the larger public interest.”The court further directed that all trial judges hearing the criminal cases against MPs and MLAs in special courts shall continue in their present posts till its further orders. To this end, the registrar general of all 25 high courts were asked to submit details of judges hearing such cases in the special courts, status of pendency, judgments delivered, and other details.The directions were issued while hearing a plea filed by advocate Ashwini Upadhyaya, who cited staggering pendency of criminal cases against MPs and MLAs and sought their expeditious disposal by setting up special courts.Amicus curiae senior advocate Vijay Hansaria, assisted by advocate Sneha Kalita, implored the bench that no prosecution should be allowed to be withdrawn under Section 321, CrPC, against a sitting or former member of Parliament or a member of legislative assembly/council without the permission of the high court.Hansaria listed out instances from Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Maharashtra where orders under Section 321 CrPC were issued.In Karnataka, a government order sought to withdraw 61 criminal cases, many of which were filed against sitting MLAs of the state. Uttar Pradesh similarly chose to withdraw prosecution last year against political leader Sadhvi Prachi and three sitting MLAs – Sangeet Som, Suresh Rana and Kapil Dev -- for making inflammatory statements during the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. The amicus cited news reports to state that withdrawal of prosecution was applicable to 76 criminal cases related to the riots.Another report from Maharashtra indicated that the state government decided in December last year to withdraw political cases against activists registered prior to December 31, 2019.In June, the Andhra Pradesh high court took suo motu cognisance of 11 separate orders passed by various magistrates allowing withdrawal of prosecution in criminal cases pending against chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy. This case, however, was not cited by the amicus in his report.According to an analysis of candidate affidavits by the not-for-profit Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), the share of MPs with declared criminal cases against them has been increasing in the last decade. It stood at 30% in 2009 and 43% in 2019.Hansaria relied on the July 28 judgment that legislators do not have immunity from criminal law while clearing the decks for the prosecution of some of Kerala’s sitting and former MLAs who threw furniture and destroyed computers and microphones during a House proceeding in 2015.During the proceedings, the court also pulled up the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for not submitting details of cases the agency is prosecuting against MPs and MLAs. The bench read out its orders since September 2020 when the CBI was repeatedly asked to submit a status report but to no avail.“We have no words now. We have already said everything we could. We have to only presume certain things now... We asked the government of India about their seriousness and we were told that the government is very much serious about completion of trials against MPs and MLAs but there is nothing you have done. We can say this much,” it told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for CBI.On his part, the S-G said that the government was committed to expeditious completion of trials against the elected representatives and asked for a final opportunity to file the report.“We are giving you the last opportunity. If you don’t do it now, we will assume you have nothing to say,” retorted the bench as it fixed August 25 as the next date of hearing.The CJI also indicated that a special bench will be constituted to regularly monitor the progress made in ensuring speedy trials of MPs and MLAs, in which there is already a direction of the top court in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-nod-a-must-to-drop-cases-on-politicians-supreme-court-101628639130319.html
11-08-2021||India||HC asks Centre to respond to state’s request for 3.5 mn vaccines per week||Bengaluru: The Karnataka high court on Tuesday directed the Government of India to consider state’s request for 3.5 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine per week. The direction came after the Karnataka government submitted before the court that the state would be able to provide vaccination to all beneficiaries within three months if 3.5 million doses of vaccines are provided to the state every week. The state claimed that the government is capable of vaccinating 500,000 people per day and the demand for 3.5 million vaccination per day is based on this calculation. The state stated that as of August 5, the government has received a total of 20.7 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines, out of which 204,000 doses are Covishield and 3.49 million are that of Covaxin. It is also said that the total eligible beneficiaries in the state who are above 18 years of age are 40.9 million and the total doses administered as of August 5, are 30.2 million. A division bench of Chief Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar said, “If some state government is able to achieve the tall target, the Government of India shall welcome that and assist it.” The court suggested that, “There is no clarity on the effectiveness of Covaxin and Covishiled, if the vaccines are effective for a limited period, necessary provisions shall be made for providing further doses in the action plan.” The court also directed the Government of India to respond on this point. Meanwhile, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday gave a slew of directions to the police including maintaining a tight vigil in the districts bordering neighbouring states where the Covid-19 cases are on the rise. He also directed them to have zero tolerance towards crime and crack down on drug cases. Hailing the police force in the state for their exemplary work during a review meeting at the Vidhana Soudha, Bommai directed the officials to create a peaceful environment in the state. The chief minister also laid emphasis on containing Covid-19 to avoid the third wave. “Action has to be taken to prevent the possible Covid third wave. Precautions have to be taken at the border districts. Senior officers will have to work more responsibly. Inspection at the check posts in borders will be mandatory,” a statement issued by the chief minister’s office said. Revenue minister R Ashok, in charge of pandemic management in Bengaluru on Monday, said tough measures to control the spread of the virus will be imposed in the city after August 15. When questioned whether this would mean weekend curfews and closure of economic activity, he said nothing can be ruled out and decisions will be taken based on the evolving situation. “The vaccination rate in the city is good, which we hope will reduce the number of hospitalisations and deaths in the city, even if the cases shoot up,” he said.Meanwhile, after restrictions on people arriving from Kerala, the Chamarajanagar district administration has now made it mandatory for travellers from Tamil Nadu to furnish negative Covid-19 reports that are not older than 72 hours at the time of arrival. The decision comes in the wake of fresh cases rising in the neighbouring state. The negative report rule for travellers from Tamil Nadu will kick in from Sunday. Chamarajanagar district administration has intensified screening of people at Punajanur checkpost, Naal Road near Ardhanipura and the checkpost at Palar in Hanur taluk on the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border. Travellers who do not submit Covid-19 negative reports on arrival will be turned back. The rule also applies to drivers of vehicles carrying fruit and vegetables and other essential commodities between the states. However, those who have been fully vaccinated (both doses) are exempted, but they must produce their vaccination certificate at the border to enter. Health authorities are also thermal screening travellers at check-posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-asks-centre-to-respond-to-state-s-request-for-3-5-mn-vaccines-per-week-101628624543703.html
11-08-2021||India||Will CM Bommai continue on the path followed by BSY in K’taka?||In the first week of April 2020, former Karnataka chief minister and one of the founding members of the BJP in the state, BS Yediyurappa, was trolled by several right-wing social media accounts. The reason for the outrage was Yediyurappa’s statement in support of the Muslim community. “Nobody should speak a word against Muslims. This is a warning. If anyone blames the entire Muslim community for some isolated incident, I’ll act against them also without a second thought. Will not allow that to happen,” he said on April 6, 2020, against the hate campaign targeting the state’s Muslim community over the Covid pandemic and Tablighi Jamaat event held in Delhi in April 2020,which turned into a super-spreader. Despite being one of the oldest members of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) in the state, the perception remained that Yediyurappa didn’t represent the right-wing ideology of the party. With his exit from chief minister’s post, the question remains whether this would make way for more right-wing influenced policies in the state, especially since BJP leaders in Karnataka have proposed a law against inter-faith marriages (termed love jihad by RSS) and population control laws, which are perceived as anti-minority, or a softer BJP, which Yediyurappa showcased, would continue. Experts and party insiders say that Yediyurappa’s presence didn’t make a big impact on the implementation of the BJP’s right-wing agenda. “I really don’t understand the notion that Yediyurappa is secular. If he was secular, how did the anti-cow slaughter bill go through? You are talking about an instance where he spoke for the Muslim community during the Tablighi (Jamaat) incident. Did you know Karnataka registered the highest number of sedition cases, most of them against the minorities, during Yediyurappa’s time?” asked a Bengaluru-based lawyer, who didn’t want to be named. A senior bureaucrat who worked with Yediyurappa, disagreed and said that the former chief minister indeed had more secular ideas compared to the RSS faction of the party. However, he added that he didn’t take a stand against the RSS at any point. “Let us look at the Mangaluru incident. During the anti-CAA (Citizenship Amazement Act) three people were shot dead (on December 19, 2019). Yediyurappa’s initial reaction was to reach out to a member of the (Muslim) community to bring the situation under control. He even announced a compensation of ₹10 lakh,” pointed out a bureaucrat from Karnataka, who didn’t want to be named. He added that even though Yediyurappa’s first reaction may sound secular, it didn’t last long. “Within two days, the compensation offer was withdrawn. Even though he could have taken a stand when there was pressure on him, he listened to what he was told,” said the IAS officer. The difference between Yediyurappa and Basavaraj Bommai, according to political analyst A Narayana, is that Yediyurappa had a stature in the party to say no to policy decisions that came with a right-wing agenda. “It was not because it was a right-wing agenda or because he believed less in Hindutva. It is because he had a mind of his own and he didn’t like being told what to do. At the end of the day, he is an RSS man. Most importantly he was suspicious of everyone,” said Narayana. Bommai, whose rose from socialist ranks in Janata Dal and replaced Yediyurappa as chief minister, has been known to taking controversial, right-wing stances. During the anti-CAA protest in October 2019, Bommai had called the protestors traitors, and had announced that the state would undertake the controversial National Registry of Citizens (NRC) even before the central government announced it. “Unlike Yediyurappa, Bommai doesn’t have the stature to speak against a decision made by the RSS or the central high command. If Hindutva becomes a bigger campaign issue for the BJP in the upcoming elections, there wouldn’t be any resistance from Bommai in implementing any decisions,” said Narayana. However, those aware of the developments suspect Yediyurappa to be in charge despite the change in leadership and is likely to have a big say in how things play out in the state. The core-BJP legislators or those who identify closely with the saffron outfit’s Hindutva agenda have met with the central leadership even during Yediyurappa’s administration to demand that more bills like anti-love jihad law are introduced that are in line with the Sangh’s vision for the state, people aware of the developments said. Despite the experts and activists questioning Yediyurappa’s secular credentials, party insiders feel that Yediyurappa has largely remained a secular face when compared to his contemporaries like KS Eshwarappa, which is likely to make it harder for the Bommai government to introduce such bills, people aware of the developments said. Yediyurappa’s unwillingness to toe the line against minorities and disagreeing with provocative statements made by his own party men has also been one of the reasons why the 78-year-old was considered a misfit for BJP’s hardline and long-term vision for Karnataka and its other plans for southern India. “Yediyurappa was never into communal politics or seen to be siding with them like Eshwarappa,” said one north-Karnataka-based political analyst, requesting not to be named. Yediyurappa, the analyst, said was also forced to take a tough stance against Tipu Sultan Jayanthi celebrations which the former had earlier endorsed. He added that the BJP is unlikely to take risks to introduce more hardcore bills in a state where the political situation remains volatile and uncertain, especially since Yediyurappa has the influence to get legislators to back away from even bringing up such bills. “Yediyurappa has a way to get legislators, even those against him, to do what he wants them to do,” said another Bengaluru-based analyst, also requesting anonymity. The analyst was referring to the likes of Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal), the firebrand legislator and ardent critic of Yediyurappa, who tried to push for Hindutva but instead was seen as one of the leading forces of the Panchamasali, the largest sub-sect within the Lingayats, agitation seeking for better reservation status. Yediyurappa, like his counterparts in the Congress (Siddaramaiah) and Janata Dal (Secular) (HD Deve Gowda) are known to be coalition builders that have seen them almost rotate power among themselves without allowing Delhi to dictate terms in the state. The three leaders have struck regional alliances, with or without their respective high command’s approval, when convenient and have depended on each other for passage of bills and winning elections among others for mutual benefit. “In some ways, I think the new government will very much like to distance itself from the former chief minister and do it gradually and without ruffling of too many feathers,” Sandeep Shastri, a political commentator and psephologist said. He added that in Karnataka, the BJP has always had to walk a “tight-rope” and that a significant chunk of the BJP’s legislators (and Cabinet) comprises people who have come into the fold not more than a decade ago including Bommai, who joined the BJP only 13 years ago and have no strong roots with the ideological side of the party. Shasti added that the BJP will be more pragmatic given the nature of the composition of the state legislature party. “In a state assembly election, BJP have never been able to get a clear majority so they (BJP) would be more keen on strengthening their base in the state rather than doing anything else at this stage,” Shastri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-cm-bommai-continue-on-the-path-followed-by-bsy-in-ktaka-101628624423850.html
11-08-2021||India||CM Bommai bats for ‘a new vision’ for Bengaluru city||Bengaluru Taking a cue from his predecessors, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday too batted for Bengaluru saying that it requires a ‘new vision’. “A new vision for Bengaluru has to happen. Ongoing works should speed up, (should be) time-bound and efficient, and the factor of corruption shouldn’t be there. Only then can we do justice to the people or we won’t be able to meet people’s expectations,” Bommai said on Tuesday. The statements comes at a time when Bengaluru, one of India’s most industrious cities, continues to suffer on account of government apathy, maladministration and corruption in public works that has piled on the problems of its over 12 million residents. Bommai’s predecessor, Yediyurappa, launched the “Mission 2022” to beautify the central parts of Bengaluru, as an image building exercise, rather than fix the underlying problems of a city that aspires to be a global centre. Some of the biggest corporations in the world have a presence in Bengaluru, in sectors like Information Technology, start-ups, aerospace and biotechnology among others, but the city’s infrastructure has barely caught up with its economic prowess. Bommai said that all the ministers, legislators and officials’ views should be considered in trying to take the city forward. Most of Bengaluru’s roads are dug up and pose a threat to pedestrians and motorists, especially during monsoons when the roads turn slushy and slippery. Bommai said that action is being taken to bring Bengaluru city corporation under the Fiscal Responsibility Act to initiate projects based on the factual situation in BBMP.During the meeting, Bommai instructed officials to repair non-functional borewells, transform 3 lakh street lights into LED lights during weekends, repair damaged roads and also moored for a separate discussion to be held on establishment of separate Authority for the development, management and traffic management of 860 kms of arterial and sub-arterial roads.Bengaluru generates over half of the state’s income and also takes up a lion’s share of its expenditure, which has forced governments to continue its excessive focus on the city that has grown rapidly and in an unplanned manner over the last two decades. The excessive focus on Bengaluru has also led to regional imbalance in Karnataka. Although other states across India have similar problems where one or two urban centres get all the attention, the situation could not be more pronounced than in Karnataka where most parts of the arid and calamity-prone state get little or nothing in terms of expenditure. But despite getting thousands of crores in allocations every year, Bengaluru’s already inadequate infrastructure has been crumbling with poor quality of roads, unending traffic snarls, inefficient waste management, polluted lakes and dipping quality of air and water for its residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-bommai-bats-for-a-new-vision-for-bengaluru-city-101628624243702.html
11-08-2021||India||Eshwarappa courts controversy again, slams Cong leader with derogatory remark||Two days after making a controversial statement encouraging Bharatiya Janata Party workers to “hit back with the same strength” if any party worker is harmed, Karnataka minister KS Eshwarappa courted controversy again on Tuesday. While talking to the media, the minister used a derogatory term to describe Congress leaders. Moments after uttering the word, he apologized and asked the media not to play it up, however, the Congress party took strong objection to the minister’s statement. “...Why I am using this term is because they don’t have any idea what to utter and what to omit,” Eshwarappa, who holds the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj portfolio, said during the press briefing. Eshwarappa’s outburst came following a query from a journalist that someone from Congress had called him a joker. Responding to this, the minister said Congress leader Siddaramaiah had demanded that a Dalit leader should be made chief minister. “Since independence, the Congress had been in power but why they did not make any Dalit a chief minister. Should we give them any weightage?” Eshwarappa said. “Let them say now who is joker whether Congress, BJP or Eshwarappa?” he said. This statement began with the derogatory word. Taking strong exception, former chief minister Siddaramaiah described Eshwarappa as a man lacking culture. “Only a man without culture can use such words. Eshwarappa does not have culture,” Siddaramaiah told reporters in Mysuru on Tuesday. The minister’s outburst also drew a sharp reaction from senior Congress leader B K Hariprasad. “I appeal to health minister K Sudhakar to get Eshwarappa admitted to NIMHANS, the world-famous mental and neurological institute located in Bengaluru, at the earliest and get him the best treatment there,” Hariprasad said. The minister was in the news when he said during a party workers’ meet at Shivamogga on Sunday that the BJP workers could give back in equal measure when rivals attacked them. “Today, the BJP has grown the world over, and if a BJP worker is touched anywhere in any corner, the instruction is to hit back with the same stick. In the past, the decision was to stay calm at all costs... We have become very strong,” Eshwarappa had said. Defending his statement on Monday, Eshwarappa told reporters “Do we have to be silent even if our women are raped? Our cows are stolen and killed, and our youth assaulted and killed -- you want us to remain silent?” At the Sunday meeting, the minister also told party workers that there was a time when Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological mentor of the party, and BJP top leaders used to ask party workers “to stay calm at all costs”, but now the situation has changed. “... We had to be calm, irrespective of the situation and how much we were attacked. We did not have the strength.” Following this statement on Monday, a lawyer and RTI activist Bheemanagouda Paragonda has sent a letter to governor Thaawarchand Gehlot seeking action against Eshwarappa. The lawyer has also urged the Governor to remove Eshwarappa from the Cabinet and to direct the state government to initiate criminal proceedings against him. “The minister’s statements are not only immoral and uncivilized but also illegal, the complaint said. They violate criminal laws under IPC Sections 153 A and B, 295, 505, 509, and under the Cr.PC, the People’s Representation Act, and other laws,” the lawyer told the media on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eshwarappa-courts-controversy-again-slams-cong-leader-with-derogatory-remark-101628624063731.html
11-08-2021||India||SC grants bail to Azam Khan, son in forgery case||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted bail to senior Samajwadi Party leader and former Uttar Pradesh minister Azam Khan and his son, Mohammad Abdullah, in a forgery case and held that the duo will be released only after the trial court has recorded the statement of the complainant in the case. The court directed the trial court to complete this exercise within four weeks and file a compliance report before the top court.Khan and his son approached the top court after they were denied bail by the Allahabad high court in November 2020. The case against them was filed on the basis of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Akash Saxena’s complaint in 2019. Saxena has accused Azam Khan of obtaining forged identity documents such as a PAN card and Passport for his son to enable him to fight the 2017 assembly elections. A person needs to be aged above 25 to contest elections.The prosecution alleged that the original birth certificate of Abdullah showed his date of birth as January 1, 1993. But to be eligible to contest elections, he obtained a new birth certificate showing his date of birth as September 30, 1991. The charge sheet filed in the case accused the duo of forging PAN card and Passport to establish the changed date of birth.Appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government, additional solicitor general (ASG) SV Raju described Azam Khan as a “habitual forger” and cited a case of grabbing enemy property land using forged land records pending against him. In all, Azam Khan has 87 criminal cases pending against him while his son has 41 pending cases.In this particular case pertaining to offences of cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy punishable under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120B, the apex court noted that it was a fit case for bail as Azam Khan was arrested in this case in February 2020 and since then, investigation had been completed and charge sheet filed in May last year.The bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna said, “This is a case based on documentary evidence. Is it fair to keep a person in custody when there is evidence on both sides? Already the courts are overflowing with cases, and delay is a systematic problem unless you can assure that the trial will be completed within a fixed time.”Raju said the accused had moved an application seeking discharge in this case, which is listed on Wednesday before the trial court. He claimed that the “accused is influential, and witnesses are scared of him,” and sought protection for the complainant whose statement is yet to be recorded by the trial court.The bench in its order said, “We deem it appropriate to direct release of appellants on bail in connection with FIR 980/2019 after the statement of informant is recorded by the trial court.” The court asked the state to ensure the informant is produced in trial court on August 16 and directed the trial court to record his statement/evidence within four weeks and report compliance.The bench directed Khan and his son to extend full cooperation for the recording of evidence and asked them to abide by all strict conditions to be imposed by the trial court of not influencing witnesses or tampering with prosecution evidence.Senior advocates Kapil Sibal and S Wasim Qadri appeared for the two accused and argued that this was a case of “political vendetta” as multiple “cases were forged against the two accused without reason”. Sibal said that Khan has been granted bail in 85 out of 87 FIRs. “The manner in which the state is pursuing FIRs against the appellant shows they have no other work,” Sibal said, arguing that Section 219 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) allows common trial of similar offences against the same person.The bench asked ASG Raju, “The core issue in all these FIRs relates to date of birth. If you show that the second birth certificate is false, you will succeed. Multiplicity of evidence is not going to help you. Even the court system will be unnecessarily burdened. Why can’t you club the trials in all the FIRs into one.”The law officer sought time to take instructions in this regard even as he opposed saying that the accused and the nature of offence in all these cases are different. The court posted the matter after two weeks for consideration of this aspect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-grants-bail-to-azam-khan-son-in-forgery-case-101628623583783.html
11-08-2021||India||₹406 crore grains lost in storage: House panel||India lost ₹406 crore worth of grains procured by the government due to damage during storage in state-run granaries in the past three years, data cited in a parliamentary standing committee report has revealed.Besides, cereals worth ₹1.39 crore were stolen or pilfered between 2017 and 2021, data in the report shows.Operational norms assume there will be some loss while undertaking large procurement operations, but data cited in the parliamentary report shows the quantity of grains lost in storage exceeded the target set by the government.A rough calculation by HT, using tools in the website caloriecontrol.org, shows ₹406 crore worth of grains is sufficient to feed half of India’s Census-recorded 1.7 million homeless people on a bare minimum 1,200-calorie diet for a quarter.“The (food) Ministry further stated that during storage of foodgrains scientific code of practices for safe storage is followed. Inspite (sic) of all precautions, some quantity of foodgrains may get damaged/become non-issuable due to various reasons such as storage pests’ attack, leakages in godowns, procurement of poor quality stocks, exposure to rains, floods, negligence on the part of concerned persons in taking precautionary measures etc,” the parliamentary standing committee on food’s report on procurement and storage by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) said.Procurement refers to the government’s buying of cereals at benchmark minimum support prices from farmers.Foodgrains procured by the government are either stored on covered platforms or covered and plinth method of storage, where sacks of food are stockpiled on raised platforms, apart from silos.In 2019-20, the government targeted to limit losses to 0.07% of the total grains bought by it, while actual losses were higher at 0.10%. In percentage terms, the value looks small because the government procures large quantities, but in absolute terms, the quantities lost are significant.For instance, during 2019-20, slightly over 100,000 tonnes of wheat were lost in storage, while in 2020-21, another nearly 100,000 tonnes were spoiled.The government procured 86.9 million tonnes of paddy during 2020-21 and 43.3 million tonnes of wheat in the current year, which is the highest-ever quantity procured.“Physical measures like installation of barbed wire fencing of the boundary walls, provision of streetlights for illumination of godowns and proper locking of the sheds are taken to secure the godowns,” the report said.The FCI explained the loss. “The FCI has brought down the percentage of grains damaged or declared non-issuable (to consumers) considerably from about 0.047% in 2013-14. We maintain proper records of non-issuable grains. Some damage is inevitable due to natural moisture loss as a result of the long time difference between procurement and distribution,” an official overseeing procurement in the food agency said, requesting anonymity.According to the report, there are provisions for “strict disciplinary action” against FCI staff responsible for “unjustified losses” from FCI depots.“Where negligence is the cause, strict departmental action is taken after investigation,” the FCI official added.Dipa Sinha, a food security expert at Ambedkar University in Delhi found it shocking that the government has lost much grain that could have fed so many people. “The government should make the public distribution system universal and secure every grain it procures,” she said.In the 2020 Global Hunger Index, India ranked 94 among 107 countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-406-cr-grains-lost-in-storage-house-panel-101628621965249.html
11-08-2021||India||Centre rejects panel’s idea to try 16+ as adults under Pocso||The government has turned down the suggestion of the parliamentary panel on Home Affairs to charge as adults, those over the age of 16 involved in cases of child sexual assault, according to the action taken report tabled by the committee in Parliament on Tuesday.Anyone under the age of 18 is treated as a juvenile in India.The Ministry of Women and Child Development told the panel that the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, (JJ Act), 2015 is the primary legislation for children in need of care and protection (CNCP) and children in conflict with law. “Child accused of crime under POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act is protected under the provisions of JJ Act, 2015 based on principal of restorative justice. The JJ Act, 2015 empowers Juvenile Justice Board to decide upon matters of children in conflict with law,” the government said in its reply to the panel.The government’s position is that offences committed by children have been categorised as “petty, serious and heinous offences” and the provision to try them as adults already exists under the JJ Act. “The JJ Act, 2015 also includes procedure to decide upon cases where children above the age of sixteen years have been alleged to have committed a heinous offence.”Hindustan Times first reported on March 11 that the committee recommended the lowering of age from 18 years to 16 years for trying people as adults under the POCSO Act -- a move prompted by a desire to reverse the trend of increasing crimes against children, including some committed by juveniles. The committee noted that cases registered under POCSO rose from 32,608 in 2017 to 47,325 in 2019 , an increase of nearly 45% in two years , and made important recommendations to check cyber crime, improve the condition of sex workers and increase police accountability in cases of crimes against women.The recommendation caused much consternation among experts, who argued that reducing the age may end up penalizing consensual relationships between two minors.POCSO was enacted in 2012 to check mounting crimes against children and lists the maximum punishment as life imprisonment and death.The committee’s recommendation to set up a database of destitute women and children was well received by the government. “Ministry of Women and Child Development has taken note of the recommendation and would make endeavour for putting in place database in consultation with relevant central Ministries and States/ UTs,” the government has said in its response.And the education ministry is in the process of reviewing another recommendation on ensuring that school books are gender sensitive, and has suggested that the home and education ministries ask the states to do the same.“The committee notes the reply of the Ministry of Education that the Department of Gender Studies of NCERT is in the process of reviewing its textbooks from a gender perspective. The committee would like to be apprised about the changes made during the last five years in the textbooks to promote gender equality.”The panel’s March report also focused on criminals using Virtual Private Network (VPNs) – which allow a user to mask their location – to access the dark web, bypass cyber security walls and remain anonymous. It recommended that the Union government permanently identify and block such VPNs. In its action taken report, the panel has noted the incomplete reply of the minister of electronics and information technology. “No information has been provided on coordination mechanisms with international agencies to block VPNs permanently and initiatives taken/proposed to strengthen the tracking and surveillance mechanisms to put a check on the use of VPN and the dark web. The MHA may put its efforts in getting such information from MeitY and furnish the same to the Committee,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-rejects-panel-s-idea-to-try-16-as-adults-under-pocso-101628621842756.html
11-08-2021||India||PM Modi seeks details of BJP MPs who skipped RS voting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday sought details of lawmakers who were not present in Rajya Sabha on Monday when voting for a statutory resolution moved by several opposition MPs was held, a person aware of the details said.While addressing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentary party meeting, the prime minister took strong exception to the absence of certain lawmakers in the Upper House. The statutory resolution demanded that the tribunals reforms bill be sent to the select committee of the House. The resolution was put to vote and negated after only 44 MPs voted in favour of it and 79 against it. Modi asked parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi to submit the details of the missing MPs, the person quoted above said.“On earlier occasions too, the prime minister had instructed the MPs to remain present in the House. There is a standing instruction to be present when bills are taken up for passage. A whip has also been issued to the MPs to remain present in both the Houses this week as legislative business draws to a close,” a party functionary said, asking not to be named. At the meeting, Modi also asked the lawmakers to take up mass campaigns for eradication of malnutrition, encourage sports in their constituencies and create awareness about the golden card under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana. The card allows cashless treatment of the beneficiaries of the scheme, which was launched in 2018 to provide the poor free access to private healthcare. Modi said the lawmakers must ensure that social schemes aimed at providing nutrition are implemented on the ground, the first person quoted above said. After India’s performance in the Tokyo Olympics, Modi said there is a need to encourage the young to take up sports. “He said the MPs (members of Parliament) should ensure that there is provision for teaching games from the gram panchayat level upwards,” the person added. With seven medals, India recorded its highest ever tally in the Olympic Games.Union sports minister Anurag Thakur gave a presentation on India’s performance while his predecessor, Kiren Rijiju, who now holds the law portfolio, briefed lawmakers on the preparations for the event. The person cited above said external affairs minister S Jaishankar also made a presentation on the UNSC meeting. On Monday, Modi became the first Indian Prime Minister to preside over a meeting of the UNSC when he chaired an open debate on enhancing maritime security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-seeks-details-of-bjp-mps-who-skipped-rs-voting-101628621670006.html
11-08-2021||India||Reservation should continue as long as inequality exists: RSS gen secy||Calling caste-based reservation an instrument of affirmative action that has an important role to play in social justice and equality, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale said on Tuesday that reservation and reconciliation (among communities) have to go hand-in-hand. The RSS leader was speaking at the launch of a book, ‘Makers of Modern Dalit History’, authored by Guru Prakash Paswan and Sudarshan Ramabadran. There he said that the political, cultural, social and spiritual history of India will be incomplete and untrue without the Dalit contribution. Hosabale claimed his organisation and he himself are staunch supporters of caste-based reservation. He gave the example of western countries to buttress his argument. “...in Europe and America, there has been an effort at reconciliation on the part of the African blacks. Reservation and reconciliation both have to go hand-in-hand,” he said, adding that while reservation is a historical necessity, reconciliation is for the future. Hosabale also defended the Sangh from the charge levelled by opponents that it is against caste-based reservation in government jobs and educational institutions. He said the RSS has been at the forefront in denouncing casteism. “When we discuss the various aspects of the Dalit community and the Scheduled Tribe sections of the society, certain aspects invariably come to the fore. One of them is reservation. My organisation and I have been staunch supporters of reservation for decades. In 1980, when there was an anti-reservation movement on some campuses, we passed a resolution and organised a seminar in Patna,” Hosabale said.He said that the RSS has said “time and again” that “reservation is a historical necessity” and will be needed in India for many more decades as long as certain segments of the society experience any inequality. The RSS leader also referred to the sub-categorisation of castes within the Dalit community but said it is not for him to comment whether that is good or bad for society. “I stay in Uttar Pradesh and travel across the country, and I meet a lot of people across sections. I have felt… identity is not limited to Dalit itself; within Dalits, the question of identities is being deliberately raised by intellectuals. I am not saying whether I am for or against it; I am only making an observation. It is too early to say whether such a development is good for the society or not,” Hosabale said. The RSS functionary went on to say that social harmony and social justice are not political strategies but articles of faith for the Sangh. The RSS, which is the ideological fount of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, has been running samajik samarasta or social harmony campaigns to end discrimination on the basis of caste. The campaign had become the genesis for the BJP’s social engineering strategy where it aims to expand its base among the other backward castes that have been socially and economically deprived by giving them political representation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reservation-should-continue-as-long-as-inequality-exists-rss-gen-secy-101628621305609.html
11-08-2021||India||A science fair photo reunites sisters after 4 yrs in Hyderabad||Two orphan sisters, who were separated from their youngest sister in 2017, have been reunited after matching their DNA, officials said.A photo from a science fair and efforts of Hyderabad district officials and Telangana police helped the reunion. The 14-year-old and 12-year-old elder sisters finally stepped into a foster home in the city on Sunday along with their 8-year-old sister.The elder sisters were living with their father in Kukatpally while the youngest was living with her grandmother in Ameenpur. “After their father, a daily wage labourer, expired in 2017, locals handed over the two girls to an orphanage in Secunderabad,” said Akeshwar Rao, district welfare officer, Hyderabad, who played a key role in the reunion of the siblings.“Around the same time, their grandmother, who was begging in Ameenpur, passed away. The police found the eight-year-old roaming on the streets and shifted her to a CCI (child care institute) in that locality. In April 2020, she was shifted to a government-run social welfare institution in Ameerpet,” Rao said.The efforts to re-unite the girls started after the two elder sisters identified one of the girls in a picture as their younger sibling. “Earlier this year, we had a science fair. Some photos of the event were circulated to all the orphanages. This is when the two sisters told the caretakers that one of the girls in a photograph resembled their lost sister. On many occasions earlier, they had shared stories of their younger sister with their caretakers,” Rao said.“We checked the features mentioned by the girls about their sister. We then took the girl identified in the picture to meet the two. The eight-year-old was not able to recognise them.” The district welfare officer then requested Hyderabad collector Sweta Mohanty and commissioner of women development & child welfare D Divya to conduct a DNA test of all the girls, who gave their nod.“In a week’s time, DNA reports confirmed that three were sisters. We immediately shifted all the girls to the orphanage in Ameerpet last Sunday,” Rao said.“Every child in an orphanage craves for love and attention and the children are very happy to be reunited. They will soon be going to the same school,” he said.This is one of the many success stories of Telangana police who rescue children as part of Operation Muskaan. The initiative was launched in 2015 and so far over 22,000 children have been rescued from streets, factories and brick kilns. Special teams identify children from railway and bus stations, religious places and footpaths.Most of the kids, who hail from Odisha, Jharkhand and Nepal, are rescued and reunited with their families. The rest are sent to welfare or rescue homes. Two such drives were conducted in Hyderabad this year-- 388 children were rescued from the streets in January and 194 in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-science-fair-photo-reunites-sisters-after-4-yrs-in-hyderabad-101628621245251.html
11-08-2021||India||DMK govt’s first budget session from Aug 13 to Sept 21||The first budget session of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) regime will begin on August 13, with the presentation of the revised budget for 2021-2022 by the finance minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan and it will conclude on September 21. The demands for grants for each department will be discussed for 23 days.The Business Advisory Council meeting chaired by Speaker M Appavu on Tuesday decided on the long duration of the session. The session has several firsts. After the revised budget is presented, on the following day, the minister for agriculture M R K Panneerselvam will present an exclusive Agriculture Budget, a first for the state. “The debate on both budgets will take place together for four days from August 16,” Appavu told reporters. The responses will be given on August 19. This is also the first digital budget as the Tamil Nadu government is aiming to go paperless. 234 desktops the assembly have been fixed for the legislators. While legislators will be trained to use the gadgets, hard copies will also be printed for their benefit. Following Himachal Pradesh and Odisha, Tamil Nadu wants to be at the forefront of the change to save trees and keep up with technological advancements, Appavu had told HT earlier. The MLAs will also be given a 9-inch tablet each at the budget session and they will continue to use it throughout their term for work related to their constituency and to raise demands using the tablet.Ahead of the local body polls scheduled for later this year, the budget is unlikely to have any major tax revisions. “Some of the announcements will have the DMK’s poll promises such as ₹1,000 handouts for women head of households,” said a DMK leader not wishing to be named. Rajan had on August 9 released a 112-page White Paper on Tamil Nadu Government’s Finances stating that the current levels of fiscal deficit are unsustainable. He pointed out that the state was losing revenue by not having revised the motor vehicle tax in 15 years and called for the rationalisation of property tax and electricity tax. But the revision in these taxes is unlikely to be reflected in this budget.From August 23, demands for grants for each department will be discussed and passed in the Tamil Nadu assembly. Former finance minister O Panneerselvam presented an interim budget earlier in February ahead of the assembly elections held on April 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmkgovts-first-budget-session-from-aug-13-to-sept-21-101628621183350.html
11-08-2021||India||Row as police collect record ₹125cr in fine||The Kerala police have collected a whopping ₹125 crore fine against Covid-19 protocol violations in three months, a police official on condition of anonymity said on Tuesday, but the Opposition, activists and a former high court judge questioned the police’s conduct against the people of the state during the pandemic. About 1.75 million cases of violations were registered during the last three months, with one million cases of not wearing masks, half a million of not maintaining social distancing, and 250k cases of other offences, according to the official. Opposition parties in the Kerala assembly alleged that a free hand was given to law enforcers to implement the Covid regulations, which has resulted in a police raj on roads. Later, opposition members stormed out of the House protesting the CM’s clean chit to police. Many activists and former judges also came down heavily on police. “People need balm these days. Helpless, they are intimidated and robbed by police. This should end,” said former high court judge Kemal Pasha. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan justified the police action and said it was not right to generalise things, citing some aberrations. He told the assembly that charging a fine was not a sin and in the prevailing situation, tough decisions were needed. He said extremists, communal forces and anarchists are deliberately spreading lies. “Police are doing a yeomen service in pandemic times. Many of its personnel were down with Covid-19 but they maintained the rule of law,” he said. But opposition members said “police raj” was in place in the state and only Communist supporters are getting justice these days. “The CM has let loose policemen govern the state. Police atrocities are rampant in the state and he repeatedly gives good certificates to offending cops,” said opposition leader V D Satheesan.The opposition also raised police action on a tribal leader and his family members in Attapady, Palakkad, where the police raided the leader’s house and arrested him forcefully while many family members were hurt in the melee. But the CM justified the action saying the chieftain was summoned several times to the station on a private complaint but refused to come, which forced the police to act. Many alleged cases of police atrocities have surfaced over time, with reports of enforced protocol and penalisation of people in the name of regulations. An 18-year-old girl Gouri Nanda was booked recently when she questioned police officials who imposed a fine of ₹500 on an elderly woman who was standing outside an ATM in the Kollam district. A youth was fined ₹2,000 when he went to attend the last rites of one of his relatives but he was given a receipt of ₹500 only. Later, a civil police officer was suspended. A government doctor was slapped by a police constable in Alapuzha for not giving him due to preference at a vaccination point. In Kazakottam, on the outskirts of the capital city, a youth was allegedly beaten blue last Sunday for coming out of his house during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-as-police-collect-record-125cr-in-fine-101628621125486.html
11-08-2021||India||MPs with criminal cases increased in last decade: Report||According to an analysis of candidate affidavits by the not-for-profit Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), the share of MPs with declared criminal cases against them has been increasing in the last decade. Of the 543 winners analysed by ADR in the 2009 Lok Sabha elections, 162 (30%) had declared criminal cases against them, with 76 (14%) having serious criminal cases against them. The share of MPs with criminal and serious criminal cases increased to 43% and 29%, according to an analysis of 539 winners in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. To be sure, at least some of such cases are politically motivated.In 2019, candidates with declared criminal cases against them had a 15.5% chance of winning compared to 4.7% for candidates without such cases against them.The trend remains the same across parties. In 2019, while 39% of the BJP’s winning candidates had a criminal case against them, this number was 57% for the Congress, 43% for the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and 41% for the All India Trinamool Congress.In two separate judgments on August 10, the Supreme Court asked political parties to publish pending criminal cases against their candidates within 48 hours of their nomination for the ticket, reiterating and strengthening its 2020 order. The court has also ruled that states cannot withdraw cases against MPs and MLAs without the corresponding high court’s nod, something that has become increasingly common.The first of these two judgments assumes that voters may not be aware of criminal antecedents of candidates . Research by political scientist Milan Vaishnav, the director of Carnegie South Asia at Washington DC, also featured in his book When Crime Pays, shows that this need not be the case. According to Vaishnav, voters actually find value in supporting ‘strongman’ candidates as they are more capable of delivering on voters’ expectations of navigating the local institutions.“The apex court’s order (on mandatory high court approval for dropping cases) is a positive step toward ensuring that no individual is above accountability”, Vaishnav said. “However, the ruling addresses the symptoms rather the cause of the disease. Ultimately, one has to grapple with the reasons parties give tickets to suspected criminals and voters lend them their support.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mps-with-criminal-cases-increased-in-last-decade-report-101628621064962.html
11-08-2021||India||Vigilance raids properties of Velumani, seizes ₹13L cash||In what is being termed by the opposition AIADMK as ruling-DMK government’s ‘political vendetta’, the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) of Tamil Nadu on Tuesday conducted more than 60 raids in residences, farm houses, offices linked to AIADMK heavyweight and former municipal administration minister S P Velumani, after registering a case against him on Monday of willfully abusing his official position in awarding contracts to his close associates, including his brother.Following search operations on Tuesday, the DVAC seized ₹1,308,500 in cash, fixed deposits of ₹2 crores, official records from the corporations, hard disks, incriminating documents including land registration and business transactions. “The raids are complete for now and he cooperated,” said a DVAC official who conducted searches at Chennai’s MLA hostel where Velumani was present.The FIR said that there has been cheating and criminal misappropriation of public money amounting to several crores of the Tamil Nadu government, and hence the accused have been booked under sections 120 B, r/w 420 IPC, 409 IPC, section 13(2) r/w 13(1)(c) and 13(1 )(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act r/w 109 IPC.DVAC filed the cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and the IPC was filed based on complaints filed by DMK MP RS Bharathi and anti-corruption NGO Arappor Iyakkam in 2018.Searches went on throughout the day at places belonging to Velumani, contractors and civic officers in Coimbatore, Chennai, Dindigul and Kancheepuram. “But no arrests so far,” said a senior DVAC official.Besides Velumani, 16 others, including his close associates and road contractors have been named as accused. The FIR said that Velumani allotted tenders worth ₹464 crores for work executed by the Greater Chennai Corporation, and ₹346.8 crores to Coimbatore Corporation for companies closely associated with him during the period between 2014 and 2018. Being the municipal administration minister, from 2014 to 2021, he was the administrative head of the municipal corporations. Investigations reveal that prima facie there is a cognisable offence that all the 17 and unknown officials of the civic bodies showed favouritism in awarding contracts for laying bituminous bus route roads, stormwater drains and providing staff nurses for an urban primary healthcare centre. Criminal misappropriation and violations were found during three stages of the tender process- bidding, negotiation and execution of work.While awarding these tender contracts, officials of the Chennai and Coimbatore municipalities “blatantly violated” several provisions of the state’s tender laws “under the influence and directions” of Velumani, the FIR said. The FIR analysed 10 companies that grew phenomenally in a short span and showed massive turnovers due to the alleged collusion. One of the companies, C R Construction had a turnover of ₹0.38 crores in the 2012-13 fiscal year, which grew to ₹43.56 crores in five years (2018-19).The FIR said that Velumani dishonestly and fraudulently misappropriated the funds involved in the tenders.Hailing from the Coimbatore district, he emerged as a powerful leader given his close proximity to former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami, after he took over in 2017, following J Jayalalithaa’s death in 2016. Velumani enjoys a level of clout that he is dubbed locally as ‘Coimbatore chief minister’. He also draws huge support on the ground. Families from the lower social strata are known to approach him for help in jobs and education which he fulfils.This explains Velumani election as a Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) for four straight polls since 2006 when he was first elected from the Perur constituency. He’s the incumbent MLA from the Thondamathur constituency and was recently elected as AIADMK’s whip in the assembly. Hundreds of AIADMK cadre protested in front of Velumani’s Coimbatore residence while raids were on.In a joint statement, Palaniswami and party coordinator O Panneerselvam called it DMK’s political vendetta. “We are ready to face the false accusations legally and politically. But without any proof, accusing someone of corruption is wrong,” the statement said.Velumani is the second AIADMK leader being raided by DVAC after a case was registered against former transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar in July.It all started when the DMK, while in opposition, submitted a list of corruption charges against the then AIADMK ministers, which included Velumani and Palaniswami, to Governor Banwarilal Purohit in December 2020. The party later made an election promise to establish a special court to prosecute ministers of the previous government on graft charges.A preliminary report in 2018 was submitted to the Madras high court in a sealed cover where the case is pending. When the case came up for hearing on 19 July this year, the court directed for further investigations to get to the bottom of the matter. Reports filed by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) have also highlighted the “injudicious awarding of tenders resulting in huge loss to the government”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vigilanceraids-properties-of-velumani-seizes-13l-cash-101628621063331.html
11-08-2021||India||OBC Bill passed in Lok Sabha with rare House unity||For the first time in the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament, a piece of legislation was tabled and passed unanimously without disruptions on Tuesday as the Lok Sabha approved the 127th Constitution Amendment bill to restore the right of states to identify and provide reservation benefits to other backward castes (OBC). The entire House supported the bill and debated for more than six hours even as furious protests continued in Rajya Sabha over the controversial farm laws. While 385 members voted for the bill, no one opposed it. Many parties, including those in Opposition as well as Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) allies, demanded that the current 50% cap on reservations should be lifted. Many leaders such as Janata Dal (United) MP Lalan Singh, Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav, Bahujan Samaj Party’s Ritesh Pandey and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s T R Baalu also demanded a caste census be conducted throughout the country. Social justice and empowerment minister Virendra Kumar, who replaced Thawarchand Gehlot a month ago, described the bill as a “historic legislation” that would benefit 671 castes in the country. He said the bill will restore the states’ rights to prepare their own lists of OBCs so that various communities can be given social and economic justice.”I am grateful to all the members of the Lok Sabha for strengthening the federal structure of India,” he tweeted. On May 5, while scrapping a separate quota for the Maratha community in Maharashtra, the Supreme Court had ruled that after a 2018 amendment in the Constitution, only the central government could notify socially and educationally backward classes (SEBCs) – not the states.This interpretation effectively struck a blow to the authority of state governments in identifying backward classes and provide them with reservation benefits. The new bill effectively bypasses the Supreme Court’s decision.The Centre’s position has all along been that the President’s powers in identifying and categorising SEBCs is restricted to the central list. BJP’s first speaker on the bill, Sanghmitra Maurya, pitched for caste census and lauded the government for deciding in its support. Her speech left many BJP members confused as the ruling party has so far not accepted growing Opposition demand for a caste census. Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury extended his party’s full support to the bill but criticised the government for the 2018 amendment, saying the situation could have been averted had the government listened to the Opposition. “You tweaked the Constitution by bringing the 102 Constitution Amendment Bill in 2018 which gave people opportunity to go to the court and finally the Supreme Court removed the states’ power,” he said. Chowdhury and some Opposition leaders also slammed the government for not debating the Pegasus snooping controversy. “We support this bill but our demand is to remove 50% ceiling (in reservation). You should listen to states, make it legal for states to cross the 50 per cent ceiling,” Chowdhury said. The 50% cap is the result of a landmark 1992 Supreme Court verdict and the top court refused to tinker with it earlier this year. DMK’s Baalu and SP’s Yadav also demanded the removal of 50% ceiling. Labour and employment minister Bhupender Yadav asserted that the Narendra Modi government took many measures quickly to ensure justice for Dalits, OBCs and the poor. Hitting out at the Congress, Yadav said the Constitution makers had made a provision for reservation for backward classes, but when the Congress came to power in 1950, it ruled for 40 years but did not give justice to the backward classes. “When for the first time a non-Congress government came to power, the Mandal Commission was created. It had submitted its report in 1980 and you (the Congress) ran the government after that but did not implement it and did not give reservation to backward classes,” Yadav said. NCP’s Supriya Sure (NCP) said the credit for this amendment bill should be given to the Maharashtra government which requested the Centre to do address the issue of OBC reservation. She also advocated for removing the 50% ceiling. YSR Congress and Shiv Sena also voiced their support for the bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/obc-bill-passed-in-lok-sabha-with-rare-house-unity-101628620943710.html
11-08-2021||India||‘Nation losing patience’: Supreme Court on criminalisation of politics||The nation continues to wait and is losing patience, said the Supreme Court on Tuesday as it made an “appeal to the conscience of the lawmakers hoping that they will wake up soon and carry out a major surgery for weeding out the malignancy of criminalisation in politics,” which, it added, was “growing day by day.”Expressing anguish over the non-compliance by various political parties with its 2020 judgment on the disclosure of criminal antecedents of candidates being put up by them, the top court lamented that its exhortations for amending laws to prohibit involvement of persons with criminal antecedents “have fallen on the deaf ears”.“The political parties refuse to wake up from deep slumber... Cleansing the polluted stream of politics is obviously not one of the immediate pressing concerns of the legislative branch of government,” said the bench of justices Rohinton F Nariman and BR Gavai, maintaining that the court’s hands are tied due to constitutional scheme of separation of powers that entitles only parliament to make laws and the courts cannot legislate.The court’s remarks came as it held the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Janata Dal (United), the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Congress, among others, guilty of contempt for not complying with its directions regarding complete disclosure of criminal antecedents of candidates put up by them during the Bihar assembly elections in 2020, and imposed a fine of ₹1 lakh on each.The Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Nationalist Congress Party were asked to cough up ₹5 lakh each for not following the court’s directions “at all”.The bench said that the political parties, which also included Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and Communist Party of India, shall deposit the money in a fund that will be created by the Election Commission of India (ECI) for an “extensive awareness campaign to make every voter aware about his right to know and the availability of information regarding criminal antecedents of all contesting candidates”.It directed ECI to create a dedicated mobile application containing information about criminal antecedents of the candidates so as to enable voters access such information conveniently.The apex poll body, ordered the bench, shall also create a separate cell to monitor compliance by political parties with the court’s directions issued in February 2020 regarding disclosure of criminal backgrounds of their candidates, and bring all instances of breach to the court’s attention.The top court, which earlier directed political parties to put out information about the cases pending against their candidates on their websites, further ordered that the parties will now create a new caption -- “candidates with criminal antecedents” on the home page of their websites to make it easier for the voter to get to the information.The court also modified its 2020 direction, in which it obligated the parties to publish the details within 48 hours of the selection of the candidate or not less than two weeks before the first date for filing of nominations, whichever was earlier. It acknowledged the ground reality that in most of the cases the candidates are finalised by the political parties between the period commencing from the date of notification till the last date of withdrawal, saying the details can be published by the parties within 48 hours of the selection of the candidate, and not prior to two weeks before the first date of filing of nominationsThe bench was hearing a contempt petition filed by advocate Brajesh Singh, who alleged wilful disobedience of court orders by various political parties during the Bihar assembly elections in 2020.Singh’s petition cited a Supreme Court judgment in February 2020 that made it mandatory for all political parties to put up on their websites and publish in two newspapers information regarding the pending criminal cases against candidates being fielded by them, and the reasons for selecting them. Singh contended that several parties failed to put in public domain the details of criminal antecedents of their candidates, apart from just citing their winnability as the factor for picking them.As per the information submitted by Bihar chief electoral officer’s counsel Siddhartha Prasad, there were 427 candidates with criminal antecedents who contested the assembly elections in Bihar in 2020. The RJD topped the list with 104 tainted candidates, followed by the BJP, which fielded 77 such candidates.Assisted by senior advocate KV Viswanathan as amicus curiae (friend of the court), the bench noted that most of the political parties have either not given full disclosure, or have not followed the format in which the information was to be given.It said that the political parties are in contempt of the court’s February 2020 judgment, but a lenient view is being adopted and they were let off with a fine because these were the first elections conducted after issuance of the directions. “However, we warn them that they should be cautious in future and ensure that the directions issued by this Court as well as the ECI are followed in letter and spirit,” added the bench.Viswanathan and ECI’s counsel, senior advocate Vikas Singh, had urged the court to issue certain directions regarding withdrawal of election symbols from the parties for flouting the court’s directions and disqualifying those with serious criminal charges. The bench, however, expressed its inability to pass such orders, clarifying these subjects were within the remit of the legislature and the laws will have to be amended to include such disqualifications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nation-losing-patience-sc-on-criminalisation-of-politics-101628620583327.html
11-08-2021||India||Centre gives nod to Covaxin plant in Gujarat||The Centre on Tuesday approved Bharat Biotech’s manufacturing facility at Ankleshwar in Gujarat to produce Covaxin, the company’s anti-Covid vaccine, the Union health ministry announced.“Govt of India approves vaccine manufacturing facility for production of @BharatBiotech’s #Covaxin in Ankleshwar, Gujarat. Following PM @NarendraModi ji’s vision of #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine, this will increase vaccine availability & accelerate the world’s largest vaccine drive,” tweeted Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.According to people familiar with the matter, vaccine doses from this facility are likely to be out for use by September. Close to six million doses are likely to be produced in the Ankleshwar plant that earlier manufactured anti-rabies vaccines.The overall Covaxin production capacity is going to be scaled up to close to 60 million doses a month around the last quarter of this year.Currently, doses from Bharat Biotech’s Hyderabad facility are being supplied for the country’s Covid-19 immunisation programme. Apart from the Gujarat facility, Bharat Biotech has also refurbished its Malur plant in Karnataka to produce Covaxin doses to scale up production.Even though the company did not respond to queries, in an earlier statement it said, “Products manufactured from these facilities will be available for supplies during September. This is based on our 120-day timeline for manufacturing, testing, release, regulatory approvals, and distribution.”With a couple of other public sector undertakings (PSU) also being roped in for manufacturing Covaxin doses, the production number of Covaxin is projected to increase from the current 25 million doses a month to at least 58 million doses. The Union health minister disclosed this in Parliament earlier this month.According to Bharat Biotech, each batch of Covaxin undergoes over 200 quality control tests before being submitted to Central Drugs Laboratory for testing. The company has so far supplied at least 70 million doses for the immunisation programme.Vinod Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, had said earlier in a press briefing on Covid-19 updates that the national vaccination programme may start getting about 2 million doses from Indian Immunologicals Limited, a PSU, by late August or September.“… it will take some time for production to begin at the Haffkine, BIBCOL (Bharat Immunologicals Biologicals Limited), and Gujarat consortium as substantive infrastructure is being built, modified, or repurposed in these plants. Broadly, the activation of the PSUs will happen in November or December,” he had said.Vaccine availability will further increase in the country with vaccines from Moderna and Johnson & Johnson receiving emergency use authorisation in India, and another made-in-India vaccine, Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-D, likely to get necessary approvals soon.There are five Covid-19 vaccines that India has authorised for emergency use. The other two are Serum Institute of India’s Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine that is being locally produced under the brand name Covishield, and the Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/studying-need-for-booster-shots-govt-101628620464345.html
11-08-2021||India||All parties must come together and save India: Kapil Sibal||On Monday night, the Congress’s Rajya Sabha MP and former Union minister Kapil Sibal hosted several Opposition leaders across parties -- including Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, National Conference leader Omar Abdullah, Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad, and leaders from the Biju Janata Dal, the Trinamool Congress, the Shiv Sena, the Left parties, the Shiromani Akali Dal, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, the YSR Congress, and others.From the Congress, several of the “Group of 23” leaders were present. Sibal spoke to Hindustan Times about the meeting, and what it means.What was objective of the dinner you hosted for Opposition leaders?It is to get everyone together and to start a conversation. All political parties were of the Opposition, and we wanted to see how we could go forward together; that’s it.It came very soon after Rahul Gandhi hosted a breakfast meeting of the Opposition. Did you have that in mind, as yours came so soon after it?This is a typical journalist question. We don’t measure our moves by finding out who has what meeting and where, this is not how it is. It so happened that I decided to have a dinner, and I wanted to call my friends and this has nothing to do with anybody else.A lot of the people who attended, spoke about 2024 elections. What do you think came out of it?If you start a conversation, it’s not a dialogue that can be completed in one go. The conversation will continue.One of the persons who attended your dinner was Sharad Pawar. He’s also had meetings with Prashant Kishor, which revolved around 2024. Is this in any way related to those conversations?What do the two have to do with each other? That was a one-to-one meeting, and this was a conversation with all the political parties who are not with the BJP -- one of them (BJD) is equidistant to both the BJP and the Congress, and others are in Opposition.You managed to get BJD and YSR both at your dinner, and both are not associated with any Opposition activity.I’ve had personal relations with Rajasekhara Reddy (chief minister Jagan Reddy’s father). He is a dear friend, I did so many battles for him. I have close relations with everybody. They were very kind to come, and I was touched that they came. I have very close relations with the BJD also. Pinaki Misra (BJD MP) was my chamber junior. This is a conversation because we feel that the BJP is destroying the foundations of our republic; they have belittled every institution in this country; they are using the investigating agencies to target people; the way they are filling up governor and vice-chancellor slots. I think all parties are now beginning to feel that we must come together and save India. That really was the purpose of this conversation.I believe that Omar Abdullah said that a strong Congress makes for a strong Opposition. Do you think your party is strong at the moment?Obviously we are not as strong as we should be, we should become stronger. We hope that in the next election we are sufficiently strong to prove that what Omar Abdullah said is right. I think he made a very strong point and all of us who are Congressmen are wanting the Congress to be stronger as we go forward and put up a good show in 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-parties-must-come-together-and-save-india-sibal-101628620287107.html
11-08-2021||India||House decends into chaos over farm laws||The Rajya Sabha was supposed to see a debate on agriculture, the problems that ailed it, and solutions -- the closest the government has come to giving in to the Opposition’s demand for a discussion on the three contentious farm reform laws passed last year and the ensuing and still ongoing farmers’ protest -- but what it ended up seeing for four hours on Tuesday was tumult and chaos.At least two Opposition MPs, including Aam Admi Party’s (AAP) Sanjay Singh, sat on the table usually occupied by the staff of the Rajya Sabha secretariat (though they prefer chairs) and shouted slogans. The Congress’s Pratap Singh Bajwa, stood atop the table and tossed the House rulebook to the Chair . And Opposition MPs swarmed the Well of the House. Two Opposition leaders later conceded that the “protests” were part of their plan; they were miffed that the debate was held on the generic topic of problems of agriculture, and not on the farm laws. Trinamool Congress’s Derek O’Brien, however, claimed that all opposition parties will “fully support” the upcoming Constitution amendment bill that restores the rights of states to identify and define socially and economically backward classes. A senior governmentfunctionary suggested that the government might not seek disciplinary action against opposition MPs . “It’s like a new normal! The government bills are passed even as the Opposition disrupts the House. Immediate action against some MPs may be avoided as the government needs the Opposition’s support to pass the Constitution amendment bill.” The Rajya Sabha earlier suspended Trinamool’s Santanu Sen for snatching papers from Union IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. Another six Trinamool MPs were suspended for a day for showing placards in the Well. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said: “Today, it is proven there is nothing wrong in the farm laws, it is in their (Opposition’s) perception.” He added that the Opposition is “unable to digest” PM Narendra Modi’s “measures and schemes have led to sectoral growth and prosperity in the lives of farmers”. Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu appealed for peace in the morning of what was the sixteenth sitting of the Monsoon Session pointing out that the Upper House had functioned at the rate of just one hour per day. “Farmers’ issue, which is a larger issue, is scheduled for discussion today. If the House is not allowed to function today, a message will also go that this House is not concerned about the plight of the farmers,” he said. But the Opposition was having none of it. The disruptions started in a few hours when Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh, who last week had given notice to debate farm laws, alleged that the subject of the debate was changed. “I had given notice for a Calling Attention Motion on the three black farm laws and the ongoing farmers’ agitation for the last nine to 10 months. Today I find that my name is shown against Short Duration Discussion on a general topic of ‘Agricultural Problems and Solutions’,” he said, arguing that sense of the House is required to change the nature of the debate. Lawmakers from several Opposition parties stormed the well of the House shouting slogans against the government and demanding a repeal of the farm laws. The debate lasted for only a few more minutes. Bharatiya Janata Party’s Vijaypal Singh Tomar blamed the wrong policies of the Congress for the problems of the farmers. Biju Janata Dal’s Prasanna Acharya argued that the NSSO has not made any study on farmer’s income in last few years and yet “the government claims that they have been able to double the income of the farmers”. “It is a misnomer. It is not the fact,” he said, “If you adjust the increase against inflation, the farm income remains static.” The Upper House functioned for just 24 minutes on Tuesday.A person aware of the developments said Parliament could be adjourned sine die after passing the Constitution amendment bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-nod-a-must-to-withdraw-cases-against-politicians-sc-101628620163149.html
11-08-2021||India||Leave Afghanistan, India tells its citizens||India on Tuesday advised its nationals in Afghanistan to make immediate arrangements to return home, even as it began the process of evacuating its officials and citizens from the northern city of Mazar-e-Sharif following advances made by Taliban fighters.A security advisory issued by the Indian embassy in Kabul called on Indians to make travel arrangements before commercial air services are discontinued, and asked Indian firms operating in Afghanistan to immediately withdraw Indian employees from project sites before air services get affected.All India-based officials and security personnel from the Indian consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif and a small number of Indian nationals living in and around Afghanistan’s fourth-largest city were to be evacuated in a special flight late on Tuesday, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.The exact number of people being brought back to India couldn’t be ascertained. The move came exactly a month after India evacuated some 50 officials and security personnel from the consulate in the southern city of Kandahar on July 10 following intense clashes between Afghan forces and Taliban fighters in the area.The Indian consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif, which was the only fully functional consulate out of four such missions across Afghanistan, asked Indian nationals to take the evacuation flight.“A special flight is leaving from Mazar-e-Sharif to New Delhi. Any Indian nationals in and around Mazar-e-Sharif are requested to leave for India in the special flight scheduled to depart late today evening,” the consulate tweeted. It asked Indian citizens wishing to take the flight to provide their names and passport numbers.There was no official word on the development from the external affairs ministry.Fears of a Taliban assault on Mazar-e-Sharif, the capital of Balkh province, have grown since the group took over the northern cities of Kunduz and Aibak. However, hours after the Indian consulate posted its tweet, the Afghan media quoted Balkh governor Mohammad Farhad Azimi as saying the Afghan troops had pushed back a Taliban offensive on Mazar-e-Sharif.Azimi said the Taliban retreated after facing strong resistance from Afghan forces during clashes on Monday night. “The Taliban have focused their attention on Balkh province to take control,” Azimi told Tolo News.The people cited above said the strength of the Indian consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif was reduced recently because of the Taliban intensifying its campaign to overrun provincial capitals and urban centres. The consulate has been without a head since the last consul general, Vinesh Kalra, died of Covid-19 in Kabul in May.Tuesday’s security advisory from the Indian embassy in Kabul was the third such alert issued since June 29 and reiterated a warning to avoid non-essential travel because of a serious threat of kidnapping. It added commercial air travel services to many provinces and cities were being discontinued with the escalation of violence.“All Indian nationals visiting, staying and working in Afghanistan are strongly advised to keep themselves updated on the availability of commercial flights from various parts of Afghanistan and make immediate travel arrangements to return to India before commercial air services are discontinued to their place of stay/visit in Afghanistan,” the alert said.“Indian companies operating in Afghanistan are strongly advised to immediately withdraw their Indian employees out of project sites in Afghanistan before air travel services get discontinued. Indian nationals working for Afghan or foreign companies in Afghanistan should immediately request their employer to facilitate their travel from project sites to India,” it added.The embassy said the advisory was also valid for Indian media personnel, who should contact the mission’s public affairs and security wing for a personalised briefing, “including specific advice for the location they are travelling to”. This, it added, will help the media make a better assessment of “risks involved, given the rapid changes in security situation taking place in different parts of the country”.According to information provided by the government to Parliament last week, there are currently some 1,500 Indian nationals in Afghanistan. Most of them are workers and professionals engaged for the hundreds of development projects being implemented by the Indian government under its pledges of $3 billion for reconstruction and development efforts.The last security advisory issued on July 24 had said the security situation “remains dangerous in several provinces”. It said terror groups had escalated violent activities including targeting of civilians. “Indian nationals are not exceptions, and they additionally face a serious threat of kidnapping,” it added.Since the previous advisory was issued, the security situation has further deteriorated as the Taliban have pushed ahead with their campaign targeting provincial capitals and urban centres after capturing wide swathes of territory in rural areas. With the drawdown of US and NATO troops set to be completed by August 31, experts believe the security situation will worsen.In April last year, India shut its consulates in Herat and Jalalabad, ostensibly because of the spread of Covid-19, though some reports suggested security was a factor in the decision.Indian officials have said the situation in Afghanistan is being closely monitored to ensure the security of all Indians. Worries about the safety of Indian nationals have grown since Reuters journalist Danish Siddiqui was killed by the Taliban in the border town of Spin Boldak while on an assignment embedded with Afghan forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leave-afghanistan-india-tells-its-citizens-101628620103248.html
11-08-2021||India||At least 1,000 vehicles entered Mizoram from Assam since blockade lifted||More than 1,000 vehicles have entered Mizoram ever since the informal economic blockade along the border with Assam by a few Assamese groups was called off on Saturday, Mizoram Police said on Tuesday. Around 300 vehicles have safely moved towards Assam till Tuesday afternoon, they added. “The situation has normalised and no vehicles were stopped by locals on either side...But we are keeping a strict vigil in the area,” Cachar district superintendent of police Ramandeep Kaur said. As many as 1,037 vehicles have entered Mizoram from Assam between Saturday night and Tuesday afternoon, police said. This includes 381 heavy and 281 medium weight vehicles carrying essential goods, 285 light vehicles carrying passengers, 30 LPG tankers and 45 oil tankers. From the Mizoram side, 294 vehicles entered Assam through the Lailapur border till 12pm on Tuesday. This includes 83 heavy vehicles, 67 medium weight vehicles carrying essential goods, 123 light vehicles and 19 oil tankers.Superintendent of police of Kolasib district in Mizoram, Vanlalfaka Ralte, said, “We are supervising each movement along the border. The challenge is to maintain the situation so that drivers and passengers do not hesitate to move.”An informal economic blockade was observed by the Assamese groups in Lailapur after a fierce gunbattle at a disputed border left six policemen dead and 41 others injured on July 26. Assam claimed Mizoram police opened fire on its forces who objected to a road being constructed by Mizoram on a patch of forested land it claims. Mizoram claimed the land belongs to it. The clashes led some residents on the Assam side to block some sections of National Highway 306, disrupting transportation to the neighbouring state.At a meeting called by Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on July 29, the two sides agreed to withdraw their police forces in the four-km disputed stretch which runs between Vairengte in Mizoram and Lailapur in Assam along NH-306. They also agreed to the deployment of central paramilitary troops in the area till a permanent solution is found.On Saturday, guardian minister of Cachar district Ashok Singhal and minister of excise, forest & environment and fisheries, Parimal Suklabaidya, visited Lailapur border to lift the blockade. After a two-hour meeting, locals in Assam allowed the movement of vehicles but threatened to resume the blockade if no action was taken against Mizoram police officials who were involved in the July 26 firing. They also asked that the IR battalion of Mizoram be moved from the disputed areas, leaving it to neutral forces.“We have lost our police officials and some part of Assam’s land. We cannot tell them (the Centre) what to do but if justice is not served, our protest will resume. Our brothers have sacrificed their lives to save the land and we just can’t let it go so easily,” one of the locals told HT on condition of anonymity.Forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya and Member of Parliament from Silchar, Rajdeep Roy, supported the demands of the Lailapur locals. While Suklabaidya told HT he will move the Supreme Court, Roy said he will talk to Union home minister Amit Shah to seek action against the Mizoram police personnel.Executive magistrate of Mizoram’s Kolasib district, Carolyne Pachuau, said, “Now that the blockade has been withdrawn, the Mizoram government has exempted truck drivers from mandatory Covid test in order to encourage them. We discussed this with the local people and they have agreed not to create any such situation that hampers the peace process.”“Barak Valley of Assam always threatens Mizoram with economic blockade which only causes suffering to the common people...In that sense, this is a wake-up call and Mizoram has started thinking of alternatives in such situations,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-1-000-vehicles-entered-mizoram-from-assam-since-blockade-lifted-101628593761624.html
11-08-2021||India||Two from outside bought property in J&K since 2019: Centre tells LS||The Centre on Tuesday told Parliament that two people from outside Jammu and Kashmir have bought property in the region since August 2019, when laws that prohibited non-locals from doing so were controversially scrapped by the Union government.The statement, made by minister of state for home Nityanand Rai in the Lok Sabha, stirred a political row in Kashmir, where many mainstream parties remain opposed to the revocation of the region’s special status and statehood.“As per the information provided by the government of Jammu and Kashmir, two persons from outside J&K (Jammu and Kashmir) have purchased two properties in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir since August 2019,” Rai said in a written reply.Asked about any hardship and impediments being faced by the people of other states while buying properties in Jammu and Kashmir, Rai said that no such instance was reported.The minister did not provide any details of the people or the type of properties acquired.Attempts to get details from officials in Jammu and Kashmir did not succeed. Official spokesperson of Jammu and Kashmir government and principal secretary, power and information, Rohit Kansal, did not respond to requests for a comment.On August 5, 2019, the Centre effectively revoked Article 370, which bestowed special status to the erstwhile state, and Article 35A, which barred non-locals from buying or owning immovable property in Jammu and Kashmir, settling there permanently, or availing benefits of state-sponsored scholarship schemes.The constitutional provision gave special rights to Jammu and Kashmir’s permanent residents. Article 370 acknowledged the special status of the (then) state of Jammu and Kashmir in terms of autonomy and its ability to formulate laws for the state’s permanent residents.In October 2020, the Centre Issued a gazette notification omitting the phrase “permanent resident of the state” from Section 17 of the Jammu and Kashmir Development Act that deals with the disposal of land in the union territory.National Conference and Peoples Democratic Party said the government’s statement in Parliament meant that the process of “snatching of rights” had begun.“This is the beginning of coming true of the apprehensions that our land rights will get violated . These were our fears. See when the land rights of other states are being protected and we also had our land rights which were snatched away. It strengthens our apprehensions about land rights,” said Hasnain Masoodi, senior NC leader and member of parliament from south Kashmir.Masoodi said that J&K had a land act before August 5,2019 that would prohibit acquisition of property within J&K by anyone other than a state subject. “That restriction is gone now,” he added.Additional spokesperson of PDP, Tahir Sayed, said that the apprehension of local people were proving correct.“It has just started. It is not only about demographic change. We have very limited resources and we can’t share our limited resources with outsiders. It will just disempower locals economically and politically,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-persons-from-outside-purchased-properties-in-j-k-since-august-2019-mha-101628593101063.html
11-08-2021||India||Tejpal’s acquittal left ‘impression on victims of sexual violence’: Goa govt||Former Tehelka magazine editor Tarun Tejpal’s acquittal in a 2013 rape case has left an “inevitable impression on all victims of sexual violence” and has “a deterrent effect among those who are potential victims”, additional solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the Bombay high court in Goa on Tuesday.Appearing for the state, Mehta opposed the 57-year-old’s plea for an “in-camera” hearing of the Goa government’s petition against his acquittal, saying that “the country has a right to know this institution (the judiciary) has dealt with the girl who came to the court with the complaint, specific allegations, precise facts, and pleading proved with corroborating evidence”.“The way in which our institution has failed...I am using every word not only with sincerity but with a sense of responsibility. Our institution has failed, leaving an inevitable impression upon all victims of sexual violence or sexual assault, that it has a deterrent effect among those who are potential victims,” he said. “They would not come before your lordship or not come before the court of law.”A fast-track court in Goa on May 21 acquitted Tejpal of charges of rape and sexual assault levelled by a former colleague during a conference at a five-star hotel in Goa in 2013. Additional sessions judge Kshama Joshi gave the journalist the benefit of doubt and cleared him of all charges due to lack of evidence.Tejpal’s counsel, Amit Desai, argued that the dignity of the institution should not be assailed at least until the case is finally decided.“I believe in the old school that our institution must be first protected and come to conclusion after hearing whether the institution of the judiciary has failed the citizens of India,” Desai told the court.“Right from day one, every application of this type, including obviously the entire trial in the trial court and the high court, has always been held in camera. I think that is the principle of the law in a matter of this type. Therefore, we have moved an application though the state did not feel the need for it (in camera hearings)...we felt it is an appropriate thing to do in a matter like this, particularly with regards to the sensitivity of the nature of the allegations,” he added.The bench fixed August 31 for the next hearing.Tejpal’s case hit the headlines for weeks amid a renewed focus on crimes against women. It surfaced a year after the rape and murder of a 23-year-old student on a moving bus in Delhi provoked national outrage and prompted the government to pass tougher laws to check such crimes. The allegations against Tejpal also triggered a debate on harassment of women at workplaces and underreporting of such cases over fears of job losses and persecution.Tejpal faced the trial under India Penal Code’s Sections 376 (rape), 354 A (sexual harassment), 354 B (criminal assault with intent to disrobe a woman), 341 (wrongful restraint), and 342 (wrongful confinement).Justice Joshi acquitted Tejpal, days after his lawyer Rajeev Gomes, 47, died of Covid on May 12.Tejpal, who has maintained he was falsely accused of sexual assault, referred to an “unfortunate incident” between himself and the colleague in a leaked e-mail to Tehelka’s management in 2013. He described the incident “bad lapse of judgment” in the e-mail. In another note, later, however, he said that he was being “framed”.The Goa government called the verdict as “perverse” and “influenced by extraneous inadmissible materials and testimonies”, and filed an appeal before the Bombay high court on May 25.The Goa Police said the judgement “was shocking in its apparent legal bias against the prosecutrix (survivor)” and was “unsustainable in law and is coloured by prejudice and patriarchy”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tejpals-acquittal-left-impression-on-victims-of-sexual-violence-goa-govt-101628592321175.html
11-08-2021||India||Rahul calls for restoration of J&K statehood||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre of launching an assault on every institution in the country, saying that the Opposition wasn’t being allowed to raise important issues such as the farm bills, snooping, unemployment and corruption in Parliament.The former Congress chief also called for restoration of statehood to Jammu & Kashmir, and the conduct of free and fair elections in the Union territory without any delay.Addressing party workers after inaugurating a party unit at M A road, Gandhi said: “We are not allowed to speak in Parliament on issues like farm bills, Pegasus (snooping controversy), corruption, Rafale (deal) and unemployment. Whether it’s the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha, judiciary or other institutions of the country, they are facing an onslaught. Even people from the press can’t write or speak. They are afraid that if they write they will lose their jobs.”“There is not only an attack on Jammu & Kashmir, but there is also an indirect attack in the rest of the country on all institutions,” he added.BJP state spokesperson Altaf Thakur refuted the allegations, saying that Parliament members were always allowed to speak in both the Houses.“Unfortunately, Rahul Gandhi doesn’t want to speak in Parliament or his party has asked him not to speak there, so it’s not the BJP’s fault.”Besides this, Gandhi, who arrived in Srinagar on Monday for a two-day visit — his first since the revocation of Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir — said that he feels like he is “coming home” each time he visits the Union territory.“I can well understand the psyche of people of Kashmir and have inherited Kashmiriyat. With love, you can get every work done from the people of Kashmir and by force or hatred nothing can be achieved from the people,” he said.The Congress leader said that he will continue to fight against the divisive ideology of the Prime Minister. “I fight against Narendra Modi and we will continue to fight against his divisive ideology, the ideology that divides India,” he said.Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, who also arrived in Srinagar earlier in the day, batted for land and job rights for its residents, saying if laws providing such benefits were valid in other areas like Himachal Pradesh, why snatch them away from the erstwhile state.“The (assembly) elections...should be conducted soon. But before the elections, the statehood should be restored, which is very important. Kashmiri Pandits should be brought back,” he said.“Our land and job (rights), which were taken away after Article 370 was revoked, should be secured like they were before (August 5, 2019) through a new law when the statehood is restored,” he added.The former leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha urged Gandhi to raise the issue of Jammu & Kashmir in Parliament so that a bill that restores the statehood and protects land and job rights of locals is passed in Parliament within the remaining three days of the ongoing session. He said that J-K cannot be a state like Delhi where every order has to be approved by the Lieutenant Governor.“J-K is a border state and the L-G cannot govern it. We don’t want a Delhi like state where L-G has to approve every order,” he said.On August 5, 2019, the Centre had revoked Article 370 of the Constitution that gave Jammu & Kashmir a special status and bifurcated the state into two Union territories.As a pre-emptive measure, Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was imposed in the state and prominent state political leaders such as former chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti were placed under house arrest. Communication lines, too, were snapped while internet and mobile services were suspended.Days after the Centre’s move, Gandhi had led an opposition delegation to Kashmir, but was forced to go back from the Srinagar airport.On July 28, minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai told Rajya Sabha that the statehood for Jammu & Kashmir would be granted after “normalcy is restored”.In an interview with Hindustan Times on July 28, Jammu & Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha said that Union home minister Amit Shah had assured that “statehood would be granted to the union territory at an appropriate time”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/every-institution-in-the-country-under-attack-rahul-gandhi-101628591001781.html
11-08-2021||India||States cannot withdraw cases against MPs, MLAs without HC nod: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued directions that no criminal case against MPs or MLAs can be withdrawn without an approval of the high court of the concerned state, in a move that significantly clips the powers of the state governments at a time when the top court has expressed grave concern over the criminalisation of politics.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, said that the direction has to be issued urgently in view of a report by the amicus curiae (lawyer to assist the court) depicting several instances where state governments sought to drop charges against sitting and former legislators. “We deem it appropriate to direct that no prosecution against a sitting or former MPs or MLAs shall be withdrawn without the leave of the high court,” ordered the bench, which also included justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant, in a virtual clampdown on misuse of power by the state governments under Section 321 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) that authorises a prosecutor to seek withdrawal of a criminal case against the accused. On the same day, another bench, comprising justices Rohinton F Nariman and BR Gavai, warned that the nation is “losing its patience” in waiting for lawmakers to cleanse politics by making stronger laws to keep out those with criminal antecedents. Imposing monetary penalty on all major political parties for flouting its directives on disclosure of information about criminal background of their candidates during the 2020 Bihar assembly polls, this bench, in a separate judgment, exhorted lawmakers to “wake up from their deep slumber” to weed out the malignancy of criminalisation in politics. Meanwhile, the CJI-led bench cited its earlier order on September 16, 2020, by which the high courts were asked to register suo motu (on its own motion) writ petitions to monitor trials against MPs and MLAs, and asked them to examine the cases of withdrawals, whether pending or disposed of, since September 16, 2020. Referring to a July 28-judgment by the top court in which the Kerala government’s move to withdraw cases against some of state’s sitting and former MLAs was snubbed, the bench emphasised: “The power under Section 321, CrPC, is a responsibility which is to be utilised in public interest, and cannot be used for extraneous and political considerations. This power is required to be utilised with utmost good faith to serve the larger public interest.”The court further directed that all trial judges hearing the criminal cases against MPs and MLAs in special courts shall continue in their present posts till its further orders. To this end, the registrar general of all 25 high courts were asked to submit details of judges hearing such cases in the special courts, status of pendency, judgments delivered, and other details. The directions were issued while hearing a plea filed by advocate Ashwini Upadhyaya, who cited staggering pendency of criminal cases against MPs and MLAs and sought their expeditious disposal by setting up special courts. Amicus curiae senior advocate Vijay Hansaria, assisted by advocate Sneha Kalita, implored the bench that no prosecution should be allowed to be withdrawn under Section 321, CrPC, against a sitting or former member of Parliament or a member of legislative assembly/council without the permission of the high court. Hansaria listed out instances from Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Maharashtra where orders under Section 321 CrPC were issued. In Karnataka, a government order sought to withdraw 61 criminal cases, many of which were filed against sitting MLAs of the state. Uttar Pradesh similarly chose to withdraw prosecution last year against political leader Sadhvi Prachi and three sitting MLAs – Sangeet Som, Suresh Rana and Kapil Dev -- for making inflammatory statements during the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. The amicus cited news reports to state that withdrawal of prosecution was applicable to 76 criminal cases related to the riots. Another report from Maharashtra indicated that the state government decided in December last year to withdraw political cases against activists registered prior to December 31, 2019. In June, the Andhra Pradesh high court took suo motu cognisance of 11 separate orders passed by various magistrates allowing withdrawal of prosecution in criminal cases pending against chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy. This case, however, was not cited by the amicus in his report. According to an analysis of candidate affidavits by the not-for-profit Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), the share of MPs with declared criminal cases against them has been increasing in the last decade. It stood at 30% in 2009 and 43% in 2019. In 2019, 39% of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s winning candidates had a criminal case against them; this number was 57% for the Congress, 43% for the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and 41% for the Trinamool Congress. Hansaria relied on the July 28 judgment that legislators do not have immunity from criminal law while clearing the decks for the prosecution of some of Kerala’s sitting and former MLAs who threw furniture and destroyed computers and microphones during a House proceeding in 2015. During the proceedings, the court also pulled up the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for not submitting details of cases the agency is prosecuting against MPs and MLAs. The bench read out its orders since September 2020 when the CBI was repeatedly asked to submit a status report but to no avail. “We have no words now. We have already said everything we could. We have to only presume certain things now... We asked the government of India about their seriousness and we were told that the government is very much serious about completion of trials against MPs and MLAs but there is nothing you have done. We can say this much,” it told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for CBI. “There is no progress there (in trial courts) and no progress here. If there is even a reluctance in filing the status reports, what more to say,” rued the bench. On his part, the S-G said that the government was committed to expeditious completion of trials against the elected representatives and asked for a final opportunity to file the report. “We are giving you the last opportunity. If you don’t do it now, we will assume you have nothing to say,” retorted the bench as it fixed August 25 as the next date of hearing. The CJI also indicated that a special bench will be constituted to regularly monitor the progress made in ensuring speedy trials of MPs and MLAs, in which there is already a direction of the top court in 2014 that such trials must complete within one year of the framing of charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-cannot-withdraw-cases-against-mps-mlas-without-hcnodsc-101628582060399.html
11-08-2021||India||Avoid ‘parallel debate’ on Pegasus issue: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday took exception to a “parallel debate” by petitioners outside the courts on the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens with the Israeli Pegasus spyware, saying if they are using the legal system they must have faith in it.Even as the Union government received time till Monday to respond to a clutch of petitions demanding a court-monitored independent investigation into the alleged snooping, the top court asked petitioners to refrain from debating the issue on public platforms while it was adjudicating the matter.“Any of the petitioners who is interested in this matter and is saying things in the newspapers, we expect they will answer our queries through a proper channel in the court hall and not outside. We expect petitioners to understand there will be a debate in the court. Questions will be asked. They must have faith in the system. But this parallel debate, parallel discussion..” the bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana told the counsel for the petitioners.“There must be some discipline. We asked some questions. There is an adjudication process. Sometimes it may be inconvenient to you and sometimes convenient but that is how this process is. Both sides have to face the music. If they want to bring something to our notice, they should file those documents here,” added the bench, which also comprised justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant.CJI Ramana said that it was a message from all the three judges on the bench to the petitioners, which included advocate ML Sharma; former union minister Yashwant Sinha, Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas; the Editors Guild of India (EGI); journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar; journalists Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, Rupesh Kumar Singh, Ipshita Shatakshi, SNM Abdi, and Prem Shankar Jha; and civil rights activists Jagdeep S Chhokar and Narendra Mishra.At this point, senior advocate Kapil Sibal said: “When I was appearing for Mr N Ram last time, the court had asked me why Indians were not there in the order of the California court although the petition mentioned it. He was severely trolled for it.”The CJI replied: “This is the problem of taking one line out of context. But debates must not cross the limit. If they are using the system, they should have faith in the system. This is the message from all of us.”Sibal agreed that petitioners should not make any kind of public statements when their petitions were being heard by the bench.Meanwhile, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, said that he will need some time to get instructions on the matter from the government. “I have received most of the petitions. Let me get instructions from the government and come back,” he submitted.The court accepted this request and fixed the matter for Monday next. “We will take a call (on issuance of notice) on Monday,” remarked the CJI. Lawyers for the petitioners also got the liberty to file additional documents in the case.Senior advocate Vikas Singh, representing former RSS ideologue and political activist KN Govindacharya, informed the bench that Govindacharya has also moved court. Singh pointed out that Govindacharya came to the court in 2019 for an investigation into the alleged surveillance by Pegasus but his plea was not entertained. “My client went to the parliamentary committee after that but nothing has happened,” added the lawyer. The court agreed to hear Govindacharya’s petition along with the other pleas on Monday.Last week, the bench agreed to seek a response from the Union government as it asked the petitioners to serve copies of their pleadings on the union government to ensure that a law officer remains present in the court on the day.During the hour-long proceedings on August 5, the bench said the allegations were serious in nature if the reports are correct and posed three questions to the petitioners.The first was why they came to the court after a gap of almost two years since the first reports on the use of Pegasus spyware were out way back in May 2019. This is a reference to WhatsApp revealing then that NSO’s software was used to send malware to more than 1,400 phones.The second question was on whether any of the petitioners lodged a first information report or a criminal complaint against alleged illegal interception of their phones.The third related to the existence of any empirical evidence to corroborate the claims of the infractions.The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international investigative consortium reported that the phones of many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 that were potentially targeted by Pegasus, Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. According to this consortium -- which included Washington Post, The Guardian, La Monde, and India’s The Wire, among other publications -- Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning a phone into a pocket spy.The list database was first obtained by France-based non-profit Forbidden Stories, which shared the information with the reporting partners. The devices of at least 67 of the numbers were analysed by Amnesty International and of these, 37 had signs of being hacked by Pegasus. Of these 37, 10 were in India.NSO says its software is sold only to government customers after vetting by Israeli authorities. The Indian government has neither confirmed nor denied that it procured or used Pegasus, and has repeatedly ruled out any illegal surveillance in India.On Monday, the Union defence ministry replied on the floor of the parliament that it has not had any transaction with the Israeli-based firm.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation into the alleged snooping explains, the presence of a number on the database of the alleged targeted numbers does not indicate an individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-row-have-faith-in-the-system-says-sc-to-petitioners-101628580200660.html
11-08-2021||NA||Parliament Highlights: Monsoon Session could end tomorrow||The Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha passed three bills each on Monday. In the Rajya Sabha, a motion to refer bills to select committees was defeated as some members of the Opposition staged a walk out over the last time inclusion, insisting it gives them very little time to prepare. The government agreed to one of the key demands put forth by the Opposition this session, to debate farm laws. Opposition parties are slated to meet today to decide if they will participate as they’re insisting on a debate on the Pegasus snooping row before any other issue. Some 14 Opposition parties have also agreed to "cooperate" with the government to facilitate passage of the 127th amendment to the Constitution, which seeks restoring the power of states to identify socially and economically backward classes for reservation (quotas) in jobs and college admissions.Follow all the updates here:Monsoon Session could end tomorrowMonsoon Session is expected to adjourn sine die after passing the constitution amendment billLok Sabha adjournedLok Sabha adjourned for the day. To reconvene on August 11. Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty Seventh Amendment) Bill 2021 passed in LSConstitution (One Hundred and Twenty Seventh Amendment) Bill 2021 passed in Lok Sabha, allowing states to make their own OBC lists. Premachandan says central list be made applicable to state govts and UTsPremachandan says OBCs will get benefits of the central list also. He says he will not move the amendment if assurance is received from the government. Amendment 3 and 4 put up for vote. 386 parliamentarians vote 'Yes'386 parliamentarians voted in favourVoting begins on OBC BillThe parliamentarians are casting their votes. The lobbies have been cleared for the voting and division to commence. JMM MP says he fears RS and LS will also be 'privatised'Hansdak says government should not enter into a self-congratulatory state of mind for bringing the Bill, says this should have been done earlier, extends support to the Bill. Malook Nagar says Cong did not do anything for OBCsThe BSP MP says OBC communities did not get fair treatment under Congress. Owaisi says Dalits and Muslims can also be included in Scheduled Caste listOwaisi says 1950 Presidential Order be made religion neutral. He says why do Muslims don't deserve reservation. Owaisi says Muslims also vote and contribute to the nation but in return they get wishes on Eid. He says BJP does not stand for the upliftment of the OBCs. Caste-based census need of the hour: TDP MPK Ram Mohan Naidu says that caste-based census is required for upliftment of the backward communities. He says that the 27% reservation for the OBCs are not being fully implemented. Akhilesh Yadav says BJP spreading hatred amid communitiesThe former UP CM says that BJP during the previous UP elections promised many benefits for the OBC communities, but did not keep those promises. Ritesh Pandey says BJP MP's comments 'casteist'BSP's Pandey criticises a BJP MP who he claims said, 'Being a Brahmin, I am speaking of OBC welfare'. Pandey says these statements reflect BJP is divisive. Discussion on the Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty Seventh Amendment) Bill continues. JD(U) MP urges for caste-based census in Lok SabhaJanata Dal (United) MP from Munger Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh urged Centre to carry out caste-based census, reiterating Bihar chief minister and his fellow party men Nitish Kumar's stance. Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2pmRajya Sabha adjourned till 2pm due to continued sloganeering by Opposition MPs'Transaction of the House is the onus of the govt', says Cong MP Adhir Ranjan ChowdhuryCongress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that the "transaction of the house is the onus of the government". Chowdhury was clarifying his government's stance on disrupting the proceedings of the House for highlighting issues which are of concern to the common man.Lok Sabha tables 127th Constitution Amendment BillThe 127th Constitution Amendment Bill that aims to bypass a May 2021 Supreme Court ruling granting Centre the sole power to notify socially and educationally backward classes (SEBCs) — and not the states, has been tabled for discussion and passage in the Lok Sabha. Opposition parties have said they will support the move to pass the bill.SAD, BSP, Cong protest farm laws outside ParliamentMPs of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) & Congress Party stage a protest outside Parliament & urged Centre to repeal 3 agri laws "2024 Lok Sabha elections are not far away. The fight will continue," says SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur pic.twitter.com/1ughn7m21ULok Sabha adjourned till 12pmLok Sabha adjourned till 12 noon after Opposition MPs gathered at the Well, raising slogans and placards. pic.twitter.com/Sh0EkpAODVRajya Sabha adjourned till 12pmRajya Sabha chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu adjourned the Upper House till 12pm amid uproar caused by Opposition MPs demanding a discussion on Pegasus row.M. Venkaiah Naidu lists farm laws for discussionRajya Sabha chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu lists farm laws for discussions but says no to Pegasus as Opposition MPs voice their protest.Ripun Bora gives suspension of business notice in Rajya SabhaCongress MP Ripun Bora has given the suspension of business notice in Rajya Sabha under rule 267 demanding discussion on rising fuel prices. pic.twitter.com/XR7MQTd7NR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-live-cong-mp-ripun-bora-gives-suspension-of-business-notice-in-rs-101628559807154.html
11-08-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: Punjab CM likely to meet PM Modi tomorrow||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.In the last 24 hours, India logged 28,204 new Covid-19 cases, 41,511 recoveries and 373 deaths, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Tuesday. Also, Supreme Court resumed hearing into petitions seeking judicial probe into the alleged Pegasus scandal, but then adjourned it for further hearing on August 16. The first hearing in the case took place last Thursday.Follow all the updates here:Punjab CM likely to meet PM Modi tomorrowPunjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh likely to meet PM Modi in Delhi tomorrow: Sources(File photos) pic.twitter.com/Tv6GHjjAOoPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh is likely to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi tomorrow in Delhi, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. Ropeway service in Uttarakhand to offer free rides to Maa Chandi Devi Temple to namesakes of 'Neeraj Chopra' and 'Vandana Katariya'Usha Breco, ropeway service in Uttarakhand, offers free rides to Maa Chandi Devi Temple, Haridwar to namesakes of Olympic gold medalist Neeraj Chopra & hockey player Vandana Katariya. People called 'Neeraj' & 'Vandana' can avail services from 11-22 Aug by showing the Aadhaar Card pic.twitter.com/WdsVOwWRR38 days after schools reopen in Punjab, 20 students test Covid-19 positiveAs many as 20 students studying in two schools of Ludhiana city in Punjab have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Both the schools have been shut for 14 days, Ludhiana deputy commissioner VK Sharma told news agency ANI. Read more.New York Governor Andrew Cuomo announces resignation amid sexual assault allegationsNew York Governor Andrew Cuomo announces resignation, reports AFP. The news comes days after sexual harassment allegations on him.We're ready for any punishment, says Congress RS MP Partap Singh Bajwa on repealing of farm lawsFarmers won't take a step back, you will have to take back the three laws...We are ready for any punishment, they can shoot us, we are ready to be hanged too. We are farmers' sons. If Govt listens to us, it will be good: Partap Singh Bajwa, Congress RS MPPunjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh seeks 25 CAPF companies and anti-drone gadgets for BSF for protection amid security threat before I-DayAmid increased security threat ahead of I-Day & Assembly polls, Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh meets HM Shah to seek 25 companies of CAPF&anti-drone gadgets for BSF for protection from Pak-backed terror forces. Warns of drone/terror activity escalation: Media Advisor to Punjab CM pic.twitter.com/ZQYg7PIWulMaharashtra's daily Covid-19 case count yet again hikes with 5,609 new infectionsMaharashtra on Tuesday reported 5,609 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, up from 4,505 that was recorded the preceding day, according to data shared by the state health bulletin.Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh arrives at Union home minister Amit Shah's residence in DelhiPunjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh arrives at the residence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi pic.twitter.com/n4mApdKF7eTaliban captures Afghanistan's Farah province capital, reports AFPTaliban fighters have captured Afghanistan's Farah province capital, according to a lawmaker and insurgents, news agency AFP reported.Police seeks three days custody of ex-BJP spokesperson Ashwini UpadhyayPolice has sought three days custody of former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay, and five other accused for allegedly raising inflammatory slogans at Jantar Mantar farmers' protest site.India advises its nationals in Afghanistan to return immediately before commercial air services are discontinuedIndia has advised all of its nationals in Afghanistan to make immediate travel arrangements to return before commercial air services are discontinued. This alert follows the country's move to evacuate officials and nationals from Mazar-e-Sharif.Black can only be seen in clothes of Opposition leaders, says Agri minister TomarThe attitude of Congress & TMC during the discussion in Rajya Sabha has dealt a major blow to democracy & proves that there is nothing black in the new farm laws. Black can only be seen in the clothes of Opposition leaders: Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar (3/3) pic.twitter.com/Xb2sigyn3IRajasthan HC refuses bail to Mahipal MadernaRajasthan high court refused to grant bail to erstwhile minister Mahipal Maderna in the Bhanwari Devi murder case. Seven other accused in the same case have been granted bail, reported ANI.Raj Kundra and Ryan Thorpe's bail hearing adjourned for August 20Hearing on bail applications of businessman and actor Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra and his IT associate Ryan Thorpe, both of whom have been arrested in pornography case, have been adjourned for August 20, reported ANI.Terrorists hurl grenade at security forces in SrinagarJammu and Kashmir | Terrorists hurled grenade at security forces at Hari Singh High Street, Srinagar today, few civilians injured; details awaited(Visuals deferred by unspecified time) pic.twitter.com/eJrxmcnEikSAARC General-Secretary meets S JaishankarSAARC General-Secretary Esala Ruwan Weerakoon, who is on a week-long visit to India, meets External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar in New Delhi pic.twitter.com/hhT2BKHrQHIndia to evacuate officials and Indian citizens from Aghanistan's Mazar-e-SharifIndia to evacuate India-based officials and Indian nationals from Afghanistan's Mazar-e-Sharif, where there is a consulate, evacuation to be done by Indian Air Force aircraft.Fire breaks out in factory in JalandharJalandhar | Fire breaks out at a plastic pipe manufacturing factory in Globe Colony#Punjab pic.twitter.com/i5gA0TuHTtFire breaks out at a plastic pipe manufacturing factory in Jalandhar's Globe Colony11 Taliban terrorists killed in US airstrike: TOLO NewsAt least 11 Taliban members were killed in a B-52 airstrike by US forces in Nijrab district, Kapisa province, thoday morning, reports TOLO News quoting provincial police spokesperson.We demand restoration of J&K's statehood: Rahul Gandhi"We demand the restoration of full statehood for Jammu and Kashmir and free and fair elections here," says Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in Srinagar.'Prima facie, Twitter has appointed chief compliance officer': Centre to Delhi courtAdditional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, appearing for Centre, told a Delhi court that prima facie, Twitter has appointed chief compliance officer, resident grievance officer and nodal contact person in compliance with recently amended IT Rule.Covaxin to now be produced in Gujarat as wellGovernment of India approves vaccine manufacturing facility for production of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin in Ankleshwar, Gujarat: Mansukh Mandaviya, Union health ministerOver 525 million Covid-19 vaccine doses provided to states: Health ministry525,635,710 Covid-19vaccine doses have been provided to states/UTs. Of this, the total consumption including wastages is 510,958,562 doses, as per the data available at 8 am today: Union health ministrySC adjourns hearing into alleged Pegasus scandal to MondaySupreme Court adjourns to next Monday hearing of petitions seeking judicial probe into the alleged Pegasus scandal.CJI-led bench resumes hearing pleas over alleged Pegasus scandalThree judge Supreme Court bench headed by CJI NV Ramana resumes hearing petitions over alleged Pegasus scandal.NH-58 in Uttarakhand closed due to landslide#WATCH | Uttarakhand: National Highway 58 (Rishikesh-Srinagar) near Tota Ghati closed after boulders roll downhill due to landslide; vehicular movement affected. pic.twitter.com/X1b9sMTcNxNational Highway 58 (Rishikesh-Srinagar) near Tota Ghati in Uttarakhand closed after boulders roll downhill due to landslide; vehicular movement affected.Check fare on airline's website: DGCA to international passengerspic.twitter.com/gHS7vb936pIn advisory, DGCA directs passengers travelling to international destinations to check fare preferably on concerned airline's website.India reports 28,204 new Covid-19 cases and 373 deathsIndia's daily Covid-19 cases and deaths fall to 28,204 and 373 respectively. Tally reaches 31,998,158 including 31,180,968 recoveries, 428,682 deaths and 388,508 active cases.483,278,545 samples tested for Covid-19 till now: ICMR483,278,545 samples tested for Covid-19 up to 9th August. 1,511,313 samples tested on 9th August: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)Punjab CM Amarinder to meet Sonia GandhiPunjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi in Delhi today; likely to hold discussion on cabinet reshuffle in Punjab.5 people to be examined for Jantar Mantar sloganeering: Delhi PoliceFive people, including BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay, to be examined in connection with inflammatory sloganeering near Jantar Mantar on Sunday, reports ANI quoting Delhi Police.PM Modi to launch Ujjwala 2.0 todayUjjwala 1.0 was launched in May 2016. Since its launch, it has ensured a life of dignity to our citizens, especially women. In August 2019, the target of 8 crore connections was completed 7 months before the decided time frame."Tomorrow, 10th August is a special day for India’s development trajectory. At 12:30 PM, Ujjwala 2.0 will be launched with connections being handed over to people in Mahoba, UP," tweeted PM Modi on Monday.US says will press Taliban to end offensiveUS negotiator on Afghanistan Zalmay Khalizad will press the Taliban to end its offensive in Afghanistan, during talks in Doha this week. Will help formulate a joint international response to the rapidly deteriorating situation: State DepartmentBritain to relax travel curbs for climate meetBritain likely to relax travel restrictions for 26th UN Climate Change Conference (COP 26), reports Reuters.Canada to extend ban on passenger flights from India till Sept 21Canada to extend ban on arriving passenger flights from India till September 21, reports Reuters quoting Canadian transport ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-breaking-news-updates-august-10-2021-101628552582420.html
