12-08-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination drive: Over 5 million doses administered on Thursday as cumulative coverage goes past 528 million||With more than 5 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered on Thursday, the cumulative number of doses delivered across the country touched 528,927,844, the Centre said on Thursday. Of these 5,077,491 doses were administered on Thursday alone, according to a provisional report issued at 7pm.“India’s Cumulative COVID Vaccination Coverage has exceeded 52.89 crore (52,89,27,844), as per the 7 pm provisional report today,” the Union ministry of health and family welfare said in the release. “More than 50 lakh (50,77,491) Vaccine Doses have been administered today, as per the 7 pm provisional report,” the ministry added.On Thursday, the 209th day of the vaccination drive, people in the age group 18 to 44 received 2,783,649 first doses and 485,193 second doses, according to the latest data. This included 3,949,956 first doses and 1,127,535 second doses. Meanwhile, healthcare workers received 1,967 first doses and 13,859 second doses while frontline workers received 4,587 first doses and 45,774 second doses on Thursday.Also read | Covaxin 65% efficient against Delta variant, 75 million doses supplied so far: Bharat Biotech“Five states, namely Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, have administered more than 1 crore cumulative doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the age group 18-44 years. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine,” the ministry further said.Cumulative coverageSo far, 411,068,420 first doses and 117,859,424 second doses have been administered to eligible beneficiaries across the country. Of these, 187,663,555 first doses and 13,923,085 second doses have been delivered to people between 18 and 44 years of age.Healthcare workers have so far been given 10,343,187 first doses and 8,049,275 second doses while frontline workers have got 18,253,438 first doses and 11,984,056 second doses.The cumulative doses administered under the country’s Covid-19 vaccination program crossed the 500-million mark on August 6 (500,348,866 total doses).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-over-5-million-doses-administered-on-thursday-as-cumulative-coverage-goes-past-528-million-101628790430382.html
12-08-2021||India||I am guilty if…: Rahul Gandhi takes to Instagram as Twitter blocks his account||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took to photo-sharing social media platform Instagram after his official account was blocked by Twitter for sharing images of the family of a nine-year-old alleged rape-and-murder victim in Delhi last week in violation of laws.Sharing a few notes on Instagram with the caption ‘daro mat… satyameva jayate’ (don’t fear...truth alone triumphs), Gandhi said he was guilty if fighting for justice for a rape and murder victim is a crime. “If showing compassion and empathy is a crime. I am guilty.”He further said the message of compassion, love and justice is universal and 1.3 billion Indians will not be silenced. “They can lock us out on a platform. But they can’t lock out our voice for the sake of the people.”Earlier in the day, the Congress alleged its official Twitter handle as well as that of a large number of party leaders, including Gandhi, and workers have been blocked by the microblogging website. Twitter defended the move saying the accounts were blocked to protect individual privacy and safety after they posted images that violated its rules.The grand old party also moved to Instagram and wrote, "Twitter India has locked the official handle of the principal opposition party. This is an unprecedented attack on the voice of the people."The Congress leadership accused Twitter’s management of acting under pressure from the Narendra Modi government. The party’s chief spokesperson, Randeep Surjewala, said the Centre would not be able to suppress their voice by threatening Twitter. "How much will you scare Twitter at the behest of the police? This is not just an issue of freedom of speech, but it is the issue of raising the voice of a poor Valmiki Dalit girl for justice and bringing it before the country. Till justice is given to the poor girl, we will continue to raise this voice," he said.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi said Twitter was colluding with the government to stifle democracy. "Is Twitter following its own policy for the suspension of Congress leaders' accounts or the Modi government's? Why hadn't it locked the account of SC commission that had tweeted similar photos before any of our leaders did?She further said the real issue was the "brutal rape and forced cremation" of the Dalit girl in the heart of the national capital and questioned the prime minister's silence on it."The real issue is the Delhi Police disallowing the lodging of an FIR for 15 hours. @narendramodi why have you not uttered a single word about this heinous crime against an innocent child?The head of the Congress's social media department, Rohan Gupta, said the party's official Twitter handle and around 5,000 accounts of its top leaders and workers have been blocked by the website."Twitter is clearly acting under the government's pressure as it did not remove the same pictures shared by the Twitter account of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes for a few days," he said.The Twitter accounts of All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretaries Surjewala, K C Venugopal, Harish Rawat, Ajay Maken, the party's whip in the Lok Sabha Manickam Tagore, Assam in-charge and former Union minister Jitendra Singh and Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev have also been blocked, the party said.Rawat said at a time when the country is just three days away from celebrating Independence Day, the freedom of expression of opposition leaders is being snatched away."Have Twitter India and the Constitution of India become so weak in a democracy?" the former Uttarakhand chief minister asked on Facebook.Congress leader Sachin Pilot accused the Centre of suppressing the voice of opposition leaders."The central government is betraying the countrymen by suppressing the voice of the opposition on issues related to the country," he said in a tweet.When contacted, a Twitter spokesperson said the company's rules are enforced judiciously and impartially for everyone in its service."We have taken proactive action on several hundred tweets that posted an image that violated our rules and may continue to do so in line with our range of enforcement options. Certain types of private information carry higher risks than others and our aim is always to protect individual privacy and safety," he said.Twitter’s move came days after the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) complained to it about Gandhi revealing the identity of the alleged sexual assault victim and her parents. The rights body had directed Twitter to act against Gandhi’s account for violating the privacy of a minor victim, mandated by the laws of the land.Congress leaders changed their Twitter handle names to Rahul Gandhi with some of them even replacing their display pictures on the website with that of the former party chief.Meanwhile, the TMC condemned the action taken by Twitter against Congress leaders."What's going on? We strongly condemn the blocking of the accounts of @INCIndia and senior leaders of the Congress party," Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Derek O'Brien said in a tweet.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-guilty-if-rahul-gandhi-takes-to-instagram-as-twitter-blocks-his-account-101628788692461.html
12-08-2021||India||Aviation ministry hikes domestic flight capacity to 72.5%||The ministry of civil aviation on Thursday issued an order allowing domestic airlines to increase flight capacity to 72.5% from 65% with immediate effect.“After review of the current status of Scheduled Domestic Operations viz-a-viz passenger demand for air travel in terms of purpose specified in the initial order... is further modified as under: 65% capacity may be read as 72.5% capacity. This shall take effect from the date of issue of this order and will remain in place until further orders,” the statement said.In July, the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) hiked the capacity of domestic flights to 65% from the earlier 50%.For the first time after May 2020, the government had cut down capacity of domestic airlines from 80% (of the summer schedule 2020) to 50% from June 1 (in an order dated May 28) to safeguard airlines’ viability battling weak finances in the aftermath of the sudden spike in Covid-19 infections across the country, a slump in passenger traffic and passenger load factor.After complete flight operation suspension for two months, the government permitted domestic flights from May 25, 2020, with 33% capacity of their pre-Covid-19 levels which was then increased to 45% in June and so on.Domestic flight operations have been allowed at present while scheduled international passenger flights still remain suspended but limited special international passenger flights have been operating since July 2020 under air bubble arrangements formed with 28 countries, including the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aviation-ministry-hikes-domestic-flight-capacity-to-725-101628788847445.html
12-08-2021||India||RTI activist Saket Gokhale joins ‘aggressive' Trinamool Congress||Right to Information (RTI) activist and staunch critic of the Narendra Modi government Saket Gokhale joined the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress in New Delhi on Thursday. He was welcomed into the party by Trinamool Congress MPs Saugata Roy and Derek O’Brien and senior leader Yashwant Sinha, who had switched over from the BJP earlier this year.Gokhale said the Trinamool Congress, the second-largest Opposition party in Parliament, takes an "aggressive" stand on issues and it was an obvious choice for him. "The TMC is the second largest Opposition party in Parliament and it has been my obvious choice. If you look at all the national parties, the TMC takes an aggressive stand. The way the chief minister of Bengal has been fighting on the front foot, that's what I'm looking for," Gokhale said after joining the party.Honored to join @AITCofficial under the leadership of the ever fearless @MamataOfficial & @abhishekaitc. The fight to safeguard our democracy & its institutions needs all hands on deck. I hope to contribute in the best way I can. Thanks for the warm welcome 😊#KhelaHobe https://t.co/M05bVeSipEHours later, he took to Twitter and wrote, “The fight to safeguard our democracy and its institutions needs all hands on deck. I hope to contribute in the best way I can.”“The battle for me remains what it always has been. I will continue to do what I do with greater strength. The need for Opposition unity today is greater than it has ever been. Everyone that is fighting the monster of BJP’s fascism is forever a friend and ally of mine,” he further wrote.Also read | 'Khela hobe', says Mamata even as she skirts Delhi leadership queriesIn a statement, the TMC said, “Saket Gokhale is a renowned RTI activist and began his career as a journalist. He has filed RTIs on issues of national importance for several years. Most recently, he filed queries on bank loans and budgetary allocation for Pegasus.”In July, the Delhi High Court had restrained Gokhale from posting defamatory tweets against former diplomat Lakshmi Murdeshwar Puri or her husband, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri. Gokhale, in his tweets on June 13 and 26 made reference to certain property purchased by Puri in Switzerland and also referred to her husband.Riding high on the success of the bitterly fought West Bengal Assembly election, the Bengal CM has been looking to expand the footprint of the Trinamool Congress at a national level and has also been at the forefront of stitching a united Opposition against the BJP ahead of the Lok Sabha election in 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rti-activist-saket-gokhale-joins-trinamool-as-mamata-moves-national-101628782446922.html
12-08-2021||India||July retail inflation eases to 5.5% to stay within RBI’s limits||Retail inflation, a measure of what households pay for everyday items, slowed in July to 5.59%, staying within the Reserve Bank’s desirable limit for the first time in two months. Some items, such as pulses, clothing, footwear and health costs, however remained high, data released by the government on Thursday showed. The easing of prices, as measured by the Consumer Price Index, comes as a relief not just for consumers, who are battling income and wage losses due to the pandemic, but also the central bank, which decides key economic policies based on how inflation moves. The RBI’s tolerable range for inflation is 4(+/-2)%. A very low inflation reading, which suggests insufficient demand, is not good for the economy either. The retail inflation reading is a key determinant of monetary policy, which refers to the central bank’s decision to raise or reduce interest rates. Higher inflation limits the RBI’s room to keep interests low, needed to boost growth. Thursday’s consumer inflation data showed inflation in the food and beverages category climbed 4.46%, slower than a 5.58% rise in June, led by easing prices of vegetables. Economists often use the term stagflation, a worrying situation, to describe persistently higher inflation and flat growth. They are unsure of whether the lower pace of inflation in July will hold. “It’s increasingly difficult to characterise the (inflationary) pressures as purely transitory in nature,” wrote Aditi Nayar, chief economist of the ratings firm ICRA, in a note.However, commonly consumed protein items such as pulses remained high in July at 9.04%, although they were cheaper when compared to a 10.01% rise in June. The price rise in fuel came in at 12.38%, while clothing and footwear inflation rose 6.4% compared to 6.2% a month ago. Inflation readings compare prices on a year-on-year basis, meaning they track how prices have moved from a year ago. “A sharp fall in food inflation to 3.96% in July 2021 led the headline retail inflation to cool off to three months low. Though sharp vegetables deflation was mainly responsible for a sharp decline in food inflation, a strong base effect both at food as well as headline inflation was also on play in July 2021,” Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings and Research, said in a research note. The easing of prices also means supply bottlenecks are being fixed as states relaxed lockdown restrictions, said Ashok Agrawal, an analyst with Comtrade, a commodities trading firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/july-retail-inflation-eases-to-5-5-to-stay-within-rbi-s-limits-101628783327171.html
12-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: US conducts impact trial test on nuclear carrier and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.US conducts impact trial test on nuclear carrier, sends message to China: ReportDuring the shock trial testing 40,000 pounds of ordnance is detonated in the water near the hull to test the ship as well as its system. Success in the test will indicate no major injuries, no fires and no flooding. The amount of ordnance used is equivalent to a 3.9-magnitude earthquake. Read more here. Janhvi Kapoor asked Sridevi the spelling of her name, she spelt it wrong too. Check out hilarious storyJanhvi Kapoor has recalled how her mother, late actor Sridevi once misspelled her name and it stuck with her for eight years. Read more here. ‘Will win gold in Paris’: Lovlina Borgohain tells Assam amid tumultuous welcomeA cash reward of ₹1 crore, a scholarship of ₹1 lakh per month till Paris Olympics to help with her preparations, an offer of the post of deputy superintendent of police with Assam Police, a street in Guwahati named after her and a sports complex at her home constituency Sarupathar were the gifts announced for her by the Assam government. Read more here. Abhishek Bachchan offloads luxury condo in Mumbai for ₹45 croreActor Abhishek Bachchan has sold his luxurious apartment in Mumbai for ₹45 crore. The actor would have been neighbours with Akshay Kumar and Shahid Kapoor. Read more here. No vaccine to provide protection indefinitely, everyone will need booster shots: FauciDr Anthony Fauci said researchers are collecting data to determine when the protection for vaccinated groups will go below a “critical level.” Read more here. Watch: PM Modi releases ₹1,600 crore for women self-help groups||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-us-conducts-impact-trial-test-on-nuclear-carrier-and-all-the-latest-news-101628781773466.html
12-08-2021||India||Supreme Court stays release of Narayan Sai on furlough||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed the release of self-styled godman Asaram Bapu’s son Narayan Sai on a two-week furlough granted by the Gujarat High Court on June 24. The furlough was to take effect from Friday as the High Court had stayed till then the operation of its own order. The Court while issuing notice on an appeal filed by the Gujarat government challenging the HC order, also agreed to examine whether the release of convicts under the Bombay Furlough and Parole Rules 1959 (applicable to Gujarat) and the provision of furlough for life convicts “every year” referred to a calendar year or the duration of a year after the last release on furlough.The bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah said, “Pending further orders, there shall be a stay of the operation of the impugned order of the Single Judge of the High Court dated 24 June 2021, directing the release of the respondent on furlough for a period of two weeks.”Sai was convicted in a rape case by a Surat court in April 2019 on a complaint by two women that they were raped between 2002 and 2005 at a Surat ashram run by him and his father Asaram Bapu. The trial court sentenced him to life under Section 376 (rape), 377 (unnatural offences), 323 (assault), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.In December 2020, Sai was granted a two-week furlough to visit his ailing mother in Ahmedabad. Six months later, he appealed for furlough again and was granted one by the Gujarat High Court on June 24. However, the High Court by a separate order stayed his release. This order was to expire on Friday.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for Gujarat pointed out that the Furlough Rules of 1959 clearly state that under Rule 17, no prisoner has a legal right for furlough. He read out a 2006 judgment of the Supreme Court which affirmed the view that furlough is not an absolute right and the purpose behind it is to periodically allow the convict to have family association and avoid the ill-effects of continuous stay in jail.The bench said, “What is prevailing in our mind is whether the expression “every year” as occurring in the proviso to Rule 3(2) of the 1959 Rules refers to once every calendar year or that at least a year should elapse since it was last availed. We will examine this question.”According to the proviso to Rule 3(2), a prisoner sentenced to life imprisonment may be released on furlough “every year”, after he completes seven years actual imprisonment. Sai was arrested in December 2013 from Haryana in the present case. He had spent nearly seven-and-a-half years in prison and was entitled for furlough.Mehta further stated that the Rules also provide denial of furlough if the Commissioner of Police feels that the release of the convict will not serve the interests of public peace and tranquility or the conduct of prisoner, in the opinion of the Jail Superintendent, is not satisfactory.The state submitted that Sai was convicted of an offence of rape and the Director General of Police had issued an order on May 8, 2021 detailing the circumstances impinging on public peace and tranquility if he was released. Solicitor General said that Sai commanded a huge number of followers inside the state. While in custody, he tried to intimidate and bribe the investigating officer and three crucial witnesses in the case were killed, Mehta submitted.When the bench asked why the state did not oppose the first grant of furlough, Mehta informed that the state did not adopt an adversarial approach and treated his request for meeting mother on a purely humanitarian consideration. Opposing his subsequent furlough request, Mehta argued, “He is claiming furlough as a matter of right that will accrue to him every year. This cannot be accepted”Sai was represented in Court by advocate Sanjiv Punalekar who accepted notice and agreed to respond within a week. The bench posted the matter for hearing next on August 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-stays-release-of-narayan-sai-on-furlough-101628781046899.html
12-08-2021||India||In a first, drone research lab opens in Kerala tomorrow. Here's more on it||The Kerala Police will launch a first-of-its-kind Drone Forensic Lab and Research Centre on Friday to address a rising security threat. The centre will be inaugurated by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, said Manoj Abraham, Additional Director General of Police, Thiruvananthapuram Range.Abraham, who has the additional charge of ADGP, State Crime Records Bureau and is the nodal officer of CyberDrome, said this lab-cum-research centre will look into both utility and threat aspects of a drone. Cyberdome is a technological research and development centre of the Kerala Police Department.Abraham said that “while analysing a drone at the research centre, we'll look into its origin, see its utility value such as using it for policing and devising anti-drone mechanisms to check its misuse as we saw in the case of drone activities at the border”. While analyzing a drone at the research centre, we'll look into its origin, see its utility value such as using it for policing & devising anti-drone mechanisms to check its misuse as we saw in the case of drone activities at border: Thiruvanathapuram ADGP Manoj Abraham pic.twitter.com/Z7VljIXUzoEarlier, Kerala police chief Anil Kant had said the state unit would also consider collaborating with the Union government in the research sector."Of late, drone is another emerging threat, which may pose very serious technological threat to the cities as well. We have taken a note of it and we are starting a Drone Research Lab and Drone Forensic Lab," Kant had said.His statement had come a day after Army chief General MM Naravane said easy availability of drones has increased the complexity of security challenges in the country.Kant had also said the Kerala Police is planning to develop an anti-drone system with the help of volunteers at the CyberDrome and other experts in the field.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-drone-research-lab-opens-in-kerala-tomorrow-here-s-more-on-it-101628776915181.html
12-08-2021||India||‘Will win gold in Paris’: Lovlina Borgohain tells Assam amid tumultuous welcome||Eight days after she won a bronze medal in the women’s 69 kg boxing category at Tokyo Olympics, Lovlina Borgohain landed in her home state Assam on Thursday to a huge welcome. The 23-year-old, who is the first Olympic medal winner from Assam, landed at Guwahati’s Lokapriya Gopinath Bordoloi airport from New Delhi and was welcomed by a host of dignitaries led by Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. A large crowd of overjoyed supporters and a big posse of journalists were also present. “I am very happy to have brought a medal to Assam with all your love and blessings. I want to thank each and every one of you. It’s been a year since I last came to Assam. I have no words to express my feelings. I am sad that I wasn’t able to return with the gold medal,” said an emotional Lovlina after her arrival. “I promise all of you that I will be back with the gold medal after Paris Olympics. The journey and struggles have been tough, but I have never wavered from my goal. I never cried during my struggles, but my tears started flowing the moment I reached Assam,” she said later at an event. A special welcome ceremony was held at Guwahati’s Srimanta Shankardev Kalakshetra auditorium where CM Sarma announced a number of gifts and offers for Lovlina from the state government. “Lovlina has expressed regret at not winning gold and promised to win gold in Paris. But we are not worried about the future. We are happy and proud that she has given Assam the rare pleasure of an Olympic medal after a 125-year wait. She is an inspiration for millions now. All our blessings and good wishes are with her,” CM Sarma said in his speech. A cash reward of ₹1 crore, a scholarship of ₹1 lakh per month till Paris Olympics to help with her preparations, an offer of the post of deputy superintendent of police with Assam Police, a street in Guwahati named after her and a sports complex at her home constituency Sarupathar were the gifts announced for her by the Assam government. Sarma also announced ₹10 lakh each to four of Lovlina’s coaches, Prasanta Das, Padum Boro, Sandhya Gurung and Rafael Bergamasco, for their contribution in helping her to achieve her dream of an Olympic medal. “I would be happy if more youngsters are inspired and take up sports. There’s lot of talent in the rural areas of Assam and all over the Northeast and if they are given ample opportunity they will represent the country and bring more laurels. I urge all parents to encourage their children to take up sports as a career,” Lovlina said. The event was attended by Assam’s athletic hero Bhogeswar Baruah, winner of 800 m gold for men at 1966 Asian Games, speaker Biswajit Daimary, Lovlina’s father Tiken Borgohain and a host of other dignitaries. Lovlina will spend Thursday night in Guwahati and will return to Delhi on Friday where she will take part in the Independence Day celebrations. She will return to her home at Baromukhia village in Golaghat district on August 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-win-gold-in-paris-lovlina-borgohain-tells-assam-amid-tumultuous-welcome-101628775826573.html
12-08-2021||India||To decongest prisons amid Covid-19, Bengal to release 73 life convicts||The West Bengal government has decided to release 73 life convicts from various prisons across the state to decongest correctional homes amid the Covid-19 health crisis in the eastern state. Earlier in May, taking note of the rising Covid-19 cases in the country, the Supreme Court had passed directions for decongestion of prisons and ordered the release of all those prisoners who were granted bail or parole last year in view of the pandemic. “Earlier in August, we had decided to release 63 convicts, including two women. On Thursday, we decided to release another 73 life convicts, including seven women,” said Mamata Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal. The male convicts are all aged above 60 years; while the female convicts are aged above 55 years. “There was a need to decongest the prisons because of the prevailing Covid-19 situation. Section 432 of the CrPC empowers the state government to consider the premature release of life convicts who have already served 14 years in jails,” a senior official of the state government had earlier said. The state sentence review board recommended the release of these life convicts on humanitarian grounds considering their age and their conduct. At present there are 60 correctional homes in the state, which include seven central correctional homes, five special correctional homes and one women’s correctional home among others. “While the total capacity of our correctional homes is around 21,500 there are around 23,000 – 24,000 in jails across the state,” said an official of the jail department while adding that the 63 convicts would be released once the necessary formalities are completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-decongest-prisons-amid-covid-19-bengal-to-release-73-life-convicts-101628774206475.html
12-08-2021||India||UP 2022: Poll issues may overshadow personalities||As the chief ministerial candidates in the fray are all tried and tested, this time around, poll issues may play a dominant role in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh (UP) assembly elections.In UP, the last three assembly elections were eclipsed by personalities. People witnessed the rule of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP)’s Mayawati, Samajwadi Party (SP)’s Akhilesh Yadav, and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Yogi Adityanath. The report cards of these three tenures are now ready.It was Mayawati’s social engineering that paved the way for the BSP’s victory in 2007. However, the 2012 and 2017 assembly elections were primarily driven by personalities.In 2012, Akhilesh Yadav, who rode the anti-incumbency wave against the Mayawati government, crisscrossed the state on his bicycle, mobilising the support of first-time voters, backward classes and Muslims. His father Mulayam Singh Yadav worked behind the scenes, micro-managing the election that eventually launched his son, whom he fondly called Tipu. Then, in 2017, voters were captured by the charisma of Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi. Adityanath then shifted base from the Gorakhnath mutt to the chief minister’s chair.The three leaders are no longer fresh faces. People know their acts of omission and commission, and they have their respective domains as well. It is only Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who can be the only new claimant for the chief minister’s position. She comes without any baggage, except for the Congress’s dismal health, both nationally and within the state.Also Read | The outcome of the Monsoon SessionThus, it is likely that poll issues will overshadow personalities, despite caste combinations being an integral component of elections in UP. All political parties have already begun fixing the caste matrix.For instance, while both the SP and the BSP are wooing the disgruntled Brahmins, the ruling BJP tried to give representation to backward castes in the central Cabinet during the recent expansion. They even inducted a Lodh leader as minister to fill in the vacuum that Kalyan Singh’s ailment caused.As of now, the Opposition is banking on Covid-19 mismanagement, the farmers’ agitation, price rise and unemployment, besides the ritual of playing up anti-incumbency against the ruling dispensation.Former SP minister Abhishek Mishra, who travelled across 56 districts, claims that the people of UP may be silent, but the desire for change is strong. The main issues plaguing villages are price rise and unemployment. He also said that Brahmins are upset with the current dispensation and have decided to vote against the BJP.According to him, the SP needs an increase of 5% to 7% in their vote-share over their 2017 vote percentage on the 298 seats that they had fought in alliance with the Congress. Experts, however, believe that despite anti-incumbency, the BJP’s tally will not fall by more than 100 seats from 325 seats won (including those of allies) in the previous election. They feel that the BJP will still cross the majority mark. Both the SP and the BJP are claiming over 350 seats.Political activist and analyst from west UP, professor Satish Prakash, however, feels that the poll agenda will be clearly determined closer to the election. This, he believes, will decide the outcome. “As of now, the voter is silent but anger against the present dispensation is palpable. The key issues are unemployment and farmers’ demands,” he said.He also believes that the timing of the elections will define the agenda, adding, “Who will dare raise any other issue during a Covid wave?”Also Read | Retrospective tax: A policy based on delusion gets buriedThere is a consensus among experts who agree that the multi-cornered fight will gradually narrow down to a battle between the SP and the BJP. Thus, the anti-BJP votes may also not get divided. However, Prakash dismisses this as BJP propaganda to make the election communal.While Muslims are putting pressure on Akhilesh Yadav to ally with like-minded parties, including the Congress, the former is leaning towards a tie-up with smaller caste-based parties, apart from the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD).Former Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament (MP) Mohammad Adeeb, concerned about the split in the Muslim vote after the entry of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), feels that like-minded parties should unite on a single platform to defeat the “communal agenda” of the BJP. Without this, Muslims may even decide not to cast their votes in the election.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has indicated the party’s readiness to ally with such parties. However, the coming together of major players is unlikely. After all, the party eyeing the chair will have to contest 300 seats from a pie of 403.The BJP has already launched an intensive campaign to woo farmers and confront the Covid-19 charges against the government. PM Modi, defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union home minister Amit Shah, and BJP national president JP Nadda have all praised Adityanath for his management of Covid-19 and the development of the state during his term.Nadda made it clear that while Modi — the face of the party — will continue to connect with people before launching big rallies, party leaders and lawmakers should market the initiatives of the BJP government at the Centre and the state.Amit Puri, who was actively associated with late Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s election as a member of the state working committee, however, says the issues will be spelt out in the party manifesto and the political narrative be decided thereafter. But regional parties are unlikely to match the BJP’s leadership at the central or state level.Also Read | Climate crisis: No one will be sparedThe impact of cash transfers may also not be as large as parties believe that they are. The PM recently released ₹6,000 to farmers as a part of the PM-Kisan scheme. But SP leader Mishra states that farmers now understand the economics. Getting a meagre ₹6,000, while paying at least ₹50,000 or more for diesel, petrol, fertilisers and other essentials for cultivation, indicates that the price rise will be seen as a principal issue.The question remains: Who will decide the poll agenda? None of the regional parties has the wherewithal to match the BJP’s machinery. When it comes to star campaigners, both the BSP and the SP are two-leader parties -- Mayawati and SC Mishra, and Akhilesh Yadav and his wife Dimple Yadav, now that Mulayam Singh is no longer in a position to campaign for the election. As for the Congress, its only star campaigners are the Gandhis -- Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.Once the BJP deploys its entire machinery, with Union ministers descending on the state, they will attempt to set the poll agenda while the Opposition counters the BJP’s Hindutva and nationalist agenda, which has captured the psyche of a major chunk of voters.Opposition leaders, however, remain confident of the fall of the BJP in the upcoming elections. And a major part of this confidence comes from the BJP’s defeat in the West Bengal assembly election, where it won only 77 of the 294 assembly seats. The context however is different and the incumbent is walking into the election with State power and a formidable election machine. How it navigates issues is to be seen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-2022-poll-issues-may-overshadow-personalities-101628773607248.html
12-08-2021||India||Major Archbishop of Syro-Malabar Church to face trial over land deals: HC||Cardinal Mar George Alancherry, Major Archbishop of Syro-Malabar Church and head of the Ernakulam-Angamally Diocese, will have to face trial in a case related to irregularities in land deals, the Kerala high court ruled on Thursday.Alancherry moved the high court after a lower dismissed his pleas to quash six cases pending against him. The high court observed that prima facie it found some impropriety in land dealings carried out by the cardinal.The case relates to the sale of 60 cents of land (100 cents is one acre) in Kochi. The sale deed in the case was finalised without even receiving the payment. In the deed, the property was also allegedly undervalued to evade taxes. The difference amount was not also allegedly deposited in the account of the diocese, and it lost ₹60 crore in the land deals executed by the cardinal between 2013 and 2018.Also Read | Kerala announces Onam bonus for govt employeesIn 2018, one Shine Varghese moved the high court with a plea that allegations against Alancherry be probed. A single bench of the court directed the police to register cases against him. The court also then pulled up the police for not registering cases against Alancherry, who was elected as the Major Archbishop in 2011. He is the senior-most priest of the country. The income tax department also imposed a fine of ₹3 crore on Ernakulam-Angamally Diocese for alleged improprieties in the land. It inspected papers after undervaluing allegations surfaced and found that the price shown in the papers was lower than the market price and the difference was not deposited in the account of the diocese.After the Ernakulam-Angamally diocese allegedly lost money due to the land deals, a section of the clergy and believers revolted against Alancherry and some of them even petitioned Pope Francis. After many complaints, police investigated the deals and found that the price shown in the deed papers was far lower than the market price. But the case failed to make any progress.The Ernakulam-Angamally diocese is the richest diocese in the country. Supporters of the Cardinal insist he was made a scapegoat and that allegations against him are flimsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-archbishop-of-syro-malabar-church-to-face-trial-over-land-deals-hc-101628772694727.html
12-08-2021||India||UP defence corridor: 2 firms invest ₹580 crore to make drones||In a major push to the defence corridor in Uttar Pradesh, the Yogi Adityanath government announced on Thursday that two companies are investing over ₹580 crore to make drones. The announcement to establish a defence corridor in the state was made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018.The companies - Encore Research Lab LLP and Allen & Alvan Private Limited - are investing ₹550 crore and ₹30.75 crore, respectively to set up plants in Aligarh node to make drones. These unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) will not only help the Indian security forces, but can be used in disaster management, enhancing security and agriculture, the UP government said in a release.The companies have already been allotted 10 hectares of land and the construction is expected to begin soon, the relsease said.Many domestic and foreign companies have shown interest in setting up defence related projects in Uttar Pradesh, the government said, adding that memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) worth ₹50,000 crore were signed durign Defence Expo held in Lucknow in 2020.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the officials to remove all the bottlenecks and ensure thhat companies do not face any hurdles in procuring land, or in other procedures for setting up their units.According to Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA), 29 companies have submitted their proposals to state government for setting up factories near Aligarh, 11 around Lucknow, eight in Kanpur and six in Jhansi. Based ont eh requests received from these companies, UPEIDA has so far allotted 55.40 hectares of land to 19 reputed companies in the Aligarh node. Together, these companies will invest ₹1245.75 crore to make defence equipment.UPEIDA is set to inaugurate Aligarh node of the defence corridor this month while Kanpur and Jhansi nodes would be opened in September and October respectively.The defence corridor would come up in Bundelkhand region and is expected to generate more than one lakh jobs. The corridor will have six nodes - Aligarh, Agra, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Kanpur and Lucknow.On February 21, 2018, PM Modi had announced ₹20,000 crore defence industrial corridor in Bundelkhand - considered one of the most backward regions in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-defence-corridor-2-firms-invest-rs-580-crore-to-make-drones-101628770936984.html
12-08-2021||India||Organic Manipur black rice exported to Europe for the first time||For the first time, one metric tonne of organic Manipur black rice, popularly known as Chakhao, was exported to Europe from Imphal on Thursday.Chakhao is known for its aroma. It is normally cooked for community feasts and is also used to make Chakhao kheer. This variety of rice got a Geographical Indication tag in May 2020. Chakhao has also been used by traditional medical practitioners and is sold at ₹100-120 a kilogram on an average in Imphal.Also Read | Sikkim guv Ganga Prasad gets additional charge of Manipur“For the first time, 1 MT of this highly nutritious rice variety was being exported...,” chief minister N Biren Singh said at an event to mark the export. He added organic ginger and pineapple are also being exported regularly by the Manipur Organic Mission Agency.Singh also flagged off vehicles carrying quality seeds for distribution to villagers of different districts affected by the destruction of poppy plantations due to the government’s anti-drug campaign.The seeds include cabbage, quinoa, and ginger. They are being provided to villagers of the state under the Alternative Seed Distribution Scheme by the Department of Horticulture and Soil Conservation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/organic-manipur-black-rice-exported-to-europe-for-the-first-time-101628771374566.html
12-08-2021||India||Told CM Bommai he won’t face any trouble because of me: Deve Gowda||Janata Dal (Secular) chief HD Deve Gowda on Thursday said the newly sworn-in chief minister of Karnataka, Basavaraj Bommai, will not face any difficulties because of him.“Basavaraj Bommai came, asked for blessings from me and my wife. I told him that you would not face any problems because of me,” Gowda said on Thursday.Bommai, who replaced Yediyurappa as chief minister last month, was earlier with the JD(S) before he jumped to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) around 13 years ago.Bommai’s meeting with Deve Gowda sparked a controversy within a section of the BJP which accused the CM of sending out the wrong message to party workers ahead of the zilla and taluka panchayat elections.Gowda has been central to Karnataka’s politics for almost half a century now and enjoys a cordial relationship with Yediyurappa and Siddaramaiah, among other leaders in the state. The three have allied together and separately on various occasions for mutual benefit, both individually and at the party level.“Keep Yediyurappa with you when you run the government, comply with the (BJP) high command as well and all will be well,” Gowda said.The statements added to the possibility that the old-guard of Karnataka politics (Gowda, Siddaramaiah and Yediyurappa) were sticking to each other to retain control over the state rather than let Delhi (high command of both national parties) dictate terms.The JD(S) has also allied with the BJP and the Congress in the past, playing kingmaker on more than one occasion where the state delivered a fractured verdict.CP Yogeshwara, the former minister and BJP MLC alleged that in Yediyurappa’s government, Karnataka had a “three-party coalition”, inferring that there was a tacit arrangement between then chief minister, JD(S) and the Congress.And Bommai’s meeting with Gowda has stoked the same emotions in a few legislators.Especially Preetham Gowda, the lone BJP MLA from Hassan district, known as the bastion of the JD(S) which Gowda has represented in the past.Preetham, a first-time BJP MLA, has lashed out at Bommai for meeting Gowda and the latter hit back, almost triggering a war of words within the party.“I maintain my statement that party workers had in their mind whether it was necessary to meet Gowda within 24 hours of becoming the chief minister,” Preetham said on Wednesday. He added that the chief minister has since called him and explained the reasons for meeting Gowda.Preetham could not be reached for a comment on Dowda’s statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/told-cm-bommai-he-won-t-face-any-trouble-because-of-me-deve-gowda-101628771074476.html
12-08-2021||India||'Extra precaution needed in border districts': Bommai on Covid-19 situation||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj S Bommai on Thursday directed officials to allow people coming from neighbouring states only after Covid tests. He also said that there is a need to take extra precautionary measures in the border regions due to spike in coronavirus disease cases in neighbouring states.Bommai was in Dakshina Kannada district, which borders Kerala, to review the Covid-19 situation. "Our objective is to completely control Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada district. There is a need to take extra precautionary measures in the border regions," he told reporters.The chief minister inaugurating the new intensive care unit at the Wenlock Madison Government Hospital in the district. Bommai has been visiting various districts of Karnataka to assess Covid-19 situation in the ground. He recently went to Mysuru.Bommai also told reporters that the government is planning to launch a new scheme for children. "We have started the 'Vatsalya' scheme in Udupi and neighbouring areas, under which children will undergo all the (health) tests. It also includes setting up paediatric health centres. Once I reach Bengaluru, we will start it across the state," he said.Talking about resumption of classes for school students, the chief minister said, "We mulled over it a lot. For the students of 9, 10 and pre-university colleges we are thinking of resuming classes in a graded manner, like opening it on alternate days. Based on its outcome, we will decide our future course of action."Karnataka reported 1,826 new cases of Covid-19 and 33 related deaths on Wednesday. This took the total number of infections to 29,22,875 and death toll to 36,881, according to state health department.The Dakshina Kannada district continues to top the daily Covid-19 cases, recording 422 fresh infections yesterday. State capital Bengaluru, meanwhile, recorded 377 new cases of Covid-19. On Tuesday too, Dakshina Kannada recorded the highest 378 daily cases, while in Bengaluru Urban it was 315.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extra-precaution-needed-in-border-districts-bommai-on-covid-19-situation-101628769422025.html
12-08-2021||India||Severity of Covid-19 second wave was difficult to anticipate: S Jaishankar||Just as India helped others during the first wave of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, several other nations stood by it when it was hit by the second wave of the pandemic, said external affairs minister S Jaishankar. Virtually addressing the annual meeting of the Confederation of Indian Industry on Thursday, Jaishankar said he now received messages of gratitude from representatives of many countries for having sent out medicines, medical teams and food supplies when it was needed the most.“We were one country that stepped out, helped others, sent out medicines, sent out medical teams, kept food supplies going for those for whom this was very important, like the Gulf. So there was a lot. Today, I get expressions of gratitude for what we did during that period,” the Union minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“Just like we helped others in the first wave, I think the world stood by us in many respects in the second wave, especially in terms of oxygen supply, oxygenators, medicines.”Jaishankar said when the coronavirus spread for the first time, India stood out for two reasons. “One, we were decisive and largely effective in what we did. Covid-19 caught us when our health infrastructure was very rudimentary, especially in terms of what we needed to do (to combat the situation).”“Initially, the world looked at us and wondered how any country could deal with this kind of caseload and severity of pandemic. Where we are today, I think the world understands and appreciates that we have pulled up our socks, shown national resolve. We have come through a test of fire.”“When the second wave of the pandemic hit us, it was a very different situation. The scale, intensity, seriousness was something very difficult to anticipate. Particularly because of the delta variant of the coronavirus, it had some very specific implications in terms of oxygen demand which went up eight-nine times,” he said.“All of that was erected out of nothing at that time and everybody stepped forward. I think the industry did a magnificent job, the government did everything it could to motivate people to get everybody to understand the seriousness of what happened,” Jaishankar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/severity-of-covid-19-second-wave-was-difficult-to-anticipate-s-jaishankar-101628767977023.html
12-08-2021||India||BKU faction seeks feedback on contesting polls||A faction of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, a farmers’ outfit protesting against three agricultural laws enacted by the Modi government last year, on Thursday launched a Twitter poll for views on whether it should context elections, taking an idea it has been toying with to the public. The Bhupinder Singh Mann-led faction, mainly active in Punjab, said this was the second time it had launched such a drive to test political waters and it has yet to take a decision. The last poll in August showed over two-thirds of the public wanted it to contest elections. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation spearheading the protests, however said the platform would remain apolitical, but it would ask voters in upcoming state elections to cast their votes against the Bharatiya Janata Party, which rules both at the Centre and poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. Farm unions have been on protests since last November, demanding the government roll back three agricultural laws that seek to bring a more liberal regime of farm trade. The government has argued that these reforms are necessary to modernise the farm sector, while the farmers say the changes will leave them at the mercy of large corporations. Also Read | Farm labourers attempt to gherao Amarinder’s residence in Patiala“We as farmers’ collective organisation have already made three decisions. One, we will tell farmers to vote against the BJP. Two, we will not ask farmers to vote for any particular party and three, we will not allow any political party to campaign from our platform,” Hannan Mollah, a key member of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said. The faction which has asked for public’s suggestion on whether it should contest polls said it will decide only after detailed deliberations and the Twitter poll is just one of them. “We believe it is time for farmers to act politically, but we have not taken any decision yet on registering a political party,” Jai Singh, a spokesperson of the outfit said. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said in the just-concluded Parliament session that the Union government was ready to discuss the farm laws and their provisions with protesting farmers but there was no possibility of repealing the legislation. The minister also said the system of assured prices for agricultural produce, known as minimum support prices (MSP), would continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bku-faction-seeks-feedback-on-contesting-polls-101628768014364.html
12-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Piyush Goyal says opposition MPs proud of unruly conduct in Parliament and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Opposition MPs proud of their unruly conduct in Parliament, says GoyalUnion ministers Piyush Goyal, Anurag Thakur and parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi condemned the behaviour of MPs from the Opposition parties even as they said the parliamentarians ‘refused’ to apologise for what the ‘ruckus’ they caused in the House. Read moreVirat Kohli explains why India replaced Shardul Thakur with Ishant Sharma and not Ashwin in 2nd Test against EnglandThere was no place for off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin again as India went ahead with Ishant Sharma as the injured Shardul Thakur’s replacement for the second Test match against England at Lord’s. Read more'Sumona Chakravarti is in The Kapil Sharma Show but...': Archana Puran Singh ends mystery around Bhoori's returnAfter weeks of speculative reports that Sumona Chakravarti has been left out of The Kapil Sharma Show, actor Archana Puran Singh has now revealed that she is still a part of the show. Read moreDucati rides in 2021 XDiavel in India at ₹18 lakhHot on the heels of the new Multistrada V4 which was launched in India a few weeks back, Ducati on Thursday announced the launch of the new XDiavel power cruiser in India at ₹18 lakh (ex-showroom). Read moreUrvashi Rautela does Plyo Box core hold for toned abs in new workout videoBollywood actor and model Urvashi Rautela takes her fitness very seriously. Don't believe us? Well, you just have to take a look at her Instagram page to know what we are talking about. Read moreDia Mirza tweets special message on World Elephant Day, posts picToday people from across the world are celebrating World Elephant Day. Every year this day, dedicated to the gentle giants, is celebrated on August 12. People have now taken to social media to share their messages on this special day, including actor Dia Mirza. Read more'MPs beaten up in Rajya Sabha': Rahul Gandhi leads Opposition protestOpposition leaders staged a protest in Delhi on August 12, alleging that physical violence occurred in the Upper House of the Parliament a day earlier. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-piyush-goyal-says-opposition-mps-proud-of-unruly-conduct-in-parliament-and-all-the-latest-news-101628766830499.html
12-08-2021||India||'UPA passed 1 bill every 4 minutes': Govt comeback on 'no discussion' charge||The Centre on Thursday lashed out at Opposition parties for protesting on road in the national capital and alleged that "anarchy" has always been the their agenda. But despite the disruptions, the number of bills passed per day during this session in Rajya Sabha was the second highest since 2014, said Union ministers Piyush Goyal, Pralhad Joshi and Anurag Thakur at a press conference.The ministers said that the time lost due to interruptions/adjournments till August 11 was 76 hours 26 minutes, with the daily average being 4 hours 30 minutes.But in the face of all the chaos and disruption, 22 bills were passed in the both houses of Parliament, including two appropriation bills relating to the supplementary demands for grants for 2021-22 and the demands for excess grants for 2017-2018. The ministers said that this reflects the commitment, productivity and ability of the central government to drive legislative agenda in Parliament, which aims to fulfill the aspirations of its citizens.Nineteen of these bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha, including the crucial constitutional amendment bill on OBC reservation, the ministers said. All these bills were in national interest and will benefit the poor, OBCs, workers, entrepreneurs and all sections of the society, the ministers further said.They also took a jibe at the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, which was in power from 2004 to 2014, saying they passed 18 bills in a hasty manner. This was in response to Opposition allegation that the government is passing the bills without any discussion.In a release issued after the ministers' press conference, the government listed the bills which were passed by the preceding dispensation at the Centre. These included the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, which was passed in 2006 in just three minutes, the release said. On an average, the Centre said, the UPA government passed 17 bills in 72 mins, or one bill approximately every four minutes.On August 7, 2006, the Lok Sabha passed the Government Securities Bill in just 14 minutes; in 2007, the National Institution of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) bill was passed in four minutes, while Banking Regulation (Amendment) and National Tax Tribunal (Amendment) bills were cleared in five minutes, it further said.The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill was cleared in just two minutes on March 19, 2007, the government further said.During the recently-concluded monsoon session of Parliament, the Opposition forced adjournments in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha over their demands including repeal of three farm laws and probe into allegations of surveillance using Pegasus spyware.The session was curtailed two days before its scheduled end date (of August 13) due to Opposition ruckus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upa-passed-1-bill-every-4-minutes-govt-comeback-on-no-discussion-charge-101628767053498.html
12-08-2021||India||Sikkim guv Ganga Prasad gets additional charge of Manipur||Sikkim governor Ganga Prasad Chaurasia was sworn in as the governor of Manipur at a ceremony held at the Durbar Hall of Raj Bhavan, Imphal on Thursday.Manipur high court chief justice PV Sanjay Kumar administered the oath of office and secrecy to Ganga Prasad.The 82-year-old Sikkim governor will take charge of Manipur as well during the absence of Dr Najma Heptulla who is on leave.Also Read | Manipur lifts day time curfew, imposes night curfew till Aug 22Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh,works minister Th Biswajit, deputy speaker K Robindro Singh, K Leishiyo, chairman of the hill area committee,chief secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar, director general of police LM Khaute and other senior officials were present on the occasion.Later speaking to mediapersons, governor Ganga Prasad said he will continue to serve the people. He said the region had a lot of potential.After the swearing-in-ceremony, the governor also inspected the guard of honour. He visited the Indian National Army memorial at Moirang in Manipur’s Bishnupur district.Dr Najma A Heptulla was sworn in as the governor of Manipur in August 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-guv-ganga-prasad-gets-additional-charge-of-manipur-101628766576595.html
12-08-2021||India||Puri's Jagannath temple reopens, public to get entry from Aug 23||The famed Jagannath temple in Odisha's Puri reopened on Thursday in the first phase after remaining shut for over three months amid the Covid-restrictions.In the first phase, only family members of the servitors are being allowed to enter the temple, an official said.The temple will open for the public in the second phase, he said.The 12th-century shrine was shut on April 24 amid the second wave of the pandemic, and remained closed during the Ratha Jatra.The family members of the servitors are being allowed darshan from Mangal Alati till Rati Pahuda, the official said.While entering the temple, they are required to produce any identity card issued by the temple authority along with a government-issued identity proof such as Aadhaar card.Also Read | Puri’s Rath Yatra takes place without devotees for the second consecutive yearIn the second phase, residents of Puri will be allowed to enter the temple through the Lion's Gate from August 16, the official said.The general public will be allowed entry from August 23, he said.The temple will remain closed on August 21 and 22 in view of the shutdown in Puri on Saturdays and Sundays.Devotees from outside Puri will have to produce the final Covid-vaccination certificate or Covid-negative RT-PCR report of testing done within 96 hours. They will also have to carry a government-issued identity card such as Aadhaar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puris-jagannath-temple-reopens-public-to-get-entry-from-aug-23-101628765060651.html
12-08-2021||India||NIA officers who solved Pulwama attack case get medal for excellence||Rakesh Balwal, a superintendent of police with the National Investigation Agency (NIA), and an inspector in his team, Neeraj Sharma, who solved the 2019 Pulwama attack conspiracy case, have been awarded Union Home Minister’s medal for excellence in the investigation for 2021.Balwal and his team managed to crack the case, in which the agency initially struggled to get any leads for 10 months.An Indian Police Service (IPS) officer of the 2012 batch from Manipur cadre, Balwal has been posted with NIA since 2018. He is handling some crucial investigations, including the June 27 drone attack at the Indian Air Force base in Jammu.Also Read | NIA raids 56 J&K areas in terror funding caseThe Pulwama case was solved after the agency stumbled upon the mobile phone of Masood Azhar’s nephew Mohammad Umar Farooq, who was killed by security forces months earlier, in December 2019. Balwal’s team retrieved photos, videos, and conversations showing all the moments of his journey from Pakistan to India through the border, bomb-making, and photos of other accomplices. The phone also had conversations with Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) leadership – primarily his uncles Abdul Rouf Asghar and Ammar Alvi in Pakistan and other operatives from the Valley.A 13,500-page charge sheet was filed by Balwal’s team in the Pulwama attack last year. Several suspects were arrested for assisting Umar Farooq and other JeM conspirators.As many as 152 investigators from across the country have got the medals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-officers-who-solved-pulwama-attack-case-get-medal-for-excellence-101628765314745.html
12-08-2021||India||Opposition MPs proud of their unruly conduct in Parliament, says Goyal||Union ministers Piyush Goyal, Anurag Thakur and parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi condemned the behaviour of MPs from the Opposition parties even as they said the parliamentarians ‘refused’ to apologise for what the ‘ruckus’ they caused in the House.These Union ministers were also joined by minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, minister for education Dharmendra Pradhan and newly inducted Union minister Bhupender Yadav all of whom claimed that the Opposition was adamant of continuing with their behaviour.“Forget about apologising, when asked the MPs said they would do the same thing again, multiple times if required. The MPs from Congress, Trinamool Congress and Aam Aadmi Party have set a new low with this behaviour. Their actions have lowered the respect people have for the Parliament,” Goyal said during the press conference.Congress hits out at govt over ‘manhandling’ of women lawmakers in Rajya SabhaGoyal blamed the Congress for the ‘ruckus’ and said their actions are condemnable as he demanded strict action be taken against the MPs. He said that the tables and chairs in the Parliament are not kept for ‘protesting by standing on top of them’ and ‘rule books are to be studied and referred to and not hurled at the Chair’.‘Not comparing but this was exceptional’: JoshiParliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said this was not the first time that Parliament saw ruckus over issues but termed the behaviour by the Opposition MPs on Wednesday ‘unbelievable’. Joshi said the Opposition should refrain from saying that the government passed bills in a hurry.“Between 2004 and 2014, one can see how many bills were passed amid din. At that time, discussions with the Opposition were not properly held. I was impaired that time and even an important bill like bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh was passed amid din. We talked with them daily regarding discussing important bills but they are denying it now. They tried to forcibly enter by breaking the glass,” Joshi said.Goyal criticises PawarUnion minister Piyush Goyal said that he respects the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar even as he claimed that the senior leader was misinformed about Wednesday’s incident. The minister said that before levelling allegations against the marshals and claiming that outsiders were brought into the Parliament and women MPs were attacked, Sharad Pawar should first take into cognisance that Opposition MPs themselves tweeted the videos where they were seen being unruly. “Did he see the videos tweeted by the Opposition leaders who were proud of their conduct? Rulebooks were hurled at the Chair. God forbid that no one got hurt,” Goyal said. Goyal was responding to Sharad Pawar’s allegations where he said that outsiders misbehaved and hurt women MPs.Women MPs accuse marshals of pushing them around in Rajya SabhaCongress writes to Vice President and Rajya Sabha chairperson NaiduFollowing Sharad Pawar’s allegation, the Congress and other Opposition parties also wrote to Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu that women MPs were subjected to ‘unacceptable (use of) force’.“A very large number of security personnel, who were not part of the regular ... watch and ward staff of the Rajya Sabha Secretariat were deployed. They used unacceptable force and physically manhandled Members of Parliament, including women members,” Kharge wrote in his letter which was also signed by Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (DMK) Tiruchi Siva and Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut among others.Addressing a press conference earlier in the day, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi said that for the first time MPs were ‘assaulted’ inside the House while the BJP ministers while addressing the media separately said that the Opposition MPs should apologise and strict action will be taken after thorough investigation into what happened earlier this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-mps-proud-of-their-unruly-conduct-in-parliament-says-goyal-101628764910751.html
12-08-2021||India||PM Modi releases ₹1,625 crore for women entrepreneurs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday released ₹1,625 crore for women entrepreneurs. He also declared that the loan limit for self-help groups (SHGs) have been raised from ₹10 lakh to ₹20 lakh.The Prime Minister was participating in the ‘Atmanirbhar Nari Shakti se Samvad’ programme through video conferencing where he spoke to members of women’s SHGs associated with Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihood Mission (DAY-NRLM). According to PMO, DAY-NRLM aims to mobilise rural poor households into SHGs in a phased manner and provide them long-term support to improve their incomes and quality of life.“To increase the scope of entrepreneurship among women, a big financial help has been released for more participation in the resolve of self-reliant India. Be it food processing enterprises, women farmer producers association, or other self-help groups, more than ₹1,600 crore has been sent to lakhs of such groups of women,” the Prime Minister said.Also Read | India gets official website for Independence Day, features 360-degree VR viewIn addition, he released ₹25 crore as seed money for 7,500 SHG members under the PMFME (PM Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises) scheme of the ministry of food processing industries and ₹4.13 crore as fund to 75 FPOs (Farmer Producer Organisations) being promoted under the mission.“The way our sisters served the country through SHGs in Corona is unprecedented. Be it by making masks and sanitisers, delivering food to the needy, awareness work, the contribution of Sakhi groups has been incomparable in every way,” he said.He added that India has at least 420 million Jan Dhan bank accounts, of which 55% are in the name of women. He urged the SHGs to raise awareness about single-use plastic and work on its alternative. He also urged them to take full advantage of the government e-marketplace. Union minister for rural development and panchayati raj Giriraj Singh; Union minister for food processing industries Pashupati Kumar Paras; ministers of state, rural development, Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti, and Faggan Singh Kulaste; MoS, panchayati raj, Kapil Moreshwar Patil; and MoS, ministry of food processing industry, Prahlad Singh Patel, were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-releases-rs-1-625-crore-for-women-entrepreneurs-101628764476126.html
12-08-2021||India||Terrorists fire at BSF convoy in J&K's Kulgam dist, exchange of fire underway||Terrorists fired upon a convoy of the Border Security Forces (BSF) along the highway in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Thursday. Officials said no one was injured in the incident, while security forces managed to trap the militants.Inspector general of police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said exchange of fire was underway and reinforcements have reached the spot. “Senior officers of police, CRPF and Army are present at the spot,” Kumar said.The incident came close on the heels of several terror attacks ahead of Independence Day. On Tuesday, terrorists lobbed a grenade at security forces at Hari Singh High Street in Srinagar injuring at least 10 civilians. Also read | Forces claim to have foiled terror plot in Jammu and Kashmir before I-DayA day ago, a BJP leader and his wife were shot dead in south Kashmir's Anantnag district. BJP’s Kisan Morcha president of Kulgam, Gulam Rasool Dar, and his wife passed away after terrorists fired bullets at the couple in the Lal Chowk area of Anantnag.Last Saturday, a police personnel was killed in Kulgam district after terrorists opened fire at a police party. On Thursday, a grenade blast took place in the Nawhatta area of old city.On August 3, a police personnel and a civilian were injured after suspected militants opened fire on a police vehicle at Khanyar in Old City.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-fire-at-bsf-convoy-in-j-k-s-kulgam-dist-exchange-of-fire-underway-101628761929623.html
12-08-2021||India||India gave last draft on possible agreement on Kashmir issue in March 2007: New paper||The Indian side provided Pakistan the last draft on a possible agreement on the Kashmir issue in March 2007 following nearly three years of secret negotiations before talks stopped because of a political crisis in Islamabad, according to a new paper from Georgetown University. The paper, by Jawaharlal Nehru University associate professor Happymon Jacob, is based on interviews with Indian and Pakistani officials who were involved in the back channel negotiations on the Kashmir dispute and contains hitherto unknown aspects of the efforts to resolve the issue by then Pakistani military ruler Pervez Musharraf and prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Manmohan Singh. Riaz Mohammad Khan, who was Pakistan’s foreign secretary during 2005-08, said the Indian side gave the last draft in early March 2007, which was “close to what might have become the final document” if negotiations hadn’t come to a halt. The Pakistani side didn’t get an opportunity to return the draft with its comments because of the sudden political crisis which sent the Musharraf government into a tailspin. Also Read | Taliban won’t talk to Afghan govt until Ashraf Ghani remains Prez: Imran KhanOn March 9, 2007, Musharraf had unconstitutionally suspended Pakistan’s then chief justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, and this triggered massive political protests that weakened the military ruler. Following elections the next year, Musharraf was pressured by political parties to quit as president in August 2008. The paper, titled “The Kashmir Back Channel: India-Pakistan Negotiations on Kashmir from 2004 to 2007” and prepared for the Institute for the Study of Diplomacy at Georgetown University, recounts secret negotiations between the two sides for the proposed agreement on Kashmir that involved what came to be known as the “four-point formula”. The stage for the negotiations on Kashmir was set by a ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) in November 2003, which itself was the outcome of behind-the-scenes talks between then Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) chief CD Sahay and the then head of the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Lt Gen Ehsan-ul-Haq, who met at undisclosed locations outside the subcontinent. In January 2004, Musharraf had a “quiet discussion” with Tariq Aziz, who later became Pakistan’s pointperson for negotiations with India, and India’s then national security adviser Brajesh Mishra that kick-started talks on how to move forward on the Kashmir issue. Despite a change in government in India following Vajpayee’s defeat in the general election, the “dedicated Kashmir back channel itself effectively began only in late 2004, after the Manmohan Singh government took office in New Delhi in May 2004”, according to the paper. Several local and international factors helped facilitate the secret talks, including Vajpayee’s outreach to Kashmiris in 2003 and encouragement from the US government, which was keen to ensure there was no India-Pakistan friction while Washington and its allies were busy with the war on terror in Afghanistan. Also Read | A new Afghan warSatinder Lambah, who served as Manmohan Singh’s special envoy for Kashmir, has said the proposed agreement was based on a four-point formula that would include no redrawing of borders, the people of Jammu and Kashmir on either side of the LoC being able to move freely from one side to the other, an end to hostility, violence, and terrorism and military forces on both sides being kept to the minimum, ensure self-governance on both sides of the LoC, and consultative mechanisms to look into socio-economic issues. However, Pakistani and Indian officials are divided on whether a draft agreement was in place by early 2007. Riaz Khan, Pakistan’s former foreign secretary Jalil Abbas Jeelani and former foreign minister Khurshid Kasuri believe the draft was ready, with Kasuri even contending it was “ready for signature”. But former Indian national security adviser MK Narayanan said this was not a “formal diplomatic agreement of any kind”, and at most, it “must have been a discussion paper, exchange of which is routine in diplomatic negotiations before a final deal is reached”. The two countries were also divided on the matter managing issues of mutual concern in Jammu and Kashmir, with the Pakistani side favouring “joint mechanisms”, while the Indian side wanted “consultative arrangements”, according to the paper. Once signed, the deal was designed to be in force for 15 to 20 years, after which the two sides would revisit it. “Indian officials seem to think that the phrase ‘joint mechanisms’ infringes on the sovereign claims of each state on J&K. There is little clarity whether the document that was close to being finalised in 2007 had mentioned joint or consultative mechanisms,” the paper states. Though this was the first time India and Pakistan engaged in sustained and structured back-channel negotiations to resolve the Kashmir issue, Musharraf’s political woes resulted in things running aground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-paper-on-india-pakistan-back-channel-talks-on-kashmir-during-200407-101628761774290.html
12-08-2021||India||Congress hits out at govt over ‘manhandling’ of women lawmakers in Rajya Sabha||The Congress on Thursday hit out at the government over the alleged manhandling of women lawmakers in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday with Rahul Gandhi saying this was the first time in India’s history that parliamentarians were “beaten up” inside the Upper House.In a letter to Rajya Sabha chairperson Venkaiah Naidu, Mallikarjun Kharge, the Opposition Leader in the Upper House, condemned “unacceptable (use of ) force” and “manhandling of the MPs including women members.”“A very large number of security personnel, who were not part of the regular ... watch and ward staff of the Rajya Sabha Secretariat were deployed. They used unacceptable force and physically manhandled Members of Parliament, including women members,” he wrote. He added the incident was shocking and also an “unprecedented insult to our democracy and the very dignity of the House.”Also Read | Cong handles locking row: Twitter says rules enforced judiciously, impartiallyKhrage said Opposition MPs were stopped from protesting against the General Insurance (Amendment) Bill on which he said there was a “wide consensus” that it should be sent to a select committee for a review. He called the government’s approach “authoritarian” and said the Opposition will continue to struggle against the “assault on Parliamentary democracy.”Gandhi separately condemned the alleged assault. “Today (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi and RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh)... are attacking the Constitution... Whenever we try to raise the voice about minorities or women... they (the government) do not let us speak. First time ever in the history of India, lawmakers were beaten up in Rajya Sabha. This nation is wise... there will be a storm to uproot this government. Congress’s works remind India that Indians can stand in front of any power.”On Wednesday, women Opposition MPs accused male marshals of pushing them around in Rajya Sabha. “The female marshals were stopping us (from protesting). When we asked them to move away, the male marshals came forward and pushed us. One of my colleagues fell on the floor,” Chayya Verma, a Rajya Sabha member of Congress said.Phulo Devi Netam, Verma’s party colleague, echoed her saying the government deployed the marshals in three layers. “The male marshals started pushing the female lawmakers. Do not they know how to respect the female parliamentarians?” she asked. Another lawmaker added that everything was on record and called for an inquiry.Prahalad Joshi, the parliamentary affairs minister, called the claims of women lawmakers “bogus” and a “blatant lie”. “Nothing like this has happened. All the CCTV cameras should be checked. In fact (they) manhandled the male marshals. They grabbed these male marshals by their necks. They were especially from TMC (Trinamool Congress). ...together pushed the female marshals,” he said. He added they have demanded that a committee should be constituted to inquire into the matter.Shortly before the Upper House was adjourned sine die on Wednesday, Opposition lawmakers staged a walkout following a ruckus. They objected to the presence of security personnel during the passage of the insurance bill. The Opposition has been objecting to the passage of key Bills without discussion and putting them to vote.The Monsoon Session of Parliament came to a premature end on Wednesday when it was adjourned ahead of schedule. Protests by the Opposition and repeated disruptions marred the session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-hits-out-at-govt-over-manhandling-of-women-lawmakers-in-rajya-sabha-101628761475590.html
12-08-2021||India||Centre extends Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla's tenure for another year||The Union government on Thursday extended for second time the tenure of Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla for another year. Bhalla’s current tenure was scheduled to come to an end next week on 22 August. He was initially set to retire in November 2020. An order issued by the Union Personnel Ministry said the extension of service has been approved by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet."The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved extension in service to Bhalla as Home Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs for a period of one year beyond the present tenure i.e. 22.08.2021, in relaxation of FR 56 (d) and Rule 16 (1A) of the All India Services (Death-cum-retirement benefits) Rules, 1958," the order read.Bhalla, a 1984 batch IAS officer of Assam-Meghalaya cadre, was appointed as the Home Secretary in August 2019. His tenure was extended till August 22 in October last year. Bhalla was initially scheduled to retire in November 2020 after completing 60 years of superannuation."The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet approved the extension in service of Bhalla as the Home Secretary beyond the date of his superannuation i.e. November 30, 2020 up to August 22, 2021," the ministry's order issued in October last year had read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-extends-union-home-secretary-ajay-bhalla-s-tenure-for-another-year-101628759716258.html
12-08-2021||India||Missing teenaged girl found dead on Goa beach, probe on||The semi-clad body of a teenage girl was found washed ashore at Goa’s Calangute beach on Thursday a day after she was reported missing, police said and added it has been sent for post-mortem to ascertain the exact cause of death.“The matter is under investigation...,” North Goa police superintendent Shobit Saksena said.Also Read | Tap water in Goa contains potentially hazardous microplastics: StudyPolice have warned against speculation surrounding the cause of death and asked people to refrain from sharing images of the body as it is against the law and hurtful to the girl’s family.They said police will be able to comment further only once the post-mortem report offers a better picture of the circumstances surrounding her death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missing-teenaged-girl-found-dead-on-goa-beach-101628759434169.html
12-08-2021||India||PM Modi releases financial support to women self help groups||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday released financial support to women self help groups (SHGs) promoted under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM). The Prime Minister released capitalisation support funds to the tune of ₹1,625 crore to more than 4 lakh SHGs. He also released ₹25 crore as seed money for 7,500 SHG members under the PM Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises (PMFME) scheme of the ministry of food processing industries and ₹4.13 crore as funds to 75 Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) being promoted under the mission.PM Modi also interacted with the members virtually as he talked about the support given to the members by his government. "Our government provided more support to women SHGs compare to previous governments. We opened bank accounts for women and provided loans without guarantee to SHGs," said PM Modi during the interactive session. PM Modi also said that women power can bring any change if they are determined enough. He also praised the members of SHG for their efforts."When a woman is empowered, not just a family is empowered but also the society and the country too develop," the Prime Minister said. "The way our sisters served the countrymen through self-help groups during the Corona period is unprecedented. Be it making masks and sanitisers, delivering food to the needy, awareness work, the contribution of your Sakhi groups has been incomparable in every way" PM Modi said during the event.Interacting with one of the members of SHG, Champa Singh from Madhya Pradesh, PM Modi suggested she start an online campaign for organic farming.PM Modi also released a compilation of success stories of women SHG members from all across the country, along with a handbook on the universalisation of farm livelihoods.Pushing the Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign, PM Modi noted, "The government is also encouraging made in India toys a lot and is giving all possible help for this. Especially the sisters of our tribal areas are traditionally associated with it. There is a lot of potential for self help groups in this too.""This is the time of 75 years of independence to set new goals and move forward with new energy. The group power of sisters now also has to move forward with new strength. The government is constantly creating that environment, those conditions from where all of you sisters can connect our villages with prosperity and prosperity," PM Modi told the members.According to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), DAY-NRLM aims at mobilising rural poor households into SHGs in a phased manner and provide them long-term support to diversify their livelihoods, improve their incomes and quality of life. Most of the mission's interventions are being implemented and scaled up by the SHG women themselves who are trained as community resource persons (CRPs) - krishi sakhis, pashu sakhis, bank sakhis, bima sakhis and banking correspondent sakhis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-releases-financial-support-to-women-self-help-groups-101628757110594.html
12-08-2021||India||India has administered over 520 million Covid doses till now||India had administered at least 520 million Covid vaccine doses by Wednesday, August 11. Delhi didn’t record even one Covid fatality on the day, the seventh time since the fourth wave of the pandemic hit the national Capital. It did report 37 fresh cases while 24 patients recovered during the same 24-hr period.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Wednesday, 523,253,450 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 4,002,634 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 2,907,836 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 1,094,798 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine.Also Read | Covid-19 may become a mostly childhood disease in few years: StudyIn the 18-45 age group, 2,058,952 were given the first dose while 430,665 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 184,543,154 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 13,404,637 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 10 million vaccine doses in the 18-45 years age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.Meanwhile, the country logged 41,195 new cases, taking the total tally to 32,077,706, while the active cases increased to 387,987, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-520-million-covid-doses-till-now-101628757513913.html
12-08-2021||India||Kinnaur landslide left bus wreckage spanning over 100 metres: 10 points||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur visited the landslide site in Kinnaur to review the progress in rescue operation. Four more bodies were recovered on Thursday, which took the overall toll to 14, news agency PTI reported quoting Kinnaur Deputy Commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq.The rescue operation is being carried out jointly by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the members of local police and home guards.Earlier, Thakur conducted an aerial survey of the Nugulsari area where the landslide took place on Wednesday afternoon, burying a Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) and damaging a truck and four cars.Here are the latest developments on the rescue operation and overall situation:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kinnaur-landslide-left-bus-wreckage-spanning-over-100-meters-10-points-101628756121055.html
12-08-2021||India||Thackeray to attend Sonia’s Gandhi’s meet next week, says Shiv Sena||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday said Congress chief Sonia Gandhi has convened a virtual meeting of Opposition leaders and chief ministers of non-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruled states on August 20. “Maharashtra chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) too will participate in it,” he said.There was no immediate confirmation from Congress or other Opposition parties about Gandhi’s virtual meeting.Also Read | Cong handles locking row: Twitter says rules enforced judiciously, impartiallyRaut said the Opposition is united and will continue building its strength. “Unity among the Opposition (parties) is strong. All parties met at (Congress leader) Kapil Sibal’s home recently. Sonia Gandhi ji has convened a meeting of all prominent opposition leaders including chief ministers,” said Raut.Top Opposition leaders gathered at Sibal’s residence on Monday evening and informally discussed how they could work together ahead of the next general elections in 2024 to defeat the BJP, HT reported on Tuesday citing three people who attended the event.Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Biju Janata Dal lawmaker Pinaki Misra, Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien, former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, Raut, Left leaders Sitaram Yechury and D Raja, Shiromani Akali Dal’s Naresh Gujral, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s Tiruchi Siva, and Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad attended the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thackeray-to-attend-sonia-s-gandhi-s-meet-next-week-says-shiv-sena-101628755354242.html
12-08-2021||India||Breakthrough infections not as high as Centre says: Kerala||The Kerala health department has started a study on rampant breakthrough infections, and re-infections in the state even as it rejected the Centre’s numbers on breakthrough cases in the state. Breakthrough is when a fully vaccinated person gets infected again and re-infection refers to a completely recovered individual getting infected again with the virus. The state health department said while the Union health ministry quoted 40,000 breakthrough infections in Kerala, its rough estimate, it would be between 5,000-6,000 cases. “We have no idea about 40,000 cases as mentioned by the Union health ministry. Our estimate is less than 0.1% that means around 5000-5500 breakthrough cases,” said a senior health official who did not want to be named. The Union health ministry said the country had reported over 100,000 breakthrough cases of which Kerala’s share was 40,000. Later, a Central team visiting the state earlier this month also confirmed high incidences of breakthrough cases in Kerala. They said Pathanamthitta district alone reported more than 7,000 breakthrough cases. Also Read | Kerala reports 23,500 Covid cases, 116 deathsBut district medical officer Dr AL Sheeja refuted these statistics. “Only 258 such cases were reported in the district. I have no idea how they got such large numbers,” she said. Earlier, health minister Veena George, hailing from the same district, also denied a spike in breakthrough infections in Pathanamthitta. The health department has sent samples of all breakthrough infections for genome sequencing to rule out the possibility of a new variant. Though experts suspected a new variant behind steady rise of cases in the state the Indian Council of Medical Research is yet to confirm it. For almost two months, the state has been reporting more than half the national caseload. On Wednesday, it reported 23,500 cases with a test positivity rate of 14.49% when 162,130 samples were tested, said the state health ministry. It also reported 116 deaths, taking total fatalities to 18,120. Test positivity rate is the number of tests returning positive out of total tests done for a particular infection.Among breakthrough infections, health workers form a large chunk. Twenty-four-year-old nursing officer Gokul MG, who works with a medical college hospital in Thiruvananthpauram, was down with Covid-19 twice, first in August and second in November. He continues to work without a break, and has got his two vaccine jabs. He says,“How can I rest when people need me the most.” Like him, there are many health workers who were infected more than twice. Now the health department has asked all workers who come in contact with patients to undergo regular antigen or RT-PCR tests. The Central team which visited the eight worst-affected districts found that high density of population, prevalence of highly-infectious Delta virus and laxity in home quarantine are main reasons for high caseload.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breakthrough-infections-not-as-high-as-centre-sayskerala-101628755053669.html
12-08-2021||India||'Opposition is united': CM Thackeray to take part in Sonia Gandhi's CM meet, says Raut||Shiv Sena lawmaker Sanjay Raut on Thursday slammed the central government led by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the ruckus that ensued in Parliament during the last day of the monsoon session. "The security marshals were called in yesterday during the passage of the insurance amendment bill to privatise general insurance companies in the Rajya Sabha," Raut was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. "Do you want to scare us?" he then reportedly asked.Raut also alleged that the opposition didn't get a chance to present their views in Parliament. "Yesterday's incident against women MPs was against democracy. It felt like we were standing at the Pakistan border," ANI quoted Raut as saying.Raut also asserted that the "opposition is united" against the ruling government. He also informed that Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi on August 20, when she will speak to the chief ministers of Congress-ruled states.Earlier also, Raut lashed out at the Centre by posting a photo from the chaos and wrote "Marshall law in Temple of Democracy."Two days before the scheduled conclusion, the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha have adjourned sine die on Wednesday. During the monsoon session, the opposition continuously protested and forced adjournments for their demands, including a probe into allegations of surveillance through Pegasus spyware and the repeal of the three farm laws.On Wednesday, parliamentary affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi alleged that opposition members "manhandled marshals" in the Rajya Sabha and said their behaviour during the session was a "black spot in the history of Indian democracy".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-is-united-cm-thackeray-to-take-part-in-sonia-gandhi-s-cm-meet-says-raut-101628751094240.html
12-08-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: Twitter locks accounts of several Congress leaders and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress, Twitter face off as accounts of more leaders are lockedThe Congress on Thursday hit out at the government for “scuttling free speech” after Twitter accounts of several leaders of the party were temporarily locked for sharing a photograph of the family of a nine-year-old rape victim. Read moreAt opposition protest march in Delhi, Rahul Gandhi says voice of people crushedCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said that the opposition were not allowed to speak in the Parliament and termed it as "murder of democracy". Read moreMG Hector gets new variant Shine, gets new Havana Gray colourMG Motor India on Thursday has announced the launch of a new variant for the Hector SUV. Named Shine, the new variant is available at a price range of ₹14,51,800 and ₹16,49,800 (ex-showroom). Read more'Preparations done': Team India ready for action-packed 2nd Test at Lord's, BCCI shares training videoThe stage is set for an epic encounter between India and England as the two teams face off against each other in the 2nd Test at Lord's. The first Test between the two teams ended in a draw with rain playing the villain in the encounter. Read moreMalaika Arora reveals she and son Arhaan Khan discussed possibility of her adopting a girl and giving her 'a family'Actor and fitness enthusiast Malaika Arora has said that she and her son Arhaan Khan discuss the possibility of her adopting a girl to 'give her a family and a home'. Malaika also revealed that though she loves Arhaan 'to the moon and back' she wished she 'had a daughter'. Read moreRakul Preet lets her spirit fly high as she does aerial yoga pose, see post hereBollywood celebrities love doing yoga, and many even credit their healthy lifestyle to this workout technique. One of those stars is Rakul Preet Singh, who makes sure to include yoga in her daily routine. Apart from traditional asanas, the avid yoga practitioner even does aerial yoga to keep herself fit and healthy. And she did the same for her latest workout. Read moreEnjoy ‘intergalactic stargazing’ with this incredible post from Nasa. WatchIs stargazing something you love to do? Then this visualization video by Nasa is tailor-made for you. It takes you on an ‘intergalactic stargazing’ trip. Shared on Instagram, the video makes for an incredible watch. Chances are, the clip will make your jaw drop in astonishment. Read moreISRO's GISAT-1 satellite blasts off but ‘tech anomaly’ cuts off missionISRO launched India's 'eye in the sky' GISAT-1 Earth observation satellite on Thursday. Mission, however, suffered a setback due to a performance anomaly in the cryogenic stage of the rocket. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-twitter-locks-accounts-of-several-congress-leaders-and-all-the-latest-news-101628751227782.html
12-08-2021||India||At opposition protest march in Delhi, Rahul Gandhi says voice of people crushed||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said that the opposition were not allowed to speak in the Parliament and termed it as "murder of democracy". "Today, we had to come out here to speak to you (media) as we (opposition) are not allowed to speak in Parliament. This is murder of democracy," Gandhi said at Vijay Chowk in Delhi.The opposition leaders on Thursday marched towards Vijay Chowk from Parliament in Delhi over the demand to repeal the three farm laws. The opposition MPs were seen carrying the placards saying 'Black farm laws'."The Parliament session is over. As far as 60% of the country is concerned there has been no Parliament session. The voice of 60% of the country has been crushed, humiliated and yesterday in the Rajya Sabha physically beaten," Gandhi stated, according to news agency ANI.Meanwhile, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor alleged that the Centre doesn't want to run Parliament proceedings properly. "Government is passing laws without discussions. There should be a discussion on Covid-19 vaccination, current economic situation, unemployment, farm laws but government is running away," he added.Both the Houses of Parliament were adjourned sine die on Wednesday, two days before the scheduled conclusion of the monsoon session.During the session, the opposition forced adjournments in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha over their twin demands including repeal of three farm laws and probe into allegations of surveillance using Pegasus spyware.Farmers have been protesting on different borders on Delhi since November 26, 2020 against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farms Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-opposition-protest-march-in-delhi-rahul-gandhi-says-voice-of-people-crushed-101628748572455.html
12-08-2021||India||Immune cells fail to communicate, cause cytokine storm in Covid patients: Study||Immune cells fail to communicate and often result in a fatal cytokine storm due to a drop in a particular protein level in Covid-19 patients, a team of researchers from India and the US has found. Cytokine storm is an overreaction of the immune system and involves overproduction of cytokines.“Quorum sensing or communication between bacterial cells is well known. But in our research, we showed that such quorum sensing also takes place between macrophages (white blood cells that eat bacteria and dying cells) and this interaction takes place with the help of a protein called gelsolin,” said Partho Sarothi Ray, who led the team, and is in the US for research work.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has summoned Ray, an associate professor at Kolkata’s Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), more than once in connection with its probe into violence in Maharashtra’s Bhima Koregaon in 2018. “I once worked closely with (activist and Jesuit priest) Stan Swamy. Many persons have already been arrested and I am not sure what would happen in the future. I have already been summoned for questioning as a witness in the Bhima Koregaon case since 2020. I told the NIA that I am ready to face their questions via video conferencing.”Swamy, who worked for tribal rights in Jharkhand for five decades, was arrested under an anti-terror law in October 2020. He spent over eight months in jail awaiting trial before he died in a Mumbai hospital in July.Swamy, 84, was the oldest of 16 activists and lawyers arrested on charges of conspiring to foment violence at Bhima Koregaon, which was rocked by caste clashes during the bicentennial celebration of a British-era war by Dalits. The priest was accused of having Maoist connections and working for their frontal organisations.NIA sleuths have visited the IISER campus looking for Ray. “He has not come to the institute for almost a year now. We do not know where he is. His (Indian) number is switched off,” said an IISER faculty member, requesting anonymity.Ray was arrested in 2012 and released 10 days later after he took part in a protest against an eviction drive in a slum. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee then claimed Maoists were behind the protests.Also Read | Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee invited to attend peace conference in RomeAn NIA official said Ray has been summoned as a witness. “The investigating officer has been in touch with him for the past one year. He is presently in the US for training. He said that he cannot come to India and appear for questioning citing Covid-19,” said the official, requesting anonymity.The findings of the Ray-led team, meanwhile, were published in the August 6 edition of The Journal of Immunology, a peer-reviewed journal published by The American Association of Immunologists.“While putting up the body’s first line of defence, the macrophage cells ‘talk’ to each other to assess their own potential and keep on releasing cytokine. But in a Covid-19 patient’s body, the communication between macrophages fails because there is a drop in the protein gelsolin. As the macrophages can’t communicate, they keep on releasing cytokine which ultimately results in the cytokine storm,” said Ray.Ray said their research also shows that the fall in gelsolin is triggered because of an enhancement of miR-21 RNA. “Clinical trials have already started even before the research was published,” he said. He added the research was carried out on macrophage cells of rats.Ray’s team of researchers included Reshma Kumari Sharma, Binita Goswami, Sukhen Das Mandal and Abhishek Guha (IISER), and Belinda Willard (Cleveland Clinic).Experts have called the findings of Ray and his team landmark and said they can be applied for treating not just Covid-19 but particularly inflammatory diseases. “This research has got some implications in the wide array of other diseases besides Covid-19. The outcome may be exploited in several inflammatory diseases viz auto-immune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and inflammatory bowel syndrome, Alzheimer’s disease, gout, and infectious diseases such as influenza, dengue etc. Potential therapeutic applications are expected from this basic immunobiology research that made the work interesting,” said SN Joardar, professor, veterinary microbiology at West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences. “This research paper shows that if there is a fall in gelsolin level, the cytokine storm erupts and that if gelsolin can be supplied to the patient, the cytokine storm may be stopped. But like gelsolin, there are several other compounds which macrophage cells need to communicate among themselves. In the past, research has been done on some other compounds by other scientists who used rat cells. Human trial is yet to be done,” said Pratip Kundu, former head of the School of Tropical Medicine in Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/immune-cells-fail-to-communicate-cause-cytokine-storm-in-covid-patients-study-101628750973650.html
12-08-2021||India||Cong handles locking row: Twitter says rules enforced judiciously, impartially||The Congress on Thursday hit out at the government for “scuttling free speech” and said the party’s Twitter account and accounts of several of its leaders were temporarily locked for sharing a photograph of the family of a nine-year-old rape victim. Accounts of Randeep Singh Surjewala, Ajay Maken, Sushmita Dev, and Manickam Tagore were among those temporarily locked, Congress functionaries aware of the matter said.The party’s official handle, on Instagram, posted a screenshot of Twitter’s message informing the party that its account has been locked.“The official Twitter account of the Congress party has been locked by Twitter India. Modi ji, just how afraid are you? Reminder: The Congress party fought for our nation’s independence, equipped only with truth, non-violence & the will of the people. We won then, we’ll win again,” the caption underneath the screenshot read.A post shared by Congress (@incindia)Rohan Gupta, the head of Congress’s social media department, accused Twitter of working under government pressure and added it has blocked 5,000 accounts of their leaders and workers across India. “They need to understand we can’t be pressurised by Twitter or the government.”Twitter insisted it enforces its rules judiciously and impartially and added it has taken proactive action over several hundred tweets that posted the image in violation of its rules. “(Twitter)...may continue to do so in line with our range of enforcement options,” a Twitter spokesperson said. “Certain types of private information carry higher risks than others, and our aim is always to protect individuals’ privacy and safety. We strongly encourage everyone on the service to familiarise themselves with the Twitter Rules and report anything they believe is in violation.”Also Read | Rahul Gandhi’s Twitter account locked, firm tells Delhi high courtTwitter said the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) alerted it about the specific content on the platform that allegedly revealed the identity of an alleged sexual assault victim and her parents. It added the matter was reviewed in line with Twitter rules as well as the concerns expressed as per Indian law.Congress has been at loggerheads with Twitter since Saturday when Rahul Gandhi’s account was temporarily locked. It earlier claimed the account was suspended before clarifying the account was temporarily locked.Twitter said the account was never suspended as such action would entail making the account inaccessible across the globe.The NCPCR earlier asked the Delhi Police and Twitter to take action against Gandhi over the photograph he posted after meeting the family of the nine-year-old girl, who was killed following an alleged sexual assault. It said the posting of the picture violated the law.Gandhi met the girl’s family and assured his support last week. “Parents’ tears are saying only one thing -- their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path to justice,” Gandhi tweeted in Hindi and posted the photo of his meeting with the girl’s relatives.Twitter took down the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-twitter-face-off-as-accounts-of-more-leaders-are-locked-101628750793899.html
12-08-2021||India||PM’s advisory council recommends increasing retirement age||The Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister has recommended increasing the retirement age saying an increase in life expectancy is expected to continue due to better health infrastructure and allow aged people to work longer than any previous generation. In a report released on Wednesday, the Council said the retirement age needs to increase in a phased manner as India is a young nation with a high working population. “...increasing retirement ages leads to job creation for old persons without compromising the needs and the availability of jobs for the current workforce,” said the report released by the Council’s chairman, Bibek Debroy.The report also underlined delaying retirement age to increase the working-age population or it may not reduce the pressure on the social security system and is difficult for a country to achieve. “ A rise in the retirement age, unless backed by social action and a series of other measures, won’t be enough to bridge the pensions gap and ensure the active ageing of an older person,” it said.Also Read | PM Modi to participate in ‘Atmanirbhar Narishakti se Samvad’ todayThe report has recommended upskilling and reskilling opportunities for people in their 50s and the 60s. “Both central and state governments should formulate policies that support the reskilling efforts. These efforts should not exclude older workers in the informal economy, those living in remote rural areas, members of ethnic minorities, refugees and migrants who often have poor access to training.”According to data released by Help Age International, a global network of organisations working with and for older people, over 10% of India’s total population (about 139 million people) were aged over 60 as of 2019. The proportion of elderly is expected to double to 19.5% by 2050 when 1 in 5 people is likely to be a senior citizen. Kerala has a maximum proportion of older people (12.5%), followed by Goa (11.20%) and Tamil Nadu (10.4%). The higher proportion of elderly in Southern India is a result of a reduced fertility rate and fewer children. Kerala and Tamil Nadu have fertility rates of 1.7, which is lower than the replacement levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pms-advisory-council-recommends-increasing-retirement-age-101628749413589.html
12-08-2021||India||Women MPs accuse marshals of pushing them around in Rajya Sabha||Chhaya Verma, a Congress member of Rajya Sabha, has accused male marshals of pushing women members of the Opposition around in the House on Wednesday.“The female marshals were stopping us (from protesting). When we asked them to move away, the male marshals came forward and pushed us. One of my colleagues fell on the floor.”Phulo Devi Netam, Verma’s party colleague, echoed her and said the government deployed the marshals in three layers. “The male marshals started pushing the female lawmakers. Do not they know how to respect the female parliamentarians?” she asked.Another lawmaker said everything is on record and called for an inquiry.Shortly before the Upper House was adjourned sine die on Wednesday, Opposition lawmakers staged a walkout following a ruckus. They objected to the presence of security personnel during the passage of the Insurance (Amendment) Bill. The Opposition has been objecting to the passage of key Bills without discussion and putting them to vote.Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said there were more marshals than members in Rajya Sabha. He also alleged the marshals manhandled some of the women MPs and said women were not safe even within Parliament.The monsoon session of Parliament came to a premature end on Wednesday when it was adjourned ahead of schedule. Protests by the Opposition and repeated disruptions marred the session.Prahalad Joshi, parliamentary affairs ministers, called the claims of women lawmakers “bogus” and a “blatant lie”. “Nothing like this has happened. All the CCTV cameras should be checked. In fact (they) manhandled the male marshals. They grabbed these male marshals by their necks. They were especially from TMC (Trinamool Congress). ...together pushed the female marshals,” he said. He added they have demanded that a committee should be constituted to inquire into the matter.Nationalist Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar condemned the alleged attack on women lawmakers. “In my 55 years of parliamentary career, I have never seen the way the women MPs were attacked... More than 40 men and women were brought into the House from outside. It is painful. It is an attack on democracy.”Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said there was a fine discussion on the constitutional amendment bill empowering states to draw their own list of other backward classes. “Then there was a bill regarding insurance regulation… Though a copy of the bill was already circulated among the members, the way the (Opposition while protesting) unleashed violence on the security personnel and marshals…. shatters democratic principles. This makes one thing clear that Congress and its partners have lost their ethics.”He said this happened when ministers Joshi and Piyush Goyal were repeatedly telling the Opposition that government is ready for a debate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-mps-accuse-marshals-of-pushing-them-around-in-rajya-sabha-101628749293779.html
12-08-2021||India||Independence Day 2021: India gets official website for celebrations, features 360-degree VR||The central government has revealed a new website for the 75th Independence Day celebrations this year -- indianidc2021.mod.gov.in. The website was launched by defence secretary Dr Ajay Kumar on August 3 to mark the upcoming Independence Day 2021 celebrations, according to a government release. The website will serve as a platform to connect Indians all over the world to celebrate the national festival, the release stated, adding that a mobile app for the Independence Day Celebrations (IDC), 2021, will soon be launched as well.To achieve this purpose, the website is integrating for the first time ever virtual reality (VR) feature to show off the Independence Day celebrations from the Red Fort in New Delhi in a 360-degree format. People can use this feature even without having a VR gadget, the government release said.The Independence Day celebration platform also provides a host of other features, including a special IDC radio, gallery, interactive filters, e-books on deeds of gallantry, 50 years of 1971 victory, and blogs on the freedom movement, wars and war memorials. Once logged in, netizens will be able to know every single detail related to the Independence Day event -- including minute-to-minute programme, route map, parking details, RSVP and details of other activities. The programme calendar for all initiatives taken by various ministries to mark the occasion is also available on the platform.The Independence Day platform utilises a unique web-based RSVP system, which will generate a QR code for each invitation card. The invitee can use their smartphone devices to scan the said code and proceed on to the relevant web portal through the web link which will be automatically generated. The invitees will also be allowed to submit their willingness to attend the function through the same portal."The platform is freely accessible to all and provides updates and information regarding activities centred around the IDC 2021," the government stated in the official press release. "It encompasses the entire Indian diaspora as if they were a part of the celebrations in person. It is an attempt to engage people of all ages, especially the youth."The Independence Day celebration platform aims to imbibe the "culture of togetherness" among the masses so that they can celebrate this landmark occasion and unite under the common identity of being Indians, said defence secretary Kumar while speaking on the occasion. He also shed light on a number of activities planned in the run-up to IDC 2021, including an all-women mountaineering expedition at Mount Manirang, 75 medical camps organised by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) and statue cleaning activities carried out by the National Cadet Corps (NCC) cadets at 75 places across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-2021-india-gets-official-website-for-celebrations-features-360-degree-vr-101628745543698.html
12-08-2021||India||75th Independence Day: 10 quotes by India's freedom fighters to inspire you||India will celebrate its 75th Independence Day on August 15, 2021, across the country amid the coronavirus pandemic. To celebrate 75 years of independence and commemorate it as ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’, the Government of India has called upon people to submit videos of them singing the national anthem. The Union home ministry has issued instructions to the states and Union Territories to follow necessary preventive measures while organising the Independence Day celebrations.The Congress has also said that it will be organising year-long celebrations across India to mark the 75 years of the nation’s Independence. The Delhi government on Monday kicked off celebrations to mark the 75th year of India’s Independence with a ceremonial run from the Delhi secretariat to Raj Ghat.India's freedom fighters fought a long and hard struggle for the country's independence of the country from the British. And, for years their words have inspired us.ALSO READ: 75th Independence Day 2021: Savour these lip-smacking dishes on August 15Here are some of the famous quotes by freedom fighters of India:1. Rabindranath Tagore: “Where the mind is without fearand the head is held high,where knowledge is free.Where the world has not been broken up into fragments by narrow domestic walls.Where words come out from the depth of truth,where tireless striving stretches its arms toward perfection.Where the clear stream of reason has not lost its wayinto the dreary desert sand of dead habit.Where the mind is led forward by thee2. BR Ambedkar: “Freedom of mind is the real freedom. A person whose mind is not free though he may not be in chains, is a slave, not a free man. One whose mind is not free, though he may not be in prison, is a prisoner and not a free man. One whose mind is not free though alive, is no better than dead. Freedom of mind is the proof of one's existence.”3. Mahatma Gandhi: "Freedom is never dear at any price. It is the breath of life. What would a man not pay for living?"4. Chandra Shekhar Azad: "Dushman ki goliyon ka hum samna karenge, Azad hee rahein hain, Azad hee rahenge"5. Ramprasad Bismil: “Sarfaroshi ki tamanna ab hamare dil me hai, dekhna hai zor kitna baazu-e-qaatil me hai”6. Subhash Chandra Bose: “Tum Muje Khoon Do, Mai Tumhe Azadi Dunga”7. Bal Gangadhar Tilak: "Swaraj is my birthright and I shall have it"8. Bhagat Singh: “Inquilab Zindabad”9. Lal Bahadur Shastri: "Jai Jawan Jai Kisaan"10. Bankim Chandra Chatterjee: "Vande Mataram"||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75th-independence-day-10-quotes-by-india-s-freedom-fighters-to-inspire-you-101628744245370.html
12-08-2021||India||Isro GISAT-1 failure: All you need to know about anomaly in cryogenic stage||The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) suffered a setback on Thursday after it failed to place an observation satellite into orbit. The Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle (GSLV) F10 rocket carrying GISAT-1 Earth observation satellite (EOS-03) successfully blasted off from the spaceport in Odisha. But a "performance anomaly" made the mission unsuccessful.That anomaly was observed in the cryogenic stage, said Isro chairman K Sivan.The 51.70-metre tall rocket lifted off as planned at 05.43am, and its performance in the first and second stages was normal, the space agency said.Watch: Isro's GSLV blasts off but 'tech anomaly' cuts off missionWhat are the stages of rocket launch?A rocket launch has been divided by space agencies across the world in stages, where different thrusters and others parts help a vehicle reach desired destination in space. Depending on the distance to be covered, the space vehicle can go upto five stages, but broadly there are three. The heaviest part is the first stage, which uses the largest rocket engines the largest fuel and oxidiser tanks, and the highest thrust. Its task is to impart the initial thrust needed to overcome Earth's gravity.After the fuel in first stage thrusters is used up, they detach and fall back on Earth, either in ocean or sparsely populated areas. The second stage now kicks in, with separate rocket engines and propellants which continues to accelerate the vehicle.This engine too detaches itself after the intended use and falls back towards the Earth. But this time, the parts mostly disintegrate and evaporate after encountering atmospheric heating on its fall back toward Earth. The third stage then kicks in to help the space vehicle gain orbital velocity. Each of these stages are lighter than its predecessor and the entire operation is monitored by a mission control centre.The GSLV used by Isro for today's launch was a four-stage rocket.What is the cryogenic stage?A cryogenic stage is the last stage of space launch vehicles, which makes use of cryogenics. The word refers to technology of sub-zero temperature where production and behaviour of materials is studied at below -150 degree Centigrade.According to Isro website, a cryogenic rocket stage is more efficient and provides more thrust for every kilogram of propellant it burns compared to solid and earth-storable liquid propellant rocket stages.However, cryogenic stage is technically a very complex system compared to solid or earth-storable liquid propellant stages due to its use of propellants at extremely low temperatures and the associated thermal and structural problems.The anomaly in cryogenic stageMinutes after the rocket launched early on Thursday morning, the scientists were seen in discussion and it was announced in the mission control centre by the range operations director that the mission could not be accomplished fully.The engines failed to ignite in the cryogenic stage, according to Isro, which called it a "technical anomaly". "The mission couldn't be accomplished as intended," the space agency said on Twitter.The intended aim of Isro's missionThe objective of Thursday's mission was to provide near real-time imaging of large area regions at frequent intervals, for quick monitoring of natural disasters, episodic events and obtain spectral signatures for agriculture, forestry, water bodies as well as for disaster warning, cyclone monitoring, cloud burst and thunderstorm monitoring.Before today's launch, Isro had launched Brazil's earth observation satellite Amazonia-1 and 18 co-passenger satellites in February this year. Thursday's rocket launch was also planned to be held in April or May however, the Covid-19 outbreak pushed the scientists to resume it in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-gisat-1-failure-all-you-need-to-know-about-anomaly-in-cryogenic-stage-101628746705529.html
12-08-2021||India||Kerala announces Onam bonus for govt employees||The Kerala government on Wednesday announced a bonus of ₹4,000 for government employees for the festival of Onam. In a statement here, State Finance Minister K N Balagopal said the employees not eligible for the bonus would be given a special festival allowance of ₹2,750. Besides, the employees can avail themselves of Onam advance of ₹15,000 which should be repaid in five equal installments. All the part-time and contingent staff can also avail an advance of ₹5,000, said the statement. The service pensioners and those who had retired as per the participatory pension scheme would be given an allowance of ₹1,000, it said. Despite the Covid-19 situation, it said, the government is extending the benefit to over 13 lakh employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-announces-onam-bonus-for-govt-employees-101628746231562.html
12-08-2021||India||Maharashtra doctors’ body meets minister of medical edu; seeks better facilities||A delegation of resident doctors on Wednesday met Maharashtra minister for medical education Amit Deshmukh and senior medical education officials with some demands and were assured of a positive response soon. Members of the Central Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) have for long demanded better quality of life for postgraduate medical students, including need for a tuition fee waiver, Covid-19 incentives for resident doctors, as well as better hostel facilities in government-run medical colleges (GMCs). On Wednesday, Deshmukh assured them that the state medical education department will work out a proposal to waive tuition fees for resident doctors and submit the same for approval. Also Read | Maharashtra to plan events across state through public participation for 75th I-Day“For the last year and a half, resident doctors have been at the forefront of our fight against Covid-19 by working for months together. Our department is positive of bringing about necessary changes,” said Deshmukh in the meeting.Apart from MARD office bearers, the meeting was also attended by director of Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) Dr Dilip Mhaisekar.“Our purpose was to bring the government’s attention to the lives of resident doctors in the state of Maharashtra. Some hostels in GMCs are in a crumbling state and we need the government to take appropriate steps to avoid any problems in the future,” said a member of MARD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-doctors-body-meets-minister-of-medical-edu-seeks-better-facilities-101628745213431.html
12-08-2021||India||Tap water in Goa contains potentially hazardous microplastics: Study||Tap water supplied to households in Goa contains potentially hazardous levels of microplastics, a study conducted by the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) and Toxics Link, an environmental group, has found.Microplastics are microscopic fragments, fibres or particles of plastic less than 5mm in length and are a major source of marine pollution due to their toxic potential.The study said although the water treatment process may reduce a portion of the microplastics, some still remain. “However, although there is no documented evidence till date that ingesting microplastics can directly harm human health, the potential threat of microplastics cannot be ignored,” a report based on the study released on Wednesday said. It added the treated water contained on average between 1-3.8 microplastics per litre.Also Read | Rape undertrials stripped, made to do sit-ups: Goa orders inquiryNIO’s principal scientist, Mahua Saha, said 26 types of polymers were detected in the water samples, which indicated contamination from different plastic products and sources. “This is shocking and raises serious concerns about microplastic exposure for citizens and its larger impact on health.”Packaging materials, fishing nets, PVC pipes, cloth fibres, tyre bits may be the sources for the most microplastic materials obtained during the study, the report said and blamed mismanaged solid waste and lack of effective wastewater treatment facilities for it.Both pre-treated and post-treated water was assessed for the study. The levels of microplastics in pre-treated water were higher than that which was supplied. Treatment methods didn’t completely eliminate the presence of microplastics.“Fibre was the most dominant category found in both tap water and treatment plants samples,” Saha said. Fibre, fragments and film microplastics were also found.The researchers have called for more research to understand the extent and prevalence of microplastics especially in towns that are known for being located next to industrial and manufacturing hubs.“This study was initially meant to be collecting samples from cities across the country but on account of the stringent lockdown last year, we could not get the samples and as a result, we have restricted it to Goa,” said Satish Sinha, associate director, Toxics Link.Unlike other pollutants, there is no accepted safe limit of microplastics in drinking water with research yet to establish whether any amount of microplastics could be considered safe for drinking.“Several other toxic chemicals get attached to the surface of the microplastic and add to the overall toxicity of the water,” Saha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tap-water-in-goa-contains-potentially-hazardous-microplastics-study-101628743834050.html
12-08-2021||India||Odisha MLA files contempt petition against state Lokayukta||Former BJD leader and MLA Pradeep Panigrahy on Wednesday filed a contempt petition against the Odisha Lokayukta in the Orissa high court, alleging that the anti-corruption body belittled the dignity of the court by citing a non-existent order.In the petition, the Gopalpur MLA alleged that Odisha Lokayukta chairperson Ajit Singh and secretary Manas Ranjan Tripathi attached a non-existent order of the Orissa high court while moving the SC against an earlier order of the HC. The Lokayukta in December last year issued a probe order against the former BJD leader following a complaint that he had amassed assets disproportionate to his known source of income. The Lokayukta asked the directorate of Vigilance to submit report within two months.The Orissa high court in February this year quashed the Lokayukta’s order for a probe. It dismissed the Lokayukta order saying it was not legally tenable as the complainant and investigating agency in a quasi-judicial process cannot be the same.Also Read | Sec 144 imposed in Odisha’s Kendrapara amid opposition to water projectThe anti-corruption body then moved a review petition before the high court which was again dismissed in April 5. The Lokayukta then moved the apex court trough a Special Leave Petition (SLP) against the high court orders in February and review petition orders in April this year, calling it unfair.In his contempt petition to the high court, Panigrahy alleged that the Lokayukta, while filing the SLP, attached a six-page order on April 5 which is non-existent. The MLA said the high court passed a two-page order dismissing the review petition, adding that the six-page judgement cited by the Lokayukta was not passed by the bench of chief justice S Muralidhar and justice Biswanath Rath.“It is not known from which source such an order was obtained by the office of the Lokayukta. A non-existent order forms part of the SLP before the highest court of the country. The Lokayukta is a sacrosanct quasi judicial body comprising two retired judges of the high court and one retired DGP did not bother to verify the authenticity of the order of the registry of the high court or from the official website of the court where orders were being regularly uploaded during the pandemic,” Panigrahy said in his contempt petition.Panigrahy was arrested on December 3 last year on charges of forgery, criminal conspiracy and cyber crime. He was released from the jail on June 12 after the high court granted him bail in connection with a job fraud case.The three-time MLA was once a close aide of the chief minister Naveen Patnaik before he was expelled from the party for alleged ‘anti-people’ activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-mla-files-contempt-petition-against-state-lokayukta-101628743413602.html
12-08-2021||India||World Elephant Day 2021: Know history, significance and aim||World Elephant Day is celebrated every year on August 12. Initiated by the Elephant Reintroduction Foundation and filmmakers Patricia Sims and Michael Clark in 2011, the first international Elephant Day was celebrated on August 12, 2012.World Elephant Day was launched to highlight the difficulty of Asian and African elephants, which face many threats like poaching, habitat loss, conflict with humans and being mistreated in captivity."World Elephant Day is a rallying call for people to support organisations that are working to stop the illegal poaching and trade of elephant ivory and other wildlife products, protect wild elephant habitat, and provide sanctuaries and alternative habitats for domestic elephants to live freely," Sims is quoted as saying on the website of World Elephant Day.Significance of World Elephant DayWorld Elephant Day is celebrated on August 12 every year to help protect elephants for maintaining the biodiversity of rainforests. This day is marked by raising awareness about the difficulty of the elephants in the forests and also finding out possible ways to protect them.Purpose of World Elephant DayThe main aim of World Elephant Day is to make people aware of better treatment of captive elephants and against their illegal poaching and trade for ivory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-elephant-day-2021-know-history-significance-and-aim-101628738917350.html
12-08-2021||India||PM Modi to participate in ‘Atmanirbhar Narishakti se Samvad’ today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with women members of self help groups (SHGs) and community resource persons promoted under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM) virtually, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) has said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also participate in ‘Atmanirbhar Narishakti Se Samvad’ at 12:30pm. "India has a large number of Self-Help Groups which are making monumental contributions to women empowerment. Will take part in the 'Atmanirbhar Narishakti se Samvad'. During the programme, I would get the opportunity to interact with women SHG members. Developmental assistance to various SHGs will also be released. This will give impetus to the working of these groups and enable more women to contribute towards national welfare," PM Modi tweeted on Wednesday.The Prime Minister will release a collection of success stories of women SHG members from all across the nation, along with a handbook on the universalisation of farm livelihoods, the PMO.PM Modi will also release capitalisation support funds of ₹162.5 million to over 4 lakh SHGs. He will also release ₹250 million as seed money for 7,500 SHG members under the PM Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises (PMFME) scheme of the ministry of food processing industries and ₹41.3 million as funds to 75 Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs), which are being promoted under the mission.Union minister for rural development and panchayati raj Giriraj Singh; Union minister for food processing industries Pashupati Kumar Paras; Ministers of state-rural development, Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti and Faggan Singh Kulaste; MoS – panchayati raj Kapil Moreshwar Patil and MoS – ministry of food processing industry Prahlad Singh Patel, will also be present during the event.The PMO said that the purpose of DAY-NRLM is to make rural poor households into SHGs in a phased manner and provide them long-term support to modify their livelihoods, improve their incomes and quality of life.Most of the mission’s works are being implemented and stepped up by the SHG women, who are trained as community resource persons (CRPs).The mission is also working on empowering the SHG women through awareness generation and behaviour change communication on several issues like domestic violence, women’s education and other gender-related concerns, nutrition, sanitation, health and other issues, the PMO stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-participate-in-atmanirbhar-narishakti-se-samvad-today-101628731721456.html
12-08-2021||India||'Mission can be re-scheduled': Space minister after Isro fails to put GISAT-1 in orbit||Union minister of state (MoS) in charge of the department of space Jitendra Singh said on Thursday that the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) satellite mission, which faced a technical anomaly, can be rescheduled "some time" later again. The minister said that he spoke at length with Isro chairperson Dr K Sivan regarding the snag. "Spoke to Isro chairman Dr. K Sivan and discussed in detail," Singh minister tweeted. "The first two stages went off fine, only after that, there was a difficulty in the cryogenic upper stage ignition. The mission can be re-scheduled some time again," he said.Also Read | Isro's 'eye in the sky' satellite blasts off but fails to reach orbitIsro suffered a setback on Thursday after its Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle (GSLV) failed to put the GISAT-1 Earth observation satellite (EOS) satellite onto its intended orbit due to a technical anomaly in the cryogenic upper stage minutes after launch.Spoke to Chairman #ISRO, Dr K.Sivan and discussed in detail. The first two stages went off fine, only after that there was a difficulty in cryogenic upper stage ignition. The mission can be re-scheduled some time again. https://t.co/U5C0wTEHHvThe GISAT-1 satellite was launched from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) at Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh as a part of the GSLV-F10 EOS-03 mission. The 51.70-metre tall rocket blasted off from the second launch pad of the spaceport at 5:43am as scheduled, at the end of the 26-hour countdown. The space agency even noted that rocket performance was normal in the first and second stages.Isro's mission control room, however, plunged into silence just before the seventh minute of the flight, when scientists started analysing the flight pattern. Moments later, the space agency finally declared that the mission couldn't be accomplished "as intended"."GSLV-F10 launch took place today at 0543 Hrs IST as scheduled. Performance of the first and second stages was normal. However, Cryogenic Upper Stage ignition did not happen due to technical anomaly. The mission couldn't be accomplished as intended," the space agency tweeted.This was the eighth time Isro was flying the indigenous cryogenic third stage in the vehicle. The GSLV Mk III vehicle carried the Chandrayaan-2 on its first operational flight and will be carrying astronauts to space under the Gaganyaan Mission. All of the four flights, including one sub-orbital flight, of the vehicle, have been successful.With this mission, Isro intended to place the Earth observation satellite on the Geosynchronous transfer orbit (GTO), a highly elliptic geocentric orbit that almost always serves as an intermediate step for satellites before reaching for their final orbit. After that, the satellite was expected to make its way to the final geostationary orbit with the help of an onboard propulsion system.Isro said earlier that the GISAT-1 satellite would obtain spectral signatures for agriculture, forestry, mineralogy, cloud properties, snow and glaciers, and oceanography, enabling researchers back home to gain new insight on a host of issues. If the mission had been accomplished as intended, it would have paved the way for India to monitor and respond to natural disasters and any other short-term events at an alarming pace, according to officials of the space agency familiar with the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mission-can-be-re-scheduled-space-minister-after-isro-fails-to-put-gisat-1-in-orbit-101628738426002.html
12-08-2021||India||India logs 41,195 cases, up from yesterday, 490 deaths in a day||The coronavirus (Covid-19) infections in India rose to 32,077,706 on Thursday after 41,195 people were found to be positive of the viral disease in the last 24 hours. The number has significantly risen from yesterday's 38,353 cases. The daily death toll also saw a rise as 490 people succumbed to the Covid-19, data released by the Union health ministry showed.The death toll has now reached 429,669.The number of active cases dipped to 387,987 and now consists 1.21% per cent of the total caseload. As many as 31,260,050 people have recovered from as of Thursday, the data from the health ministry also showed.In a significant achievement, India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage has crossed 520 million (523,253,450) landmark milestone.Overall nationwide tally is has been hovering above 25,000 for days as some states in the country are reporting a surge in daily average cases. Though numbers are below record levels the government is still cautious of letting the guards down.Experts have predicted the possible third wave could hit the country as soon as August-end. The recent surge in cases has been mostly led by the highlight transmissible mutation of the Covid-19, Delta variant.On Wednesday, the head of the UK's Oxford Vaccine group said that the highly transmissible Delta variant of Covid-19 has rendered the prospect of herd immunity, where the majority of a country’s population becomes immune to a virus, difficult.Professor Andrew Pollard, who led the team behind the Oxford University’s Covid-19 vaccine, said that the fear of another even more transmissible variant remains a possibility and therefore there is nothing that can completely stop the deadly virus from spreading.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-41-195-cases-up-from-yesterday-490-deaths-in-a-day-101628739832431.html
12-08-2021||India||Bihar panchayat polls: SEC focuses on sensitive polling booths||Bihar panchayat election schedule is out and the State Election Commission (SEC) is focusing on polling booths with high vulnerability, and having a history of poll malpractices. Sources said the (SEC) has started the exercise of drawing up elaborate security arrangements in coordination with home department as well as police headquarters for the ten-phase elections. Sixteen constables and two officers will be deployed at every alternative booths based on the threat perception in extremist-hit areas. Sector magistrates would be also posted in Maoist-infested areas. As per police headquarters records, there are 10 extremist hit districts: Gaya, Aurangabad, Lakhisarai, Jamui, Munger, Banka, West Champaran, Patna, Jehanabad, and Rohtas. At other booths, there would be four constables and a havildar rank officer, sources said. “The security arrangements are being worked out. The deployment of force and other arrangements would be done by the police headquarters during the polls,” said an SEC official. Also Read | Widespread rain to continue over parts of east, northeast India till August 15Six polling personnel will be deployed at each booth. In each phase, the number of booths where polling would be conducted would, on an average, be 12,000 covering 2-3 blocks in each district. That would mean around 72,000 polling personnel on election duty. “In view of the huge number of polling personnel, the mobilisation process has begun and officials are being drafted for the task of conducting polls likely to start from next month,” another source said. There are reports the SEC has sent a proposal to the panchayat raj department for notification of three-tier rural bodies election. The schedule of the polls would be known after the proposal for conduct of the polls is approved by the state cabinet. Meanwhile, home department,additional chief secretary Chaitanya Prasad said the police headquarters was working on the security arrangements. “Once the dates of the election is announced, there will be fine tuning of all aspects related to security and deployment of force. The process has begun,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-panchayat-polls-sec-focuses-on-sensitive-polling-booths-101628739993427.html
12-08-2021||India||Vikram Sarabhai birth anniversary: Remembering the father of Indian space programme||Vikram Sarabhai, who initiated India's space research and helped develop nuclear power in the country, was born on August 12, 1919. Known as the father of the Indian space program Vikram Sarabhai is known for the establishment of the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro). In 1962, he was given Isro's charge and worked for a token salary of one rupee in view of his personal wealth.Sarabhai, who stressed the importance of the space program in India, was given two of India’s highest honours - the Padma Bhushan in 1966 and the Padma Vibhushan awarded to him posthumously in 1972. Sarabhai is credited for putting the first Indian satellite, Aryabhata, in orbit in 1975 from Russia.On his 102nd birth anniversary, the Isro launched India's "eye in the sky" GISAT-1 Earth observation satellite (EOS), but the mission suffered a setback due to a performance anomaly in the cryogenic stage of the rocket moments after the launch.He was a visionary scientist and institution-builder who called for the development of satellite-based remote sensing of natural resources. He was an inspiration to young scientists of the nation. Sarabhai’s birth anniversary is also celebrated as National Remote Sensing Day in India.Sarabhai helped set up many institutes, some of which are the Nehru Foundation for Development in Ahmedabad, the Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad (IIMA), the Ahmedabad Textile Industry's Research Association (ATIRA) and the (CEPT).Along with his wife Mrinalini Sarabhai, he founded the Darpana Academy of Performing Arts. Other projects and institutions initiated or established by him are the Fast Breeder Test Reactor (FBTR) in Kalpakkam, Variable Energy Cyclotron Project in Calcutta, Electronics Corporation of India Limited (ECIL) in Hyderabad and Uranium Corporation of India Limited (UCIL) in Jaduguda, Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vikram-sarabhai-birth-anniversary-remembering-the-father-of-indian-space-programme-101628732890996.html
12-08-2021||India||Maharashtra relaxes Covid curbs; shops to remain open till 10pm from Aug 15||After announcing that it will allow fully vaccinated people to travel in local trains in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) from Independence Day, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday rolled out a few more relaxations from Covid-19 lockdown.From August 15, shops, malls, and restaurants will be allowed to operate till 10pm, while private offices can operate 24*7 with staggered shift hours. Employees in shops, establishments and offices, however, will have to be fully vaccinated. Restaurants, gymnasiums and spas are allowed to operate at 50% of their capacity. The number of people allowed to attend wedding ceremonies has been increased to 200 if the venue is an open place like lawns, while the number of attendees is restricted to 100 or 50% of the sitting capacity if the venue is enclosed one. Indoor games have been allowed till 10pm provided everyone is fully vaccinated.Also Read | Maharashtra: 20 more cases of Covid Delta plus variant; total cases reaches 65With the likelihood of a third wave hitting the state, the government also made it clear that the entire state will be put under immediate lockdown if the demand for oxygen reaches 700 metric tonnes (MT) daily.Religious places and theatres, multiplexes and auditoriums will remain shut till further orders, the state government said.Public health minister Rajesh Tope announced more relaxations after the state Cabinet meeting on Wednesday.The new set of relaxations will be applicable even to the 11 districts that have comparatively more daily Covid-19 cases and a higher test positivity rate. Test positivity rate is the number of test returning positive out of the total tests conducted for an infection.These districts were exempted from the relaxations announced earlier this month. The positivity and growth rate in these districts have now come down, as per the presentation made to the state Cabinet on Wednesday.The health minister said that the relaxations come with a rider in the wake of the potential third wave of the virus. The state Cabinet has put the threshold of requirement of the oxygen to treat Covid-19 patients. “If the daily requirement of the Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) reaches 700 MT, strict lockdown will be imposed immediately. Maharashtra’s LMO generation per day is 1,300MT, which is expected to go up to 2,000 MT in next few days because of the augmentation measures taken by us. As per the Centre’s direction, the state government should augment the oxygen capacity to 1.5 times the requirement at the peak of the second wave. As per that parameter, the requirement would be 3,800MT, against our generation of 2,000MT. Since the possibility of supply of the LMO from other states is less if the third wave strikes, we have decided to strictly impose the lockdown again if the requirement goes up,” Tope said.Maharashtra reported 5,560 new Covid-19 cases and 163 fresh deaths on Wednesday, taking the tally to 6,369,002 cases and toll to 13,464. Mumbai logged 285 new cases and reported nine deaths, while Pune district logged 1,146 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-relaxes-covid-curbs-shops-to-remain-open-till-10pm-from-aug-15-101628738073028.html
12-08-2021||India||Widespread rain to continue over parts of east, northeast India till August 15||Widespread rain is likely to continue over parts of northeast India, east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand till August 15, according to India Meteorological Department.The eastern end of the monsoon trough continues to run close to the foothills of the Himalayas while the western end is running north of its normal position. A cyclonic circulation is lying over Bihar and extends up to mid-tropospheric levels. A north-south trough/line of convergence is running from the cyclonic circulation over Bihar to north Coastal Andhra Pradesh across Jharkhand and Interior Odisha. Under the influence of these systems, current spell of widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is very likely to continue over northeast and Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during August 11-14 and reduction thereafter. Also Read | Heavy rain, strong wind likely across west UP in next 48 hours: IMDIsolated extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) is also likely over Assam and Meghalaya during August 11 to 13. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls is likely to continue over east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal during August 11 to 14 and isolated very heavy falls over Bihar till August 12.Scattered to widespread rainfall is very likely over Western Himachal region during the next five days. There will be isolated heavy rainfall over Uttarakhand till August 15 and over Himachal Pradesh till August 14.Subdued rainfall is likely over the rest parts of plains of northwest India (Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan), adjoining central India and most parts of peninsular India(outside Tamil Nadu and Kerala), including Maharashtra and Gujarat till August 15 with an increase in rainfall activity over peninsular India from August 16 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-to-continue-over-parts-of-east-northeast-india-till-august-15-101628736573647.html
12-08-2021||India||Kinnaur landslide: Death toll rises to 13, rescue operations on||Rescuers recovered two more bodies from the wreckage of a bus following a landslide in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur district, which have now taken the death toll to 13, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. Rescue operations resumed on Thursday morning in Kinnaur after being called off on Wednesday night over lack of visibility. "We have located the remnants of the bus and a body has been recovered," Dharmender Thakur, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) deputy commandant, was quoted as saying by ANI.Rescuers pulled out the bodies of 10 people after the landslide buried at least five vehicles, including two buses, on a road near Nigulsari village on the national highway connecting Himachal Pradesh's capital Shimla to Rechong Peo on Wednesday afternoon. At least 30 people are said to be missing after the landslide and 14 were rescued by disaster relief and ITBP personnel and local residents after the landslide. "Total 10 dead bodies have been retrieved from the spot. 14 injured have been rescued. All bodies sent to Bhavanagar," ITBP said in a statement on Wednesday.Also read | Himachal Pradesh: Hills creak under climate crisis, constructionPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday condoled the loss of lives in the landslide in Kinnaur and announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each to the next of kin of those who were killed and ₹50,000 for those injured in the tragedy, the Prime Minister's Office tweeted. "The landslide tragedy at Kinnaur is very saddening. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the families of those who lost their lives. May the injured recover at the earliest. Rescue operations are underway and everything possible is being done to assist those still trapped," PM Modi also tweeted.Also watch | Kinnaur landslide: ITBP rescue on cam; 40 feared trapped; PM Modi assures helpPresident Ram Nath Kovind also expressed his anguish at the deaths in the landslide. "It is sad to hear that many people have died and others are in danger due to landslide in Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh. I express my condolences to the bereaved families and pray for full success in the relief and rescue work," he said.PM Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah spoke to Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur and assured him of all possible help in the rescue and search operations.Last month, at least nine people were killed by a landslide in a different part of the Kinnaur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kinnaur-landslide-death-toll-rises-to-13-rescue-operations-on-101628732214674.html
12-08-2021||India||Isro's 'eye in the sky' satellite blasts off but fails to reach orbit||The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) launched India's "eye in the sky" GISAT-1 Earth observation satellite (EOS) on Thursday, but the mission suffered a setback due to a performance anomaly in the cryogenic stage of the rocket moments after the launch. Isro said that rocket performance was normal in the first and second stages but hit a technical snag in the subsequent phase. "GSLV-F10 launch took place today at 0543 Hrs IST as scheduled. Performance of first and second stages was normal. However, Cryogenic Upper Stage ignition did not happen due to technical anomaly. The mission couldn't be accomplished as intended," the space agency tweeted.GSLV-F10 launch took place today at 0543 Hrs IST as scheduled. Performance of first and second stages was normal. However, Cryogenic Upper Stage ignition did not happen due to technical anomaly. The mission couldn't be accomplished as intended.Union minister of state (MoS) in charge of the department of space Jitendra Singh said that he has discussed the matter at length with the Isro chairman, adding that the mission can be re-scheduled some time again. "Spoke to Isro chairman Dr K Sivan and discussed in detail," Singh minister tweeted. "The first two stages went off fine, only after that, there was a difficulty in the cryogenic upper stage ignition. The mission can be re-scheduled some time again," he said.Spoke to Chairman #ISRO, Dr K.Sivan and discussed in detail. The first two stages went off fine, only after that there was a difficulty in cryogenic upper stage ignition. The mission can be re-scheduled some time again. https://t.co/U5C0wTEHHvThe satellite was launched on a Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle (GSLV) from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) at Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh as a part of the GSLV-F10 EOS-03 mission. India watched the much-touted event with fascination, which was set up days before people celebrate the country's achievements on Independence Day.Click here for key highlights from the Isro GSLV-F10 satellite launchAs the 26-hour countdown for Thursday's launch concluded, the 51.70-metre tall rocket lifted off majestically at 5.43am from the second launch pad at the Sriharikota spaceport. Minutes after the launch, the satellite was said to have successfully completed its second stage, following which it commenced cryogenic operations in the third phase.However, Isro chairman K Sivan said moments later that the mission could not be completed successfully. "There was an anomaly observed in the cryogenic stage. Isro's GSLV-F10/EOS-03 mission could not be fully accomplished," Sivan was heard saying during the live telecast of the launch.Researchers directing the mission were not receiving performance data from the cryogenic engine, officials familiar with the matter said.Isro said earlier that the Earth observation satellite was to be placed by the launch vehicle in the Geosynchronous transfer orbit (GTO), a highly elliptic geocentric orbit that almost always serves as an intermediate step for satellites before reaching for their final orbit. After that, the satellite was expected to make its way to the final geostationary orbit with the help of an onboard propulsion system.This time, the space agency even made some changes to the fairing capsule used in its satellite. Isro said that in a first, it sent an Ogive-shaped payload measuring a diameter of 4 metres.The GISAT-1 satellite intended to obtain spectral signatures for agriculture, forestry, mineralogy, cloud properties, snow and glaciers, and oceanography, enabling researchers back home to gain new insight on a host of issues. On the basis of these photographs, India was expected to be able to monitor and respond to natural disasters and any other short-term events at an alarming pace, according to officials of the space agency familiar with the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isros-eye-in-the-sky-satellite-blasts-off-but-fails-to-reach-orbit-101628728013585.html
12-08-2021||India||PM Modi reviews flood situation in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday spoke to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Varanasi city unit chief Vidyasagar Rai and took stock of the flood situation in the district, said the party’s Kashi region spokesperson Navratan Rathi.Varanasi is the prime minister’s parliamentary constituency.Rathi said that the Prime Minister also asked Rai whether the water level of Ganga river was stable or increasing and sought to know the status of relief work being carried out by the party to help the flood-affected people.PM Modi assured all possible help to the flood-affected people, Rai said. He added that the PM said, “In case of any need, please inform me. All possible help would be given.”The Central Water Commission said the water level in the Ganga was rising continuously in Varanasi. The Ganga was flowing at 72.08 metres in the city on Wednesday and this level was above the danger mark of 71.262 metres, the commission said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-flood-situation-in-varanasi-101628731877548.html
12-08-2021||India||International Youth Day: Why is it celebrated?||August 12 of every year is celebrated as the International Youth Day to raise awareness about the cultural and legal issues surrounding the youth. The day was designated as International Youth Day by the United Nations in the year 1999 after the General Assembly endorsed the recommendation by the 'World Conference of Ministers Responsible for Youth.' Subsequently, it is being celebrated every year to highlight the importance of youth people as the driving force of change in the world.To observe the day, various activities like concerts, workshops, cultural events, and meetings are organised by schools and other educational institutions to engage the youth and in order to bring their voices, actions, and initiatives to the mainstream.International Youth Day 2021 themeThe day is marked with a theme every year as per its relevance to the times. This year's theme is "Transforming Food Systems: Youth Innovation for Human and Planetary Health." It was chosen by the United Nations after these issues were highlighted at ECOSOC Youth Forum (EYF) 2021.The UN will commemorate the day virtually, due to the coronavirus pandemic, in partnership with the Food and Agriculture Organization of the world body and the major group for children and youth. "Through youth education, engagement, innovation, and entrepreneurial solutions, this year’s International Youth Day aims to provide a platform for young people to continue the momentum from the EYF in the lead up to the high-level Food Systems Summit," the world body said on its website.An online webinar is also being organised to explore the role that youth play to achieve more equitable and sustainable food systems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-youth-day-why-is-it-celebrated-101628725944089.html
12-08-2021||India||Himachal Pradesh: Hills creak under climate crisis, construction||The landslide that struck a national highway in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur district has brought back focus on the delicate ecology of the region, which has been weakened further by the human-induced climate crisis and unchecked construction of power projects, experts say.These factors together raise the possibility of landslides and floods, which loom as a threat in addition to the seismological features that predispose the region to earthquakes, which can further trigger big landslides.Manshi Asher of Himdhara Collective, an environment group based in Himachal, summarised these as three factors that made the region vulnerable to disasters: fragile ecology, climate change and unplanned development.“Kinnaur, located in greater Himalayas, is inheritably fragile. Due to a lot of tectonic movement the region is highly sensitive seismically and geologically,” said Asher.The climate crisis, she added, has aggravated the problem. “Global warming has resulted in a change in rainfall pattern. Areas like Kinnaur which used to get less rains, have been witnessing high rainfall now”.“And the last and most vital issue is haphazard construction taking place in these mountains,” she said, citing large hydropower projects that have come up or are planned in Kinnaur, at present inhabitant mostly by mountain tribes. The tunnelling, excavation and blasting work being done to build these dams threatens an already fragile landscape, Asher added.A study carried out in Kinnaur between 2012 and 2016 found that a push for hydropower projects in the name of clean energy brought rapid land-use changes that adversely impacting local terrestrial ecosystems and communities inhabiting them.It found that of the area of forest land diverted to non-forest activities between 1980 and 2014, 90% was transferred for hydro-electric projects and transmission lines, leading to fragmentation of forests and loss of biodiversity in the Kinnaur region.Asher said Nigulsari is in close proximity to one of the largest hydropower project in the state – the Nathpa Jhakri.Ambrish Kumar Mahajan, professor at the School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Central University of Himachal Pradesh, agreed with Asher’s assessment. “Kinnaur is fragile due to the highly jointed and fractured geology,” he said.Then, there are steep slopes and a lot of development activities along it. “Clubbed together, these factors have made Kinnaur a hub of landslide disasters,” he said. He added the risk extended to Himachal Pradesh as a whole, and this has been borne out in several instances.In addition to the warnings, some of the red flags came from within assessments by the government’s own departments. The environment department of Himachal Pradesh government, in its State Climate Change Strategy and Action Plan in 2012, warned that floods, landslides, glacial lake bursts, excess rainfall, excess snowfall and unseasonal rains will pose a threat.It said the state could experience a difference of 1-5 degrees C in minimum temperature and 0.5-2.5 degrees C in maximum temperature by 2030.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-hills-creak-under-climate-crisis-construction-101628726630891.html
12-08-2021||NA||Isro launches GISAT-1 satellite, says mission could not be 'fully' accomplished||Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) launched India's "eye in the sky" - the GISAT-1 Earth observation satellite (EOS) at 05:43am on Thursday. The satellite was launched on a geosynchronous satellite launch vehicle (GSLV) from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) at Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh as a part of the GSLV-F10 EOS-03 mission. India watched the much-touted event with fascination, which was set up days before people celebrate the country's achievements on Independence Day.Follow all the updates here:Mission can be re-scheduled some time again, says Union minister Jitendra SinghSpoke to Chairman #ISRO, Dr K.Sivan and discussed in detail. The first two stages went off fine, only after that there was a difficulty in cryogenic upper stage ignition. The mission can be re-scheduled some time again. https://t.co/U5C0wTEHHvIsro's 'eye in the sky' satellite blasts off but fails to reach orbitThe Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) launched India's "eye in the sky" GISAT-1 Earth observation satellite (EOS) on Thursday, but the mission suffered a setback due to a performance anomaly in the cryogenic stage of the rocket moments after the launch. Read MoreUpper stage ignition did not happen due to anomaly, says IsroGSLV-F10 launch took place today at 0543 Hrs IST as scheduled. Performance of first and second stages was normal. However, Cryogenic Upper Stage ignition did not happen due to technical anomaly. The mission couldn't be accomplished as intended.Rocket's performance in first and second stages was normal: Mission Control CentreAhead of the lift-off, the Launch Authorisation Board cleared the decks for a normal lift-off as planned. The performance of the rocket in the first and second stages was normal, scientists at the Mission Control Centre said.Final view of the telemetry screenThe final view of the telemetry screen before the live telecast was disconnected.Isro encountered anomaly in satellite trajectory during third stage flightAccording to Chris Bergin of NasaSpaceFlight.com (NSF), the mission suffered a "major failure" during the third stage flight."2-3 sep looked good, but the third stage started to roll shortly after ignition, and then it progressively worsened," he said. "Then the telemetry lines diverged. This will soon be classed as a loss of mission."Isro fails to put satellite in orbit: ReportAccording to Spaceflight Now, Isro has confirmed that the GSLV Mk.2 launch today failed due to a "performance anomaly observed in the cryogenic stage.” This is the first failure on an Indian space launch since 2017, ending a run of 14 consecutive successful missions, the report said.The Sputnik news agency also reported that Isro has failed to put the Earth observation satellite in orbit.Mission could not be accomplished fully: IsroDue to a technical anomaly observed in the cryogenic stage, Isro's GSLV-F10/EOS-03 mission could not be fully accomplished: Isro Chairman K SivanGISAT-1 launch successful, third-stage cryogenic function commences: Isro255 seconds after the launch, the payload fairing has separated successfully, said the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro)Isro launches GISAT-1 satelliteMission director authorises the launch of GSLV-F10Mission Director authorizes the launch of GSLV-F10#ISRO #GSLVF10 #EOS03 pic.twitter.com/rvzpvgqwtBIsro GISAT-1 launch: How to watch live telecastIsro has set up a live telecast of the GISAT-1 satellite launch from their official channels on every major social media network. Click here to watch the live telecast.GISAT-1 satellite launch at 05:43am: IsroIsro announced that the GISAT-1 satellite will be launched sharp at 05:43am on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-gisat-1-gslv-f10-eos-03-satellite-launch-live-updates-101628725843483.html
12-08-2021||India||Isro to launch GISAT-1 satellite from Sriharikota spaceport. Watch live telecast here||The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) is going to launch the GISAT-1 geostationary satellite, India's "eye in the sky", on Thursday from the Sriharikota spaceport in Andhra Pradesh. The launch is scheduled to take place at 5:43am on this day on a geosynchronous satellite launch vehicle (GSLV) from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC).Also Read | Isro to launch GISAT-1 in less than 24 hours, a game-changer for India: 10 pointsIsro GISAT-1 launch: How to watch live telecastSpace enthusiasts who cannot find their way to the Sriharikota spaceport, fret not! Isro has set up a live telecast of the GISAT-1 satellite launch from their official channels on every major social media network.Here are a few, listed for your convenience:1 . You can watch the live telecast here at the official website of Isro -- Department of Space, Indian Space Research Organisation.2 . The live telecast will also be available on the official Twitter and Facebook handles of Isro.3 . You can also watch a live telecast of the entire satellite launch from the ISRO Official channel on YouTube.India awaits the much-touted GISAT-1 satellite launch, which has been set up days before people celebrate the country's achievements on Independence Day. The satellite is expected to be a game-changer for India, with its spectral signatures on agriculture, forestry, mineralogy, cloud properties, snow and glaciers, and oceanography, enabling researchers back home to gain new insight on a host of issues.Click here to follow our live updates on the Isro GISAT-1 satellite launch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-to-launch-gisat-1-satellite-from-sriharikota-spaceport-watch-live-telecast-here-101628724984564.html
12-08-2021||India||India needs to talk about 2nd-gen steps against poverty||There are no official statistics on the number of poor in India after 2011-12. The Consumption Expenditure Survey (CES) of 2017-18, which would have given the latest numbers on poverty, was scrapped by the government. Leaked findings of the 2017-18 CES showed a fall in average monthly per capita expenditure (MPCE) for the first time and triggered a political storm. Logically speaking, poverty should have increased with a fall in average MPCE in the 2017-18 CES.While the controversy around the scraping of 2017-18 CES led to polarisation, with the government and its supporters dismissing fears of a rise in poverty, the pandemic’s shock has made such differences redundant.Since the Indian economy has suffered its highest ever contraction of 7.3% in 2020-21 and the post-pandemic recovery is biased in favour of profits (in the wage-profit binary) and the formal sector (in the formal-informal binary), an increase in poverty is almost certain now. The fact that the government has been extending the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojna (PMGKY) – it offers 5kg wheat or rice and 1kg preferred pulses for free to 800 million people – speaks volumes about the kind of kind of economic precarity that affects most Indians at the moment.India’s largest ever economic contraction in 2020-21, followed by the second Covid wave’s disruption to the sequential economic recovery, has made restoration of growth the focal point of economic commentary at the moment. While growth is a necessary condition for poverty reduction, it is not a sufficient condition, as the post-pandemic economy can put itself in a trajectory with higher levels of inequality, and therefore poverty.The situation calls for reopening the debate on anti-poverty programmes, which were popular at the time when the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) assumed office in 2004. Whether or not such programmes are adopted, is not, as is often believed, merely a function of the fiscal headroom available to a government. There are deeper political economy processes at play behind such decisions. Here are five charts which put this in perspective.The difference between asset-generating programmes and anti-poverty programmesWhether or not a person is poor is not a function of their asset endowments, but income. India calculates its poverty by deciding on an MPCE level below which a person is deemed to be poor. This also means one-time asset generating programmes -- the mainstay of the current government’s welfare push -- are not anti-poverty programmes. The government could have given money to a household to build a toilet or even a house, and it could provide LPG cylinders and piped water supply to their houses, but none of these guarantee that the household in question will continue to earn enough to stay above the designated poverty line.The only income enhancement programme that the Narendra Modi government has started is the PM-KISAN scheme, which offers ₹6,000 a year to farmers. Other examples of anti-poverty programmes would be Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) and the Public Distribution System (PDS), or the PMGKY, which was discussed above.PDS and MGNREGS have been game changers in the fight against povertyFood items have a 39% share in India’s Consumer Price Index (CPI) basket. Cereals alone have a share of almost 10%. This one statistic makes it clear why the subsidised provisioning of rice and wheat through PDS matters in fighting poverty in India. India’s PDS in its current avatar offers almost free food to at least two-thirds of the population.Interestingly, PDS first contracted and then expanded in scope during the post-reform period in India. This is because the universal PDS was first made into a targeted PDS in 1997. Its scope was first expanded under the Atal Bihari Bajpayee government, which launched the Antyodaya Anna Yojna in 2000, reducing issue price of cereals to the really poor. A 2013 EPW paper by Himanshu and Abhijit Sen shows how PDS’s reach first fell and then expanded during the reform period. The National Food Security Act (NFSA) of 2013 further expanded the reach of PDS in India. The expansion in coverage was especially high among poorer households.MGNREGS is essentially a counter-cylical demand driven cushion for unskilled workers in rural areas. Wages under it are generally lower than market wages, and payments are often delayed. Despite this, MGNREGS has been a game-changer in India’s rural political-economy landscape. This is because, the unskilled rural workforce, the most vulnerable among India’s workers, now has a backup while bargaining for wages in the open market. In other words, the rural employer cannot wield the threat of work or starve ( PDS has helped here as well) to the rural labourer. This is best seen from the fact that rural wages have increased in the post-MGNREGS phase in India.The political fallout of anti-poverty programmes can be counter-intuitiveAt the macro-level, fall in poverty is good news. As income levels increase, so does demand, boosting future growth, kick-starting a virtuous cycle. However,a fall in poverty -- especially rise in bargaining power of the poor -- need not be a welcome development for all stakeholders in an economy. Consider rural landowners. With MGNREGS and PDS providing an important income cushion to the rural proletariat, the bargaining power of the have-nots went up, putting a squeeze on incomes of the propertied classes. This can be seen in an increase in the share of cost on account of casual workers (hired workers) in the value of output of crops such as rice and wheat in the years following the roll-out of MGNREGS.While the anger of the rural rich is unlikely to have been the biggest factor behind the BJP’s 2014 victory, it was not an insignificant factor. An analysis of vote shares of the Congress and the BJP by class in the 2009 and 2014 Lok Sabha elections makes this clear. The Congress’s losses and the BJP’s gains held across class divide, but they were the biggest among the rich and the smallest among the poor.When seen in this context, the BJP’s preference for asset-transfer based welfare programmes rather than income-enhancement schemes appears to be a conscious strategy to not tilt the tables against the propertied classes, especially in rural areas, any further. Even the PM-KISAN scheme is class agnostic because it does not differentiate between rich and poor farmers, and excludes the poorest, i.e. the rural landless.This strategy may have been alright, had the economy not entered a slowdown followed by a contraction. But, at the current moment, when a rise in inequality and poverty threatens to damage India’s long-term growth prospects, it will not help. Any economic strategy to counter these will have to navigate the waters of not just fiscal ability , but also the potential backlash from the BJP’s support-base among the relatively privileged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-needs-to-talk-about-2nd-gen-steps-against-poverty-101628722578591.html
12-08-2021||India||SC grants bail to former Karnataka minister, keeps him out of Dharwad||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted bail to former Karnataka minister and Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni in an alleged murder case committed in 2016 and directed him to remain out of Dharwad as one of the bail conditions, flouting which will result in cancellation of his bail.Kulkarni had approached the top court for bail after he was arrested in November 2020 in connection with the murder of a BJP Zilla Panchayat leader Yogeshgouda Goudar in June 2016.The politically sensitive case was initially probed by the Karnataka Police which filed a charge sheet claiming that the murder was committed due to a property dispute. The said charge sheet named six persons as accused. Kulkarni was not named in the charge sheet. In 2019, after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came to power in the state, Yogesh’s family requested for a probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which was acceded to by the state government.After taking over the probe, CBI roped in Kulkarni as one of the accused along with several other persons and filed supplementary chargesheets alleging that the murder was a result of a political rivalry that brewed ever since Yogesh defeated his Congress rival in the Zilla Panchayat polls in Dharwad district.The bench of Justices UU Lalit and Ajay Rastogi on Wednesday put Kulkarni to strict terms while allowing his plea for bail. The court directed the prosecution to present Kulkarni before the trial court in the next three days where conditions for his bail shall be imposed. The top court said, “The appellant shall not enter Dharwad and will mark his presence twice a week before the officer concerned at Anti Corruption Bureau, CBI at Bengaluru.” This will be in addition to the conditions that the accused shall not impede the proceedings of the trial, pending investigation or in any manner, directly or indirectly, influence witnesses or tamper evidence. Any violation of these conditions would result in cancellation of bail, the bench added.The petition filed by Kulkarni was taken up along with appeals filed by CBI and Karnataka government challenging an order passed by the Karnataka high court in November 2019 staying further investigation in the case by CBI. The top court had issued notice on CBI appeal on February 20, 2020 and stayed the high court order.On Wednesday, the top court allowed the stay to continue and directed the Chief Justice of Karnataka HC to assign the matter to a two-judge bench, if rules so permit, considering the important issues in the matter. CBI had requested the top court that the matter should not be sent to the same bench that earlier dealt with the matter. The court directed the HC to take up the cases preferably within two months.The bench clarified, “The grant of bail to the appellant shall not be construed as a discussion on merits of the case.” Moreover, it was noted that the appeals were filed against an interim order passed by the Karnataka HC which was yet to examine the merits of the petitions filed by the accused.Already, the trial court has taken cognizance of the charge sheets filed by CBI and this was one ground for the court to consider granting bail to Kulkarni. Appearing for the Congress leader, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi stated that the investigation by CBI was meant to serve political ends and it could not start a fresh investigation on its own. Even further investigation in the case required permission of the Magistrate under Section 173(8) of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), he argued.The CBI, represented by Additional Solicitor General (ASG) SV Raju stated that there was telltale evidence to show Kulkarni’s role at each step of the conspiracy leading to the murder. He said that the CBI was authorized to take up further investigation in the case as crucial evidence in the form of CCTV footage had been missed out by the local police in its investigation.The CBI took over the investigation of the case in September 2019 and has since filed two charge sheets in May 2020 and February 2021. Since his arrest in the case on November 5 last year, Kulkarni is lodged at Hindalga Central Jail in Belagavi situated in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-grants-bail-to-former-karnataka-minister-keeps-him-out-of-dharwad-101628714671348.html
12-08-2021||India||Shocked over Unveiling of Shiva Idol, says HC, asks B’luru top cop to probe||Bengaluru: The Karnataka high court on Wednesday directed Bengaluru police commissioner to personally inspect the alleged illegal statue of Shiva constructed on an artificial island inside Begur lake in Bengaluru. The court reiterated that the construction of an artificial island and the installation of a Shiva statue inside Begur lake is not a religious issue but a legal one. A division bench of Chief Justice Abhay Oka and Justice M Nagaprasanna in its order termed the unveiling of the statue as a ‘shocking incident’. “A shocking incident of unveiling Shiva Idol installed by BBMP on Begur lake island has been brought to the notice of this court. Our attention is invited to the interim orders dated August 30, 2019, September 17, 2019, and February 22, 2021, which in no uncertain terms prohibit the said activity.” The controversial statue was constructed on an artificial island, which was created by encroaching Begur lake. Though the construction inside Begur lake was stopped through a stay order by the Karnataka high court nearly two years ago in August 2019, the court was informed on August 8 by the petitioner Leo Saldanha that the Shiva statue which was under wraps was unveiled and saffron flags were installed in preparation for its consecration. The counsel appearing for the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) in court said that the statue was covered on Wednesday morning at 11:45 am by officials with police protection. However, despite the HC order, on Wednesday evening some Hindutva activists removed the covers of the statue once again. “We direct the AGA (full form) to forward a copy of the memo along with annexures to the Commissioner of Police, Bengaluru, who will personally look into the matter and initiate action in accordance with the law,” the order added. “Openly in daylight, orders of the court are defied by making an appeal, the state must act on its own.” Further, the court in its order said, “BBMP says status quo ante has been restored today by again covering the statute and by removing the flags on the island. If anyone is aggrieved by the orders passed by this court, he has statutory remedies available,” said the order. During the hearing on Wednesday morning, the state had informed the court that appropriate action will be taken against those violating the order. However, officials in the police confirmed to HT that no one has been booked for the unveiling the statue on Wednesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocked-over-unveiling-of-shiva-idol-says-hc-asks-b-luru-top-cop-to-probe-101628714491336.html
12-08-2021||India||The curious case of an ATS in K’taka; no case, no investigation||Bengaluru: Sixteen years after the first terror attack on the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), the first terrorist attack in Bengaluru, Karnataka now has three different anti-terrorism squads with the third being added last year. Even though Bengaluru has witnessed three major terror attacks since the IISc attack on December 28, 2005, one of the ATS units has a peculiar track record of not being part of any of the terror-related investigations. At present Karnataka Police operates three the Anti-Terror Squads (ATS) and it come under three different departments within the police force -- the Internal Security Division, State Intelligence Department and the Central Crime Branch. The third ATS unit under Central Crime Branch was added last year. . The ATS which comes under the Internal Security Division -- has a unique track record. The unit has neither registered a single FIR nor has it investigated any terror case since its formation in 2009 following the 26/11 terror attacks in Mumbai. Similar units were raised by the Maharashtra and New Delhi Police as well. Like their counterparts, ATS had the mandate of being the state police’s nodal agency for all counter-terror operations in the state. However, unlike Mumbai and New Delhi, ATS was not given any powers to register FIRs and investigate terror-related cases in Karnataka, officials, requesting anonymity said. Since the formation of the ATS under the Internal Security Division, Bengaluru witnessed three major terror strikes – the 2010 Chinnaswamy stadium blast, the 2013 BJP headquarters blast and the 2014 Church Street blast. Even though ATS was the nodal agency for counter-terrorism, all three cases were investigated by the local police or Central Crime Branch. According to the records of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), 15 people have been arrested in Karnataka since 2014 for their alleged connection with Islamic State (IS) agents. The state intelligence records show that 30 people have been arrested so far in the state, for radicalisation and having links with members of the IS. The arrest of Mehdi Masroor Biswas, an engineer who allegedly ran a pro-Islamic State Twitter handle, in 2014, has been one of the biggest catches for the Bengaluru police. In its charge sheet, the police claimed that Biswas would monitor the developments of IS on the internet and television and assist his followers, who were willing to enter the IS territory. Even in these cases, the investigations were carried out by local police and Central Crime Branch. Two officers who served in the ISD’s ATS referred to the unit as a paper tiger. According to one officer, the job of the ATS, despite being the nodal agency for counter-terrorism, was to collect memos from central agencies and pass them to relevant units. “In my time in the unit, we have not done any investigation or any serious intelligence collection for that matter. We took inputs from different units and send them across. This job was done by the intelligence department also,” said one of the officers, who didn’t want to disclose his identity. The second officer said that a posting in the unit could be perceived as a “punishment” or “soft posting”, depending on the officer. “How can ATS be a nodal agency, when the officers from different ATS units go directly to Bengaluru police or the CCB for inputs? This unit is certainly not doing the job its counterparts are doing,” said the officer who had worked briefly in the unit. Karnataka police chief, DG&IGP Praveen Sood said that even though the state has three different ATS units their roles are well defined. “Last year we have started the ATS in the Bengaluru police since the city had witnessed multiple terror attacks in the past. This unit comes under the Central Crime Branch (CCB). For the other two agencies, their role is to provide intelligence and inputs. ATS (ISD) liaisons with NIA and IB (Intelligence Bureau),” said Sood. Despite the police chief’s claim that the roles are well-defined, officers in the ISD’s ATS are still unclear about their role, as the intelligence on counter-terrorism is handled by state intelligence and investigations are handled by either Central Crime Branch or local police. On Tuesday, newly appointed Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra told the top brass of the department to give more powers to the ISD. An officer who was part of the meeting however said that apart from the single instruction, no detailed propositions were made by the home minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-curious-case-of-an-ats-in-k-taka-no-case-no-investigation-101628714433497.html
12-08-2021||India||Twitter handles of senior Congress leaders locked temporarily||The Congress on Wednesday said Twitter accounts of four of its leaders were temporarily locked, a development that came on a day the social media company confirmed in the Delhi high court that it locked the account of Rahul Gandhi for breaching its policy.Late on Wednesday, the Congress said the accounts of Randeep Surjewala, Ajay Maken, Sushmita Dev and Manickam Tagore were “temporarily locked”. There was no immediate confirmation from Twitter on the development.While Surjewala is the chief spokesperson of the Congress, Maken is the party’s general secretary incharge of Rajasthan. Dev handles the Mahila Congress and Tagore is a Lok Sabha MP of the party.Earlier in the day, the firm informed the Delhi high court that it “locked” Gandhi’s account because of his August 4 tweet which posted photographs of family members of a minor who was allegedly raped and murdered in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-twitter-handles-of-senior-leaders-including-randeep-surjewala-locked-temporarily-101628714012360.html
12-08-2021||India||Can’t let Muslims apply henna on Hindu women: Right-wing organisation||MEERUT: Members of a self-styled right-wing organisation, Kranti Sena, on Wednesday allegedly asked traders in Muzaffarnagar not to allow Muslim men to apply ‘mehendi’ (henna) on the hands of Hindu women on the occasion of Teej. In a 82-second video that went viral on social media, a group of Kranti Sena members are purportedly seen visiting markets and asking shopkeepers not to allow Muslims to apply henna on the hands of Hindu women. Later, in the same video, some members of the organisation are seen claiming that they had issued the diktat in this regard. When asked about the repercussions if someone violated the diktat, a member in the video is heard saying: “We would tackle it in our own way.” HT could not verify the authenticity of the video.Reacting to the clipping, Muzaffarnagar police said patrolling was being carried out in markets and stern action would be initiated against those trying to disrupt the peace and harmony in the region.HT tried to contact senior superintendent of police (Muzaffarnagar) Abhishek Yadav but did not get a response immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-let-muslims-apply-henna-on-hindu-women-right-wing-organisation-101628713592275.html
12-08-2021||India||India already recording events IPCC warned of||India has already started witnessing what the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) flagged in its “Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis” report on Monday — so-called compound extreme events, including severe cyclonic storms, floods and heatwaves.In May, extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae intensified rapidly and unexpectedly, clocking wind speeds of 180-190kmph gusting to 210kmph, and resulting in intense spells of rain in Mumbai.It was a combination of two extreme events — over the ocean Tauktae rapidly intensified from a “very severe cyclonic storm” to an “extremely severe cyclonic storm” within a few hours on the morning of May 17 while over land, torrential rains inundated and crippled the country’s financial capital, shutting down even the city’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport.Such compound or cascading extreme events are expected to be more frequent and may have a high impact in coming years, IPCC warned.Compound extreme events are a combination of multiple drivers or hazards that contribute to societal or environmental risk. Examples are concurrent heatwaves and droughts, compound flooding (a storm surge in combination with extreme rainfall and river flow), compound fire weather conditions (a combination of hot, dry, and windy conditions), or concurrent extremes at different locations.“The changing climate state is already altering the likelihood of extreme events, such as decadal droughts and extreme sea levels, and will continue to do so under future warming. Compound events and concurrent extremes contribute to increasing probability of low-likelihood, high-impact outcomes and will become more frequent with increasing global warming,” IPCC said in its report.Based on 14,000 scientific papers studied by 234 experts, the IPCC report said the world will miss its target of keeping global warming to under 1.5 degrees C over pre-industrial levels, and that this will be exceeded in the next two decades, resulting in a higher frequency and intensity of extreme weather events. Attributing the heating almost exclusively to human activity, it also called for immediate action, including a move away from fossil fuels, if the world wants to keep global warming to under 2 degrees C.A projection by the panel that may be particularly relevant to India is that the compound effects of climate change, land subsidence and human factors may lead to higher flood levels and prolonged inundation in Mekong Delta and other Asian coasts. An increasing sea level compounded by increasing tropical cyclone storms and rainfall intensity may further increase the probability of coastal city flooding.“These events are already happening. This is basically one extreme event triggering another or two or more extreme events taking place at the same time. The impact of such events is very high. For example, there can be extreme precipitation and extreme flooding at the same time. Or there is extreme heat leading to heat waves which then triggers wildfires that can make management of disasters very complicated. Another example is of tropical cyclones and extreme rainfall happening together. We can expect such multiple or cascading events taking place together more frequently when there is 1.5 degree C warming,” said R Krishnan, executive director, Centre for Climate Change Research at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology and one of the authors of the IPCC report.The report also said that extreme rain and winds can result in infrastructure damage; the compounding of storm surge and rain extremes can cause coastal floods; the combination of drought and heat can lead to tree mortality; and wildfires can increase occurrences of hailstorms and lightning.Compound storm types comprising co-located cyclone and thunderstorm systems can cause extreme rainfall and extreme winds than individual storm types, IPCC said, adding that studies also show an increasing risk for breadbasket regions to be concurrently affected by climate extremes with increasing global warming, even between 1.5°C and 2°C of global warming.India’s 7,516- km-long coastline is particularly vulnerable to compound events, the IPCC report said. “It’s very simple, the Indian Ocean is warming at a higher rate compared to the global average. This is often leading to tropical cyclones intensifying very rapidly. Along with that, we have sea level rise in coastal areas. We are also seeing higher storm surge and strong winds. All of this is coming together with extreme rainfall. Extreme rainfall events are rising at the rate of 7% with every 1 degree C of warming. These are compound events and not singular events. We saw a similar pattern for Amphan, Tauktae and Yaas and this will only become more frequent in future,” said Subimal Ghosh, Institute Chair Professor, Department of Civil Engineering, IIT, Mumbai and another author of the IPCC report.Krishnan said early warning systems have improved significantly since the 1999 Odisha super cyclone but more accuracy is needed in forecasting the intensity of cyclones. “We need widespread awareness of climate change-related disasters and training in climate change, oceanography and meteorology should start very early from high school,” he added.“Chances of multiple extreme events overlapping to form compound events are high for coastal cities. The strong winds from the cyclones drive huge waves at 5m or high, pushing water onto the coast and flooding the region. This flood is amplified by the rains from the cyclone. Increasing sea level along the coast is taking this flood level up every year. Sometimes a high-tide can aggravate the flood, taking it several kilometers inland. We already saw these kinds of compound events with Cyclone Tauktae and Yaas this year. While the IPCC report discusses these events and we see them happening, we have not quantified them yet,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist, IITM, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-already-recording-events-ipcc-warned-of-101628712633213.html
12-08-2021||India||Kinnaur disaster highlights climate change, unscientific development risks||The landslide that struck a national highway in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur district has brought back focus on the delicate ecology of the region, which has been weakened further by human-induced climate change and unchecked construction of power projects, experts say.These factors together raise the possibility of landslides and floods, which loom as a threat in addition to the seismological features that predispose the region to earthquakes, which can further trigger big landslides.Manshi Asher of Himdhara Collective, an environment group based in Himachal, summarised these as three factors that made the region vulnerable to disasters: fragile ecology, climate change and unplanned development. “Kinnaur, located in greater Himalayas, is inheritably fragile. Due to a lot of tectonic movement the region is highly sensitive seismically and geologically,” said Asher. Climate change, she added, has further aggravated the problem. “Global warming has resulted in a change in rainfall pattern. Areas like Kinnaur which used to get less rains, have been witnessing high rainfall now”. “And the last and most vital issue is haphazard construction taking place in these mountains,” she said, citing large hydropower projects that have come up or are planned in Kinnaur, at present inhabitant mostly by mountain tribes. The tunnelling, excavation and blasting work being done to build these dams threatens an already fragile landscape, Asher added. A study carried out in Kinnaur between 2012 and 2016 found that a push for hydropower projects in the name of clean energy brought rapid land-use changes that adversely impacting local terrestrial ecosystems and communities inhabiting them.It found that of the area of forest land diverted to non-forest activities between 1980 and 2014, 90% was transferred for hydro-electric projects and transmission lines, leading to fragmentation of forests and loss of biodiversity in the Kinnaur region. Asher said Nigulsari is in close proximity to one of the largest hydropower project in the state – the Nathpa Jhakri. Ambrish Kumar Mahajan, professor at the School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Central University of Himachal Pradesh, agreed with Asher’s assessment. “Kinnaur is fragile due to the highly jointed and fractured geology,” he said. Then, there are steep slopes and a lot of development activities along it. “Clubbed together, these factors have made Kinnaur a hub of landslide disasters,” he said. He said the risk extended to Himachal Pradesh as a whole, and this has been borne out in several instances. In addition to the warnings, some of the red flags came from within assessments by the government’s own departments. The environment department of Himachal Pradesh government, in its State Climate Change Strategy and Action Plan in 2012, warned that floods, landslides, glacial lake bursts, excess rainfall, excess snowfall and unseasonal rains will pose a threat. It said the state could experience a difference of 1-5 degrees C in minimum temperature and 0.5-2.5 degrees C in maximum temperature by 2030.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kinnaur-disaster-highlights-climate-change-unscientific-development-risks-101628712331817.html
12-08-2021||India||4-yr-old girl killed in ritual to ‘cure’ illness, say Assam police||Police in Assam have arrested two people for allegedly killing a four-year-old girl as part of a ritual on Sunday night at Sonari in Charaideo district of the state. Among the two accused is the girl’s father and a self-proclaimed godman, police said on Wednesday.The two allegedly strangled the girl to death and threw her body in the Singlo river to “cure” some unknown ailment that the godman, identified as Bogadhar Munda, dreamt he was suffering from, according to police.“Both accused have confessed their involvement in the murder. Preliminary investigation reveals that Bogadhar claimed to have dreamt that he had some illness, which could be cured only with the sacrifice of a child. He disclosed this to the victim’s father who decided to help him by offering his own child for the sacrificial ritual,” said Sudhakar Singh, superintendent of police, Charaideo district.The victim’s father Anta Munda (54) and Bogadhar, also in his 50s, are workers in the Safrai tea garden in the area.Both are believed to be very close to each other, and the victim’s father used to work as a part-time help in the Bogadhar’s house.Police said they were first informed about the incident on Monday by the girl’s sister.“We were informed on Monday by the victim’s eldest sister -- who is married and lives separately -- that the four-year-old girl, who was sleeping with two other siblings and their grandmother, was abducted by some unknown persons,” Singh said.A search operation was launched and on Tuesday the victim’s body was found in a nearby river. The police team also found the child’s clothes and some other items associated with religious rituals from the bank of the river.“The recovery of the body and other items led us to suspect that it could be a case of witchcraft or human sacrifice. Our teams questioned several people, and Anta and Bogadhar were arrested on Wednesday for their involvement in the child’s murder,” Singh said on Wednesday..The body of the child, which bore strangulation marks, has been sent for a post mortem and its report is awaited. Further investigation is underway and more people could be arrested, said police, adding that the murder weapon is yet to be traced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4yrold-girl-killed-in-ritual-to-cure-illness-say-assam-police-101628711168176.html
12-08-2021||India||Bharat Biotech re-adapts plant to raise production||Indian biotechnology company Bharat Biotech has repurposed its Chiron Behring manufacturing plant in Ankleshwar, Gujarat, to scale up production of its anti-Covid vaccine, Covaxin, said people familiar with the development.The Chiron Behring facility was established in the 1980s to manufacture anti-rabies vaccines. In 2019, Bharat Biotech acquired it from pharmaceutical major Glaxo Smithkline.“The decision to manufacture Covaxin at Ankleshwar, Gujarat, was taken several months ago with planning and preparatory activities. Facility preparations and production activities began in June. Vaccines will be available for supply in September,” said a person familiar with the matter on condition of anonymity.On Tuesday, the Centre had announced its approval of Bharat Biotech’s manufacturing facility at Ankleshwar to produce Covaxin.“Govt of India approves vaccine manufacturing facility for production of @BharatBiotech’s #Covaxin in Ankleshwar, Gujarat. Following PM @NarendraModi ji’s vision of #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine, this will increase vaccine availability & accelerate the world’s largest vaccine drive,” Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya had tweeted.Close to six million doses are likely to be produced in this plant every month, which will push up the production of Covaxin close to 60 million doses a month around the last quarter of this year.Currently, doses from Bharat Biotech’s Hyderabad facility are being supplied for the country’s Covid-19 immunisation programme. Apart from the Gujarat facility, Bharat Biotech has also refurbished its Malur plant in Karnataka to produce Covaxin doses to scale up production.With a couple of other public sector undertakings also being roped in for manufacturing Covaxin doses, the production number of Covaxin is projected to increase from the current 25 million doses a month to at least 58 million doses, according to the government.According to Bharat Biotech, each batch of Covaxin undergoes over 200 quality control tests before being submitted to Central Drugs Laboratory for testing. The company has so far supplied at least 70 million doses for the national immunisation programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-readapts-plant-to-raise-production-101628708854839.html
12-08-2021||India||Plea seeking aid for treatment: Get lung machines in all districts, says SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to consider the possibility of arranging a lung support machine called ECMO in every district as it came across a petition filed by a woman seeking financial assistance for her husband whose lungs were completely damaged due to Covid-19 in May.Married for a little over a year, the woman, Sheela Mehra (31), from Madhya Pradesh had approached the top court in July with the request for ₹1 crore assistance from the PM Cares Fund, PM Relief Fund or Chief Minister Relief Fund to save her ailing husband, Manish Kumar Gohiya . Since July 7, he has been on ECMO (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation) support at Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Secunderabad, which requires a daily expense of close to ₹1.5 lakh.The man was earlier admitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhopal, on May 14. From there, he was flown to Telangana in an air ambulanceon June 2 and admitted to Yashoda Hospital in Hyderabad before being shifted to KIMS hospital that had the ECMO facility.The woman has already spent close to ₹1 crore on his medical expenses and had outstanding dues of ₹10 lakh towards the hospital. She exhausted all her savings and property too and needed another ₹55 lakh for a lung transplant. The ECMO machine has allowed her husband to stay alive and he would need its support until the surgery.Last week, a bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose had issued a notice to the Centre on humanitarian grounds while making it clear that the petitioner had no legal right to claim monetary assistance. On Wednesday, solicitor general Tushar Mehta appeared for the Centre and informed the court that the petitioner had been allocated ₹3 lakh from the PM Cares Fund, and altogether ₹5 lakh was approved for payment to the hospital fromcentral funds. “How is it going to help? She is already incurring close to ₹1.5 lakh per day for the ECMO machine. Why can’t the Centre consider having ECMO machines at the district level?” the bench said.Mehta said this suggestion could be considered. “I will personally take it up with the health minister,” he said.The petitioner, represented by advocate Mukesh Kumar, submitted to the court that the question ultimately was to save a human life and this was a classic case where a woman had gone much beyond her means to save her husband.Last week, while issuing the notice, the court had indicated the danger of entertaining such pleas. “Our sympathies are with you but the remedy you are resorting to is not correct. Imagine in this vast country, there will be thousands of people asking us to consider paying the medical expenses for their loved ones that can extend even beyond ₹1 crore,” the court had said.As a last resort, the bench asked the petitioner to check with KIMS hospital to find out if any charitable trust could sponsor the treatment. The bench said it was aware of some private hospitals in Telangana that have tie-ups with charitable trusts that help people who are not financially well off.The court posted the matter for further hearing on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-seeking-aid-for-treatment-get-lung-machines-in-all-districts-says-sc-101628708671969.html
12-08-2021||India||TN FM bats for streamlining of distribution of subsidies||Tamil Nadu is likely to tighten the screws on state expenditure with finance minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan advocating urgent course correction in rolling out subsidies, pushing for making them more targeted rather than universal. The revised budget, to be presented on Friday, is expected to demonstrate the way on how these profound reforms are to be carried out.The subsidies have been a major part of Tamil Nadu’s expenditure due to the welfare politics of the state. The idea for reformation to reorient subsidies only to the poor digresses from welfare schemes to all. He Rajan cited the case of cash doles and 100 free units of electricity, which is meant to support have-nots also reaching the haves and that it is being misused.Going by the trends in expenditure, according to the White Paper on the state’s finances that Rajan released on Monday, development expenditure of Tamil Nadu has been declining while expenditure in subsidies has rapidly increased. “There is strong evidence of inefficiency in the delivery of subsidies, with a considerable portion being misdirected or diverted,” Rajan had said after releasing the white paper. He batted for developing targeted and cost-effective alternative means of delivering the intended financial assistance to stakeholders. This is to be done in a way without compromising on the delivery of essential commodities and services to vulnerable sections but the jury is out on how this can be executed. Subsidies that amounted to ₹4,841.8 crores in 2006-07 have risen to ₹62,338.8 crores in 2020-21. In other words, subsidies which accounted for 12.6% in 2006 have currently risen to 27% of the state’s total revenue expenditure. The remaining being used for salaries, operations, grant-in aids, pension and interest payments. Even if Covid-19 pandemic was considered, where several handouts were given due to the lockdown, subsidies reached 19.5% total expenditure in 2018-19, and the white paper says this is misgovernance. Power subsidy is the highest (at 1.10% GSDP) among all the other subsidies. This is a double whammy as the state government is also losing money on the power sector due to mounting losses of the electricity board (Tamil Nadu Electricity Board and Tamil Nadu Transmission Corporation). It’s followed by food subsidy (0.49% of GSDP) and transport subsidy (0.19% of GSDP).“The growth in the power subsidy is particularly alarming, and it currently represents more than 1% of GSDP,” the paper stated. And though Tamil Nadu provides rice free to all rice cardholders from 2011 through the Public Distribution System (PDS), a significant portion of the subsidy on rice is met through the National Food Security Act, 2013, and the state further subsidises it to provide free rice. The state also covers entirely to provide edible oil and Tur Dal at subsidised prices. The PDS system which is universal doesn’t exclude based on income criteria and distribution is done through more than 33,000 fair shops across the state. Out of the five different family cards in circulation in Tamil Nadu, rice cardholders are the highest at ₹2.07 crores. The new DMK government promised ₹4000 to every rice card holder on its first day after taking charge. This cash dole reached even the well to do, according to the finance minister. “A few are benefiting, and many are losing,” he said. “The system has been taken over by vested interests. The vested interests oppose the reforms and engage in propaganda to stop this reform.” When it’s for all it’s neither social justice nor economic prudence, he added. Currently, there is an absence of a mechanism to assess a ration card holder’s income, their tax slabs and those who are entitled. “That’s fundamentally an inefficient system,” says K E Raghunathan, convener, Consortium of Indian Association. “If that has been done, then the worry of misusing these funds is a negligible amount.”As a first step, if the state were to demarcate those below the poverty line and re-categorise the cards, rice hard holders will fall way below ₹2.07 crores. “We need to re-look at subsidies and remove those who are not entitled,” says political analyst Maalan Narayanan. “Define the target and decide on the process of transfer. This is the right time to do it because it’s a burden on the government but it requires political will, and the party may not take such bold decisions ahead of the local body polls.” The finance minister too had said that these reforms are his opinion, but he would abide by chief minister M K Stalin’s final call. But Raghunathan differs that when the state is facing a financial crisis, now may not be the right time to focus on this reform being suggested which is similar to Narendra Modi’s digitisation drive in 2014 to be transparent, and ensure government support reaches the right target. “I would call this minimum scale pilferages, and if we try and correct it now,” he says. “The numbers say this. Without considering last year, the average deficit is about ₹30,000 crores. These kinds of misuses maybe around ₹7000 crores. For that, you’re going to spend time and money just on data collection, which will be a penny-wise and pound-foolish exercise.”While subsidies are being argued, the drop in development expenditure in Tamil Nadu from 62.9% in 2011-12 to 57.5% in 2018-19 means the social insurances for the people of Tamil Nadu have fallen in terms of education, medical and public health, water supply and sanitation, housing and on economic services including agriculture, irrigation, industry and minerals, transport and communication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-fm-bats-for-streamlining-of-distribution-of-subsidies-101628707592640.html
12-08-2021||India||Kerala reports 23.5k Covid cases, 116 deaths||Kerala on Wednesday reported 23,500 cases of Covid-19 with a test positivity rate of 14.49 per cent from the 162,130 samples tested, the state health ministry said, as medical experts criticized the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government for not treating the pandemic as a medical malady.The state also reported 116 death, taking the total fatalities to 18,120. Kerala has continued to take the lion’s share in the daily national Covid tally, reporting more than 60 per cent of the total 38,353 cases in the country. “The state government keeps experts and medical bodies in the dark and leaves everything to bureaucrats and political leadership,” said Dr S S Lal, who had a stint with the World Health Organisation. The Indian Medical Association Kerala chapter said medical experts were given a short shrift and the government often considers the medical malady a law and order problem. Four districts reported more than 2,500 cases. Thrissur has overtaken Malappuram (3,033) with 3,039 cases. Ernakulam (2,760) and Kozhikode (2,765) are two other districts with a high caseload. The ICU occupancy in the state has remained more or less unchanged at 2,100 and patients on ventilator support 790, health ministry statistics show. State health minister Veena George told the assembly that the government is doing everything possible to contain the pandemic. She said the government has no information about the presence of a new mutant variant in the state. “We hope cases will decline in coming week. But we have to be careful during Onam festival,” she said. As cases spike, what worries the state is the breakthrough and re-infections. It reported 40,000 breakthrough Covid infections, which means people contracting the disease after getting two doses of vaccine. The central team, which visited the state confirmed it in New Delhi on Wednesday. Now, these samples will undergo genome sequencing to rule out the possibility of a new variant. Though experts suspected a new variant behind the steady rise of cases, the Indian Council of Medical Research is yet to confirm it. The central team during its second visit found that in a high density of population, the prevalence of highly infectious Delta virus and laxity in-home quarantine are the main reasons for high caseload in the state. The state also has a high population of elderly people, and the prevalence of lifestyle diseases is also quite high, according to the medical records.With Onam just a week away, the experts fear festive occasions could mean large gatherings and celebrations – another triggering factor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-23-5k-covid-cases-116-deaths-101628707591714.html
12-08-2021||India||Hyderabad doctor pledges 70% wealth in medical research||Global Hospitals group founder Ravindranath Kancherla, a doctor and philanthropist on Wednesday pledged ₹350 crores, 70% of his wealth, to build a not-for-profit medical education, research and innovation institute in the city. He has christened the project Global HealthTech University & Innovation Hub (GHUIH) . According to a statement, GHUIH will be a not-for-profit company with significant investment which will democratise medical care through health-tech innovation. It will help secure a leading place for Hyderabad and India on the global innovation map, the statement addedElaborating on the project, Dr Kancherla said, “GHUIH is being established in Hyderabad to provide a new model for sustainable development of medical infrastructure, which helps the global population by building infrastructure on a philanthropic model. It also contributes in reducing the load on the governments, reducing the cost of intervention through innovation thus striving towards providing health security for all.”“This institution is the first-of-its-kind in India, and there are very few across the world. I have pledged 70 per cent of my wealth for this cause and have appointed executors for my registered will to ensure the project goes on stream without any eventuality,” the 65-year-old gastroenterologist added.Work on the building is expected to commence by the end of this year.The medical university, which will include a 750-1,000 bed and a health-tech innovation hub, may need at least $100 million of capital over the next seven years towards medical technology infrastructure and human resources. While Dr Kancherla has pledged 70% his wealth to establish the Global Health Foundation, the remainder is expected to come from other philanthropists. Explaining the need for the project, Dr . Kancherla said, “According to a leading analyst firm report, the United States has 2.672 doctors per 1,000 people and 3.1 hospital beds per 1,000 people. As against this, India has a mere 0.599 doctors and 0.9 hospital beds per 1,000 people. Going by these numbers, India would need almost 2.4 million new doctors and over 2 million additional hospital beds to reach the global standards. To achieve world-class and affordable healthcare, the focus needs to be on talent creation through quality medical education by building a world-class medical university to train doctors, nurses, and technical staff in future technologies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-doctor-pledges-70-wealth-in-medical-research-101628707532332.html
12-08-2021||India||India to join Qatar meet on Afghanistan situation today||India is set to participate in a meeting of key countries being hosted by Qatar on Thursday to discuss the situation in Afghanistan against the backdrop of the Taliban’s massive offensive that has already resulted in the fall of nine provincial capitals. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that India will be represented at the meeting in Doha that will also be joined by nations such as Indonesia and Turkey, which is set to take over the security of Bagram airbase. There was no official word on the matter from the external affairs ministry and the people cited above were tight-lipped about the level of India’s participation. The invitation to join the meeting was extended by Mutlaq bin Majed Al-Qahtani, Qatar’s special envoy for counter-terrorism and conflict resolution, when he visited New Delhi last week. Qatar on Wednesday hosted a meeting of the “extended troika” that was convened by Russia and was joined by the US special envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad, and his counterparts from Russia, China and Pakistan. On Tuesday, Qatar had hosted a meeting of representatives from China, the US, the UK, Pakistan, Uzbekistan, the UN and the European Union (EU) to assess the rapidly evolving situation in Afghanistan. The focus of these meetings has been reviving the stalled Afghan peace process amid the Taliban’s campaign of violence and attacks that has already resulted in the fall of nine provincial capitals in just five days – Sheberghan, Sari Pul, Aybak, Kunduz, Taluqan, Pul-e-Khumri, Farah, Zaranj and Faizabad. India has already said that any forcible takeover of Kabul will not be legitimate, and backed calls for a negotiated political settlement that preserves the gains under a democratic system over the past two decades and ensures the rights of minorities, women and ethnic groups. New Delhi also advised all Indian nationals in Afghanistan on Tuesday to make immediate arrangements to return home as it evacuated around 50 officials and security personnel from the consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif. According to figures provided by the government to Parliament last week, some 1,500 Indian nationals are currently in Afghanistan. During a meeting with Al-Qahtani’s visit in New Delhi on Saturday, external affairs minister S Jaishankar expressed concern at the rapid deterioration of the security situation in Afghanistan. Jaishanakr also shared concerns from across the region about the situation in the wake of the Taliban’s campaign to capture urban centres after taking over wide swathes of territory in rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-join-qatar-meet-on-afghanistan-situation-today-101628707531816.html
12-08-2021||India||9 properties restored to Hindus in J&K since Article 370 move: Govt||The Union home ministry told Parliament on Wednesday that since the nullification of Article 370 on August 5, 2019, nine properties in Jammu & Kashmir have been given back to Kashmiri Hindus who had to flee the Valley due to terrorist violence in the early 1990s.The government added that it was taking steps to restore several ancestral properties of Kashmiri Hindu families that left the region between 1990and 1992. According to estimates by the Kashmiri Pandit Sangharsh Samiti (KPSS), of 75,343 Kashmiri Pandit families in January 1990, more than 70,000 fled till 1992.Responding to a question on the issue by the Shiv Sena’s Anil Desai, Union minister of state for home affairs, Nityanand Rai, said in Rajya Sabha: “Regarding restoration of properties to its rightful and original owner, nine properties have been restored, as per the information provided by the government of Jammu & Kashmir.”He said that under the J&K Migrant Immovable Property (Preservation, Protection & Restraint on Distress Sales) Act, 1997, district magistrates (DMs) in Jammu & Kashmir are the legal custodians of immovable properties of migrants, and take suo motu action on eviction proceedings in cases of encroachment. The migrants can also request the DMs for action, Rai addedThe minister said after the Article 370 move, 520 Kashmiri migrants returned to the Valley to take up jobs under the Prime Minister’s Development Package-2015.On August 5, 2019, the Centre effectively revoked Article 370, which bestowed special status to the erstwhile state, and Article 35A, which barred non-locals from buying or owning immovable property in Jammu & Kashmir, settling there permanently, or availing benefits of state-sponsored scholarship schemes. The constitutional provision acknowledged the special status of the (then) state of Jammu & Kashmir in terms of autonomy and its ability to formulate laws for the state’s permanent residents.On a separate question on whether domicile or permanent resident certificates are needed to buy non-agricultural land in Jammu & Kashmir, Rai said all provisions of the Constitution have been made applicable to the Union territory, which necessitated changes in existing laws in J&K.He said as per the adapted land laws of Jammu & Kashmir, the government may, by notification in the official gazette, allow transfer of land for public purposes such as education, health care and charitable purpose.On Tuesday, the home ministry told Parliament that only two people from outside J&K have brought properties in the UT since the laws were changed two years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-properties-restored-to-hindus-in-j-k-since-article-370-move-govt-101628706813221.html
12-08-2021||India||Rajya Sabha chairman Naidu breaks down over ‘acts of sacrilege’ in House||In a rare display of emotion, Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu broke down on Wednesday, expressing “deep anguish” over “acts of sacrilege” by some MPs, a day after Opposition lawmakers protesting the contentious farm laws stormed the Well of the House, sat on a table there and threw a file at the Chair. The monsoon session of Parliament came to a premature end on Wednesday, with both Houses adjourned against the backdrop of a series of loud and disruptive protests by the Opposition seeking a discussion on the Pegasus snooping controversy, three contentious farm laws passed late last year, and the fuel price rise. A visibly upset Naidu didn’t deliver his customary valedictory address -- the first time this is happening in the 11 sessions he has chaired. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla too, was “pained” at the way the monsoon session proceeded . “I share people’s pain that their issues could not be discussed. Bills should be passed in the house after proper and productive discussions. And parliamentary traditions and sanctity of the institution need to be respected,” he added. Naidu’s reaction seems to have been prompted largely by Tuesday’s happenings. “ Parliament, the apex legislature of our country is regarded as the temple of democracy. The Table area where the officers, the Secretary General and the Presiding Officer are seated is considered the holy sanctum sanctorum of the House. A certain degree of sacredness is attached to this place,” Naidu said. Wednesday marked his fourth year as the Chairman of the House.  But the Opposition, which has suggested through the session that the Chair was biased towards the ruling party, remained unfazed. Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh tweeted, “Presiding officers in Parliament are supposed to be neutral umpires, not partisan players. They cannot present a totally one-sided picture of goings on in the House and further aggravate the situation. Misplaced emotion leads to commotion.”  Breaking down in the House, Naidu said he spent a sleepless night on Tuesday struggling to find the provocation or reason for the Opposition forcing the House to hit a new low. He said the short duration discussion on agricultural problems and solutions was a “golden opportunity” for members protesting the farm laws to have gone on record with their positions on issues relating to the plight of the farmers. The Opposition maintains that their request was for a debate on the farm laws, not a generic one on the plight of farmers into which it was converted. As the discussion was going on, the Opposition ratcheted up the intensity of its protests; some lawmakers stormed the Well of the House shouting slogans against the government and sat on a table occupied by Rajya Sabha staff, before climbing it. “In our temples, devotees are allowed only up to the sanctum sanctorum and not beyond. Entering this sanctum sanctorum of the House in itself is an act of sacrilege and it has been happening as routine over the years…While some members sat on the Table, some others climbed on the Table of the House, perhaps to be more visible with such acts of sacrilege. I have no words to convey my anguish and to condemn such acts,” Naidu said. As the protests continued, Naidu insisted that not taking up the listed discussion on farm sector issues would send out a negative message that the House not interested in discussing the problems of India’s bread givers. “Unfortunately, it went unheeded. In the process, some sections of the House have inflicted incalculable damage to the dignity and stature of this House. As the chairman, I am deeply distressed over it and so is the nation.” He pointed out that it was worrisome that some members shot the “sad moments of sacrilege in the House” on their phones and posted it on social media. “While doing so, they only ended up showing to the people the extent to which this august House can degenerate due to the new-found competitive and aggressive disruptions by some sections,” he said. He appealed to the “collective conscience of this House” to seriously reflect on what happened and explore remedies if any. “Failure to do so would certainly render our parliamentary democracy irrelevant. I would like to remind all of you that we begin to celebrate the 75th year of our independence in a few days from now. The choice before each one of you is very clear. It is either to be the best parliamentarian or the worst disruptor.” The House was adjourned soon after his comments as the protests continued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naidu-breaks-down-over-acts-of-sacrilege-in-house-101628706153422.html
12-08-2021||India||Sharad Pawar slams ‘attack’ on women MPs in Parliament||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief and Rajya Sabha MP Sharad Pawar on Wednesday condemned the clash between the Opposition and government over the use of marshals or security personnel in Rajya Sabha during the passage of the insurance amendment Bill to privatise general insurance companies.The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, was passed with a voice vote amid tearing of papers and vociferous protest by Opposition parties.“In my 55 years of parliamentary career, I never saw the way the women MPs were attacked today (in Rajya Sabha). More than 40 men and women were brought into the House from outside. It is painful. It is an attack on democracy,” the NCP leader told reporters after the Opposition staged a walk, alleging heavy deployment of marshals to prevent their protests.Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Derek O’Brien alleged that there were more security guards than lawmakers in the Upper House, calling it an attempt by the government to “bulldoze” the insurance Bill.“RSTV will not show you that. This is censorship, the Modi-Shah Gujarat model at work in Parliament,” he posted on Twitter. The TMC leader also alleged that the government was using “gender shields” to foil MPs’ protests inside the House. “Male marshals were sent after women MPs and female marshals were posted in front of male MPs,” Brien said as some women MPs, including TMC’s Dola Sen and Congress’ Ami Yagnik, alleged manhandling by the marshals. The government, however, alleged that the marshals were attacked and pushed by the lawmakers in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pawar-slams-attack-on-women-mps-in-parliament-101628706152392.html
12-08-2021||India||A career with many firsts||An elephantine memory, a forensic ability to interpret laws and a thundering voice -- justice Rohinton Fali Nariman, a man ordained a Parsi priest at 12, will leave the Supreme Court on Thursday after seven years of judgeship.There are a number of firsts one can associate with justice Nariman. His trajectory as a lawyer and judge has indeed been out of the ordinary. In 1993, no less than the then Chief Justice of India MN Venkatachaliah amended the rules to designate him as a senior advocate at 37 against the mandatory 45. And this was just the start of a trailblazing career.Son of eminent jurist Fali S Nariman, he would walk the corridors of the Supreme Court as a one-man army, without the usual paraphernalia of a big lawyer. While every senior lawyer will have an array of juniors around them, he had none -- and said he never needed any.In 1996, he appeared for the petitioners in KR Lakshmanan vs State of Tamil Nadu, challenging a state law that sought to impose restrictions on horse racing for being a game of chance. The Supreme Court eventually ruled that horse-racing was a game of skill, and quashed the state legislation as being unconstitutional. The key takeaway was the declaration that any restriction imposed upon the fundamental rights of the citizens must be fair and reasonable, and that unreasonable intrusion into these rights will be ultra vires of the Constitution.He was later associated with Vodafone’s $2 billion tax matter; Novartis’s case on protection of its anti-cancer drug; Khoday Distilleries Ltd’s case on use of word “scot” on the premium whiskey brand Peter Scot; and Enercon’s case on law of arbitration and private international law.He was appointed Solicitor General of India in July 2011 and served till February 2013 when he resigned from the post reportedly due to difference of opinion between him and then Union law minister, Ashwani Kumar, on certain crucial cases pending before the top court.In July 2014, he was elevated to the Supreme Court as a judge, becoming only the fifth lawyer in the history to be directly appointed from the bar. The first judgment justice Nariman wrote within two months of his appointment gave a hint of the path he would follow -- a protector of rights and liberty.As part of a Constitution bench, justice Nariman gave those facing death sentences a chance to argue their review petitions in an open court instead of coming to a decision in the privacy of the judges’ chambers. Deciding a batch of petitions involving eight death row convicts in September 2014, the judgment noted that oral hearing was an indispensable facet of the right to life enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution, and hence “oral hearing, in death sentence cases, becomes too precious to be parted with”.In 2015, he authored the judgment that struck down Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, which authorised police to arrest people for social media posts construed “offensive”or “menacing”. He held that Section 66A “arbitrarily, excessively and disproportionately” invaded the right to free speech, right to dissent, right to know, and had a “chilling effect” on constitutional mandates.He later authored judgments expediting the trials in the Babri demolition case; declaring privacy as a fundamental right; striking down Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, which criminalised homosexuality; holding instant triple talaq as null and void; banishing adultery as a criminal offence; introducing concept of creamy layer even for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes; and allowing women of all ages to Kerala’s Sabarimala temple.On Tuesday, in his last order, he called out lawmakers for not framing a stricter law to decriminalise politics. “The nation continues to wait, and is losing patience. Cleansing the polluted stream of politics is obviously not one of the immediate pressing concerns of the legislative branch of government,” he lamented.A man of varied interests, justice Nariman listens to Western classical music, especially Beethoven, Mozart, Wagner and Verdi. Music and musical concerts also make him travel across the globe. He likes to immerse himself in books, and has an avid interest in history, philosophy, literature and science. Justice Nariman is also a prominent scholar of Zoroastrianism and comparative religion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-career-with-many-firsts-101628705491835.html
12-08-2021||India||Himachal Pradesh: 10 dead, at least 30 trapped in landslide||Rescuers pulled out the bodies of 10 people after a landslide buried at least five vehicles, including two buses, on a road in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur district on Wednesday afternoon.As night set in, operations were called off for lack of visibility, diminishing hopes of finding more survivors among the at least 30 who were still missing. At least 14 people were rescued as disaster relief personnel, locals and men from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police attempted to dig their way through to where most of the vehicles were buried.The missing included passengers of two buses that could not be reached till late evening and an unknown number of people feared to have been swept off the road and into a steep drop to a river.“Apart from the buses, three-to-four vehicles could be under the debris, which is spread over 70 to 80 metres,” said Kinnaur deputy commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq. “The locals told us that the landslide struck so suddenly that the drivers of the vehicles did not get time to react,” he added.The incident took place struck near a village called Nigulsari on the national highway connecting state capital Shimla to Rechong Peo. Nigulsari is nestled at an altitude of roughly 5,900 ft and the highway that snakes along the mountainside is a narrow, two-lane road.Disasters due to landslides and flashfloods during the June-September monsoon season are not uncommon in the higher regions of Himalayan states, but Himachal Pradesh has this year recorded an increase in such incidents: there were 116% more landslides till the end of July this year as compared to 2020, and cloudbursts– spells of extremely heavy rain -- have gone up by 121% this monsoon, according to data provided by the state disaster management authority.A senior police official, who asked not to be named, said the vehicles had stopped on the road after debris from a smaller landslide blocked the way. The driver and the conductor of a Himachal Roadways Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus that was in the lead stepped out to look for a way through when a portion of the mountainside collapsed behind them.There was a private bus, a jeep and a few cars behind the HRTC bus, the police officer said, quoting the bus driver who survived along with the conductor. The two said there were at least 22 passengers in their bus, and another seven to eight in the other bus.Among the bodies that were pulled out were eight passengers of a utility vehicle – such vehicles are typically used as shared taxis in these areas.The official quoted above said the survivors were people who stepped out while waiting for the road to clear up, and were likely saved as they took shelter under a large rocky portion of the mountainside jutting out right above them.“Some of them managed to leave their vehicles and were running back on the narrow road when the landslide came. They found safe space below rock and boulders,” the officer said, citing eyewitnesses.An official said rescue work was treacherous amid heavy rain and the possibility that the digging machines could strike people buried in the landslide. “We had to be careful. Use of heavy machinery could have caused casualties,” said the deputy commissioner, who was among the first senior officers to reach the spot.Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur were the worst hit districts this season with 13 landslides and 11 flashfloods, four of them triggered by cloudburst incidents, which officials said was an unusual frequency.Earlier in the week, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said extreme rainfall events in south Asia has increased in recent past and said such events are likely to increase in high altitudes and decrease in sub-tropics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-dead-at-least-30-trapped-in-landslide-101628705372267.html
12-08-2021||India||PM Modi, Sonia Gandhi at Speaker’s meet with parties post Lok Sabha adjournment||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress president Sonia Gandhi joined other party leaders in Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s chamber after the acrimonious monsoon session was adjourned sine die on Tuesday. The two leaders, however, didn’t speak to each other, according to two leaders present in the meeting.“The PM and Mrs Gandhi greeted each other but avoided any conversation throughout the meeting that lasted for around 20 minutes,” said one of them, who was present in the meeting and asked not to be identified. The leaders of several parties assembled in the Speaker’s chamber to thank him for running the session after its adjournment.This was the first meeting between Modi and Gandhi in at least two years. The two leaders sat in adjacent sofas with Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury sitting right next to the PM. Gandhi didn’t attend Parliament for more than a year after the Covid-19 outbreak due to health reasons. She came to Parliament on Monday.The meeting itself was cordial, despite the acrimony witnessed during the session which was characterised by disruptions, and the government quietly pushing through its legislative agenda amid the din in the House. There were no further arguments between leaders of the Opposition and the government . The Opposition was keen on discussing and debating the Pegasus snooping controversy, the farm laws, and the fuel price rise in the House.Leaders of many opposition parties, including the Trinamool Congress, the Akali Dal, the YSRCP and the Biju Janata Dal met Birla after the session.Birla urged all of them to focus on encourage discussion and dialogue in the House in future, and said, “Discussion and dialogue will be right for the welfare of the public. We can help people fulfil deficiencies of the people.”TMC leader Sudip Bandopadhyay also took this opportunity to request the PM to send more vaccines to West Bengal, reminding Modi that Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee has written three letters in this regard. Another opposition MP thanked home minister Amit Shah for personally wishing him on his birthday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-sonia-gandhi-at-speaker-s-meet-with-parties-post-lok-sabha-adjournment-101628705250671.html
12-08-2021||India||Monsoon session brought to early close amid turmoil||The monsoon session of Parliament, characterised by strident protests by the Opposition, repeated disruptions that made it among the worst sittings in terms of time, a focused and accelerated push of key laws by the government, and plain acrimony, came to a premature end on Wednesday when it was adjourned ahead of schedule.By legislation, it was a good session.The government successfully managed to introduce 15 bills and get Parliament’s approval for 20, although this meant some were passed in minutes with no one other than the minister in charge speaking.By time, it was a bad session.The Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha functioned for just 22% and 28% of their allocated time, respectively. The Lok Sabha used just 21 hours and 14 minutes of the stipulated time of 96 hours -- the lowest since the winter session of 2016, when opposition parties took on the government over demonetisation.The Rajya Sabha used 28 hours 21 minutes out of its stipulated 102 hours. In the past 10 years, the Rajya Sabha has functioned for less than 25% of its scheduled time during only six sessions.And in terms of acrimony, it was an ugly session that saw it all -- protests, disruption, suspensions and calls for “exemplary” punishment.Furious and concerted protests by the Opposition -- the session saw the rare sight of coordinated action by them -- against the Pegasus snooping controversy, the contentious farm laws passed last year, and the fuel price rise roiled Parliament.The Opposition wanted a discussion on the first with Prime Minister Narendra Modi or home minister Amit Shah in the House, but got nowhere with its demand. And when the Upper House agreed to talk farming, the Opposition pointed out, it offered a generic discussion on the plight of farmers, not a specific one on the farm laws as was sought. One member of the Rajya Sabha, from the Trinamool Congress, was suspended for the remainder of the session on July 23; on August 4, six members from opposition parties were suspended for a day; and on the penultimate day of the session, the Rajya Sabha saw among the most unruly scenes the House of Elders has likely seen.Across both Houses, there was a fragile peace only on three occasions — the passage of the Constitution amendment bill that empowers states to draw their own list of other backward classes (OBC) in both Houses and the Covid-19 debate in the Upper House.The session ended with Rajya Saba chairman Venkaiah Naidu in tears and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla ruing the fact that very little business was done.And, in the dying hours of the monsoon session in Rajya Sabha, furious protests returned once again as the government pushed the Insurance Amendment Bill even as the Opposition sought for it to be sent to a parliamentary panel.Soon after, leader of the House Piyush Goyal said the protests that saw some opposition MPs tear papers, fling files and manhandle the marshals in the House cannot be tolerated. “Just as a special committee was set up in Lok Sabha, a similar committee should be constituted to carry out investigation (into the protests on the floor of the House),” he said.Shortly before the Upper House was adjourned sine die, opposition MPs staged a walkout following a ruckus. They objected to the presence of security personnel during the passage of the insurance amendment Bill. The Opposition has been objecting to how the government has passed key bills without discussion and putting them to vote, even as the proceedings were conducted amid a din.Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said there were more marshals than members present in the House. He alleged the marshals manhandled some of the women MPs and said women were not safe even within Parliament.The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday approved the 127th Constitution amendment bill, which was passed by the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. During the debate, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan accused the Opposition of creating confusion among the people regarding reservation.The amendment was supported by all parties.Congress MP Abhishek Manu Singhvi asked the government the reason for not conducting a caste-based census. “We did it in 2011. Why not do it now in 2021?,” he asked, pointing out that a survey is needed because the reservation for backward classes has actually exceeded the defined limits in almost all states. He claimed that the government was hesitating to conduct a survey because it could mean in increase in reservation for OBCsto 35%.A Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam lawmaker, Tiruchi Siva, claimed the government was only pushing through the amendment “out of compulsion” and not the desire to “uphold the rights of states and Union Territories”.The Opposition sought some changes in the amendment, including an increase in the ceiling for reservation from the current 50%, but these were denied in a voice vote.The bill was unanimously approved by all 187 members of the Rajya Sabha present on Wednesday .The Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha received oral replies to only 51 questions and 66 questions, respectively. But the government replied on 98% matters raised under Rule 377 in the Lok Sabha. The standing committees presented 60 reports to the House in this session and a total of 1,243 papers were laid on the table of the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-brought-to-early-close-amid-turmoil-101628705130684.html
12-08-2021||India||Delhi HC seeks Ramani’s reply on Akbar’s plea against trial court verdict||The Delhi high court (HC) on Wednesday admitted former Union minister M J Akbar’s appeal against a trial court order acquitting journalist Priya Ramani in a criminal defamation suit filed by Akbar in 2018 after Ramani accused him of sexual misconduct.Justice Mukta Gupta issued notice to Ramani on the appeal and listed it for further hearing on January 13.Appearing for Akbar, senior advocates Rajiv Nayar and Geeta Luthra contended that the trial court erroneously acquitted Ramani in spite of concluding that her allegations were defamatory in nature.In his appeal, Akbar said that the trial court had decided the case as though it was a sexual harassment case instead of a defamation case. “The impugned judgement, being based on surmises and conjecture, cannot stand muster even from a prima facie view, and therefore, is liable to be set aside,” he said.In February, a Delhi court acquitted Ramani in the defamation case stating that a woman has the right to voice her grievance even after several years.Ramani had accused Akbar of sexual misconduct over social media publishing platform Twitter in 2018 in the wake of the Me Too movement, which Akbar argued were “per se defamatory”.Referring to ancient epics ‘Mahabharata’ and ‘Ramayana’ in the judgement delivered on February 17, Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Pandey said they were written to show the importance of dignity of a woman and it was shameful that such incidents were still happening in the country.The court accepted Ramani’s contention that Akbar was not a man of stellar reputation and said that a man’s right of reputation can’t be weighed over the right to life and dignity of a woman’s.Akbar, who was a minister in the BJP-led cabinet at the time resigned shortly after a host of women, besides Ramani, made allegations of sexual misconduct and harassment against him.On Wednesday, senior counsel Luthra contended that the trial court handed out the verdict without considering any objections raised during the trial. “Nothing is decided. The (trial) court went on to decide about Ram and Ravan. Objections are not decided or looked into,” she said.The HC judge remarked that finding any content defamatory is the “first step” in the proceedings, after which the trial court has to consider the defence of the accused. “The trial court says per se they are defamatory but in the context of which she made the allegations, there was a valid defense,” Justice Gupta stated.Niharika Karanjawala, senior associate of the Karanjawala & Co that filed Akbar’s petition in the high court, told HT: “The legal team delineated the reasons for which the appeal ought to be allowed, including the errors apparent in the record. The court was pleased to issue a notice.”In October 2018, Ramani shared an article on Twitter which she had written in 2017 in Vogue India magazine following allegations of sexual assault and misconduct against Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein made by several women as part of the Me Too movement in the United States. The article did not name Akbar -- it described her experience of an interview with a newspaper editor for a reporter’s position in 1993-- but the tweet did.Akbar filed a criminal defamation suit under Section 500 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Ramani arguing that the incident was not as she described it in her article. He also said that a tweet by Ramani describing him as a “predator” had caused irreparable damage to his reputation.On February 17 this year, the trial court acquitted Ramani. It pointed out that a woman cannot be punished for raising instances of abuse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-seeks-ramani-s-reply-on-akbar-s-plea-against-trial-court-verdict-101628704891937.html
12-08-2021||India||Supreme Court tells Centre, states to fill consumer court vacancies||States are defeating laws enacted for the benefits of people, the Supreme Court said on Wednesday as it directed the Union and state governments to fill up around 800 vacancies in consumer courts across the country within eight weeks.“This is not fair. This is unacceptable. What do you all want? That people should not get redressal under the laws...,” a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy asked the counsel appearing for the Union and states.“Don’t create hopes when you are unwilling to fulfil aspirations. If you raise hopes that consumers will get their disputes redressed, you have to have adequate number of people to deal with the cases coming up... We can’t leave consumers and citizens to your mercy if you aren’t willing to perform,” it added.The bench has ordered that all vacancies in consumer courts at national, state and district levels be filled up by the Centre, states and Union territories in eight weeks after duly notifying the rules of appointments, advertising the posts and setting up selection committees.In a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha on July 23, the Union minister of state for consumer affairs, Ashwini Kumar Choubey, informed that there were 638 district fora functional in 28 states and 8 Union territories and all 36 state consumer commissions were operational. As of June, 25 presidents and 68 members were appointed in the state commissions whereas 367 presidents and 695 members were working in the district fora, according to the reply. The minister’s response, however, did not cite the vacancy positions.Taking umbrage at the “dilly dallying” by the Centre and states, the court directed that secretary of the consumer affairs ministry at the Centre and chief secretaries of the state governments remain present through video-conferencing on the next date of hearing if the order on filling up vacant posts is not complied with.Senior counsel Gopal Sankaranarayanan and advocate Aditya Narain, who assisted the bench as amicus curiae (friend of the court) in the case registered by it suo motu (on its own motion), produced a tabular chart showing that district consumer fora have 721 vacant posts including 188 for heads (presidents). Similarly, 72 posts were vacant across the state commissions , including 8 for presidents. The national consumer commission has three vacancies.“This is completely unacceptable. We will call chief secretaries of all states if they aren’t going to complete the job. We have given you enough time to set your house in order. You are not doing it so we will have set your house in order,” said the court while issuing the directives.The bench also pulled up the Union government not conducting a legislative impact study before it notified a new consumer protection lawin July 2020 and rehauled the entire legal regime, ranging from a wider definition of “consumer,” to enhancing the monetary jurisdiction of the consumer courts at all levels.“Once the legislative committee made these changes, what impact will it have on litigation is the study that should have been carried out. This is the irony of all legislation -- you never do legislative impact study. And now you have written to all the states asking for their views. You are doing a post-facto exercise while you should have done all this before,” the bench told additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, who appeared for the Centre.“At least now a comprehensive legislative impact assessment must be carried out,” added the court as it gave the Union government four weeks to undertake the study and submit its report.ASG Lekhi, on his part, requested for some more time but the bench wasn’t open to this: “You are making legislation at once. If you can rush there, you can always rush here too. It is not that complex. What was a pre-requisite wasn’t done, do it now.” The court has further directed the Centre and states to file their reports on the existing infrastructure for consumer courts.The 2019 consumer protection law broadened the meaning of “consumer” allowing them to file a complaint from their place of residence; brought e-commerce platforms within the fold of the law; provided for time-bound redressal; made celebrity-endorsers also liable; and enhanced the monetary jurisdiction of consumer courts at all levels.Under the new law, a district forum can decide a consumer dispute up to ₹1 crore as against ₹20 lakh under the old law. Similarly, pecuniary jurisdiction of state commission has been enhanced from ₹1 crore to ₹10 crore, and a national commission can now decide disputes over and above ₹10 crore.Underlining the massive vacancies that existed across the consumer courts, the court said in February that a legislative impact study was a must to ascertain the volume of cases the consumer courts at different levels will be burdened with, not only now but in the foreseeable future, and the available infrastructure in the wake of the changes ushered in by the 2019 law.The suo motu case was registered on account of “inaction of the government” in appointing members of the consumer courts and providing adequate infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sctells-centre-states-to-fill-consumer-court-vacancies-101628704531331.html
12-08-2021||India||Abhishek Banerjee, other TMC leaders booked for misbehaving with Tripura police||Tripura police have booked Trinamool Congress general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, MP Dola Sen, West Bengal minister Bratya Basu and others on the charge of obstructing public servants from discharging their duties. The case was lodged 48 hours after the leaders, during their visit on August 8, allegedly misbehaved with police officers at Khowai district. “ We booked them under Section 186 (obstruction of public servants in the discharge of his public function) and 36 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code on Tuesday. They will be summoned, “ said Khowai district superintendent of police Kiran Kumar. Also Read | Eyes on 2023, TMC wants to revamp Tripura unit by Dec 31The TMC leaders were in Tripura to meet 14 party leaders who arrested for violating Covid-19 norms and on two other charges on August 7. Once they were granted bail, they travelled back to Kolkata even as Banerjee alleged that none of them was given medical treatment in the state. The TMC also claimed that two of their youth leaders,Sudip Raha and Jaya Datta, were injured after their vehicle was attacked allegedly by BJP workers at Ambassa in Dhalai district on August 7. Despite this, the police didn’t arrest any BJP cadre, they alleged. Trinamool Congress state unit refuted the charge of misbehaviour against them. “ We didn’t misbehave with police on August 8. All the charges are baseless. Even 12 other activists of our party were booked on false charges of causing grave injury, attempt to murder and others in the last two days at Ambassa in Dhalai district,” said TMC leader Subal Bhowmik. Bhowmik has also been booked along with Banerjee and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abhishek-banerjee-other-tmc-leaders-booked-for-misbehaving-with-tripura-police-101628665769558.html
12-08-2021||India||No manual scavengers in country anymore, Govt tells Parliament||There are no more manual scavengers in the country, the Centre told Parliament in writing on Tuesday, citing reports sent by various state governments.It also added, while answering a question by Communist Party of India lawmaker S Venkatesan, that voluntary organisations have claimed that the banned practice continues but they have been unable to substantiate those claims.Just last week, Union social justice minister Virendra Kumar told the Rajya Sabha that 58,098 manual scavengers were identified across the country in two separate surveys in 2013 and 2018.On Tuesday, minister of state for social justice and empowerment Ramdas Athawale reiterated that point and claimed that no deaths were reported due to manual scavenging in the last five years. He, however, said that “309 deaths have been reported during the last five years of people who undertook hazardous cleaning of sewers and septic tanks”.The government has differentiated between deaths due to manual scavenging and those that have occurred while cleaning sewers. Experts have maintained cleaning sewers and septic tanks is a mere extension of the now-banned practice of manual scavenging or the cleaning of human excreta by hand.Bezwada Wilson, the founder of Safai Karmachari Andolan, which works for sanitation workers, said the government’s denial about manual scavengers is not a new thing.“...but openly denying it in Parliament is a new pattern. As a government, they should have the courage to come up and accept that manual scavengers exist here. There is no concern about the community,” Wilson said.The government has said all identified manual scavengers have been provided one-time cash assistance of ₹40,000 as part of a scheme to rehabilitate them.Manual scavengers and their dependents are provided with a stipend of ₹3,000 during skill training and concessional loan and capital subsidy up to ₹5 lakh for self-employment projects costing up to ₹15 lakh.According to government data, 14,692 manual scavengers were given assistance in 2020-21 as compared to 13,246 in 2019-20.The data also showed that 6,204 manual scavengers were given skill development training in 2020-21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-manual-scavengers-in-india-anymore-govt-101628662829042.html
12-08-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights| Taliban could take over Afghan capital in 90 days: US||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Taliban could take over Afghan capital in 90 days, says USA United States defence official told news agency Reuters that Taliban fighters could isolate Afghanistan's capital in 30 days and possibly take it over in 90.Opposition spreading lies, request RS chairman to release CCTV footage, says Pralhad JoshiThey (Opposition) are spreading lies. I request the (Rajya Sabha) chairman to release the CCTV footage in the public domain... Crossing all the limits, they tried to manhandle marshals in the House today: Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi pic.twitter.com/m5dpDyuMvGBadruddin Ajmal discusses Assam-Mizoram border issue with Amit ShahBadruddin Ajmal, the chief of AIUDF, met Amit Shah on Wednesday to discuss the ongoing Assam-Mizoram border dispute. "We've demanded early intervention of home ministry for peaceful retreat of Mizo admin to maintain peace & tranquility at the inter-state border," Ajmal told news agency ANI.PM Modi to address Investors Summit in Gujarat on August 13Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be addressing an Investors Summit on August 13 in Gujarat. This summit is being organized to invite investment for setting up vehicle scrapping infrastructure under the Vehicle Scrapping Policy, reported news agency ANI.Haven't seen women MPs attacked like they were today in last 55 yrs, says Sharad PawarIn my 55 years of parliamentary career, I never saw the way the women MPs were attacked today (in Rajya Sabha). More than 40 men and women were brought into the House from outside. It is painful. It is an attack on democracy: NCP leader Sharad Pawar at Parliament pic.twitter.com/KxPkewz171Maharashtra reports 5,560 cases of Covid-19, 163 deathsMaharashtra recorded 5,560 cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the state-wide tally to 63,69,002. In the last 24 hours 163 deaths were also reported, taking the death toll to 134,364, as per the state health bulletin.Karnataka reports 1,826 new Covid-19 cases, 33 deathsKarnataka reported 1,826 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total caseload of the state to 2,922,875. The number of active cases in the state now stands at 22,851. The death toll is currently at 36,881, after 33 more fatalities were reported in the last 24 hrs, as per the state health bulletin.Death toll in Kinnaur landslide rises to 10, 14 people rescued so far A total of 10 bodies have been recovered from the landslide site in Nugulsari area of Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur. 14 people have been rescued so far: ITBP pic.twitter.com/EatSLwVVr2Lockdown to be reimposed in Maharashtra if daily requirement of oxygen surpasses 700MTMaharastra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday that lockdown will be reimposed in Maharashtra if the daily requirement of oxygen for the treatment goes up to 700MT. Restaurants in Maharashtra allowed to conduct business till 10 pm from Aug 15Maharashtra allowed restaurants and eateries to conduct business till 10pm from August 15 onwards, health minister Rajesh Tope announced on Wednesday. However, theatres, multiplexes, and places of worship will remain shut until further orders, Tope declared. Delhi court grants bail to Ashwini UpadhyayA Delhi court granted bail to lawyer and former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay on Wednesday. Upadhyay, along with three others, was sent to judicial custody for two days in connection with the alleged anti-Muslim sloganeering at an event on Jantar Mantar on August 8. Death toll in Kinnaur landslide now stands at 5#UPDATE | One more body retrieved at the site of Kinnaur landslide. A total of 5 bodies recovered so far.#HimachalPradeshGovt’s efforts leading to major FDI investments in India, says PM ModiToday, India is receiving record FDIs. FPI investment is also making new records due to several efforts of the government. Today, the country's forex reserve is on an all-time high: PM Narendra Modi at CII Annual Session 2021 pic.twitter.com/ej9TNNG0fmPM Modi addresses the CII Annual Session via video conferencing.Prime Minister Narendra Modi addresses the CII Annual Session 2021, via video conferencing. pic.twitter.com/p0gYixdsDT2 casualties reported due to landslide in Kinnaur, 10 rescued so farThe State Emergency Operation Centre of Himachal Pradesh told news agency ANI that two individuals have lost their life in the Kinnaur landslide while 10 people have been rescued from the rubble so far. The landslide occurred on the Reckong Peo-Shimla highway in Kinnaur district on Wednesday.Cong appoints Syed Naseer Hussain, Chhaya Verma as whips in Rajya SabhaCongress appoints MPs Syed Naseer Hussain and Chhaya Verma as whips of the Congress Parliamentary Party in Rajya Sabha pic.twitter.com/zpOml2kVipFire breaks out in a high-rise building in BycullaMumbai: Fire breaks out in a high-rise building in Sankli Street, Byculla. Fire tenders rushed to the spot. Details awaited.4 people rescued so far, 50-60 feared trapped in Kinnaur landslide, says Himachal Pradesh CM4 people rescued so far & taken to hospital. NDRF, ITBP, CISF, Police teams present at the spot. Efforts are on for rescue operation but rubbles are still dropping from height. As soon as it comes under control, rescue teams will get in action: Himachal Pradesh CM Jairam Thakur pic.twitter.com/XLRqTfIuG4Rescue operation hindered by falling boulders: MLA on Kinnaur landslideThe rescue operations carried out by ITBP personnel on the Peo- Shimal highway has been hampered by falling boulders Kinnaur MLA JS Negi told ANI. A bus, few cars, and trucks have been buried in the rubble due to the landslide that occurred on the Reckong Peo-Shimla highway in Kinnaur district on Wednesday, and the bus driver and another individual has been rescued so far, he added.Briton arrested in Germany accused of spying for RussiaGermany arrests a Briton in for allegedly spying for Russia, say prosecutors.'Hundreds' of Afghan soldiers surrender to Taliban near KunduzHundreds of Afghan soldiers who retreated to the airport outside Kunduz after the Taliban captured the northern city at the weekend have surrendered, a local lawmaker told AFP Wednesday.Amruddin Wali, a member of the Kunduz provincial council, said soldiers, police and uprising forces "surrendered to the Taliban with all their military gear".New Parliament building to be ready by Aug 15 next year: Om BirlaConstruction of the new Parliament building is expected to be completed before August 15 next year, says Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla.'All sacredness of House destroyed': Naidu warns of action over RS ruckusVice President and Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday said that action will be taken against members of opposition parties who created ruckus during a short-duration discussion on farm issues yesterday. Read MoreVenkaiah Naidu to take action against Opposition MPs over house ruckusRajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu to take action against Opposition MPs who created ruckus in Rajya Sabha, yesterday. Home Minister Amit Shah, Leader of the House Piyush Goyal, and other BJP MPs met Naidu over the same, this morning, news agency ANI reported citing sources.Over 4,000 injured being treated by Red Cross as violence intensifies in AfghanistanOver 4,042 patients wounded by weapons are being treated at Red Cross-supported health facilities since August 1 in Afghanistan, the humanitarian organization informed on Tuesday.FIR against TMC's Abhishek Banerjee, other top leadersTripura police FIR against TMC's Abhishek Banerjee, top leaders including WB minister Bratya Basu, days after Khowai feud.DCGI allows study on mixing Covaxin & CovishieldIndia's Drugs Controller General of India has given nod for conducting a study on mixing Covaxin & Covishield.BMC begins issuance of local train passesBMC begins issuance of local train passes to fully vaccinated people for whom services begin on August 15. "We're verifying vaccination certificates of people administered both doses & issuing them QR codes," ANI quoted Anil Kate of BMC, as saying.China sentences Canadian national to 11 years in jail for spying, stealing state secretsChina sentences Canadian national to 11 years in jail for spying, stealing state secrets, reports BloombergIsro all set to launch GISAT-1 Earth observation satellite tomorrow, countdown beginsIndian Space Research Organisation (Isro) informed early on Wednesday morning that countdown has begun for the launch of the GSLV-F10 EOS-03 mission. Read MoreIndian men & women hockey players comes to warm welcome in Amritsar#WATCH | Performers dance to the tune of Bhangra as they welcome Indian men & women hockey players in Amritsar"Many people are dancing in happiness for their return. Everyone's ready to welcome them," says Harjinder, men's hockey team player Gurjant Singh's uncle pic.twitter.com/RxBYuTarO4Kerala to allow shops in malls to reopen from today, Covid-19 norms mandatoryEven amid a recent surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Kerala, the Pinarayi Vijayan-led state government has allowed the reopening of shops in malls starting today (i.e. Wednesday, August 11). Read MoreTikTok replaces Facebook from world's most downloaded app in 2020Chinese-owned TikTok was the world's most downloaded app last year, overtaking Facebook and its messaging platforms, market tracker data showsDelhi govt aims to build 7 makeshift hospitals in next 6 monthsThe Delhi government will build seven makeshift hospitals with 7,000 ICU beds in the next six months to prepare for a potential third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), state health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-august-11-2021-101628639119147.html
