13-08-2021||India||Class 12 student petitions SC, demands resumption of physical classes in schools||A Class 12 student has approached the Supreme Court demanding resumption of physical classes in schools claiming that deprivation of regular schooling was affecting the psyche of the student community leading to depression and social reclusiveness. The student, Amar Prem Prakash, a resident of Delhi, said that on account of the present situation where some states had decided to reopen while many remain indecisive, the student community at large is in a dilemma and a state of confusion with a severe sense of “deprivation and discrimination” as most public places and gatherings are being permitted by state governments since July this year. The petition was filed on Friday and is yet to come up for hearing before the Court. Tired of the protracted and sustained online school teaching, the petition filed through advocate Ravi Prakash Mehrotra said, “The relentless and never-ending deprivation of regular schooling and teaching in the congenial and academic environment of a student’s educational institution is leaving an indelible mark on the psyche of the student community and taking a heavy toll on their wellness and psychological mental framework, leading at times to depression and social reclusiveness.” The petition echoed the sentiments of the student community as a whole, particularly the underprivileged and voiceless children, many of whom were unable to join virtual classes due to economic crisis prevailing in their homes. Requesting the Court to step in considering the plight faced by the students at large and those who are unable to attend virtual classes for financial reasons, the petitioner said, “A holistic and considered decision in regard to reopening of schools will not only end the uncertainty and speculation in this regard but also assuage the sentiments of the student community, in addressing their concerns and feelings in regard to the most important area off their growing up and formative years in life.” The petition comes at a time when several states have at least partially decided to reopen schools. The states of Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh will be opening all classes beginning next week while some states such as Punjab, Odisha, and Madhya Pradesh have already opened schools. About 11 states and union territories have allowed senior and higher secondary classes to function while Delhi, West Bengal, Assam and Rajasthan have not taken a decision to reopen schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/class-12-student-petitions-sc-demands-resumption-of-physical-classes-in-schools-101628879099273.html
13-08-2021||India||Top court asks hospital to consider waiving bills for Covid-19 patient||The Supreme Court on Friday asked Secunderabad-based hospital Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) Limited to consider waiving unpaid bills running up to ₹14 lakh of a man fully on lung support after his wife had approached the top court for financial support.The woman Sheela Mehra, a resident of Madhya Pradesh, had spent more than ₹one crore on treating her husband, Manish Kumar Gohiya since he contracted Covid-19 and was diagnosed with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) on May 14. With his lungs completely damaged, he was brought to KIMS Hospital on July 7 and placed with an ECMO machine, expanded as extracorporeal membrane oxygenation machine, which acts as an artificial lung to support life.Mehra in her petition filed through advocate Krishna Kumar Singh demanded a sum of ₹one crore to arrange for a lung transplant operation that was estimated to cost her nearly ₹55 lakh.Earlier this week, the Court had asked the 31-year-old woman to serve a copy of her petition to KIMS Hospital realizing there was little that they could do in this regard, considering that the petitioner had no legal right to seek assistance from the PM Cares Fund, PM Relief Fund or the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Already, the petitioner had been provided ₹5 lakh out of the central welfare funds.Appearing for the hospital, advocate Shrinivas Rao informed the Court that the condition of the patient was improving and there was a possibility that he may not require a transplant. He informed the Court that as on date, the petitioner had an outstanding amount of ₹14 lakh towards treatment cost.The bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose said, “We are not going to issue any order but ask the hospital to consider if they can waive anything. See if they can be generous in this regard.” The Court posted the matter for Monday to enable the lawyer to take instructions and report to the Court.The Court also expressed satisfaction on the improving condition of the patient and asked the hospital to inform whether a lung transplant surgery would be necessary.Gohiya was admitted at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhopal after he was detected with Covid-19 and was shifted in an air ambulance on June 2 to Hyderabad-based Yashoda Hospital where a CT scan revealed that his lungs had suffered 100 per cent damage. He required ECMO machine to survive and the only hospital that had one was KIMS Hospital. He was shifted to KIMS on July 7 and his family incurred a daily expense of ₹1.5 lakh to keep him going on ECMO support.Taking note of the plight of the petitioner, the bench had asked the Centre to consider providing an ECMO machine at a hospital in every district. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre, agreed to take up this suggestion with the Union Health Minister and get back to the Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-court-asks-hospital-to-consider-waiving-bills-for-covid-19-patient-101628877844650.html
13-08-2021||India||3 more Delta+ deaths take Maha tally to 5||Three more deaths linked to the Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus have been reported from Maharashtra, taking the total count to five in the state. The deceased — all senior citizens — were from Raigad, Beed and Ratnagiri districts. The Raigad patients was a 69-year-old journalist from Nagothane with diabetes and hypertension and was admitted to a civil hospital for nearly 17 days. He succumbed on July 22. According to civil surgeon Dr Suhas Mane, the deceased was fully vaccinated in May. During the contact tracing exercise, the Raigad health officials found four family members of the journalist infected with Covid-19. “We have sent their samples for genome sequencing. However, none of them had severe disease and all of them recovered at home,” said Raigad’s district health officer Dr Sudhakar More. The deceased from Beed was a 78-year-old man hospitalised on June 5 and discharged on June 29. He succumbed at home on July 5. “He did not have any known comorbid conditions. He had recovered and gone home but died suddenly,” said Dr Raus Shaikh, acting district health officer of Beed adding that he was unvaccinated. None of his contacts have tested positive for Covid-19. The fatality from Ratnagiri was a 73-year-old man from the Sangameshwar taluka. While the health officials could not retrieve his vaccination details, they said that he was admitted at Mumbai’s St George Hospital for treatment and had succumbed on May 29. Maharashtra’s first Delta Plus fatality- an 80-year-old woman- was also from Ratnagiri’s Sangameshwar taluka. Since then, 12 Delta Plus cases have been identified from the district and majority are from Sangameshwar. The state’s second death was a 63-year-old fully vaccinated woman from Mumbai. An infection with a variant can only be determined by whole genome sequencing, which takes time and specialised lab work, The total number of known Delta Plus cases from Maharashtra now stands at 66, including a latest patient identified from Thane district. Delta Plus or AY.1 contains additional mutations of the highly transmissible Delta variant (B.1.617.2). More than 80% of samples from Maharashtra have the Delta variant, labelled as a variant of concern by the World Health Organization in May. The Delta Plus was labelled as a variant of concern by the Union Health Ministry in June. Two of the three Delta Plus deaths in Maharashtra – the latest one from Raigad and the one from Mumbai – have been reported in fully vaccinated people. Covid-19 infections that occur 14 days after being fully vaccinated are known as breakthrough infections. “Vaccines are an important tool to fight the ongoing pandemic as they reduce the risk of infection as well as complications,” said infectious disease expert Dr Om Shrivastav, who is also a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force. “But the chances of re-infection or breakthrough infections remain, which is why one must continue to adhere to Covid norms such as wearing a mask, washing hands and maintaining a physical distance. People with comorbid conditions have to be even more careful,” he said. According to Shrivastav, the United States has been struggling with a lot of Delta and Delta Plus cases. “We don’t know how intense our third wave will be. Therefore, we should not be complacent on any aspects related to the pandemic,” he said. Some experts said that the variants and related deaths highlight the need for booster doses of the vaccine, especially for the immunocompromised population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-more-delta-deaths-take-maha-tally-to-5-101628877601706.html
13-08-2021||India||Key Oppn leaders set to attend virtual meeting called by Sonia Gandhi on Aug 20||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has called a virtual meeting of ‘like-minded’ opposition parties on August 20 and it is likely to be attended by several leaders, including chiefs of Trinamool Congress (TMC), Shiv Sena and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK).Gandhi is said to have sent invites to the leaders in a bid to forge unity and a joint opposition strategy on pressing issues before the country.The opposition parties are trying to put up a united face in its fight against the BJP and Narendra Modi government at the Centre over several issues, including the Pegasus snooping row and months-long farmers' protests along the borders of Delhi.The Opposition unity was also witnessed during the recent monsoon session of Parliament where several leaders held meetings which were also attended by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.Sources said West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has received the invite and so has Tamil Nadu CM MK Stalin and his Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has also been invited to the meeting. Sena leader Sanjay Raut said Thackeray will attend the meeting. NCP MP Supriya Sule also confirmed Pawar’s attendance at the event.The Congress is a part of the Sena-led ruling coalition in Maharashtra along with the NCP.An aide of the TMC supremo said the ruling camp in Bengal has received the invite for the virtual meet to be hosted by Gandhi on August 20 and Banerjee is likely to attend the same.Stalin, who piloted his DMK to a spectacular win in the April 6 assembly election in Tamil Nadu, is also likely to attend the virtual interaction with Sonia Gandhi.A senior DMK leader said Stalin, president of the ruling party in Tamil Nadu, would attend if invited. "We are expecting an official invite today. Probably, it will be received by his (chief minister's) office," he said.The DMK chief has been following the footsteps of his late father M Karunanidhi in inviting Congress leaders to the southern state on various occasions and has always painted a picture of unity with them.Even while organising protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act, both the parties, who are allies, presented a show of strength in opposing the Modi government.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-oppn-leaders-set-to-attend-virtual-meeting-called-by-sonia-gandhi-on-aug-20-101628876041366.html
13-08-2021||India||Faux pas? TMC's Mukul Roy says BJP will win bypoll, for second time in a week||Trinamool Congress leader Mukul Roy on Friday stirred a controversy after he predicted the victory of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in his constituency whenever a by-election is held. Roy, who returned to the ruling camp after winning the Assembly election on a BJP seat, had made a similar comment on August 6 when he said the BJP will win the by-poll in Bengal.On both occasions, he quickly corrected his mistake by saying that he had meant the Trinamool Congress. On Friday, he further said the TMC will do well in the 2023 assembly elections in Tripura.Officially, still the BJP MLA of Krishnanagar North constituency, the Mamata Banerjee government has made Roy the chairman of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) of the state Assembly following his return to the TMC a month after Banerjee's party came back to power with a thumping majority. "The BJP will win if a by-election is held in Krishnanagar North," Roy told reporters after attending a PAC meeting on the Assembly premises. When asked if the TMC will not be able to win the seat, he said it will be decided by the people of that constituency. Regarding his official status as a legislator, Roy said, "I am an MLA of the BJP."Roy further said he was ready to visit Tripura to work for the TMC if asked by the party leadership. "I will do whatever is told by the party. The BJP is not doing the right thing in Tripura. Our party will do well in the next polls there," he added. At least 14 leaders and workers of the TMC, including those injured in an alleged attack by BJP workers, were arrested in Tripura on August 8 for "violating Covid norms". Two other TMC workers were nabbed on August 11. Senior TMC leaders from West Bengal are of late visiting the NE state where the assembly election is due in 2023.TMC deputy chief whip in West Bengal assembly Tapas Roy refused to comment on Roy's gaffe, while the BJP said that the people will judge such statements.The senior dear said, "It will be proper for you to ask Mukul Roy what he meant. Since I was not present during the interaction, I won't comment." He added he had attended Friday's PAC meeting chaired by Mukul Roy.BJP MLA and leader of the opposition Suvendu Adhikari said Roy was greeted with much fanfare when he reached the TMC office to join after winning on a BJP ticket. "Now if he makes such statements, it is for people of the state to judge. He was accorded high security by the state government, he was made the PAC chairman. Now let the TMC see," he said.The BJP has demanded Roy’s disqualification as a member of the assembly under anti-defection law and his removal from the post of PAC chairman which traditionally goes to the Opposition party. The TMC leadership has been saying that Roy is a BJP MLA and hence, his appointment as the PAC chairman would not pose any problem on technical ground.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/faux-pas-tmc-s-mukul-roy-says-bjp-will-win-bypoll-for-second-time-in-a-week-101628873548915.html
13-08-2021||India||Kerala's Santhosh George Kulangara could be India's first space tourist via Virgin Galactic||Kerala's Santhosh George Kulangara is a 49-year-old man who had signed up from Richard Branson's Virgin Galactic back in 2005. And now, he could become India's first space tourist via Virgin Galactic. It is not yet known when the globetrotter who has visited 130 countries across seven continents will take off, but reports said he will be there in one of the early batches.Here are 10 things you need to know about this media entrepreneur, globe trotter1. In 2005, when he was in the UK, travelling on a train, he came across an ad in a newspaper. In this ad, Richard Branson was inviting people to join the space tour.2. There were a few steps, interviews, following which he was enrolled as the first space tourist from India in 2007.3. The trip will cost ₹1.8 crore approximately. But there are other expenses for training etc. He already took one training programme at the Kennedy Space Centre in 2011.4. The training involved feeling weightless as it would happen in a zero-gravity situation and feeling heavier by six times etc.5. Santhosh George Kulangara is a familiar face on Malayalam television and he is the founder and the managing director of Safari TV.6. All his travels are telecast through Sancharam, which is known as the first visual travelogue in Malayalam. Santhosh George Kulangara has directed an English movie Chandrayaan. He began his solo journey across the globe in 1997.7. The first country he visited was Nepal, followed by the Maldives. Then he went to Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand. He had crossed the India-Nepal border on foot from border village Sunoli.8. Santhosh plans to carry his camera, his constant companion, to space, he has said in interviews.9. On his website, he has mentioned "finance for every visit of mine was generated by my toiling day and night. My journey continues in that tradition".10. Santhosh is also a part-time member of the Kerala State Planning Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-santhosh-george-kulangara-could-be-india-s-first-space-tourist-via-virgin-galactic-101628872191403.html
13-08-2021||India||Mr PM, a straight Q for you: Here's what Derek O'Brien wants to know from Modi||Trinamool Congress national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP on Friday uploaded a new video wherein he wanted Prime Minister Narendra Modi to answer why was he missing in Parliament when the crucial Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021, was passed even as two former PMs -- Manmohan Singh and HD Deve Gowda -- remained present and voted for the same. O’Brien said his latest video was a follow-up to his eight-question clip put up a day ago for eight central ministers, all of which have remained unanswered so far.O’Brien, who has very active on social media in attacking the central government over its running of business in Parliament during the just-concluded monsoon session, said he was not surprised that none of his questions have so been answered by any of the ministers in the last 24 hours and hence, he wanted to “try their boss” on Friday, the 13th.Also read | 'Mr Modi, Come listen to us': Derek O'Brien shares Oppn's message on Parl logjam"Here is a straight question to you… Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and former Prime Minister Deve Gowda - they were present during voting on a constitutional bill. There were six rounds of voting on the constitutional bill, the OBC bill. It was very, very crucial," O’Brien said in the video which had images of the former PMs in the House.NEW. Here’s our 2nd video in 24 hrs. I asked 8 Qs to Ministers about #Parliament Zero answers. Mr PM, here's a straight Q for you.Why were U missing from Parliament? The two former PMs were there & voted on Constitution Amendment 127 #OBCBill, where were you? VIDEO #2 pic.twitter.com/eNFaD5Z77v"Mr Prime Minister, why were you missing from Parliament? Why are you ignoring Parliament? You are mocking Parliament. You and your government are accountable to the people, are accountable to people's representatives, you are accountable to the Parliament. It's your duty to answer us now. Eight ministers couldn't, Prime Minister, your time starts now," he further said.On Thursday, the TMC MP had directed his questions at the eight Union ministers who had held a press conference hours ago to slam the Opposition’s “unruly” conduct in the Parliament during the past few days that they alleged was the reason behind the abrupt ending of the session, two days ahead of its schedule.Calling them “full of faff”, O’Brien wanted them to reply to questions like “why were 38 bills passed in both houses with an average discussion time of 10 minutes per bill and why has only one out of 10 bills gone from the Lok Sabha for parliamentary scrutiny”.8 Ministers just addressed a press conference. To them, we ask. Answer even one of these 8 questions. Try. Then talk to us about #Parliament.The United Opposition have a strong case. You are full of faff. VIDEO pic.twitter.com/U6gl1QK5JMHe also wanted to know why the Opposition’s demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping controversy, internal security, or repeal of farm laws were not met. “Government must have its way, the opposition must have its say. Whose business is it to run Parliament? Is it the government's responsibility or the opposition's responsibility? And who is the government accountable to? The people," he added.On Thursday too he had asked why “the PM had not answered a single question in the Rajya Sabha in the last five years”. “Manmohan Singh ji answered 22 questions. Why in two years, the government hasn't elected a Deputy Speaker in the Lok Sabha?" the MP further said.The Modi government and the Opposition have been locked in a bitter battle over the conduct of Parliament with both sides refusing to budge over issues like the Pegasus scandal, farmers protest, inflation and Covid-19 management. The Opposition has been demanding the PM or Home Minister Amit Shah make a statement on the floor of Parliament on the snooping issue. Modi had come to Parliament only once during this session to introduce his ministers in the newly revamped cabinet. His speech was, however, disrupted a number of times when Opposition leaders began raising slogans on the rising prices of fuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mr-pm-a-straight-q-for-you-here-s-what-derek-o-brien-wants-to-know-from-modi-101628868569966.html
13-08-2021||India||Assam assembly passes cattle preservation legislation, opposition walks out||The Assam assembly on Friday passed legislation regulating transportation, slaughter and sale of cattle, beef and beef products in the state. The Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021 was passed on the last day of the budget session after a discussion lasting over two hours through a voice vote. The Bill was passed after opposition members, who had sought sending the Bill to a select committee, had staged a walkout from the House. Opposition members had suggested 76 amendments to the Bill including removal of restrictions on inter-district transportation of cattle, relaxation of the ban on slaughter of cattle within a 5 km radius of temples, ‘satras’ (Vaishnavite monasteries) etc., and the strict penalties like eight year imprisonment and heavy fines for violations of the Bill. They said that the state would lose a large amount in revenue as the cattle trade in Assam is worth ₹20,000 crores annually. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma informed the House that buffaloes would be exempted from provisions of the Bill. “Data shows that most cases of communal tension in Lower Assam in the past few years are related to beef. The provisions of the Bill will lead to communal harmony as it would allow those who consume beef to eat it with some restrictions and also respect the sentiments of non-beef eating communities like Hindus, Jains, Buddhists and Sikhs,” said Sarma. “We don’t have any ill intention in introducing the Bill. And real Muslims who understand it would have no opposition to it. There’s no ban on eating beef, those who want can eat it 5 km away from temples and ‘satras’. Communal harmony can prevail only when Muslims respect sentiments of Hindus as much as Hindus respect the sentiments of Muslims,” he added. Termed The Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021, the legislation puts a ban on inter-state transport of cows through Assam in order to control their smuggling to neighbouring Bangladesh. The Bill bans transport of cattle from other states through Assam to places outside the state. It also stops transport of cattle from any place within Assam to places outside the state “where slaughter of cattle is not regulated by law”. Transport of cattle from places outside Assam to any place within the state will also be banned by the legislation. Further, movement of cattle from one place within the state to another located in Assam will also be restricted. However, a competent authority may issue permit for transport of cattle for bona-fide agricultural or animal husbandry purposes. The Bill bans sale of beef in areas which have predominant population of Hindus, Sikhs, Jains and other non-beef-eating communities or within a radius of 5 km of any temple, ‘satra’ (Vaishnavite monastery) “or other religious institutions belonging to Hindu religion”. Violations of the provisions of the Bill could lead to imprisonment for three to eight years and fine between ₹3 lakh and ₹5 lakh. “The proposed Bill in its present form can lead to various problems for people associated with cattle trade, beef products and business in cattle skin etc. I propose that it should be sent to a select committee of assembly to get their views on its efficacy,” said Congress legislature party leader Debabrata Saikia. “Instead of looking at this Bill from a religious perspective, one needs to view it from other angles. Unlike popularly believed, consumption of beef is not mandatory among Muslims and Christians. It is a food product like any other. We should see what impact socio-economic impact the Bill would have in Assam,” said All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) MLA Aminul Islam. “Only those animals and other species which are endangered or face threat of extinction, like rhinos in Assam, needs protection. Reply by government to my question in the ongoing assembly session has revealed that the cattle population in Assam has increased every year and as per a 2020 survey the state has over 10.9 million heads of cattle Both Islam and Saikia argued that restrictions in the present Bill regarding slaughter and sale of cattle would impact those involved in cattle trade and owners of cattle would be forced to leave their old and diseased animals on the streets due to costs involved in their upkeep. This in turn could lead to traffic accidents and damage to crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-assembly-passes-cattle-preservation-legislation-opposition-walks-out-101628869014607.html
13-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Serum Institute's Cyrus Poonawalla praises PM Modi and all the latest news||‘Wasn't supposed to say’: Serum chief praises PM Modi, says no ‘maska polish’As Dr Cyrus Poonawalla received the Lokmanya Tilak National Award, he heaped praises on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said that life was not easy for vaccine makers as he had to "fall at the feet" of bureaucrats and drug controllers to get permission for vaccine launch. Read moreRohit Sharma is the opener India always neededNearly 14 years after his international debut, we may have finally seen what Rohit Sharma can really do with the bat. He didn’t have to do it. But that’s what the collective frenzy of a cricket-fanatic country can do to you. Read moreMohnish Bahl says he ‘wouldn’t have been playing negatives and parallel leads’ if nepotism workedActor Mohnish Bahl, the son of late actor Nutan, dismissed the nepotism debate as a ‘superficial’ one. He maintained that his daughter, actor Pranutan Bahl, landed her debut film, Notebook, through auditions and not by using her family connections. Read moreGalaxy Z Fold 3, Galaxy Z Flip 3 to launch in India on August 20? Check out Samsung's response to Alia BhattSamsung hosted its Galaxy Unpacked 2021 online event on Wednesday, during it launched its next-generation of foldable display smartphones, which includes the Galaxy Z Fold 3 and Galaxy Z Flip 3 smartphones. Read moreDefence minister on IAC Vikrant, 75th Independence Day, 'atmanirbhar' pushDefence Minister Rajnath Singh Friday virtually launched multiple major events to commemorate the 75th anniversary of India's independence. Rajnath Singh lauded India’s Indigenous Aircraft carrier Vikrant. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-serum-institute-s-cyrus-poonawalla-praises-pm-modi-101628867783183.html
13-08-2021||India||India rubbishes Pakistan foreign minister’s allegations on attack that killed 9 Chinese nationals||India on Friday rejected the Pakistan foreign minister’s claim that the Indian and Afghan spy agencies were behind a suicide attack on a bus last month that killed nine Chinese nationals, saying it was an attempt to deflect global attention from Pakistan’s “role as the epicentre of regional instability”. Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi had contended on Thursday that the bombing was carried out by terrorists backed by the Indian and Afghan intelligence agencies. He claimed an investigation revealed a “nexus of Indian RAW and Afghan NDS” in the attack, referring to the intelligence agencies of the two countries. Qureshi told a news conference that the Pakistani Taliban carried out the attack. “As per our investigation, the Afghan soil was used for this incident...about its planning and its execution, we’re seeing a clear nexus between NDS and RAW,” he added. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi rubbished Qureshi’s allegations and described them as “absurd comments”. He added, “This is yet another attempt by Pakistan to malign India, in a bid to deflect international attention from its role as the epicentre of regional instability and a safe haven for proscribed terrorists.” Bagchi said India has been at the forefront of global efforts against terrorism in partnership with the international community, “which is well aware of Pakistan’s credentials when it comes to terrorism”. He added, “Such desperate attempts by Pakistan at peddling lies and propaganda will therefore find few takers.” The July 14 attack on the bus carrying workers to a hydropower project site at Dasu in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province resulted in the death of nine Chinese nationals and four more people. Pakistani authorities have made several flip-flops on the attack, claiming hours after the blast that it was caused by a mechanical failure that resulted in a gas leak. The Chinese side said immediately after the attack that the bus was hit by a blast. After traces of explosives were found at the site, Pakistani authorities said an attack couldn’t be ruled out. On Thursday, Qureshi said the bus blast was a suicide bombing and that the Chinese side was satisfied with the investigation done by Pakistani authorities. The incident had prompted Chinese Premier Li Keqiang to urge his Pakistani counterpart last month to hold the culprits accountable for what he described as a terrorist attack. Both Qureshi and the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) chief had visited Beijing last month to placate the Chinese side. On Friday, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying expressed appreciation for Pakistan’s investigation into the attack. She reiterated Pakistan’s contention that planning for the attack was done in Afghanistan and it was executed by the Pakistani Taliban. Hua also said: “The terrorist network the attacker is associated with has received support from Indian and Afghan intelligence agencies.” The developments come at a time when India’s relations with Pakistan and China are strained. Indian troops have been engaged in a standoff with Chinese forces along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh for more than a year, and relations between New Delhi and Islamabad have been troubled over a string of terror attacks in recent years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rubbishes-pakistan-foreign-minister-s-allegations-on-attack-that-killed-9-chinese-nationals-101628866434569.html
13-08-2021||India||What if Covishield and Covaxin mix fails? Cyrus Poonawalla presents 2 scenarios||If the mix of Covishield and Covaxin fails, Serum Institute of India can claim that the other vaccine was not good, while the other company can also say that Serum's vaccine is not good, Serum's chairman Dr Cyrus Poonawalla said expressing his reservation against cocktail of Covid-19 vaccines, the study of which has been granted by the Drugs Control General of India. "I am against the mixing of two different vaccines. There is no need to mix two different vaccines," the senior Poonawalla said.Covishield, developed by Astrazenaca and Oxford University and manufactured by Serum Institute in India is an adenovirus vector platform-based vaccine. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, the other main vaccine in India's immunisation programme, is an inactivated whole virus vaccine."If cocktail vaccines are administered and if the result is not good, then SII may say that another vaccine was not good, vice versa, the other company might say that since you mixed Serum's vaccine, it did not give desired results," Poonawalla said.While several international studies are championing for a concktail of vaccines, Cyrus Poonawalla doubted a cocktail of Covishield and Covaxin and said the efficacy of this approach has not been proven in field trials involving thousands of participants.A recent study of the Indian Council of Medical Research has revealed that those who were mistakenly administered by one dose of Covishield and another dose of Covaxin reported no adverse impact. In fact, their antibody response was higher than those who were given two doses of the same vaccine.According to experts, as scientific research on the scope and possibilities of Covid vaccine is an evolving area, there is no hard and fast rule unless tried. Theoratically, the mixing of Covishield and Covaxin is possible, experts said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-if-covishield-and-covaxin-mix-fails-cyrus-poonawalla-presents-2-scenarios-101628866066568.html
13-08-2021||India||BJD to reserve 27% of tickets for backward castes in 2022 panchayat polls||The Biju Janata Dal in Odisha on Friday may have become the first party in the country to announce reservation for OBCs in polls by announcing that it would give at least 27 per cent of its tickets to OBC candidates in the three-tier panchayat polls scheduled to be held in early 2022.Food supplies minister and senior BJD leader Ranendra Pratap Swain said BJD president and chief minister Naveen Patnaik has decided to give 27 per cent of party tickets to OBCs/SEBCs starting with panchayat polls next year.“It is a historic day for the people of Odisha as the ruling BJD has decided to reserve 27% of party tickets for socially and educationally backward candidates in all elections. Due to the cap on the percentage of reservation and as there is no central law to determine it, the BJD has taken a political decision to field 27 per cent OBC/SEBC candidates in panchayat and subsequent polls in the state,” said Swain, who himself is a backward caste leader. Another backward caste leader and state agriculture minister Arun Sahoo asked the BJP and Congress to follow suit if they really cared for this neglected population.Panchayat polls are scheduled to be held in February next year and would determine the growth or decline of main opposition party BJP since it recorded a major rise in Zilla Parishad seats edging out Congress as the principal opposition party. Of the 851 Zilla Parishad seats that went to polls in 2017, BJP with 33 per cent vote share won 297 seats, which was 9 times its number of 2012. Zilla Parishads are the only tier of the Panchayati Raj system where elections are held on party symbols while the other two - Panchayat Samiti and Gram Panchayat - are fought at individual level, albeit with tacit support of one or other political parties.The BJD’s decision to give 27 per cent of the seats in panchayat polls for OBCs came two days after it demanded a central law empowering states to do away with the 50 per cent cap on the reservation and appropriate columns in the Census 2021 form for the identification of SEBCs. The party had argued that the Supreme Court and the various high courts have struck down quota for OBCs on the ground that the policies were made without any scientific database on their population.In February this year, it got the Odisha State Backward Classes (Amendment) Bill passed in the state assembly enabling the Backward Class Commission survey of the social and economic conditions of the backward classes in the state. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik who tabled the Bill said it was important to have reliable data about the Backward Classes of the state as the last census was done in 1931 which is not enough for accurate and focused planning to reach out to the backward classes of the society.Opposition BJP was swift to criticise BJD’s attempt at stirring the pot of OBC politics asking why the party was not taking the difficult step of implementing 27 per cent reservation for them in education and employment. “While many states have been providing 27 per cent reservation to OBCs, only 11.25 per cent of these categories of people are availing the benefit in government jobs in Odisha but not in education,” said BJP spokesperson Sonali Sahu.Former Union minister Srikant Jena, who himself is a backward caste leader said Patnaik was making a virtue out of necessity. “As OBCs account for 54% of Odisha’s population, they are already contesting more than 27 per cent of the seats in the panchayat polls by virtue of their majority. In the last panchayat election, at least 35 per cent of the contesting candidates in Zilla Parishad polls were from backward castes. If he really wanted to help OBCs he could have announced 27 per cent reservation for them in government jobs. Instead of doing that he has tricked everyone,” alleged Jena.Though caste has never been a factor in Odisha’s politics unlike Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan or Karnataka, BJD’s stirring the OBC pot may have been triggered by fears of opposition BJP trying to target them ahead of next year’s panchayat polls. Senior BJP leader and Union petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan, himself an OBC, earlier this year wrote a letter to Patnaik urging him to reserve seats for students belonging to the OBC category and the socially and economically backward classes. In the last Lok Sabha election, BJP stressed on PM Modi’s OBC roots.Many say Patnaik’s action is to prevent consolidation of Paikas or Khandayats (a militia caste) behind the BJP as a result of the party’s efforts in the last few years through several events including the 200th anniversary of the famous Paika rebellion against the British and a memorial for the fallen Paikas on the foothills of a mountain near Bhubaneswar. Khandayats are the martial race of Odisha who are also numerically superior with 22 per cent population. Though they figure in Odisha’s list of SEBCs, they are not in the central list of OBCs and hence excluded from any reservation.BJD leaders, however, said they had little room for maneouvering after the Orissa High Court in 2017 quashed the Odisha Reservation of Posts and Services for (Socially and Educationally Backward Classes) Act that sought to reserve 27 per cent of the seats in government services for SEBC. The state government then reduced the reservation in government seats to 11.25% to keep it under 50 per cent as per the Supreme Court judgement in the 1993 case of Indra Sawhney vs Union of India which said that the total number of reserved seats/places/positions cannot exceed 50% of what is available.The Naveen Patnaik government in 2012 panchayat polls had reserved 50 per cent of the seats in Panchayati Raj bodies. Ahead of the 2019 General Election, the BJD had given 33 per cent of Lok Sabha tickets to women candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjd-to-reserve-27-of-tickets-for-backward-castes-in-2022-panchayat-polls-101628863854202.html
13-08-2021||India||‘Wasn't supposed to say’: Serum chief praises PM Modi, says no ‘maska polish’||As Serum Institute of India's chairman Dr Cyrus Poonawalla, father of CEO Adar Poonawall, received the Lokmanya Tilak National Award, he heaped praises on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said that life was not easy for vaccine makers as he had to "fall at the feet" of bureaucrats and drug controllers to get permission for vaccine launch.Using the word 'maska polish', which refers to appeasing officers in charge, Poonawalla on Friday said the reason why Serum's Covishield was launched so quickly was that there was no need for 'maska polish'. The drug controller responds even after office hours, in the evening, the senior Poonawalla said.Pune's Serum Institute of India is the world's largest vaccine maker by the volume of doses it produces every year. It is one of the main contributors to vaccines against Covid-19 not only in India but also in the world.Cyrus Poonawalla was the 6th richest man on the Forbes list of India's Richest 2020. He was also listed on Forbes' Billionaires 2021 list. The senior Poonwalla, son of a horse breeder, founded the Serum Institute of India in 1966. Taking a journey down memory lane, he said the industry was a different place at that time and he faced a lot of hardships in getting basic facilities like power, water, permission from bureaucrats."I was not supposed to say this," he said and added, "Transport and communication were also great problems and challenges that were faced by my staff and fellow directors...It was a long journey and a very painful one, which has now become very rewarding. I had to fall at the feet of bureaucrats and drug controllers, etc, to get permission. But I must stress that difficulties, red tape are much reduced now under the Modi government."Cyrus Poonawalla dedicated the award to his late wife Villoo and said that he has received numerous awards in the United States, the United Kingdom, but the Lokmanya Tilak award is very special to him.While the pandemic and Covishield made Serum a household name, the company for years has been producing vaccines for Polio, Diptheria, Tetanus, Pertussis, Hib, BCG, r-Hepatitis B, Measles, Mumps and Rubella etc. Adar Poonawalla, the present CEO of the company, has major plans to extend the company and has invested millions to build new units.The company has received all kinds of support from the government for Covishield vaccine and the other Covid vaccines that the company is now working on. The Union home ministry also provided Y category security cover to Adar Poonawalla, after he claimed he received threats for vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wasnt-supposed-to-say-serum-chief-praises-pm-modi-says-no-maska-polish-101628862570692.html
13-08-2021||India||Covid-19: RDIF partners with Wockhardt to produce, supply Sputnik V vaccines||Global pharmaceutical company Wockhardt Limited announced on Friday its partnership with Human Vaccine LLC (HV), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to produce and supply Sputnik V and Sputnik Light vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The firm further said it was entering into an agreement with Enso Healthcare DMCC (Enso), a company incorporated in Dubai.In a statement, Wockhardt said that it will “manufacture and supply to Enso up to 620 million doses of the Sputnik V vaccine and the Sputnik Light vaccine” against coronavirus. According to a Livemint report, the pharma company said the development came following required approvals from agencies concerned as well as “successful technology transfer from HV to the company.”This development came a week after an Indian pharma firm, Panacea Biotec Limited, said it will produce up to 25 million doses of the Sputnik V vaccine using the drug substance manufactured by Russia’s Generium. The company will then supply the vaccines to drugmaker Dr Reddy’s Laboratories for distribution in India, the Livemint report added.Quoting Russian envoy Nikolay Kudashev, news agency ANI had reported in July the single-dose Sputnik Light Covid-19 vaccine is likely to be launched in India soon. As far as Sputnik V is concerned, the RDIF had said the vaccine’s production in the country is expected to “come fully on stream” in September. Earlier this month, Dr Reddy’s said it had received “31.5 lakh doses of component 1 and 4.5 lakh doses of component 2 of the Sputnik V vaccine in India”. “We are working closely with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to ramp up supplies. We are also working closely with our partners in India for manufacturing readiness,” ANI reported citing a statement by the company.Dr Reddy’s further said locally manufactured Sputnik V vaccines against Covid-19 are likely to be rolled-out in India within September or October.Also Read | India-made Sputnik V Covid vaccine may be available from September: Dr Reddy’sThe RDIF partnered with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to market the first 250 million doses of the Sputnik V vaccine in India. The Russian agency has also joined hands with the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) among many other pharmaceutical firms for the manufacture of the anti-coronavirus vaccine. The SII will produce more than 300 million doses of Sputnik V annually starting this year itself.The soft launch rollout of the Sputnik V vaccine began in Hyderabad on May 14, and since then it has spread to several major Indian cities, including Delhi-NCR, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, and Lucknow, among others.The Sputnik V vaccine is a two-dose shot, but unlike other Covid-19 vaccines that also have two-jabs, the two doses of the Russian vaccine are not identical. It has been found to be 91.6 per cent effective against Covid-19 as per its third phase clinical trials. Sputnik Light is the first component of the Sputnik V vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-rdif-partners-with-wockhardt-to-produce-supply-sputnik-v-vaccines-101628861779267.html
13-08-2021||India||Twitter India head Manish Maheshwari moves to new US-based role||Twitter India head Manish Maheshwari has been moved to a new role based in the US, a senior official from the company said on Friday, even as the platform’s friction with the Indian government, and the opposition more recently, continued.Yu Sasamoto, the vice president of Twitter’s Japan, South Korea and Asia Pacific, announced Maheshwari’s role change in a tweet on Friday. “Thank you to @manishm for your leadership of our Indian business over the past 2+ years. Congrats on your new US-based role in charge of revenue strategy and operations for new markets worldwide. Excited to see you lead this important growth opportunity for Twitter,” Sasamot said.Thank you to @manishm for your leadership of our Indian business over the past 2+ years. Congrats on your new US-based role in charge of revenue strategy and operations for new markets worldwide. Excited to see you lead this important growth opportunity for Twitter.In his reply tweet late on Friday night, Maheshwari said “Appreciate your support @yusasamoto for this new role. Thank you to all the Tweeps, clients and partners in India that I have worked with over the past few years. Looking forward to leverage my India experience to drive revenue growth in new markets around the world.”Appreciate your support @yusasamoto for this new role. Thank you to all the Tweeps, clients and partners in India that I have worked with over the past few years. Looking forward to leverage my India experience to drive revenue growth in new markets around the world. https://t.co/JQ9TXAsKfeMeanwhile, online technology news platform TechCrunch reported that Maheshwari would be relocating to the US and taking on a new role as senior director, revenue strategy and operations with focus on new market entry, citing a company spokesperson.Earlier on June 21, Maheshwari was summoned by the Uttar Pradesh police in connection with the video of an alleged hate crime that was shared widely on the social media platform. The police asked him to appear before the police in person on June 24 at the Loni border police station, following which he moved the Karnataka High Court regarding the notice. However, the HC, in its order a month later on July 23, quashed the notice but allowed the police to question Maheshwari virtually at his office or at his residence in Bengaluru. The court had earlier also restrained the police from taking any coercive action on the case. The Ghaziabad police had booked Maheshwari along with Twitter, Twitter India, a few journalists and some Congress leaders regarding the case, alleging that video was shared widely to cause communal unrest.In a separate incident, Maheshwari was also booked by the UP Police over the depiction of a wrong map of India. The company had also faced continuous pressure from the government over compliance with the new IT rules. However, the government told the Delhi High Court on August 10 that Twitter was “prima facie” in compliance with the rules by appointing a chief compliance officer (CCO), resident grievance officer (RGO) and nodal contact person on permanent basis. More recently, the company was again on the news after the handles of several Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi’s, were blocked for sharing a picture of Gandhi meeting with the family of a minor rape victim in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-india-head-manish-maheshwari-moves-to-new-us-based-role-101628859556653.html
13-08-2021||India||CPI-M MP Elemaram Kareem seeks probe amid blame game over Rajya Sabha uproar||Rajya Sabha MP of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) Elamaram Kareem on Friday wrote to the secretary-general of the Upper House of Parliament seeking "an immediate probe and necessary actions on the incidents of physically assaulting and attacking the opposition MPs inside the Rajya Sabha chamber on August 11".Kareem’s move came a day after an internal interim report is said to have named him and some other Opposition MPs for allegedly indulging in unruly behaviour and clashing with the security personnel deputed at the Rajya Sabha during the monsoon session of Parliament.CPI (M) Rajya Sabha MP Elamaram Kareem writes to Rajya Sabha Secretary-General seeking "an immediate probe and necessary actions on the incidents of physically assaulting and attacking the opposition MPs inside the Rajya Sabha chamber on August 11." pic.twitter.com/ijIuXLnoopBesides Kareem, the two-page report reportedly named Congress members Chhaya Verma, Phulo Devi Netam and Naseer Hussain and TMC MP Dola Sena for clashing with marshals when the General Insurance Bill was being taken up in the Upper House.The report said Kareem had manhandled and severely choked the neck of a male marshal, while a lady marshal was pulled and dragged by Netam and Verma.The opposition MPs had created an uproar as they wanted the bill to be referred to a select committee. The bill was passed amid din.Kareem has refuted the allegations of manhandling a marshal in the Rajya Sabha and said interim the report was created to counter the Opposition's complaint to the Rajya Sabha chairman and the media. "This is a fabricated story to escape from what they have done," said Kareem.Later, Kareem took to Twitter and hit out at the Narendra Modi government for passing bills without discussion. “Passing of key Bills without discussion & vote is unacceptable. Heavy deployment of marshals during (the tabling and passage of) Insurance Bill, the way they assaulted even women MPs & how they pursue false charges indicate the heights of strangling our Parliamentary democracy. We'll continue our struggle,” he wrote.Functioning of both Houses of Parliament during the monsoon session was majorly affected by frequent disruptions with both sides refusing to budge from their stand. While the government has blamed the Opposition for the din, the latter has slammed the ruling camp for refusing to hold debates on issues like the Pegasus controversy and farm laws and suppressing its voice in Parliament, besides passing bills without any discussions.Both Houses of Parliament were adjourned sine die on Wednesday, two days before the scheduled end of the session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpim-mp-elemaram-kareem-seeks-probe-amid-blame-game-over-rajya-sabha-clashes-101628861104122.html
13-08-2021||India||First nasal vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech gets nod for Phase 2/3 trial||Amid ongoing research around the world to develop nasal sprays to help prevent coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Bharat Biotech’s intranasal vaccine has received regulatory approval for Phase 2/3 trials. The adenoviral intranasal vaccine BBV154 is the first of its kind Covid-19 jab to undergo human trials in India. The Phase 1 trial in healthy volunteers of age groups ranging from 18 to 60 years was well tolerated, according to the ministry of science and technology.The ministry said the intranasal vaccine was found to be safe, immunogenic and well-tolerated in the preclinical toxicity studies and was able to elicit high levels of neutralizing antibodies in animal studies. It has received approval to conduct Phase 2 randomised clinical trial of “heterologus prime-boost combination of Sars-CoV-2 vaccines to evaluate the immunogenicity and safety of Covaxin with BBV154...in healthy volunteers.”The development of Bharat Biotech’s intranasal vaccine has been supported by the department of biotechnology (DBT) and Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC). They strategised to fast-track research and development efforts, especially for vaccine development, diagnostics, drug repurposing, therapeutics and testing.“The department through Mission Covid Suraksha, is committed to development of safe and efficacious Covid-19 vaccines. Bharat Biotech’s BBV154 Covid Vaccine is the first intranasal vaccine being developed in the country entering into late-stage clinical trials,” Dr RenuSwarup, secretary, DBT said, referring to the scheme launched to accelerate Covid-19 vaccine development efforts as part of the third stimulus package announced by the Centre.Bharat Biotech's Covaxin had demonstrated 77.8% efficacy against symptomatic Covid-19 and 93.4% against severe illness during the Phase 3 clinical trials.India has administered nearly 53 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines, of which Covishield, a version of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine, and Covaxin form the major part of the vaccination coverage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-nasal-vaccine-developed-by-bharat-biotech-gets-nod-for-phase-2-3-trial-101628860078002.html
13-08-2021||India||Erratic rains linked to climate crisis shift sowing patterns||Erratic rainfall this summer, thought to be linked to climate change, upended sowing patterns in many states, keeping farmers on tenterhooks as rains tapered off around the end of June before reviving in late July, several cultivators have said. Even after accelerating towards mid-July, the monsoon rains were 7% deficient on August 13 for the season as a whole. Some farmers, especially in Gujarat, said lack of rains for a considerable period meant growers were pushed into a guessing game on what to sow. Another in Haryana said he expected poorer yields from cotton. A third farmer in Madhya Pradesh said he had nearly given up on his soya crop until the rains revived. The June-September monsoon, which waters nearly 60% of the country’s net-sown area, had stalled towards June-end and then dumped excess rainfall after reviving in mid-July in a pattern scientists say is consistent with a changing climate. According to climatologists, longer dry spell and short spurts of heavy rainfall are tell-tale signs of a changing monsoon owing to the impacts of a warming planet. The India Meteorological Department has forecast a normal monsoon for 2021. The monsoon has been quite uneven, data from the India Meteorological Department show. Gujarat, which accounts for 40% and 20% of groundnut and cotton acreage, has faced a cumulative rainfall deficit of 43%. “With Indian agriculture largely rainfall-dependent, the now-on, now-off monsoon this year has shifted the sowing from much-expected oilseeds (groundnut and soybean) to maize and paddy for kharif,” said Hetal Gandhi, director of Crisil Research Ltd. According to reports, the shortfall from June 1 to August 8 prompted Gujarat farmers to shift from groundnut and cotton to castor, a hardier crop that can withstand dry weather. “We were guessing all the time. After sowing a crop and spending so much, you can’t invest again to replace it. So, ultimately many in our village decided to sow castor instead of groundnut,” Chabil Patel, a potato and groundnut farmer in Sabarkantha said over the phone. To the east in Odisha, cumulative rainfall deficit has been around 8%. The state accounts for 8% of the country’s total paddy acreage While north-eastern states, such as Assam faced drought in its paddy and tea growing belt, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Haryana received excessive rainfall. East Rajasthan and north Madhya Pradesh were deluged by a violent surge in the monsoon. “I am not very confident of what my yields will be. There will be damage due to excess rains,” said soy grower Ravikant Moria, a farmer in Mandsaur, Maharashtra. Madhya Pradesh faced a severe dry spell between mid-June to mid-July, shrinking soybean and urad acreage by 11% and 5% year-on-year until August 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/erratic-rains-linked-to-climate-crisis-shift-sowing-patterns-101628859235462.html
13-08-2021||India||BJP leaders sending feelers, says Harish Rawat ahead of 2022 Uttarakhand assembly polls||With the assembly polls to be held next year approaching, mind games have begun in Uttarakhand’s political space with senior Congress leader Harish Rawat claiming that some BJP leaders were in touch with his party. Party national general secretary and former Uttarakhand chief minister Rawat, who is the president of the election campaign committee for the 2022 polls, made the statement in a Facebook post as well as in an interview with a Hindi daily. Rawat in his latest remark had said that the party’s doors are open for “anyone willing to join it but after proper analysis”. “There are some leaders in the ruling BJP who are unhappy with the leadership and think they are not getting what they deserve there. Many of them are in touch with us which we won’t deny. Our doors are open for them except some who think they are too smart,” said Rawat without naming any BJP leader. Earlier before Rawat’s statement, the party leadership including state president Ganesh Godiyal had also hinted at something similar. Reacting to the statement by Rawat to whom he is reportedly close, Godiyal said, “He is a very senior and experienced leader of our party. If he is saying something, then there must be some reason behind it.” “About a month ago, when the BJP appointed Pushkar Singh Dhami as the new chief minister, the discontent among some of the leaders in BJP had come out in the open when senior leaders and cabinet ministers Satpal Maharaj and Harak Singh Rawat were clearly unhappy with the decision. There were even reports that a day after Dhami’s appointment, Maharaj and Rawat held a meeting following which other senior leaders had to pacify them. That fire hasn’t been doused yet,” said Godiyal. He, however added, “If anyone is willing to join the Congress from BJP, then the decision will be taken by the party leadership after proper analysis.Maharaj and Rawat had defected to the BJP from Congress in 2016 along with Subodh Uniyal, Rekha Arya and Yashpal Arya. All of them are cabinet ministers in the present BJP government. The state BJP leadership, however, refuted the claims of the Congress calling it a “bluff”.“It is just ridiculous that Congress which is in an existential crisis is claiming that our leaders are in touch with them. It has been already rejected by the people and is now a sinking ship. Which leader will like to jump in? All our leaders are united and determined to win the 2022 polls with a thumping majority by crossing the tally of 60 out of 70 seats,” said Vipin Kainthola, BJP state spokesperson. On the latest development, political analyst MM Semwal said that it is “more of a mind game ahead of the next elections”. “It is well known that Congress defectors including Satpal Maharaj and Harak Singh Rawat are not free in BJP as they were in Congress. But I don’t think they would be in touch with Harish Rawat. Apart from them, no other defector seems to be that unhappy in BJP,” Semwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leaders-sending-feelers-says-harish-rawat-ahead-of-2022-uttarakhand-assembly-polls-101628857074145.html
13-08-2021||India||24-year-old arrested from Saharanpur for creating fake voter IDs by hacking into ECI website, say police||A 24-year-old man from Uttar Pradesh's Saharanpur has been arrested for allegedly creating hundreds of fake voter IDs by hacking into the Election Commission of India’s website, state officials said on Friday.The Uttar Pradesh police on Thursday arrested Vipul Saini from Nakur town’s Maccharhedi village in Saharanpur district, news agency PTI reported. He has a Bachelor of Computer Applications (BCA) degree that he completed from the Gangoh village in Saharanpur and his father was a farmer, according to the police.However, the ECI has said that its database is "absolutely safe and secure," following the incident. "A data entry operator of one of the AERO (assistant electoral roll officers) offices had illegally shared his user ID and password with a private unauthorised service provider in Saharanpur's Nakud town to print some voter ID cards. Both these persons have been arrested," PTI quoted an ECI spokesperson.Also read | Noida to get 350-acre medical device park, provide employment to 20,000 people: UP govtFollowing the initial investigation, the police found that Saini had created more than 10,000 fake voter IDs over a time of three months, at the behest of a person named Armaan Malik from Madhya Pradesh. S Channappa, senior superintendent of police, Saharanpur, said that an amount of ₹100 to ₹200 per fake voter ID was paid to him, according to the PTI report. Also, on further examination of the bank account following Saini’s arrest, a sum of ₹60 lakh was found deposited in it, after which the account was immediately blocked. The police have seized two computers from Saini’s home and are also trying to find the source of the money and more details about Malik.Meanwhile, Saini had told the police that Malik used to send him the details about each day’s work. Further, the police also said that the authorities in Delhi would now seek the court’s permission to take Saini to the national capital for further investigation about the matter. He would be questioned about possible links with anti-national or terrorist forces, PTI further reported, citing the police.Former chief minister of UP and leader of the Samajwadi Party (SP) Akhilesh Yadav said that the scam should be investigated to know if it gets any state protection. “The news of a youth making a fake voter ID card by 'digital burglary' on the website of the UP Election Commission is very serious. There should be an investigation in the entire state for such scams, to know whether it is getting state shelter. It is not only a question of security of the Election Commission but also of dignity,” he tweeted on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24yearold-arrested-from-saharanpur-for-creating-fake-voter-ids-by-hacking-into-eci-website-say-police-101628855681599.html
13-08-2021||India||Several single use plastic products to be prohibited from July 1, 2022||The Union environment ministry has notified the Plastic Waste Management Amendment Rules, 2021, prohibiting the manufacture, import, stocking, distribution, sale, and use of certain single-use plastic items with low utility and high littering potential by 2022.At the 4th United Nations Environment Assembly held in 2019, India moved a resolution on addressing single-use plastic products pollution by 2022. Prime Minister Narendra Modi called on people to stop the use of single-use plastic bags in his Independence Day speech in 2019The manufacture, import, stocking, distribution, sale, and use of some single-use plastic products including polystyrene and expanded polystyrene shall be prohibited from July 1, 2022. These include earbuds with plastic sticks, plastic sticks for balloons, plastic flags, candy sticks, ice-cream sticks, polystyrene for decoration, plates, cups, glasses, cutlery such as forks, spoons, knives, straw, trays, wrapping or packing films used for sweet boxes, invitation cards, and cigarette packets, plastic or PVC banners less than 100 micron and stirrers.From September 30, 2021, the thickness of plastic carry bags will be increased from 50 microns to 75 microns and 120 microns. This will also allow the reuse of plastic carry bags due to an increase in thickness, an environment ministry statement said.The plastic packaging waste, which is not covered under the phase-out of identified single-use plastic items, shall be collected and managed in an environmentally sustainable way by producers, importers, and brand owners as per the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016. For effective implementation of Extended Producer Responsibility, the guidelines for it are being brought out and have been given legal force through Plastic Waste Management Amendment Rules, 2021, the ministry said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-single-use-plastic-products-to-be-prohibited-from-july-1-2022-101628855033908.html
13-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Domestic flights become costlier and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Domestic flights become costlier as Centre reviews airfare capThe civil aviation ministry has reviewed the price cap on domestic flight tickets increasing the price by 9 to 12 per cent. Flights under 40 minutes will now cost a minister of ₹2,900 instead o ₹2,600. Read more‘Can’t launch vaccine till…’: Serum MD talks of issues between FDA and NovavaxSerum Institute of India (SII) chairperson Cyrus Poonawalla said on Friday that there are issues between the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) and Novavax. Read moreECB to play leading role in pushing for cricket's inclusion in 2028 Los Angeles Olympics: Tom HarrisonWhen asked to explain ECB’s role further in speeding up the process of cricket's inclusion in the Olympics, Tom Harrison said it is a big opportunity for cricket’s growth. Read morePaparazzi spot Jeh Ali Khan for first time as he, Kareena Kapoor, Saif Ali Khan visit Randhir Kapoor's homeThe paparazzi in Mumbai got their first good look at Kareena Kapoor and Saif Ali Khan's baby, Jeh Ali Khan on Friday. The family paid her father Randhir Kapoor a visit at his new home in Bandra. Read moreNew-gen Royal Enfield Classic 350 launch date confirmedThe all-new Royal Enfield Classic 350 will be launched in India on August 27. The company has confirmed the details while sharing information on the first ride of the upcoming Classic 350. Read moreTaliban advance: Kandahar falls, governor flees; USA pleads to spare embassyAfghanistan seems to be on the brink of collapse. The Taliban has now managed to reportedly capture Kandahar, the country's second largest city whose governor fled as the terrorists took over. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-domestic-flights-become-costlier-and-all-the-latest-news-101628851848612.html
13-08-2021||India||Vehicle scrappage policy catalyst for change: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday formally launched the National Automobile Scrappage Policy and said it would provide a “new identity” for the automobiles sector, create job opportunities, prove beneficial for the common man, and help reduce India’s carbon footprint. The Prime Minister was virtually addressing an investors’ summit in Gujarat where the policy was launched in the presence of union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, who piloted the policy in Parliament earlier this year, and Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani.Modi also pitched the policy as a facilitator for Asia’s largest shipbreaking yard in Gujarat’s Bhavnagar to diversify into a vehicle scrapping hub. At least half a dozen investment MoUs were also signed at the summit in Gandhinagar. Also Read | UNSC: Reading India’s global signals rightThe Prime Minister called it a “waste-to-wealth mission” and went on to say that the implementation of the policy “will reduce pollution”. “The policy will bring investments worth more than ₹10,000 crore and, in the process, create employment opportunities for thousands of youngsters,” he said.The scrappage policy would have a catalytic effect on all sectors, he said. By helping remove unfit vehicles from roads and thus cutting emissions as well as reducing road accidents, the new policy is the Centre’s commitment to provide “clean, congestion-free and convenient mobility in the 21st century”, he said.Under the policy, those who give their old vehicle for scrap will be given a certificate. People with this certificate will not be charged any registration fee on the purchase of a new vehicle, said the PM, adding that such people will also be entitled for some rebate on road tax.He explained that a vehicle would not be scrapped merely because it was old. “Fitness tests will be conducted at scrappage centres, and only after that will it be scrapped, that too, applying scientific methods,” he said.Speaking on the occasion, Nitin Gadkari said, “With regular scrapping of (old and dilapidated vehicles), close to 99% of metal waste can be recovered. This will, in effect, bring down the cost of raw material by approximately 40%.” Among key benefits, Gadkari pointed out that this would make components less expensive and help global competitiveness. He added that, “With the increase in automobile sales, the government will earn ₹30,000 crore to ₹40,000 crore from GST (Goods and Services Tax),” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vehicle-scrappage-policy-catalyst-for-change-pm-modi-101628853653753.html
13-08-2021||India||Striped hyena spotted after 5 years in Corbett Tiger Reserve||A striped hyena has been spotted after five years in a camera trap placed in the Corbett Tiger Reserve, forest officials said. The elusive hyena was spotted in camera trap images set up to monitor the movement of wild animals and poachers in the park. “Hyenas are already in the park but they were spotted in the camera trap after five years. The last time, they were caught on camera was in Kalagarh in 2017. A scheme is underway for their protection in the park and their census is due in the month of October,” said Rahul (who goes by his first name), Director, Corbett National Park on Friday. Rahul said hyenas used to be in the park in ample numbers but later their numbers dipped as the number of tigers and leopards rose in the park. Forest officials feel that spotting hyenas after five years is a good sign for the park. “Hyenas have been spotted in Kalagarh, Sona river area and other areas and it is a good sign for the park. These are found across the country especially in sanctuaries,” said Rahul. The striped hyena (Hyaena hyaena), listed by the IUCN as near-threatened, is primarily a scavenger, but large hyenas are known to kill their prey. They are nocturnal and return to their lair before sunrise, which is why they are rarely sighted. The Corbett Tiger Reserve, which is spread across 1,288 square km, is one of the most popular tourist destinations in the state. The gates of the park open on November 15 every year for six months till mid-June. Corbett witnesses a footfall of around 300,000 tourists every year. There are 231 tigers inside CTR and 266 are using the reserve according to the latest report on tigers. This is the highest number of tigers across 50 tiger reserves in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/striped-hyena-spotted-after-5-years-in-corbett-tiger-reserve-101628853113682.html
13-08-2021||India||Delhi-Mumbai flight ticket to cost over ₹5,000 as Centre revises airfare||The civil aviation ministry has reviewed the price cap on domestic flight tickets increasing the price by 9 to 12 per cent. After the nationwide lockdown imposed in March 2020, when domestic flights resumed operations, the government fixed the upper and the lower limit of the airfares in an attempt to boost air traffic. While that cap has not still been withdrawn, the ministry has revised the lower and upper limit of the ticket prices, effectively bringing a hike in domestic airfare. This also makes the fourth hike According to the order, flights under 40 minutes of duration will now cost ₹2,900 – a hike f ₹300 from the previous fare of ₹2,600. This is an increase of 11.53 per cent, while the upper limit has been increased by 12.82 per cent from 7,800 to 8,880.  Flights with a duration between 40-60 minutes will cost a minimum of ₹3,700 instead of ₹3,300 and a maximum of ₹11,000 instead of ₹9,800.How much domestic flight tickets will actually costThe actual price, however, will be more than this as the caps mentioned by the government in its order does not include the passenger security fee, user development fee for the airports and the GST.The prices have been revised keeping in mind the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country, the ministry said.The revision comes at a time when domestic travel has picked momentum and with other countries relaxing lockdown restrictions on Indian flights, international passenger flights to several destinations are resuming. 4th hike in airfares this yearThis is the 4th time that the flight ticket prices have been revised. Ticket prices were revised in February, May and June. The hike is the air traffic fuel price is the reason for the consecutive hikes. Here's a comparison of the new fares and the old fares||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-flights-become-costlier-as-centre-reviews-airfare-cap-101628851109843.html
13-08-2021||India||‘Can’t launch vaccine till…’: Serum MD talks of issues between FDA and Novavax||In another indication that the launch in India of the second batch of Novavax’s vaccine candidate against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) could get delayed, Serum Institute of India (SII) chairperson Cyrus Poonawalla said on Friday that there are issues between the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) and Novavax. These issues, Poonawalla said, are likely to be cleared by October-end.“We can’t launch Novavax’s vaccine unless we get a license to launch it. The parent American company has some issues with the USFDA, which should be cleared by the end of October. We will get the license only when the company gets one from the FDA. We are trying to obtain the license ahead of the parent company, but it’s an uphill task,” the Serum chairman and MD said, according to news agency ANI.  Once they will get a license then we'll get a license. There are efforts to get the license before the parent company but it's an uphill task: Cyrus Poonawalla, Chairman & MD of Serum Institute of IndiaPoonawalla’s remarks are on the lines of those made by his son, Serum CEO Adar Poonwalla, who said last Friday that the company hopes to manufacture the vaccine, Covovax, for adults by October and by early 2022 for children.Also Read | 'Hope to launch Covovax for adults in October, in early 2022 for kids': Adar PoonwallaPune-based SII, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, has partnered with the American pharmaceutical firm to manufacture the latter’s coronavirus vaccine in India. SII manufactured the first batch of Covovax vaccines in June. The second batch, meanwhile, was expected to be manufactured in September.Also Read | SII to introduce Novavax vaccine in India by September: ReportNovavax has developed Covovax in partnership with the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI). The company said that its protein-based vaccine offered 100% protection against moderate and severe Covid-19, with an overall efficacy of 100%.Thus far, five coronavirus vaccines have been approved in India, of which two --Covaxin and Covishield-- were the first to be cleared, and are the two most prominently used shots. Covishield, just like Covovax, is manufactured by the SII and is the local name of the shot developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca Inc. India’s vaccination drive began on January 16 and a total of 529,582,956 doses have been administered till now, including 5,731,574 in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-launch-vaccine-till-serum-md-talks-of-issues-between-fda-and-novavax-101628850928346.html
13-08-2021||India||Maharashtra records third death due to Delta Plus variant||A 69-year-old fully vaccinated journalist has died of Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 at Nagothane in Maharashtra’s Raigad district, a health official said. He is the third person to die of this variant in Maharashtra. An 80-year-old woman from Ratnagiri was the first person in the state to succumb to the variant followed by a 63-year-old woman from Mumbai. Delta Plus, a mutation of the highly transmissible Delta variant, was detected in Maharashtra during the second Covid-19 wave. In June, the Union health ministry declared it as the variant of concern.The journalist suffered from multiple co-morbidities and was admitted to the civil hospital for nearly 17 days. He died on July 22.Civil surgeon Suhas Mane said the patient was fully vaccinated in May.This is Maharashtra’s third fatality linked to the Delta Plus variant- Maharashtra has recorded 65 cases of the Delta Plus variant. Each district has been mandated to send 100 samples of Covid-19 patients every month for genome sequencing for its detection. The journalist’s sample was among those sent from Raigad in July.A 44-year-old teacher from Uran was also found to have been infected with the Delta Plus variant after getting fully vaccinated. She recovered without any complications. During the contact tracing exercise, the Raigad health officials found four family members of the journalist and five close contacts of the teacher were infected with Covid-19. “We have sent their samples for genome sequencing. However, none of them had severe disease and all have recovered at home,” said Raigad’s district health officer Sudhakar More.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-third-death-due-to-delta-plus-variant-101628851013406.html
13-08-2021||India||No time for meet on caste census, Tejashwi says PM Modi insulted CM Nitish||Leader of Opposition in Bihar Assembly and Rashtriya Janata Party (RJD) Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Friday said it was an insult of chief minister Nitish Kumar if he had not been granted time by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the issue of a caste-based census. He said Kumar had assured the Opposition parties of seeking a meeting with the PM over the issue and is said to have written to Modi on August 4, but is yet to hear from the latter.“If he has not been granted time for a week now, somehow it is an insult to the CM,” the RJD leader was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier in the day, Yadav wrote to Modi and sought an appointment for the elected leaders from Bihar to discuss the contentious issue of the caste-wise census in the state. If the Centre fails to meet the Bihar parties’ demand, Yadav said, “We will be left with no option but to sit on dharna at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi.”On Thursday, Kumar said he was yet to receive any response to his letter, received by the Prime Minister's Office on August 4, requesting a meeting with Modi to discuss the issue. "The demand of the caste census is not just the demand from Bihar but other states also. Our party MPs had written a letter seeking time to meet the Prime Minister. The opposition parties in Bihar also wanted to meet the Prime Minister with us. We had written a letter to the Prime Minister regarding this," Kumar said."The letter was received at PMO on August 4. We have not received any reply from the Prime Minister's office yet. We want a caste-based Census and it is our long-standing demand. A caste-based Census will help all castes to get their exact numbers so that policies can be made accordingly. Caste census is in the interest of all. It is for the benefit of the country. It is the job of the central government to take a decision regarding the caste census. If the Prime Minister gives time, we will definitely discuss the issue. It is not a political issue but a social one," added Kumar.According to an NDTV report, Yadav said Kumar seemed to have been ignored by the Centre as the PM’s Twitter handle revealed he was meeting several other dignitaries. "When we look at the Prime Minister's Twitter handle, it seems he has time to meet others, but if he is not able to meet Nitish Kumar and a delegation of the entire leadership of Bihar Assembly on such an important issue...Can't say much, but he should have made time by now," he said, even as he wondered why the PM was ignoring the issue. The Bihat assembly has unanimously passed a resolution in favour of a caste-wise census twice in the past."Since both (Centre and Bihar) have NDA governments...we, the Opposition leaders of Bihar Assembly, without any bias, went and met the respected Chief Minister in his chambers. We said, ‘you seek some time (with the PM) and we will go and meet him’," Yadav was quoted as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-time-for-meet-on-caste-census-tejashwi-says-pm-modi-insulted-cm-nitish-101628849330781.html
13-08-2021||India||2 killed, 1 hurt as armed men posing as police open fire in Bihar’s Khagaria||Two people were killed and another injured when a group of armed men posing as police personnel attacked the residents of a house in Sakrohar village in Bihar’s Khagaria district late on Thursday night. The injured person has been admitted to a hospital in Begusarai and his condition is believed to be critical. Additional police forces have been sent to the site of the incident. Search parties were also sent out but the criminals managed to escape. The house allegedly belonged to a man called Dasrath Singh.Soon after the incident, police teams and administrative officials including Khagaria SP Amitesh Kumar as well as the district magistrate reached the spot. The police have started investigating the matter and believe that a land dispute probably led to the crime. According to the locals, when the men posing as police personnel knocked on the door of the house, a few family members came out and opened the door. As soon as they opened the door, the men began firing. “Dhananjay Singh (63) and Bijendra alias Bijay Singh (60) died on the spot, while their younger brother Pappu Singh suffered injuries last night when armed criminals dressed as police attacked Dasrath’s house,” SHO of Beldaur police station Achhe Lal Paswan said adding that eyewitnesses told him that nearly a dozen armed men dressed in police uniform fired at the family members. He also said that the villagers were not able to identify the men.Khagaria SP Amitesh Kumar told HT that preliminary investigation suggested that the reason behind the incident was probably a land dispute between the victims and their neighbour Pampam Singh. “We are probing the incident from all angles and the exact number of people involved in the murder will become clearer after inquiry,” he said.A case has been registered at the local police station and raids are being carried out to nab the culprits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-killed-1-hurt-as-armed-men-posing-as-police-open-fire-in-bihar-s-khagaria-101628849993671.html
13-08-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: Stalin's 1st budget reduces petrol price by ₹3 per litre||The DMK government will face a deficit of ₹1,160 crore a year, as the state government announced a major relief by reducing the petrol price by ₹3 per litre in the first budget of MK Stalin's government. "Tamil Nadu has 2.6 cores of people using two-wheelers. ₹3 is reduced in petrol by the Tamil Nadu government. Because of this government will face a ₹1,160 crores deficit," said finance minister Palanivel Thiagarajan. This is being seen as a masterstroke by Stalin at a time when fuel price is burning a hole in the pocket of the middle-class people across the country.Climate change was another important sector that got a huge outlay of ₹500 crore in the budget. Stalin's poll promise of providing a monthly amount of ₹1,000 to women members was also taken into account.Here are the top highlights of Stalin's first budget> Petrol price to become cheaper in the state by ₹3 per litre.>  ₹703 crore granted as subsidy for free bus travel for women.> Chief Minister's Insurance Scheme will be implemented from this year at a cost of ₹1,046 crore.> Chennai will get three new flyovers. Efforts will be taken to make Chennai poster-free.> Maternity leave period extended to 12 months from 9 months.> Chennai Metro Rail Phase 2 will be completed by 2025.>  ₹3,800 crore for rural housing.>  ₹1,725 crore has been allocated for theMGR lunch scheme for the year 2021-22.DMK government's first budget after coming to power in May was also the first paperless budget in the history of Tamil Nadu.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-stalin-s-1st-budget-reduces-petrol-price-by-rs-3-per-litre-101628849281980.html
13-08-2021||India||All India Radio to commemorate 75th Independence Day with spl series||All India Radio (AIR) will be broadcasting a series of programmes beginning August 16 for the next 75 weeks as a part of “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” initiative of the government. The initiative is aimed at celebrating “75 years of progressive India and the glorious history of its people, culture, and achievements.” The programmes will profile freedom fighters and give an account of major events of India’s struggle for independence. Doordarshan, the television arm of Prasar Bharati, India’s public service broadcaster,will also be taking part in the initiative. AIR director general NV Reddy told HT, “The aim of this initiative is to educate the current generation about the freedom struggle… The main effort of AIR is to bring out stories of the unsung heroes of the freedom struggle. The programmes will be broadcast from regional stations as well and we will be paying tributes to as many people as possible.”He added that regional stations will broadcast programmes in regional languages and will also be profiling the local heroes of the freedom struggle.Also Watch | Full dress rehearsal for Independence Day at Red Fort; high alert at LoC in J&KAs per the schedule, there will be quiz programmes of 75 episodes each by the national station of AIR as well as by 31 capital stations.There will also be a five-minute programme titled Dharohar which will be aired every Monday from August 23. This will contain speeches of eminent personalities such as Mahatma Gandhi, Subhas Chandra Bose, Sardar Vallabhai Patel, and Dr BR Ambedkar.A programme titled “Aparajita” will be aired every Tuesday. The five-minute programme, beginning August 24, will tell stories about the “guts and glory of 75 women” during the freedom struggle. Beginning August 25, every Wednesday will have a five-minute programme, “Nishaan”, bringing stories of 75 landmarks associated with the freedom movement.“The Unsung Heroes” will be aired every Thursday from August 26 highlighting the efforts of tribal leaders in the freedom struggle. All these programmes will be broadcast between 4.30pm and 5pm.DD will telecast a five-minute daily capsule from August 16 to recap the freedom events. National Film Development Corporation of India will also be streaming some iconic films such as “Gandhi”, “Making of Mahatma”, “Ghare Baire” on its streaming platform www.cinemasofindia.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-india-radio-to-commemorate-75th-year-of-independence-with-spl-series-101628849573319.html
13-08-2021||India||1 Covid patient in Karnataka infected 12 others: What it means amid 3rd wave threat||One Covid patient in Karnataka was spreading the infection to around 12 others in January this year, the state's serosurvey report, which has been published after much delay, has revealed. The findings of the second state serosurvey pertain to the beginning of the year, but the data might help epidemiologists to chart out the future course of action amid the threat of a third wave.Here are the top 10 findings of the Karnataka serosurvey1. Belagavi, Chamarajanagar, Mandya, Kodagu, Bagalkot Vijayapura, Ramanagara, Mysuru, Chitradurga reported a high transmission ratio.2. Mysuru reported the highest seroprevalence, followed by Madhya, Kodagu, Chamarajanagar and Kolar.Also Read: Around 250 cases in 5 days: Bengaluru sees spike of Covid cases among youth, children3. Before the second wave struck, at least 1 in 6 people had Covid antibodies as the second serosurvey has found 15.6 per cent seroprevalence in the state. 2. The study found Lower levels of IgG seroprevalence, mostly due to antibody waning.3. A substudy was done to confirm the antibody waning. This study was delayed due to rapid surge of cases in April. 4. We found near 0 prevalence of active cases during mid-February 2021.2/n 4. People between the age of 50 and 59 had the highest protection against Covid In January-February. The lowest protection was observed among people between the ages of 18 years and 29 years.5. At that time, Karnataka was far from attaining herd immunity or natural immunity.6. The serosurvey addressed the issue of antibody waning which is the drop in natural antibodies with time. Candidates who took part in the first serosurvey were also called in the second one and it was found that half of them, who earlier had antibodies, lost these antibodies in the intervening gap of three months.7. The study finds a near-0 prevalence of active cases during mid-February 2021, just before the second wave struck the state and the country.8. The subsequent surge in Covid cases in Karnataka in April was due to a "mix of alpha, delta, and a huge susceptible population", Dr Giridhara R Babu, state advisory committee member, said.9. The national serosurvey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research found that Karnataka has 69.8 per cent seroprevalence. 10. This all-India survey was done during the second wave of the pandemic. Combining the findings of both, experts are now identifying the weak links to work on amid the threat of the third wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-covid-patient-in-karnataka-infected-12-others-what-it-means-amid-3rd-wave-threat-101628846153940.html
13-08-2021||India||PM Modi launches National Automobile Scrappage Policy: All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched the long-awaited National Automobile Scrappage Policy, describing it as a “significant step towards Aatmabirbhar Bharat.” The policy, which PM Modi launched while virtually addressing the Investor Summit in Gujarat, was announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Budget speech in February.
13-08-2021||India||India has administered at least 528 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 528 million Covid vaccine doses by Thursday, August 12. In a related development, health minister Mansukh Mandaviya met World Health Organization chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan to discuss the global health body’s approval for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin among other issues, the minister said.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Thursday, 528,927,844 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 5,077,491 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 3,949,956 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 1,127,535 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine.In the 18-45 age group, 2,783,649 were given the first dose while 485,193 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 187,663,555 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 13,923,085 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Also Read | 98.2% of targeted population in Chandigarh vaccinated with first doseMadhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 10 million vaccine doses in the 18-45 years age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.
13-08-2021||India||Oppn & treasury benches like his two eyes, equal for him, says RS Chairman Naidu||Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday said the Opposition and Treasury benches in the Upper House of parliament are like his two eyes and are equal for him. His statement came a day after an interim report is said to have named some Opposition MPs for allegedly indulging in unruly behaviour and clashing with security personnel deputed there, while the latter have claimed the government was trying to defame them and had suppressed their voice in Parliament. The monsoon session was came to a premature end on Wednesday when it was adjourned ahead of schedule amid the turmoil.Naidu said a proper vision is possible with two eyes and he held both the sides in equal esteem and on many occasions, it was the collective responsibility for both the sides to enable smooth functioning of the House. The monsoon session of Parliament witnessed regular disruptions with the Opposition, led by the Congress, stuck to its demand on discussions and debates on issues like the Pegasus controversy, Covid-19 situation and months-long farmers’ protest.Also read | Monsoon session: India’s parliamentary democracy is in crisisThe legislatures were meant for debate and discussion and outside political battles should not be fought on the “Table of the House”, news agency ANI quoted Naidu as saying.When asked about the action being contemplated against some of the alleged unruly scenes in the Rajya Sabha during the monsoon session, Naidu said detailed consideration was being undertaken and an appropriate view would be taken at the earliest.Earlier, it was reported the Rajya Sabha Chairman was looking into past precedents and actions and whether the matter should be handed over to the privilege committee or a new panel should be formed.On some Bills being referred to the Select Committee of the House, he said whenever differences persist on such matters in the House, the House collectively takes a decision and the Chair cannot force it one way or the other.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla also met Naidu on Thursday and the two reviewed the "unfortunate sequence of events in parliament" during the Monsoon Session.The Vice President's Secretariat tweeted the duo expressed "deep concern" over the disruptive behaviour of some parliamentarians.Parliament sources said both the presiding officers felt that these incidents have dented the dignity and stature of the highest legislature in the country.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-treasury-benches-like-his-two-eyes-equal-for-him-rs-chairman-naidu-101628845348109.html
13-08-2021||India||Rajnath Singh launches various events to mark Independence Day||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday launched a number of events organised by the ministry of defence (MoD) and the armed forces ahead of the celebrations for the 75th year of India's Independence. “What kind of India do we build by 2047, on 100 years of Independence? We have to build 'Ek Bharat, Shreshth Bharat', a prosperous, self-reliant, self-respecting India, that doesn't attack any other country but gives a befitting reply to anyone who casts an eye on us,” Singh said at the launch event, according to news agency ANI.Singh said that 75 years ago India's freedom fighters took refuge in the mountains when required and today India is doing mountain campaigns on the same mountains.According to a statement issued by the ministry of defence, among other initiatives, the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) will be installing the tricolour at 100 islands on August 15 as a part of the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav'. Singh will also be launching various products and facilities to mark the occasion of the 75th year of the celebration of India's Independence.“These programmes have been organised by the ministry of defence to commemorate the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. It involves the concerted effort of all the departments. The feeling of national consciousness and national self-respect is the most powerful feeling,” Singh said.Singh also flagged off the mountainous expedition of the Indian Army. Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, who was also present on the occasion, said, “After Independence, our country faced attacks and we had to increase the capabilities of our armed forces and other security agencies to work together. Our country is a peace-loving nation but we faced some situations and we had to train our forces for war.”The Indian Army and various other organisations under the ministry of defence are organising various programmes across the nation to mark the 75th anniversary of India's Independence, reports news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-launches-various-events-to-mark-independence-day-101628833877868.html
13-08-2021||India||Kerala high court grants bail to 4 in ISRO spy case||The Kerala high court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to four former police and intelligence officers in the case related to the alleged framing of former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) scientist Nambi Narayanan in a 1994 espionage case.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in June booked former Intelligence Bureau (IB) deputy director RB Sreekumar and 16 other police personnel over the alleged conspiracy to frame Narayanan.A single bench of Justice Ashok Menon granted the bail to former Kerala police officers S Vijayan, Durgadutt as well as Sreekumar, and another former IB official S Jayaprakash. The CBI and two Maldivian women, who were also implicated in the case, opposed their bail pleas.Also Read | Cardinal must face trial in land deal matter: Kerala HCAdditional solicitor general SV Raju, who appeared for the CBI, told the high court that it was a serious case and some foreign agencies, including Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence, were involved in the conspiracy to sabotage the country’s cryogenic project that Narayanan was a part of in the 1990s.The court asked the agency to produce evidence in this regard. The CBI said it will produce the proof when the case progresses.The 16 were booked two months after the Supreme Court in April ordered the CBI to investigate the conspiracy behind the framing. It called the matter “serious” and said it requires “deeper investigation” into the role of the officers responsible. The top court accepted the report of a committee it constituted in 2018 to probe the circumstances that led to the alleged framing.Narayanan, 79, was arrested in 1994 in the alleged espionage case. He was exonerated two years later following a CBI closure report. The former police and intelligence personnel have been charged with conspiracy, framing of false evidence, and illegal custody.Narayanan has said the country suffered badly due to the case and the cryogenic project of ISRO was delayed because of itHe was arrested after his numbers were found in a diary recovered from the two Maldivian women arrested in 1994 on charges of overstaying in the country. Narayanan was later charged with espionage before he was acquitted in 1995 after a CBI inquiry. The Supreme Court ordered compensation for Narayanan and constituted the committee that recommended a central agency probe into the conspiracy angle.Sreekumar was on deputation with the IB when the case surfaced. He has maintained he had no role in the case and he never met or interrogated Narayanan. Some of the accused said they were not heard by the Supreme Court-appointed Jain Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-grants-bail-to-4-in-isro-spy-case-101628842552245.html
13-08-2021||India||Bihar guv clears all 8 Bills passed by assembly in monsoon session||Governor Phagu Chauhan has given his nod to all the eight Bills passed by the Bihar assembly during the monsoon session. Now they will be notified in the Bihar gazette as Acts.The Bills include Bihar Panchayati Raj (amendment) Bill, 2021, Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) (amendment) Bill, 2021, Bihar Appropriation Bill, 2021 and Bihar goods and services tax (amendment) Bill, 2021.Four other bills relate to universities and are Aryabhatt Knowledge University (amendment) Bill, 2021; Bihar Health Sciences University Bill, 2021; Bihar Sports University Bill, 2021; and Bihar Engineering University Bill, 2021.Also Read | Patna HC orders removal of encroachment as it reviews state’s NH projectsThe three new universities, two of which have been carved out of the Aryabhatt Knowledge University (AKU), have the provision for the chief minister as the Chancellor, unlike earlier when the Governor was the chancellor of all the state universities.With the Governor’s nod, decks may be cleared for the appointment of a vice-chancellor in AKU, which is now exclusively for new emerging fields like nano technology, stem cell, astronomy, environmental science and climate change, non-conventional energy, art & culture, philosophy, archaeology etc. “There is no date fixed yet, but the process for different universities is at various stages and the appointments will be made soon,” Robert L Chongthu, secretary to the governor, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-guv-clears-all-8-bills-passed-by-assembly-in-monsoon-session-101628841052285.html
13-08-2021||India||‘They want terror to continue’: Union minister Jitendra Singh hits out at ‘political nexus’ in J&K||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Friday hit out at what he called a “nexus of vested political interest” in Jammu and Kashmir while talking to reporters about the recent terror attack at a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader's residence in the Union territory's Rajouri district late on Thursday. “There is a nexus of vested political interest of persons or groups patronised by powers abroad and also a few of those who have made it rich overnight,” the minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Singh, who holds the minister of state (MoS) title for a number of departments including that of the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), said that a few of the aforementioned individuals who find it favourable for terrorism to continue in J&K are also a part of the “political class” that is contesting the local elections.“Some of them want the terrorism to continue because they have flourished over the last three decades in this kind of mayhem,” the minister said, “…even the political class who are contesting elections and getting elected as MPs and MLAs with just 10% voter turnout.”J&K police said on Friday that a two-year-old child was killed and six others were injured when a grenade was thrown at the residence of the BJP functionary in J&K’s Rajouri town late on Thursday.Jasbir Singh, the BJP functionary, his parents, and three other relatives are among those who suffered shrapnel injuries in the attack, they added. The deceased was a nephew of Singh's, the police added.This was not the first time that politicians, especially those belonging to the BJP, have been targeted in Jammu and Kashmir. The recent attack comes four days after a village head affiliated with the BJP and his wife were killed in Anantnag in the Kashmir Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-want-terror-to-continue-union-minister-jitendra-singh-hits-out-at-political-nexus-in-jk-101628839040024.html
13-08-2021||India||Want to hoist the tricolour this Independence Day? Here's the flag code||The Indian flag code was modified on January 26, 2002, and citizens were allowed to hoist the tricolour over their homes, offices and factories on any day and not just on national days. Citizens have to follow the rules and regulations about how to fly the national flag based on the legislation.Do's1. Section 2 of the new code accepts the right of all private citizens to fly the tricolour on their premises.2. A member of public, a private organisation or an educational institution may hoist or display the national flag on all days and occasions, ceremonial or otherwise consistent with the dignity and honour of tricolour.3. The tricolour may be hoisted in educational institutions such as schools, colleges, sports camps, scout camps, etc to inspire respect for the national flag.4. An oath of allegiance has been included in the tricolour hoisting in schools.Don'ts1. The tricolour cannot be used for communal gains, drapery, or clothes.2. The tricolour should be flown from sunrise to sunset, irrespective of the weather, as far as possible.3. The tricolour can't be intentionally allowed to touch the ground or the floor or trail in thewater. It can't be draped over the hood, top, and sides or back of vehicles, trains, boats or aircraft.4. No other flag or bunting can be placed higher than the tricolour.5. No object, including flowers or garlands or emblems, can be placed on or above the tricolour.6. The tricolour can't be used as a festoon, a rosette or a bunting.(Source: Knowindia.gov.in)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-to-hoist-the-tricolour-this-independence-day-here-s-the-flag-code-101628838824792.html
13-08-2021||India||BJP-CPI (M) clashes leave five people injured in Tripura||The Tripura Police have registered three cases after at least five people, including two police officers, were injured in clashes between supporters of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI(M) in Khowai district on Thursday evening. CPI (M) and BJP lodged cases blaming each other for the clashes.“The cases were lodged late night. Two police officials received injuries. We are investigating the matter,” said Khowai district sub-divisional police officer Rajib Sutradhar.Also Read | Ambassa clash: BJP to observe ‘Dhikkar Diwas’ to protest against TMC leadersThe clashes started after CPI (M) activists were returning from a rally at Lalcherra. The CPI (M) said two of its activists were injured in an attack by BJP supporters.Its supporters later allegedly demolished a boundary wall of an under-construction party office of the BJP. The BJP supporters allegedly ransacked a CPI (M) office in retaliation.CPI (M) secretary Goutam Das said they have lodged complaints regarding attacks on their leaders and activists, but police have taken no action. “We condemn this and demand proper action.”The BJP blamed the CPI (M) for the violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpcpi-m-clashes-leave-five-people-injured-in-tripura-101628840032023.html
13-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi launches National Automobile Scrappage Policy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Significant milestone towards Aatmanirbhar Bharat’Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday virtually addressed the Investor Summit in Gujarat, launching the National Automobile Scrappage Policy on the occasion. Read moreBihar to ramp up oxygen generation, storage by August 31Bihar is expected to generate 117 metric tonnes of medical oxygen daily by August 31 and ramp up its storage capacity to 310-kilo litre in anticipation of a possible third Covid-19 wave. Read moreEngland pacer Ollie Robinson reveals how his plan against Kohli workedKohli hasn't scored a century in 48 innings and he looked set for a big score at Lord's before Ollie Robinson sent him back to the pavilion. Read moreRubina Dilaik enjoys the rain in ₹999 co-ord set, don't miss Abhinav Shukla's commentRubina Dilaik slays monsoon dressing in a co-ord backless crop top and shorts set, worth ₹999, as she enjoys in the rain for a shoot. Don't miss her husband, Abhinav Shukla's comment. Read moreRaveena Tandon posts daughter Rasha's report card on InstagramRaveena Tandon is a proud mom after her daughter Rasha scored straight As in all her subjects at school. Raveena posted the report card on Instagram, along with a video of Rasha dancing with joy. Read moreMumbai Police reacts to bike stunt video, rewards riders by booking themIf you are a regular user of social media, chances are you are aware of the various posts that Mumbai Police often shares. Among them are cautionary posts that remind people to be safe. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-launches-national-automobile-scrappage-policy-and-all-the-latest-news-101628837155306.html
13-08-2021||India||High Covid case count in dists with tourist spots cause for concern in Bengal||West Bengal is recording a high daily count of Covid-19 cases in districts with popular tourist destinations, leading to the speculation that tourism could be causing the spike, even as the overall daily count of the state is hovering between 600 and 800. Prominent among the districts where Covid cases have been found to be on the higher side, are Darjeeling and Purba Medinipur. While Darjeeling is a popular hill station in north Bengal, tourists flock to the sea beaches of Digha and Mandarmani in Purba Medinipur. “The number of cases in districts such as Darjeeling and Purba Medinipur is on the higher side. This could be because of tourists. Even though local trains continue to remain suspended, long distance trains and buses are plying,” said an official.The number of cases in Kolkata and its adjoining districts such as North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly has always been higher than the rest of the districts. While districts like Purulia, Jhargram, Murshidabad, Uttar Dinajpur, Dakshin Dinajpur reported not more than 15 cases on Thursday, Darjeeling and Purba Medinipur recorded 74 and 48 cases. Kolkata, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas recorded 77, 88 and 68 cases respectively. “The higher number of cases in Darjeeling could also be because it includes Siliguri which is a trading hub in north Bengal,” said another official. “The district administrations have already taken some strict measures to restrict the flow of tourists. Tourists are not being allowed without a Covid-negative RT-PCR test report or vaccination certificate in several districts, including Purba Medinipur, Darjeeling, Birbhum and South 24 Parganas,” said a senior official of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-covid-case-count-in-dists-with-tourist-spots-cause-for-concern-in-bengal-101628838591874.html
13-08-2021||India||3 deaths in Maharashtra due to Delta Plus variant: What we know so far||Maharashtra has reported three deaths so far due to the Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus from Ratnagiri, Mumbai and Raigad districts. This comes after the Maharashtra health department on Wednesday said that cases of Delta Plus variant have reached 65 in the state.One death was reported in the Raigad district on Friday due to the Delta Plus variant. The deceased was a 69-year-old man in the Nagothane area of the district, Raigad collector Nidhi Chaudhary was cited as saying news agency ANI.According to the civic body, Mumbai has recorded its first death due to the Delta Plus variant with a 63-year-old fully vaccinated woman succumbing to it in July. The woman had several comorbidities, including diabetes. She was one of seven patients in the city who recently tested positive for the Delta Plus variant, according to initial information provided by the civic health officials.Last month, an 80-year-old woman from Maharashtra's Ratnagiri district became the first Covid-19 patient in the state to succumb to the Delta Plus variant.What do we know so far about the Delta Plus variant?1. The Delta Plus (AY.1) is a mutation of the highly transmissible Delta variant of Sars-CoV-2 (B.1.617.2). It was detected in Maharashtra during the second wave of coronavirus. The Union health ministry declared it as a variant of concern in July.2. Amid growing cases of Delta Plus in Maharashtra, which currently stands at 65, medical experts have stressed the need to ramp up the Covid-19 vaccination process.3. Suchitra Ella, joint managing director of Bharat Biotech, on Thursday said that Covaxin has shown 65 per cent efficacy against the B.1.617.2 or the Delta variant. “Supplied 75 million doses of Covaxin, more to be supplied in August. Our vaccine has 65 per cent efficacy against Delta. Our second site is at its Ankleshwar-based manufacturing plant. Sample batches are ready, it will go to CDL Kasauli this month for quality testing,” news agency ANI quoted Ella as saying.4. Dr Lancelot Pinto, epidemiologist and pulmonologist of Hinduja Hospital, has said the Delta Plus variant, in addition to having mutations seen in the Delta variant that renders it potentially more transmissible than the Alpha variant. “What experience from across the world has consistently shown us is that when rates of vaccination are high, even if variants cause surges in infections, such infections tend to be of a milder nature and do not cause hospitalisations or deaths on a large scale. We also need to do our best to limit crowds, as overcrowding has consistently led to spread over the past 18 months,” said Dr Pinto.5. The Maharashtra government has said that out of the newly detected cases of the Delta Plus variant, seven were in Mumbai, three in Pune, two each in Nanded, Gondia, Raigad, Palghar, and one each in Chandrapur and Akola districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-deaths-in-maharashtra-due-to-delta-plus-variant-what-we-know-so-far-101628836292909.html
13-08-2021||India||Militant killed, gunfight ends on national highway in J&K’s Kulgam||Security forces killed a Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militant on Friday morning, ending the overnight gunfight in Kulgam on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway. The other militant reportedly escaped.Two security personnel and two civilians were wounded in the exchange of fire between militants and forces. Police said a major tragedy was averted ahead of the Independence Day. Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said the national highway will be restored for traffic shortly.On Thursday, police said two LeT militants were hiding in a building adjacent to the Jammu-Srinagar national highway. The militants got trapped inside after they fired at the Border Security Force convoy on the highway at Malpora in Kulgam.Also Read | Army organises community classes for students living near LoC in J-K’s RajouriThere has been a spurt in militant attacks in Kashmir ahead of Independence Day celebrations on August 15.On Tuesday, 10 civilians were injured in a grenade attack by suspected militants in Srinagar. The militants attempted to hurl the grenade towards a bunker vehicle of paramilitary SSB forces but it exploded on the roadside.On Monday, BJP’s Kisan Morcha president of Kulgam, Ghulam Rasool Dar, and his wife died after militants fired bullets at the couple in the Lal Chowk area of Anantnag in south Kashmir.Ahead of Independence Day, security has been beefed up around Kashmir and forces have set up additional checking points on major highways leading to rural parts of Kashmir. Even pedestrians are being frisked at many places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/militant-killed-gunfight-ends-on-national-highway-in-j-k-s-kulgam-101628837571644.html
13-08-2021||India||India joins other nations to assert govt forced on Afghanistan won’t be recognised||India has joined Germany, Qatar and Turkey in calling for an immediate ceasefire in Afghanistan and asserting that any government imposed by military force in Kabul will not be recognised. A statement issued by Qatar following a meeting of special envoys and representatives of India, Germany, Norway, Qatar, Tajikistan, Turkey and Turkmenistan in Doha on Thursday also highlighted the urgent need to accelerate the process to find a negotiated settlement in Afghanistan. The Taliban captured Kandahar and Herat, Afghanistan’s second and third largest cities, and the strategic provincial capital of Ghazni on Thursday, increasing the pressure on the beleaguered government in Kabul weeks before the US completes the drawdown of its troops. The Taliban have so far taken 12 out of 34 provincial capitals and the capture of Ghazni has cut off the highway between Kabul and the southern city of Kandahar. Also Read | Kabul in Taliban’s cross-hairs make Doha peace talks redundantThe statement from Qatar’s foreign ministry said two separate meetings on Afghanistan – one joined by the representatives of China, Uzbekistan, the US, Pakistan, the UK, Qatar, the UN and the European Union on August 10, and another of the representatives of Germany, India, Norway, Qatar, Tajikistan, Turkey and Turkmenistan on August 12 – had agreed that the participants “will not recognize any government in Afghanistan that is imposed through the use of military force”. The countries also agreed on the need to accelerate the Afghan peace process as a “very urgent and essential issue for negotiating concrete proposals from both sides”. The participants urged the Taliban and the Afghan government to “build trust and accelerate efforts to reach a political settlement and comprehensive ceasefire as quickly as possible”, and to stop “violence and attacks immediately in and against provincial capitals and other cities”. The countries also noted “converging statements” from both sides on certain principles for a political settlement, such as inclusive governance, respect for human rights, including the rights of women and minorities, a mechanism to deliver a representative government, a commitment to not allow any individuals or groups to use Afghan soil to threaten the security of other countries, respect for international law. The meeting also expressed “grave concerns” about reports from across Afghanistan regarding continued violence, high civilian casualties and extra-judicial killings, widespread and credible allegations of human rights violations, and the destruction of physical infrastructure that perpetuate conflict and make reconciliation efforts more difficult. As part of desperate efforts to counter the Taliban’s advance, UN Security Council members Estonia and Norway drafted a statement to condemn the group’s attacks on cities and towns that have resulted in high civilian casualties. According to Reuters, the draft statement, which is being discussed by Security Council members and has to be agreed by consensus by the 15-member body, also threatens sanctions for abuses and acts that risk Afghanistan’s peace and stability. The text also “strongly affirms that the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan is not recognised at the United Nations and declares that it does not and will not support the establishment of any government in Afghanistan imposed through military force or restoration of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan”. This is largely in line with the position taken by India, which holds the rotating presidency of the UN Security Council for August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-joins-other-nations-to-assert-government-forced-on-af-won-t-be-recognised-101628837031724.html
13-08-2021||India||‘Significant milestone towards Aatmanirbhar Bharat’: PM Modi launches National Automobile Scrappage Policy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday virtually addressed the Investor Summit in Gujarat, launching the National Automobile Scrappage Policy on the occasion. The scrappage policy, he said, is a “significant milestone” towards Aatmanirbhar Bharat.Also Read: PM Modi to address Investor Summit in Gujarat today“The scrappage policy will provide a new identity to the country's auto sector. It will play a huge role in removing unfit vehicles from roads, and bring a positive change in all sectors and not just auto sector,” Prime Minister Modi said. The central government, he explained, has taken this step as the country, in the 21st century, needs “clean, congestion-free and convenient mobility.”Describing it as a “waste-to-wealth mission,” the Prime Minister further remarked that the policy is an important part of the circular economy. “It will reduce pollution from our cities and also reflects the government's commitment towards rapid development. The policy will bring investments worth more than ₹10,000 crore and, in the process, create employment opportunities for thousands of youngsters,” he said.“In two days, we will celebrate our 75th Independence Day, but the next 25 years will also be very important as, during this period, our day-to-day lives will undergo significant changes due to technology,” PM Modi further said, adding that the government's effort is to ensure that development is “sustainable and environment-friendly.”He then listed out five ways in which the scrappage policy will be beneficial to the common man. “Firstly, a certificate will be given on scrapping of the old car, which will ensure that an individual does not have to pay registration fees while buying a new car. He will also get discount in road tax. Secondly, a person will save money on maintenance cost, repair cost and fuel efficiency of the old car,” PM Modi elaborated.The third and fourth benefits, he said, are that it will reduce road accidents and offer protection from effects from pollution, respectively. “A vehicle will not be scrapped just because it is old. Fitness tests will be conducted at scrappage centres and only after that will it be scrapped, that too, as per scientific methods,” PM Modi said, describing the fifth and final benefit.The Investor Summit has been jointly organised in Gujarat's Capital city of Gandhinagar by the Union ministry of transport and national highways and the state government. Union minister of transport Nitin Gadkari and Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani also spoke at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/investor-summit-gujarat-pm-modi-launches-national-automobile-scrappage-policy-101628833397893.html
13-08-2021||India||Major crisis averted before Independence Day: Security forces on J&K encounter||Security forces on Friday gunned down a terrorist belonging to the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) during an encounter in Jammu and Kashmir's (J&K)'s Kulgam district, which began on Thursday afternoon. Two security personnel and two civilians were reported to have been injured in the shooting.Kashmir's inspector-general of police (IGP) Vijay Kumar said that a “major tragedy” was averted just days before India celebrates its 75th Independence Day on August 15 with the conclusion of the Kulgam encounter.Also Read | Forces claim to have foiled terror plot in Jammu and Kashmir before I-Day“Kulgam Encounter Update: Operation is over now,” the Kashmir Zone police tweeted on Friday morning. Quoting the IGP Kashmir, the police department said, “A major tragedy has been averted before Independence Day.”According to the security officials, the LeT terrorists fired upon a Border Security Force (BSF) convoy on Thursday, triggering the encounter. Soon, senior officers of J&K police, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), and the Indian Army rushed to the spot to provide backup and cordoned off the area. The encounter continued throughout the night."Around 3pm [on Thursday], terrorists fired upon the convoy of BSF on the Srinagar-Jammu National Highway near Malpora Mir Bazar area of Kulgam. However, the fire was retaliated by an ROP (road opening party) of the police and security forces," a police spokesperson was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Also Read | BJP leader Gulam Rasool Dar, his wife shot dead by terrorists in J&K's Anantnag“The search proved difficult at night,” the security officials said. “So we searched this morning. The body of a Pakistani terrorist, identified as Usman, was recovered. An AK47, a grenade, and a rocket launcher have been found.” According to IGP Kashmir, the incriminating materials retrieved from the site show that a major incident was about to take place.“The force party ensured not to give any chance to the terrorists to escape,” a police spokesperson said. “The terrorists managed to take shelter in a nearby huge building. The holed-up terrorists fired indiscriminately upon the joint party of police and security forces which was retaliated.”All the injured have been taken to a hospital for treatment, security officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-crisis-averted-before-independence-day-security-forces-on-j-k-encounter-101628830257897.html
13-08-2021||India||Many Twitter accounts locked, Congress falls back on other online platforms||The Congress leadership has fallen back on other online platforms after nearly 5,000 Twitter accounts, including those of several senior leaders and the party’s official handle, were temporarily locked on Thursday after they shared a photograph of Rahul Gandhi meeting a minor rape victim’s family in Delhi. Gandhi’s account was locked on Saturday. The party has attacked the Union government for scuttling free speech even as Twitter maintained it “impartially” enforces its rules and terms of service.Most Congress leaders and workers have changed profile pictures and names of their Twitter handles to that of Rahul Gandhi over the locking of his profile.“They can lock us out on a platform, but they can’t lockout our voice for the sake of people,” Gandhi said in an Instagram post after his Twitter handle was locked. Gandhi added that “if fighting for justice of a rape and murder victim is a crime, then I am guilty.”He said his Twitter account was locked out because all he had done was shown empathy and compassion towards the victim of rape. “Fear not as the truth alone shall win.”A hashtag #TwitterBJPseDarGaya (Twitter is afraid of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party) also trended following the locking of Twitter handles.Congress also put out a video on its YouTube channel condemning Twitter’s action while “none in the government bothered to utter a word on the rape and murder of the Dalit minor”. The party said Gandhi could not stop himself from meeting the parents of the victim while criticising the government over its alleged inaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/many-twitter-accounts-locked-congress-falls-back-on-other-online-platforms-101628833311155.html
13-08-2021||India||Twitter is attacking democracy, interfering in political process: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday called Twitter a “biased platform” and said that the social media network is interfering in India's political process. “This is not an attack on Rahul Gandhi or simply about shutting Rahul Gandhi down. This is an attack on the democratic structure of the country,” the Congress leader said.Rahul Gandhi made the remarks in a video statement titled “Twitter's Dangerous Game”, which he posted from his official handle on YouTube. The statement comes in the wake of Twitter temporarily locking several Congress leaders out of their accounts for sharing a photograph of the family of a nine-year-old rape victim in Delhi. Accounts of Randeep Singh Surjewala, Ajay Maken, Sushmita Dev, and Manickam Tagore were among those temporarily locked, Congress functionaries aware of the matter said.“I have some 19 to 20 million followers, you are denying them the right to an opinion,” Gandhi said. “It is not only patently unfair but also breaching the idea that Twitter is a neutral platform.”Also Read | 'We challenge you': Congress to Twitter over Rahul Gandhi's locked accountThe Congress leader said that such actions by a social media platform are “very dangerous” for investors since taking sides in a political context always has repercussions. He said that at a time when India's “democracy is under attack”, Twitter is proving to be a “biased platform” which “listens to what the government of the day says”.“The democracy is under attack, we are not allowed to speak in the Parliament, the media is controlled and I thought there was a ray of light where we could put what we thought on Twitter,” Rahul Gandhi said. “But that is not the case, it is now obvious that Twitter is a biased platform and it's something that listens to what the government of the day says.”Twitter, however, insists that it enforces its rules “judiciously and impartially” and added it has taken proactive action over several hundred tweets that posted the image in violation of its rules. A spokesperson for the social media platform confirmed that “(Twitter)...may continue to do so in line with our range of enforcement options.”On its part, Twitter said that “certain types of private information carry higher risks than others” and that it was the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), which alerted the company about the specific content on the platform allegedly revealing the identity of the alleged sexual assault victim and her parents. It added the matter was reviewed in line with Twitter rules as well as the concerns expressed as per Indian law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-is-attacking-democracy-interfering-in-political-process-rahul-gandhi-101628831407033.html
13-08-2021||India||India’s renewable energy capacity crosses 100 gigawatts||India’s renewable energy capacity has crossed the milestone of 100 gigawatts (GW), the government said in a statement on Thursday. “Today India stands at 4th position in the world in terms of installed RE capacity, 5th in solar, and 4th in wind in terms of installed capacity,” the statement added.This is an important milestone given India has a power generation capacity of 383.73 GW. While the country has been resisting the pressure of declaring a net-zero emission goal and calling out nations on their carbon-neutral intent announcements, its green energy trajectory has been on an upswing.“Another landmark day in the history of the Indian Power Sector. Our installed Renewable Energy capacity (excluding large Hydro) has crossed 1,00,000 Megawatts. Under the visionary leadership of PM @narendramodi Ji, we shall continue to be global leaders in Energy Transition,” Union power and new and renewable energy minister Raj Kumar Singh said in a tweet.Also Read | India records 40,120 new Covid-19 infections, active cases fall to 385,227The statement said while 100 GW has been installed, 50 GW is under installation and 27 GW is under tendering. “India has also enhanced its ambition to install 450 GW of renewable energy capacity by 2030. If large hydro is included the installed RE capacity increases to 146 GW.”The government’s plans face the problem of the paucity of funds. According to a Parliamentary report released in March, India needs ₹2,61,000 crore more to fund the balance energy capacity and achieve the target of 175 GW by 2022. However, the average annual investment in this sector has been as low as ₹82,300 crore over the last five years.The report said since the Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency (IREDA) is the only dedicated public sector financial institution for financing renewable energy projects, it must gear up to take up the extra responsibility. It said that the IREDA should make available necessary capital for installation of renewable energy projects so that they are not held up due to non-availability of funds.The report asked the ministry of new and renewable energy to mobilise “more long-term financing and concessional loans through multilateral and bilateral agencies as far as possible”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-renewable-energy-capacity-crosses-100-gigawatts-101628828510812.html
13-08-2021||India||‘I wanted to touch the stars’: Air India pilot Zoya Agarwal inspires women to dream big||Captain Zoya Agarwal, who first made headlines in January for commanding an all-women team piloting India's longest non-stop commercial flight from San Francisco to Bengaluru, is now breaking other records in her flight career. Captain Agarwal added another feather to her cap this week when she was chosen by the United Nations as its spokesperson for Generation Equality. In a first, the UN also featured India and Air India on International Youth Day to spread awareness among the youth.“I am so humbled and privileged,” news agency ANI quoted Captain Zoya Agarwal as saying. “I have represented our country as the flag carrier of Air India on a platform like UN women, which is so close to my heart." She said that she was honoured to carry the national flag all across the world with “pride and humility”.Humbled to be part of @UN_Women with brilliant youth icon @GretaThunberg who Inspires me!The idea of #sustainability and reducing #CarbonFootprint led to the Record all women’s flight over the North Pole turning a new leaf in Aviation History and paving way for a Greener Planet. pic.twitter.com/oududmtM0qInspiring the next generation of women to never give up on their dreams, Captain Zoya Agarwal said that when everyone around tried to dissuade her from achieving what she wanted, she kept believing in herself and stayed focused.“My dream started when I was eight years old, I wanted to touch the stars,” said Air India pilot Zoya Agarwal while speaking to reporters.“I come from a place where I was not even allowed to have such dreams," she said. “I relied on my inner voice which guided me throughout and motivated me to believe that nothing is impossible."Every woman should dream and believe in themselves to accomplish them, she said, irrespective of the difficulties. “Work hard, stay focused and dedicated, give your 100 per cent but never give up.”Captain Agarwal, who is now the commander of Air India flying the Boeing 777 aircraft all over the world, said, “I am possible”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-wanted-to-touch-the-stars-air-india-pilot-zoya-agarwal-inspires-women-to-dream-big-101628822913731.html
13-08-2021||India||India records 40,120 new Covid-19 infections, active cases fall to 385,227||India recorded 40,120 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 32,117,826, and its death toll climbed to 4,30,254 with 585 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday.Active cases of Covid-19 declined to 385,227 in the same period, according to data released by the health ministry at 8am. The number of people who have recuperated from the coronavirus disease surged to 31,302,345, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it said. The national Covid-19 recovery rate improved to 97.45 per cent.As many as 19,70,495 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Thursday, taking the total number of tests so far to 48,94,70,779, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The health ministry informed that the cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country have exceeded 528.9 million.More than 540.4 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union territories so far, and 1,09,83,510 additional doses are in the pipeline, the Union health ministry said on Thursday.The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination began on June 21. The vaccination drive has been increased through the availability of more vaccines. The government has been supporting the states and Union territories by providing them Covid-19 vaccines for free. The health ministry stated that the vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the nation from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level.Experts have predicted a possible third wave of Covid-19 could hit the nation by the end of this month. The recent spike in Covid-19 cases has been mostly led by the highly transmissible Delta variant of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-40-120-new-covid-19-infections-active-cases-fall-to-385227-101628818188968.html
13-08-2021||India||Rajasthan educational institutions to reopen from September 1||Schools, colleges, universities, and coaching institutes will reopen in Rajasthan with 50% capacity from September 1, the home department said in a notification on Thursday. The schools will be open for Class IX to XII students where online classes will continue for the rest. The educational institutes were closed in view of the second Covid-19 wave in April this year.The department said all teaching and non-teaching staff should have received at least one vaccine dose. It added the students, who will attend regular classes, will have to submit written consent from their parents and that no student will be forced to attend offline classes. Online classes will continue for those who do not want to attend the regular classes.No morning assembly will be allowed in schools whereas all other guidelines related to Covid-19 for maintaining social distancing and hygiene will have to be followed.The state government earlier formed a ministerial committee for holding discussions about the reopening of educational institutes and the decision to reopen them was taken on the basis of its recommendations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-educational-institutions-to-reopen-from-september-1-101628826110440.html
13-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Nationwide Fit India Freedom Run 2.0 campaign launched as part of I-Day celebrations||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Anurag Thakur launches Fit India Freedom Run 2.0 as part of I-Day celebrationsUnion minister of youth affairs and sports Anurag Thakur on Friday launched the nationwide Fit India Freedom Run 2.0 programme as part of the Independence Day celebrations - Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. Read More Infra and maritime security top agenda at virtual Quad meetingSenior officials of the four members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad on Thursday discussed ways to take forward cooperation in areas such as infrastructure, maritime security and humanitarian aid in order to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific. Read MoreUNSC mulling over draft statement condemning Taliban offensive: ReportThe United Nations Security Council (UNSC) is mulling over a draft statement that would condemn the recent Taliban attacks on cities and towns in Afghanistan and warn of sanctions against the insurgents. Read MoreIndia vs England: 'No boss, I don't have any time': Rohit Sharma clears two misconceptions people have about his battingRohit Sharma is the only batsman in the world to have scored three double-centuries in ODIs. Read MoreTamannaah Bhatia serves strong 70s vibes in Sabyasachi x H&M bralette and denimsActor Tamannaah Bhatia keeps treating her fans with dreamy pictures of herself that often are a testament to her sartorial prowess. Read MoreModern Love 2 review: Amazon series returns with fewer bad eggs, more sugar; Kit Harington deserves rom-com franchiseLanding on Modern Love in 2019 was simple accident. Armed with a fresh Amazon Prime subscription, the heart was looking for something soothing, and this anthology of romances offered significant relief. Read MoreWatch: Cargo ship splits in two off Japan coast, oil spills into the sea||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-nationwide-fit-india-freedom-run-2-0-campaign-launched-as-part-of-i-day-celebrations-101628824222166.html
13-08-2021||India||Maharashtra logs 6,388 fresh Covid cases, 208 deaths||As the state government decided to ease the lockdown, many experts have expressed their apprehension and suggested to be cautious in the backdrop of an impending third wave. The state on Thursday recorded 6,388 cases and 208 deaths. The case tally has now reached 6,375,390, while the toll stands at 134,572.There were 210,675 tests done on Thursday, while the number of recoveries were 8,390. There are currently 62,351 active cases across the state of which Pune tops with 14,423, followed by Sangli with 7,027, and Satara with 6,573. Mumbai clocked 281 new Covid-19 cases with seven deaths. The city’s tally has reached 738,520 with 15,975 deaths to date.According to Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor, Maharashtra government for Covid-19 management, such easing of curbs should be done in a staggered manner. “We should first open up districts having fewer cases and low positivity rate,” said Dr Salunkhe. “These areas should be strictly monitored and in case of any surge in cases, the patients need to be isolated,” he said.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in his Sunday address, warned the citizens that the pandemic is still not over. He said that people should take care especially during upcoming festival season.From August 15, malls have been given the green signal to open their premises. In addition, hotels and restaurants have been given an extension of timings till 10pm from the previous 4pm. Even weddings in lawns have been allowed with 200 people and in a closed environment, 100 guests or 50% capacity of the hall, whichever is higher.According to Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, the twin approach of mass vaccination and strict action against those who defy the Covid-appropriate behaviour should be adopted by the government. “There is no doubt that the relaxations are necessary, but at the same time, the government needs to deal strictly with those who don’t obey the rules and endanger the lives of others,” said Dr Gilada. “If there is a shortage of vaccines, then the vulnerable section should be vaccinated first,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-logs-6-388-fresh-covid-cases-208-deaths-101628823890410.html
13-08-2021||India||Widespread, heavy rain likely over east UP, Bihar, Himachal, U’khand till Aug 15||Widespread rain is likely to continue over east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and northeastern states till August 15. Thereafter, widespread and heavy rain will pick up over Odisha and coastal Andhra Pradesh due to likely formation of a low pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal, according to India Meteorological Department.The monsoon trough is lying to the north of its normal position. Western end of the monsoon trough is very likely to remain north of its normal position during the next five days. However, its eastern end is likely to shift gradually southwards from August 15 onwards.A cyclonic circulation is lying over west Bihar and its neighbourhood. It is likely to persist during the next 48 hours and become less marked thereafter. Strong lower level southwesterly winds from the Bay of Bengal to Northeast India are likely to continue during the next four days. A cyclonic circulation is likely to form over westcentral and adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal around August 15 and may lead to formation of a low pressure area over the same region during the subsequent 48 hours. Also Read | Delhi to see partly cloudy sky today, mercury to remain high: IMDUnder the influence of theses systems,current spell of widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely to continue over northeast India and sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim till August 15. Isolated extremely heavy rain is also likely over Assam and Meghalaya during August 12 and 13. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rain is very likely to continue over east Uttar Pradesh and Bihar till August 14 and reduce thereafter. Isolated very heavy rain is likely over east Uttar Pradesh and Bihar on August 12.Scattered to widespread rainfall is very likely over Western Himalayan region during the next five days. Isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand till August 15.Under the influence of likely formation of cyclonic circulation over westcentral and adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal around August 15 and subsequent formation of a low pressure area during the next 48 hours, widespread rainfall activity is likely over Odisha, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Vidarbha, and Chhattisgarh. Heavy to very heavy rain is likely over Odisha and coastal Andhra Pradesh till August 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-heavy-rain-likely-over-east-up-bihar-himachal-u-khand-till-aug-15-101628823410291.html
13-08-2021||India||Anurag Thakur launches Fit India Freedom Run 2.0 as part of I-Day celebrations||Union minister of youth affairs and sports Anurag Thakur on Friday launched the nationwide Fit India Freedom Run 2.0 programme as part of the Independence Day celebrations - Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. The government has lined up series of events around Fit India Freedom Runs 2.0 that will conclude later this year on October 2. The government has organised 75 physical events at different historical locations on launch day, according to the official release by the sports ministry.Over the months, it will be organised in 744 districts, 75 villages in each of the 744 districts and 30,000 educational institutions across the country. Through this initiative, more than 7.50 crore youth and citizens will be reached to take part in the run.Thakur urged everyone to participate in the celebrations and make it a "people's movement." "As we celebrate 75 years of Independence, we must resolve for a fit and healthy India because only a fit and healthy India can be a strong India," Thakur also said.Union minister of the state of the ministry of youth affairs and sports, Nisith Pramanik also joined the launch event.The event will also see participation from organisations like the Border Security Force (BSF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Railways, Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), National Security Guard (NSG), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), virtually from iconic locations across the country.What is Fit India Freedom Run?The first edition of 'Fit India Run' was held from August 15 to October 2 in 2020. During the campaign, individuals and organisers registered their runs on the government's Fit India portal after which they were awarded a certificate of participation. According to an official release, more than 5 crore people participated and covered around 18 crore km in 2020.This year as well participants can register their runs on https://fitindia.gov.in/freedom-run-2.0.The campaign was first launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019 on National Sports Day on August 29 to inspire people to make physical fitness a way of life. The movement aims at behaviour changes from a sedentary lifestyle to a physically active way of day-to-day living for a healthier living.Through this campaign, the government encourages people to take up fitness activities such as running and sports in their daily lives to avoid obesity, laziness, stress, anxiety, diseases etc. The government has also given a call to citizens to make a resolve to include physical activity of at least 30 minutes daily in their lives.The campaign also has a "Fitness Pledge" that reads, "I promise to myself that I will devote time for physical activity and sports every day and I will encourage my family members and neighbours to be physically fit and make India a fit nation."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anurag-thakur-launches-fit-india-freedom-run-20-101628822029849.html
13-08-2021||India||Govt to link Aadhaar number with voter list, voter card to prevent fake voting: Report||In order to prevent fake voting and enrolling a person in more than one place in the electoral process, the central government will link their Aadhaar ID number with the voter list and voter ID card, Live Hindustan reported on Friday. The government is likely to take the action after the assembly elections in five states, including Uttar Pradesh, which is due next year, people familiar with the matter told Live Hindustan.The people cited by Live Hindustan said that the government is ready to link the voter ID card and the voter list with Aadhaar but it will have to amend the laws. In addition to this, a data protection framework has to be established.In order to link the voter list with Aadhaar, the central government will have to amend the Aadhaar Act along with the Representation of the People Act. This is because, in 2015, the Supreme Court in its judgment on the validity of the Aadhaar Act said that the 12-digit ID would be used only for taking benefits of government welfare schemes and for other facilities, it will not be necessary to ask for Aadhaar number.The Supreme Court said that if the government wants to link the voter list in the Aadhaar ecosystem, it will have to take legal backing for this. The top court then declared privacy as a fundamental right in 2019 and asked the government to make laws for data security. The government has prepared the Data Protection Bill, which is under consideration by the parliamentary committee.The people cited above said the voters' list will not be seeded into the Aadhaar's ecosystem and it will be used only under the One Time Password (OTP) system for verification. These two data will not match, nor will anyone be able to tap or intercept the voter system. This system will undergo extensive trials and linking action will be taken after meeting all aspects of data security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-link-aadhaar-number-with-voter-list-voter-card-to-prevent-fake-voting-report-101628819090584.html
13-08-2021||India||Ambassa clash: BJP to observe 'Dhikkar Diwas' to protest against TMC leaders||The Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP's) Tripura unit will observe a 'Dhikkar Diwas' or condemnation day on Friday in the state to protest against the leaders of the Trinamool Congress. The party alleges that TMC hatched a conspiracy to create an "anarchic situation" in the northeast state.To observe the day, the BJP has planned rallies and small gatherings against the TMC in all 60 constituencies of Tripura.On August 10, Tripura BJP chief spokesperson Subrata Chakraborty alleged West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and TMC chief gave a false statement that her party's leaders, who were allegedly injured in the clash in Ambassa, were not given food and water in police custody last Saturday. "I have video footage that they are being given food and water in custody. The TMC is deliberately trying to create law and order problems so that the fruits of development do not reach the common people," Chakraborty said."The TMC is trying to create an anarchic situation (in Tripura) to create trouble and fish in troubled waters," he added and also alleged that "no TMC worker was injured in any kind of clash."On August 7, workers of both the TMC and the BJP allegedly clashed at Ambassa, about 90 kilometres from Agartala. According to the TMC, two youth leaders from West Bengal, Jaya Datta and Sudip Raha, were injured after their vehicle was attacked by BJP cadres at Ambassa.TMC general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and a few other leaders from Bengal and Tripura were booked recently for allegedly misbehaving with the police in Khowai district where they visited a day after the clash at Ambassa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambassa-clash-bjp-to-observe-dhikkar-diwas-to-protest-against-tmc-leaders-101628818024747.html
13-08-2021||India||Cardinal must face trial in land deal matter: Kerala HC||Cardinal Mar George Alancherry, Major Archbishop of Syro-Malabar Church and head of Ernakulam-Angamaly Diocese, will have to face trial in a land deal case, the Kerala high court ruled on Thursday.Dismissing the 76-year-old’s plea to quash six cases against him, the high court upheld a 2019 order of a lower court, observing that prima facie it found some impropriety in the land deal carried out by the cardinal between 2013 and 2018.Besides this, the income tax department also imposed a fine of ₹3.50 crore on the Ernakulam-Angamaly Diocese for alleged improprieties in the deal.The case relates to the sale of 60 cents of land (100 cents is one acre) in Kochi in 2018. While the sale deed in the case was finalised without any payment, the property was also allegedly undervalued to evade taxes, people familiar with the matter said.Moreover, the difference in amount was also not allegedly deposited in the account of the diocese which ultimately lost ₹60 crore, the people cited above added.The income tax department inspected related documents in the wake of fraud allegations and corroborated the same.HT tried to reach out to the diocese for a response but could not get one immediately.The matter came to light in 2018 when one Shine Varghese moved the high court, seeking an inquiry into the allegations against Alancherry.A single bench of the court directed the police to register relevant cases against the cardinal, who was elected as the Major Archbishop, and also pulled them up for not doing so that year. Alancherry is the senior-most priest of the country.After the diocese allegedly lost money due to the purported land deals, a section of the clergy and citizens revolted against the priest in 2019. Some of them even petitioned Pope Francis in this regard.The cardinal was removed from his post but reinstated after six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cardinal-must-face-trial-in-land-deal-matter-kerala-hc-101628817427242.html
13-08-2021||India||Tamil Nadu assembly budget session begins today, likely to see several firsts||Tamil Nadu assembly will be convening for its budget session, the first of such for the current Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) regime in the state, on Friday. The budget session will begin with a presentation by finance minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan of the revised budget for 2021-2022 and conclude on September 21.The agenda for the budget session was finalised in a meeting of the Tamil Nadu assembly's business advisory committee, chaired over by Speaker M Appavu at the Fort St George campus on Tuesday, where the long duration of the session was also decided upon.Also Read | Political parties in Tamil Nadu prep for upcoming local body pollsNotably, former finance minister O Panneerselvam presented an interim budget in February ahead of the assembly elections held on April 6.The Tamil Nadu assembly budget session this time has several firsts. After the revised budget is presented, the minister for agriculture MRK Panneerselvam is expected to present on the following day an exclusive Agriculture Budget, a first for the state. “The debate on both budgets will take place together for four days from August 16,” Appavu told reporters. “The responses will be given on August 19.”The demands for grants of each department will be discussed from August 23, while Bills expected to be tabled in the House will be taken up for consideration and are expected to be passed on September 21, the last day of the budget session.Also Read | As local Covid-19 clusters emerge in Tamil Nadu, focus on temples, hospitalsThis is also the first digital budget as the Tamil Nadu government is aiming to go paperless. As many as 234 desktops at the assembly have been fixed for the legislators. While legislators will be trained to use the gadgets, hard copies will also be printed for their benefit. Following Himachal Pradesh and Odisha, Tamil Nadu wants to be at the forefront of the change to save trees and keep up with technological advancements, Appavu told HT earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-assembly-budget-session-begins-today-likely-to-see-several-firsts-101628815546931.html
13-08-2021||India||World Organ Donation Day: A brief history||August 13 of every year is observed as World Organ Donation Day aimed at raising awareness about the importance of organ donation and encourage people to take a pledge for the same.One person can save up to eight lives from chronic illness by pledging to donate their heart, kidney, pancreas, lungs, liver, intestines, hands, face, tissues, bone marrow, and stem cells. Hence the day strives to help people in realising that volunteering to donate their organs after death can be life-changing for many.People of any age can donate their organs to a person in need. In case a donor is under the age of 18 years, they are required to have the consent of parents or adult guardians to register themselves as an organ donor.History of organ donationThe first-ever organ donation was done in 1954 when Ronald Lee Herrick donated a kidney to his identical twin brother. Doctor Joseph Murray conducted the procedure for which he has also won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1990 for advances in organ transplantation.In 2015, a newborn baby became the youngest ever organ donor after he donated his kidneys to an adult with renal failure. The boy just lived for just 100 minutes after being born.The oldest known donor has been in Scotland where a 107-year-old woman donated cornea after her death in 2016. The oldest known organ donor for an internal organ was a 95-year-old West Virginia man, who donated his liver after he died.Organ donation in IndiaIndia has the Transplantation of Human Organs and Tissues Act to regulate organ donation in the country. The law allows both deceased and living people to donate their organs. According to a World Health Organization, around 0.01 per cent of people in India donate their organs after death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-organ-donation-day-a-brief-history-101628815156959.html
13-08-2021||India||PM Modi releases ₹1,625 crore for women entrepreneurs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday released ₹1,625 crore for women entrepreneurs. He also declared that the loan limit for self-help groups (SHGs) have been raised from ₹10 lakh to ₹20 lakh.The PM was participating in the ‘Atmanirbhar Nari Shakti se Samvad’ programme through video conferencing where he spoke to members of women’s SHGs associated with Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihood Mission -- a scheme which aims to mobilise rural poor households into SHGs in a phased manner and provide them long-term support to improve their incomes.“To increase the scope of entrepreneurship among women, a big financial help has been released for more participation in the resolve of self-reliant India. Be it food processing enterprises, women farmer producers association...more than ₹1,600 crore has been sent to lakhs of such groups of women,” the PM said. htc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-releases-rs-1-625-crore-for-women-entrepreneurs-101628814087903.html
13-08-2021||India||Negative Covid report or full vaccination must for visiting Himachal from today||Himachal Pradesh, which has been reporting a spurt in new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases for a while now, will make it mandatory from Friday, August 13, for tourists to carry either a negative test report or proof of full vaccination when visiting the state. The negative RT-PCR test report that the people are supposed to carry with them must not be older than 72 hours. In the case of a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) report, it must not be older than 24 hours, according to the official order issued by the Himachal Pradesh government earlier this week.Also Read | Himachal’s Covid positivity rate rises to 1.3% in a week“All persons intending to visit the state shall carry their Covid-19 vaccine certificate (double doses) or a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours or RAT negative report not older than 24 hours w.e.f. 13th August 2021,” Himachal Pradesh chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh said while reading out the government order on Tuesday.Issuing the two-page order following the meet, the chief secretary explained that the coronavirus pandemic situation in the state has been reviewed and it has been observed that the number of active Covid-19 cases and the positivity rate in the state are still increasing. Singh described the situation as quite “precarious”.Himachal Pradesh took the decision to make full vaccination or a negative Covid-19 test report mandatory for travellers entering the state after a cabinet meeting, presided over by chief minister Jairam Thakur, earlier this week.Earlier, the Himachal Pradesh government asked tourists to carry a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours or proof of full vaccination only when visiting temples in the state during the ‘Shrawan Ashtami Navratras’ religious event from August 9 to 17.Also Read | Himachal Pradesh schools closed, curbs increased to check Covid-19 spreadThe Himachal Pradesh high court even asked the state government on Thursday to reconsider its decision of holding 'Maa Chintpurni Sawan Mela' in Una district, keeping in view the precarious situation, as devotees may visit the fair in large numbers which could lead to an increase in Covid-19 cases.Himachal Pradesh reported as many as 354 new Covid-19 cases and three related deaths in the last 24 hours, pushing the cumulative infection tally in the state to 209,344. The death toll has mounted to 3,526, while there are 2,668 currently active cases, according to the state health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/negative-covid-19-report-or-full-vaccination-must-for-visiting-himachal-pradesh-from-today-101628811549288.html
13-08-2021||India||Climate crisis and callous urbanisation will make floods more expensive in India||Over the years, visual imagery around floods in India has undergone a change. From submerged fields and marooned villages in states such as Bihar and Assam, floods now bring pictures of floating cars, submerged subways and floodwater in living rooms within cities.This is not just an anecdotal observation. The climate crisis is beginning to alter rainfall patterns. With a massive surge in urbanisation — an increase in built-up area undermines natural drainage systems – without compensating for the loss of natural drainage systems with man-made ones, floods are bound to cause more damage, at least in monetary terms, in India.All natural disasters, including floods extract heavy human costs. The poor live at subsistence levels and such shocks are always very harsh on them. But the prospect of greater wealth destruction during natural disasters is also worse news for the Indian economy.A simple comparison illustrates the point. From 2008 to 2014, houses were damaged in both Bihar and Kerala every year because of floods and heavy rains. A 2018 Central Water Commission (CWC) report shows that the value lost per damaged house was almost four times in Kerala as in Bihar: ₹2,857 in Bihar and ₹10,906 in Kerala. More than the intensity of floods, this numbers reflects the fact that Kerala houses are better-built than Bihar, because the former has higher per capita income.Richer states and non-farm sector are suffering more damage in floods nowA 2018 CWS report gives state-wise value of damages caused by floods from 1953 to 2016. Sorting these states by per capita GSDP shows that the share of the bottom one-third of states in flood related damages has reduced from more than 50% to just above one-third between 1961-2000 and 2001-2016. This means that India’s more affluent states are suffering a higher damage in floods.Floods are now increasingly affecting the non-farm sector in India. In the 1961 to 2000 period, an average of 58% of the damage caused by floods annually was from the damage to crops while 27% was from public utilities. This pattern has now reversed. From 2001 to 2016, crop loss accounted for an average 29.7% of the damage, while public utilities accounted for 58.6% of monetary losses due to floods. What explains these two changes? Both the climate crisis and the nature of urbanisation are to blame. Intense rainfall is increasing in districts with more affluenceWhile floods affect all, they seem to affect some more than others. Counterintuitive as it sounds, floods cause more monetary damage if they affect an area with a greater share of rich. This is due to the simple reason that richer dwellings have more valuable items than their poorer counterparts. A joint reading of an HT analysis of rainfall patterns and a Mint database of district-wise wealth tracker shows that India’s richer districts are becoming more vulnerable to floods now.Mint’s wealth tracker uses the 2015-16 National Family and Health Survey (NFHS) to rank districts on the basis of assets and amenities (pucca house, electricity connection, phone, television, AC/cooler, refrigerator, washing machine, and motorized vehicle) owned by households. A household is described as affluent if it owns at least six of the eight assets listed here. HT has used the India Meteorological Department’s gridded rainfall database to look at the increase in heavy and extreme rainfall in comparison to the long period average (LPA).The median share of the affluent in districts where heavy and extreme rainfall – when a lot of rain happens in very little time or over a very small area – has increased the most during the 2015 to 2020 period is 20.73%. This share becomes smaller as we move to districts where such rainfall has increased by lesser degrees. In districts where heavy and extreme rainfall has increased the least, the median share of the affluent was 15.4%.It should be kept in mind that the district-wise increase in heavy/extreme rainfall is a relative measure as it is being tracked against past rainfall (1961-2010) in the same district.Concrete jungles without drains are bound to get floodedAlmost every time Kerala faces serious floods, the Cochin airport has to suspend operations, as the runway gets flooded. This should not be surprising. Where the airport has been built, there used to be paddy fields at one point of time, where flooding was a boon rather than a bane.A similar case is of the Santacruz airport in Mumbai built on the floodplains of the Mithi River. During heavy rains in July, Mumbai airport has had to temporarily suspend operations due to waterlogging on either the runways or tarmac in 2017 and in 2021. However, disruptions due to turbulence following heavy rainfall events are more common, recurring every year since 2017. In 2019, a passenger aircraft overshot the main runway while landing in heavy rains on July 2. The main runway remained shut for close to four days. It is common for operations to become restricted to a single runway during heavy rains. Expansion of the airport has squeezed the Mithi river into a small stream, and the construction of a second runway in 1970 created a right-angle bend in the river which has worsened flooding.The cases of these airports are symptomatic of a larger problem with India’s changing land-use pattern. The National Statistical Office (NSO) gives remote sensing-based land-use statistics in India. Built up area increased from 118,998 square kilometres in 2011-12 to 121,848 square kilometres in 2015-16. Of the 3,609 square kilometres added from other sources, 73% came from agriculture, 5.7% from forest land, and 3.3% from grass or grazing land. These numbers capture the rapid surge in concretisation in India in the recent past. An increase in concretised area also means that rainwater does not seep into the ground. In the short-term, this means waterlogging and, in the long-term, it means a fall in replenishment rate of ground water tables.What makes the concretisation problem even worse, at least from the point of view of flooding, is the fact that most Indian cities have built houses but not drains. A government survey carried out in 2010-11 in 104 municipal corporations/Nagar Nigams in large cities found that 56 of them had 50% roads not covered by storm water drainage. Similarly, 745 of 1,383 other urban local bodies (ULB) had less than 50% coverage, and 1,142 ULBs had less than 75% coverage. This is apart from the everyday sight of drains choked with waste or silt where they do exist.When these problems fester in big cities, it can lead to huge losses. Mumbai’s 2005 flooding — when the city received over 900mm of rain in a single day — caused an estimated insurance loss of $0.9 billion, according to a report by Swiss Re Institute. A more recent study by the United States Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) and accounting firm KPMG, submitted to the Maharashtra government in September 2019, pegged Mumbai’s financial losses as a direct consequence of flooding to be ₹14,000 crore between 2005 and 2015.Experts fear that the financial damage in Mumbai is only going to increase as the city’s natural drainage continues to be subsumed by concrete. In 2019, for example, a plush residential township built on the floodplains of the Mothali river in Dombivali, was flooded with water entering the homes of even those living on the first floor, while similar projects built on the floodplains of the Waldhuni and Ulhas rivers have also experienced similar distress in between 2018 and 2021.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has also noticed that the Mithi River took longer to drain its water into the sea this year than during past seasons, leading to apprehension that Mumbai is staring at more floods in the coming years. Officials and experts attributed this to a combination of factors, including heavy rains coinciding with high-tide, and clogging up of drainage channels with muck and garbage. The BMC this year spent a total of ₹150 crore on its monsoon flood management plan, which showed little to no improvement at fixing the underlying problem.In fact, rapid development of infrastructure may be creating problems in places where they did not exist earlier. For example, residents reported unprecedented waterlogging in 2020 along the strip of South Mumbai that runs from Worli to Girgaum Chowpatty, allegedly due to the Coastal Road project that has buried about 5km of the intertidal zone along the shore, thus preventing water from draining into the sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/climate-crisis-and-callous-urbanisation-will-make-floods-more-expensive-in-india-101628808439408.html
13-08-2021||India||As local Covid-19 clusters emerge in Tamil Nadu, focus on temples, hospitals||With Covid-19 cases nearing the 2000-mark in Tamil Nadu, it is gatherings at temples, hospitals and markets that are of concern now for health officials. A new Covid-19 cluster was detected in Chennai following a temple festival gathering where 300 people were tested and 24 people reported positive in the last three days. One of the infected, a 47-year-old woman, who was diabetic and unvaccinated, succumbed to the virus on Wednesday, officials said. “Strategy-wise we are analysing the causes of spread and we find that sources of infections are streets adjacent to main marketplaces, people visiting hospitals without following protocols like mask compliance and mass gatherings at religious places,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. After consulting experts last week, Tamil Nadu ordered religious places to be shut from Friday to Sunday to avoid large gatherings. A particular zone number 9 (Teynampet) in Chennai in which a major private hospital is located has been reporting new Covid-19 cases continuously. “People rent places near hospitals to stay for their treatment and that is leading to a spread,” a civic official said. Until August 10, Coimbatore district in the western region was reporting the highest number of daily cases and Chennai overtook that marginally on August 11. “In the western region we found that organisation of marriages, funerals and functions flouting the restrictions has led to the increase,” the health secretary said. In the past two weeks, Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu have marginally increased but fresh cases have ranged between 1800 and 1900 every day. “We have alerted all districts that these increases can’t be taken lightly and they are taking it seriously because of which the increase in cases has not been geometric. In the next 100 days, we need to vaccinate more people to prevent a wave,” Radhakrishnan said. On Wednesday, he told reporters that several people who had gathered in the temple leading to the cluster were not vaccinated. “Every day we are identifying 10-20 clusters in various places and stopping the spread,” he said. Beginning August 5, Tamil Nadu imposed restrictions on those entering from Kerala as the two states share 13 points of entry just in Coimbatore. Kerala constitutes a major caseload in India and those arriving from there have to produce either a negative RT-PCR test report or evidence of double vaccination. “We are obviously having cases in border areas as people are frequently moving from Kerala,” said an official not wishing to be named. “We are focussing on frequent interstate travellers and encouraging them to get fully vaccinated.”At least 19 districts such as Chennai and its adjoining districts Thiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram, and western and central districts including Coimbatore, Erode, Thanjavur, Trichy and Cuddalore are of concern in the state. “For now localised clusters are emerging and there is no general upward trend,” said Dr Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director, National Institute of Epidemiology. But these small clusters have the potential to cause general transmission if they are not contained, she warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-local-covid-19-clusters-emerge-in-tamil-nadu-focus-on-temples-hospitals-101628807388830.html
13-08-2021||India||India rules out immediate closure of embassy in Afghanistan||India on Thursday ruled out the immediate closure of its embassy in Afghanistan amid the rapid deterioration of the security situation and said it continued to be engaged with all stakeholders to work for a comprehensive ceasefire and a political settlement. Rapid advances made by the Taliban in recent days, including the capture of nine provincial capitals and fresh attacks on Kandahar and Herat on Thursday, have sharpened security concerns in New Delhi. The Indian government is keeping a close eye on the situation and plans have been drawn up to deal with all contingencies, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi dismissed the possibility of any immediate closure of the Indian mission in Kabul but acknowledged that the rapidly evolving security situation across Afghanistan was “of concern”. “We are monitoring the situation very carefully but there are no plans as such [to close the embassy],” Bagchi told a regular media briefing. India evacuated some 50 officials and security officials from its consulate in the northern city of Mazar-e-Sharif early on Wednesday against the backdrop of Taliban fighters making rapid advances in the region. The move came exactly a month after evacuated a similar number of personnel from the consulate in southern Kandahar city. The people cited above ruled out any immediate evacuation of officials from Kabul, saying that the government was preparing for all eventualities, including the possible rapid withdrawal of diplomats and Indian nationals. According to information provided by the government in Parliament recently, some 1,500 Indians were in Afghanistan. However, the people said this figure would have come down as many Indians working on development projects had been sent back. Bagchi also pointed to the role being played in Afghanistan by terrorists and jihadi fighters from Pakistan-based groups. Recent reports have said thousands of fighters from groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan have been fighting alongside the Taliban. “Everyone in the world knows what type of role is being played and what concerns others have about jihadi and terrorist elements from Pakistan and what they have done in Afghanistan. The whole world knows it, we don’t need to tell others about it,” he said. The removal of “external malign influences” is essential for for peace in Afghanistan. “We would hope all parties, including regional countries, understand this and work towards a situation where Afghans can have a process that is owned, controlled and led by them. We certainly don’t think that’s currently the situation,” he added. Bagchi said the Indian government is also keeping a close eye on all developments regarding Afghanistan’s Hindu and Sikh minorities. “Last year, our mission in Kabul had facilitated the return of 383 members of the Sikh and Hindu communities in Afghanistan. Our mission continues to remain in touch with the Afghan Hindu and Sikh community members and we will ensure the provision of all necessary assistance to them,” he said. He declined to comment on reports about a fresh US security assessment that Kabul could fall to the Taliban within 30 to 90 days. He added: “We continue to hope that there will be an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire. We are supporting all peace initiatives in Afghanistan. Our primary concern is peace and stability in that country and offering a prosperous future [in an] independent, sovereign and democratic [country].” The external affairs ministry’s pointperson for Afghanistan, joint secretary JP Singh of the Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran desk, represented India at a regional conference hosted by Qatar in Doha on Thursday to find ways to take forward the stalled Afghan peace process. Key stakeholders from Afghanistan also joined the meeting, for which Qatari special envoy Mutlaq bin Majed Al-Qahtani extended an invitation during a visit to New Delhi last week. This was the third meeting on Afghanistan held in Doha since Tuesday, when representatives of the US, the UK, China, Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Qatar, Russia, the UN and the European Union met in the Qatari capital. Wednesday saw a meeting of the “extended troika” that was joined by special envoys from the US, Russia, China and Pakistan. However, the lack of consensus was evident from the fact that extended troika meeting did not produce a joint statement. The last two meetings of this group convened by Russia had resulted in such statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rules-out-immediate-closure-of-embassy-in-afghanistan-101628805948505.html
13-08-2021||India||Burglars clad in PPE kits pose fresh challenges for Kerala cops||Despite the Covid-19 induced lockdown and restrictions in force in Kerala, burglars are not running short of ideas. They have found an ingenious way to dodge the police and CCTV cameras—a few of them are donning PPE kits and committing the crime. At least four such incidents have been discovered in Kochi and Thrissur in two weeks. This is not a new phenomenon. Such cases have been earlier reported from Delhi, Maharashtra and Kashmir too, crime records show. Usually cops don’t check those in PPE kits and robbers are making use of this opportunity and they can also dodge CCTV cameras in PPE kits. In Thrissur the break-in happened during day time on Wednesday. They took ₹50,000 cash and food articles from a supermarket and ₹10,000 cash and medicines were stolen from a nearby medical store, police said adding the robbery took place between 2 and 4 pm. The CCTV visuals showed that they boarded a car waiting outside the supermarket after the heist. Since it was lunch time not many employees were around in the supermarket. The robbery was noticed two hours after the crime, police said. In Kochi last week, a jewellery shop was burgled but robbers failed to lay their hands on the gold after an alarm rang. There was also an attempt to break into an ATM in Ernakulam. Police said four such cases were reported in Kochi and Thrissur in two weeks. After the incident, police personnel have started keeping a tab on ambulances. Usually nobody stops ambulances especially when Covid-19 cases are mounting in the state. According to the police, such cases were reported from other states also. In Kashmir three men in PPE kits decamped with ₹6 lakh cash and the rifle of the guard at a bank in Baramulla in April. Later three suspects were arrested. In January a man clad in a PPE kit had stolen gold worth ₹13 crore from a jewellery shop in south Delhi’s Kalkaji.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/burglars-clad-in-ppe-kits-pose-fresh-challenges-for-kerala-cops-101628804748669.html
13-08-2021||India||Four days after clash with BJP, two including TMC activist held in Tripura||The Tripura police arrested two people, including one Trinamool Congress activist, after raiding their residences for their alleged involvement in the clash with BJP cadres at Ambassa in Dhalai district that occurred nearly four days ago, a police official said on Thursday. They were taken to court and were sent to judicial custody for four days. According to the police, party workers of both the political parties---the TMC and the BJP clashed at Ambassa, about 90 kilometres from Agartala, on August 7. Four days after the incident, a team of Ambassa police conducted raids at the residences of Amal Bhowmik, an activist of the party and Surajit Sutradhar, the local driver of TMC leader Debangshu Bhattacharya at Amtali in West district on Wednesday night and arrested them. “The Ambassa police are dealing with the matter. Prior to the raid, they informed us and one of our police constables went with them during the raid. We cannot say anything more,” said Amtali sub-divisional police officer Anirban Das.According to TMC, two youth leaders from West Bengal, Jaya Datta and Sudip Raha were injured after their vehicle was attacked by BJP cadres at Ambassa. “Both of them were arrested without any valid reason and we believe it is politically motivated. There is no law and order in the state. Freedom fighters, during the British rule, were arrested forcefully at night. A similar kind of incident is happening in the state,” TMC leader and Rajya Sabha MP Santanu Sen told reporters after arriving in the city and meeting the families of the two people arrested last night. TMC general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and a few other leaders from Bengal and Tripura were booked recently for allegedly misbehaving with the police in Khowai district where they visited a day after the clash at Ambassa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-days-after-clash-with-bjp-two-including-tmc-activist-held-in-tripura-101628803788395.html
13-08-2021||India||PM Modi should let his photo be printed on death certificates: Mamata Banerjee||Just like Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photo was printed on Covid-19 vaccine certificates, he should now permit his photo to be printed on people’s death certificates, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday. Banerjee also attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Union government alleging that the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) was asking test questions “given by the BJP” and weakening its foundation as an impartial body. “A person may not be your supporter. But you made it mandatory that your photo should be there on Covid-19 vaccine certificates. I may not like you. But even then, I would have to carry this. Where is the freedom? Now, you should allow your photo on death certificates too,” Banerjee said, without directly referring to Modi, while speaking to the media at the state secretariat. The Bengal government extended Covid-19 restrictions in the state till August 30. The CM said that local train services would remain cancelled even though night curfew timings have been reduced by two hours. No night activities would be allowed between 11 pm and 5 am. The UPSC in an exam for the recruitment of assistant commandants in the CAPF had asked candidates to write 200 words on “Poll violence in West Bengal”. This irked the Bengal chief minister. Questions were also asked on farmers’ protest and oxygen crisis in Delhi. “All these questions are politically motivated and highly objectionable. I don’t understand how an impartial body like the UPSC can set questions like this. I am sorry to say BJP’s party office has prepared the questions. I have respect for UPSC but they have to maintain dignity,” Banerjee said. The BJP, on the other hand has alleged that there has been a lot of post-poll violence in the state, the TMC has refuted the charges saying that some sporadic incidents took place when law and order was with the Election Commission. A committee set up by the National Human Rights Commission has also slammed the state administration for alleged violence. “The TMC-government is using Mamata Banerjee’s photo on Covid-19 certificates in the state, which is illegal. There is no other party or political leader in the country, other than the TMC and Banerjee, who are famous for using photos. By opposing it in this manner, she is projecting the taste of Bengalis in a very bad light,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in the state Earlier this week Union minister of state for health Bharati Pravin Pawar had informed the Rajya Sabha in a written reply that the certificate of vaccination has the Prime Minister’s photo for a specific reason of creating awareness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-should-let-his-photo-be-printed-on-death-certificates-mamata-banerjee-101628799888504.html
13-08-2021||India||PPE-clad burglars pose fresh challenge to police||Thiruvananthapuram: As Covid-induced lockdown and restrictions are in force in Keral, burglars have found an ingenious way to commit crimes -- they don PPE kits to dodge police and CCTV cameras. At least four such incidents came to light in Kochi and Thrissur in two weeks, police said. Such cases have also been reported from Delhi, Maharashtra and Kashmir, crime records show. Usually police don’t check those in PPE kits and robbers are making use of this opportunity.In Thrissur, robbers in PPE kits took way ₹50,000 cash and food articles from a super market during day time on Wednesday. From a nearby medical store, ₹10,000 cash and medicine were stolen, police said, adding the robberies took place between 2pm and 4pm. “CCTV visuals show the robbers were boarding a car waiting outside the supermarket after the heist. Since it was lunch time, not many employees were around in the super market. The robbery was noticed two hours after the crime,” a police official said. In Kochi, a jewellery shop was burgled last week but robbers failed to put their hands on gold after the alarm rang. There was also an attempt to break an ATM in Ernakulam. After such incidents, police started keeping a tab on ambulances. Robbers in PPE kits could move in ambulances as usually ambulances are not stopped especially when Covid-19 cases are mounting in the state, police said. According to police, such cases were reported from other states also. In Kashmir, three men wearing PPE kits made off with ₹6 lakh cash and rifle of the guard in a bank in Baramulla in April. Later three suspects were arrested. In January a man clad in PPE kit had stolen gold worth ₹13 crore from a jewellery joint in south Delhi’s Kalkaji.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ppeclad-burglars-pose-fresh-challenge-to-police-101628798627389.html
13-08-2021||India||Wary of clusters, Tamil Nadu plans to curb crowds at public places||Even as Tamil Nadu’s average daily Covid-19 case count has been around 2,000-mark for the last few days, health officials said they are concerned about increasing gatherings at temples, hospitals and markets, particularly after a new cluster was detected following an event at a temple in Chennai where 24 attendees out of the 300 tested have reported positive in the last three days. One of the infected, a 47-year-old woman, who also had diabetes and was unvaccinated, succumbed to the virus on Wednesday. “Strategy wise, we are analysing the causes of spread. We find that sources of infections are streets adjacent to main marketplaces, people visiting hospitals without following protocols like mask compliance and mass gatherings at religious places,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. After consulting experts last week, the Tamil Nadu government ordered that all religious places will remain closed from Friday to Sunday to avoid large gatherings. A particular zone number 9 (Teynampet) in Chennai, where a major private hospital is located, has been reporting new cases continuously. “People rent places near the hospitals to stay for their treatment and that is leading to a spread,” a civic official said. Till August 10, Coimbatore district in the western region was reporting the highest number of daily cases, but on Wednesday, Chennai overtook it marginally. “In the western region, we found that marriages, funerals and functions were being organised flouting the restrictions on the number of attendees, this has led to the increase,” the health secretary said. In the past two week, cases in Tamil Nadu have marginally increased but fresh cases have ranged between 1,800 and 1,900. “We have alerted all districts that these increases can’t be taken lightly. They are taking it seriously due to which the increase in cases has not been geometric. In the next 100 days we need to vaccinate more people to prevent a wave,” Radhakrishnan said. On Wednesday, he told reporters that many of the people who had attended the gathering at the Chennai temple were not vaccinated, leading to the rise in cases. “Every day, we are identifying 10-20 clusters in various places and stopping the spread,” he said. Starting August 5, Tamil Nadu imposed restrictions on those entering from Kerala. The two states share 13 points of entry just in Coimbatore. Kerala constitutes a major caseload in India and arrivals from there have to produce either a negative RT-PCR test report or evidence of double vaccination. “We are obviously having cases in border areas as people are frequently moving,” said an official not wishing to be named. “We are focussing on frequent interstate travellers and encouraging them to get fully vaccinated.” At least 19 districts in the state – including Chennai and adjoining Thiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram, and western and central districts like Coimbatore, Erode, Thanjavur, Trichy and Cuddalore –are of main concern in the state, health officials said. “For now localised clusters are emerging and there is no general upward trend,” said Dr Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director, National Institute of Epidemiology. But these small clusters have the potential to cause general transmission if they are not contained, she warned. On Thursday, Tamil Nadu reported 1941 new cases, taking the total active cases to 20,399. A total of 33 people died of the infection in the state, taking the toll to 34,428, according to state health department data. Coimbatore reported 249 new cases followed by Chennai (217 new cases) the highest in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wary-of-clusters-tamil-nadu-plans-to-curb-crowds-at-public-places-101628798148783.html
13-08-2021||India||T-shirts printed with vax certificates take a hit in Kerala||Thiruvananthapuram Two brothers from Malappuram in Kerala have started making customised T-shirts displaying vaccination details on them, exploring an opportunity amid the Covid-19 pandemic to make a quick buck. The brothers, U Irshad and U Faizal, conceived the idea when the state government made vaccination certificates mandatory for shoppers, tourists and others last week. Customers have options to print vaccination certificates on sleeve, chest or back side of T- shirts.“Initially we started making vaccination e-cards like ATM and other cards. Then we thought of giving a larger imprint and it turned out to be a big hit among youngsters. We have got orders for more than 2,000 shirts now. We charge each shirt ₹250,” said Irshad who is running a modern printing press with his brother. The family is into printing business for the last 30 years. Irshad’s father founded ‘Imperial Press’ 60 years ago and it has now two branches in Kottappadi and Alathurpadi of Malappuram district.“We are flooded with enquiries. We get enough requests in social media also. We can courier the shirts if customers are ready to pay the charges. Many are sending us vax certificates on WhatApp. Now we are printing maximum certificates on white shirts but colour options are also there,” said Faizal. “We procure T-shirts from Coimbatore on wholesale price and make a decent profit. Yes, it is good to make hay while the sun shines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tshirts-printed-with-vax-certificates-take-a-hit-in-kerala-101628798089428.html
13-08-2021||India||Kerala denies high breakthrough Covid infections cited by Centre||Thiruvananthapuram: Grappling with a high Covid-19 caseload and test positivity rate for more than two months, Kerala has started a study on breakthrough infections and re-infections, even as the state health department has rejected the Centre’s numbers on breakthrough infections. A breakthrough case refers to a fully vaccinated person getting infected again and re-infection means a completely recovered individual contracting the coronavirus again. The state health department said while the Union health ministry quoted 40,000 breakthrough infections in Kerala, according to its rough estimate, the numbers will be between 5,000 and 6,000 -- among them 40% are frontline workers, including health and police personnel. “We have no idea about 40,000 cases as mentioned by the Union health ministry. Our estimate is less than 0.1%, which means around 5000-5500 breakthrough cases,” said a senior health official who did not want to be named. The Union health ministry said the country had reported over 100,000 breakthrough cases, of which Kerala’s share was 40,000. Later, a central team visiting the state earlier this month also confirmed high incidences of breakthrough cases in Kerala. They said Pathanamthitta district alone reported more than 7,000 breakthrough cases.But district medical officer Dr A L Sheeja refuted these statistics. “Only 258 such cases reported in the district. I have no idea how they got such large numbers,” she said. “Pathanamthitta is one of the least affected districts. All cases have been closely monitored and there was no chance of such huge numbers.”Earlier, health minister Veena George, hailing from the same district, also denied a spike in breakthrough infections in Pathanamthitta.The health department has sent samples of all breakthrough infections for genome sequencing to rule out the possibility of a new variant. Though experts suspected a new variant behind the steady rise of cases in the state, the Indian Council of Medical Research is yet to confirm it. For almost two months, the state has been reporting more than half the national caseload.On Thursday the state reported 21,445 cases with a test positivity rate of 14.73 % when 1,45, 582 samples were tested. It also reported 160 deaths and active cases stand at 1,76,518, according to the state health ministry. On Tuesday, TPR -- the number of tests returning positive out of total tests done -- was 15.91%, highest in three months. Among breakthrough infections, health workers form a large chunk. Twenty-four-year-old nursing officer Gokul MG, who works with a medical college hospital in Thiruvananthpauram, was down with Covid-19 twice, first in August and second in November, still he prefers to work at the Covid ICU. “How can I rest when people need me the most,” said Gokul, who received two jabs in the initial days of inoculation drive.He says many health workers like him were infected more than twice. But they all said intensity of the infection was very low and at times it was asymptomatic. Now the health department has asked all workers who come in contact with patients to undergo regular antigen or RT-PCR tests.The central team, which visited the eight worst-affected districts, found that high density of population, prevalence of highly infectious Delta virus and laxity in home quarantine are main reasons for high caseload in the state.Kerala also has a high population of elderly people and prevalence of lifestyle diseases also quite high, medical records show. The central team also found flaws in protocols and home isolation. In districts like Malappuram and Kozhikode, family size is huge and the infected people easily pass the virus to others, it said. Though in home isolation, the infected should have a separate washroom and nobody should be allowed to enter his/her quarantine room, the team found that these measures were seldom met. This led to increased transmission within homes and formation of small clusters. Amid the Covid surge in Kerala, Onam festival, a week away, is a worry for the health department. Though large gatherings and celebrations are banned, many experts fear that the festive occasion could be a triggering factor.According to the state health ministry, 2,24,29,007 people were given vaccination till Wednesday -- 1,58,68, 802 (45.5% of the state’s population) have been administered the first dose and 64,60,205 (18.41%) both the doses. At least, 800,000 more doses reached the state on Thursday, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-denies-high-breakthrough-covid-infections-cited-by-centre-101628797970296.html
13-08-2021||India||499 Covid cases among those under the age of 19: Data||Bengaluru: In the first week of August, Bengaluru reported 499 cases of Covid-19 among children under the age of 19. Among the 499 cases, 263 were reported between August 5 to August 10, and out of these, 88 were between 0 to 9 years and 175 were between 10 and 19 years old., as per state’s health bulletin. Though the rise in numbers is causing concerns at a time when the apprehension of a third wave of the pandemic is looming large, however, the city administration has said that there is no alarming increase in the number of cases, the bulletin said. Talking about cases among the children, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) commissioner Gaurav Gupta said city administration is monitoring the numbers closely. “We are closely watching the numbers. So far, we are seeing the same rate of infections this year as 2020. In case these numbers go up we will take the required steps,” said Gupta. When asked about the dangers the children are likely to face in the third wave, Gupta said that the authorities are working towards ensuring that all age groups are protected. “It is important to keep children safe from getting infected from other family members who have the chance of coming in contact with other people. So, maintaining the Covid protocols at home is as important,” Gupta added. BBMP special commissioner (Health), D Randeep, said that there is no increase in the number of hospitalizations among children. “We have zero pediatric deaths during this time. The absolute numbers should not be considered as an alarming increase. The fact that there has been no increase in hospitalisation reported either,” he said. With the fear of these numbers increasing over a period of time, parents are concerned, especially since the state government has decided to reopen schools for Classes 9 to 12 from August 23 onwards. The government has also announced that the decision to reopen schools for students up to Class 8 will be taken in the last week of August after looking at all aspects of the third wave.“The authorities will say that these numbers are not alarming, but the numbers don’t give us confidence. The government should study the increase in cases and reconsider the decision to reopen schools,” said Simon Inasu, a businessman and a parent of a Class10 student. The state is recording 1,500 plus Covid cases on an average and so far 15,919 deaths have occurred due to the virus. At least 19 children between the ages of 0 and 9 have died and 26 children in the age group of 10 to 19 have lost their lives. The health department has taken note of the situation and parents have been advised to vaccinate themselves fully first and then monitor their children properly and avoid them from crowded places. “This issue will be taken up in the expert committee meeting. The state government will take all steps required if this becomes a serious situation,” said a senior health department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/499-covid-cases-among-those-under-the-age-of-19-data-101628797908429.html
13-08-2021||India||Average age of India’s population should reflect in CPI(M): Yechury in Bengal||The median age of the nation’s population, which is around 28 years, should reflect in the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or else it will not be able to counter its political opponents, the party’s general secretary, Sitaram Yechury, told members of the West Bengal state committee at a closed-door meeting on Thursday. The two-day meeting, which started on Thursday and continued till late evening, has been convened to review the organizational weaknesses of the CPI (M) in Bengal where, for the first time since 1946, it failed to win a single assembly seat in the March-April polls. Several members of the CPI(M) central committee are more than 75 years old. Prominent among them are Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, 76, Bengal Left Front chairman Biman Bose, 81, and prominent Kerala leader S Ramachandran Pillai, 83. Yechury made the statement days after CPI(M) central committee members from across the nation raised a proposal during a three-day virtual meet that no member aged above 75 should stay in the body. The central committee is the party’s highest decision making platform. The proposal will be placed for adoption at the CPI(M)’s 23rd party Congress to be held in Kerala in April 2023. Bengal state committee members who attended Thursday’s session told HT on condition of anonymity that Yechury, who spoke for almost one hour, was bitterly critical of the state unit’s failure. “While focusing on several organizational issues, he said the party cannot counter its opponents, especially the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), if the median age of the nation’s population does not reflect in the rank and file. He said fixing a quota for youth in party units will yield no result unless they are given responsibility and leadership roles,” said a state committee member. “The party earlier decided that 20% positions in all units should be reserved for leaders aged up to 30 years. Yechury emphatically said that these leaders should be made part of the CPI(M)’s policy making process,” said a second state committee member. In the recent assembly polls, the BJP bagged 77 seats against 213 won by the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). State and district leaders of both these parties are comparatively younger than their counterparts in the CPI(M). Before the 2018 panchayat polls, the CPI(M) tried to overhaul its organisation across all 23 districts of Bengal. It replaced more than 60% leaders aged between 60 and 80. Some prominent former ministers and local heavyweights were replaced with people who were in their 40s and 50s. As many as seven district committees, including the one in Kolkata, got new secretaries. In a bid to streamline the party structure, the CPI(M) also completely did away with the zonal committees in 2018. The CPI(M) earlier divided every district into several zones and each zone had a committee that was answerable to the district committee, the top body in a district that reports directly to the state committee headed by the state secretary. The zonal committees used to supervise the performance of area committees. The area committees monitored branch committees which are the party’s organizational set up at the lowest level. CPI(M) leaders said on Thursday that the shakeup did not yield any result in the panchayat, Lok Sabha and assembly polls although more than 300 younger people were inducted in branch and area committees in 2018. Organisational elections will be held again the coming months. In 1953, when Jyoti Basu became the Bengal state secretary of the undivided Communist Party of India, he was only 39. Majority of the frontline leaders were his contemporaries while many of the foot soldiers were youngsters from college, party leaders said. In 2015, four years after the CPI-M and its Left Front partners were voted out of power, the Marxists had little presence among the youth and most of their leaders in the cities and districts were aged between 60 and 80, the CPI(M) said in its internal report presented at the crucial organizational plenum. It was held in Kolkata in December 2015. A portion of the plenum report said the Telangana unit of the CPI(M) had the highest number of young members, while in Bengal only 13.5 % members were less than 31 years old. Even in Tripura, where the party was defeated by the BJP in 2018, this age group accounted for only 18.3 % members in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/average-age-of-india-s-population-should-reflect-in-cpi-m-yechury-in-bengal-101628797728515.html
13-08-2021||India||CT Ravi stokes controversy with remarks on Nehru, Indira||Bengaluru The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Karnataka has courted controversy once again by proposing that the Congress open a (hookah) bar in the name of India’s first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru. CT Ravi, BJPs national general secretary and legislator from Chikmagalur on Thursday made the comments as an extension of his earlier demands to change the name of Indira canteens, eateries set up by the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government, to Annapurna canteens. “Is that a five star hotel? To fill up their ATMs, they kept Indira Gandhi’s name, should we accept it? We oppose it because it was done for political reasons,” Ravi said.  “With Congress money, let them open an Indira canteen, Nehru bar, Nehru hookah bar in their office”, Ravi said in Bengaluru on Thursday. The statements have triggered a war of words with the Congress hitting back at Ravi. “CT Ravi was for a brief time the Kannada and culture minister. He is not just an MLA. He is a general secretary of a national party. He is reflecting his and the BJPs culture (with such statements) by smearing the names of Indira Gandhi, (Jawaharlal) Nehru, Rajiv Gandhi,” DK Shivakumar, the state Congress president said on Thursday. Siddaramaiah, the Congress leader of the opposition, said that there are places and institutions named after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, late Arun Jaitley, Deendayal Upadhyay, Vinayak Damodar Savarkar and Atal Bihari Vajpayee among others. “Open a hookah bar in their names,” Siddaramaiah said, adding, “He should not be loose with his words. Ravi is a national general secretary. He must know his responsibility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ct-ravi-stokes-controversy-with-remarks-on-nehru-indira-101628797069880.html
13-08-2021||India||Illegal mining case: Can’t allow Janardhan Reddy to stay in Bellary, CBI tells SC||New Delhi Permitting illegal mining accused and former Karnataka minister Gali Janardan Reddy to permanently stay in Bellary will convey a wrong message as the trial in the case is yet to begin and there are 47 witnesses of this case residing in the district whose lives will be under serious threat, said the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to the Supreme Court on Thursday.The agency probing the illegal mining case against companies owned by Reddy brothers of Bellary was arguing against a petition filed by one of the brothers to relax one of the bail conditions imposed by the top court restraining him from entering Bellary. The Supreme Court had granted bail to Reddy in the illegal mining case on January 20, 2015, more than three years after he was arrested in September 2011.Senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Ranjeet Kumar who appeared for Reddy pointed out that the CBI had filed charge sheets in the case and had filed a memo on July 16, 2021 before the court of Principal Special Judge, Hyderabad, stating that investigation is complete. Reddy in his affidavit filed through advocate Parmatma Singh said, “In the said memo, it is clearly averred on behalf of the CBI that the investigation in the FIR being RC17(A)/2009 dated December 7, 2009 is complete and there are no further reports to be filed u/s 173(8) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.”The bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maeshwari told CBI that if this was true it can record a statement to this effect. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Madhvi Divan appearing for CBI sought time to take instructions and the matter was posted for hearing on Friday.Divan told the Court that in this case, the nine accused – including former ministers and bureaucrats – have been acting in tandem and delaying the trial by filing discharge applications, quashing petitions and bail petitions to crowd the docket of the trial court. “The fact that this man (Reddy) is permanently going to stay in Bellary sends a wrong message. This is one of the most notorious mining scams ever. We want to go on with the trial but their permanent stay in Bellary will be detrimental to the trial. A message must go from this court to ensure trial in this case is started,” the ASG submittedRohatgi said, “These restrictions are harsh and amount to externment. For how long can Reddy be kept out of his hometown Bellary. This condition must be waived. With nearly 10,000 documents and 300 witnesses, the trial will not end in the next 10 years if it goes this way.”CBI informed the court that out of 300 witnesses, 47 reside in Bellary. Of them, 30 are public servants and bank officials while 15 are private persons. “These witnesses are very crucial for the prosecution case….The petitioner’s firms namely Obalapuram Mining Corporation Private Limited and Bellary Iron Ore Private Limited had criminally intimidated these witnesses and extorted the iron ore from these witnesses and their mining companies by forcing them to sell the iron ore at much lesser price than the prevailing market rates.”Since the accused were restrained from entering Bellary, these witnesses were able to muster the courage to reveal these facts, hoping to get justice, the CBI said, adding that the petitioner’s stay at Bellary shall pose a “serious threat to the lives of these witnesses” as was evident through their statements before the arrest of the accused.Kumar, also appearing for Reddy said that the cases raked up by CBI were of 2012-13 and no complaint of intimidation has been filed after grant of bail. One such case was even closed for want of evidence. Since grant of bail by the top court, Reddy was allowed to visit Bellary on eight occasions. To avoid filing applications for permission to enter Bellary from time to time, the top court had allowed him to move an application for modifying the bail condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/illegal-mining-case-can-t-allow-janardhan-reddy-to-stay-in-bellary-cbi-tells-sc-101628796709603.html
13-08-2021||India||Anand Singh, the man at centre of discontent in Karnataka cabinet||Bengaluru: On July 1, 2019, former mining baron and Congress legislator from the mineral-rich Ballari district, about 320 kms from Bengaluru, triggered an exodus from the HD Kumaraswamy-led coalition government that eventually led to its collapse. This former Congress legislator was Anand Singh, whose decision had led to a juggernaut of sorts which helped the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) finally realise its efforts to get a chunk of disgruntled legislators from the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S)-Congress to quit and defect to the BJP, which eventually formed the government. Though Singh was never portrayed as the catalyst in this episode, he has used this card for the second time in two years to help him land a plum portfolio. First, in the BS Yediyurappa cabinet and now in that of his successor, Basavaraj Bommai. Singh, who had rubbed shoulders with the likes of illegal mining kingpin Gali Janardhana Reddy, has since seen himself turn “victim” on more than one occasion, the latest being his unhappiness over the portfolio allotted to him in the Bommai Cabinet. He is among the 29 ministers in Bommai’s Cabinet and has been allocated the tourism, environment and ecology portfolio. Singh has even threatened to resign as legislator if Bommai does not give him a better portfolio. “It is true that I have asked for a change in portfolio and he has taken my request into consideration and has said that he will talk to the seniors in the party and I will stay with him to cooperate,” Singh said on Wednesday night after meeting with the chief minister. The minister could not be reached for comment on Thursday. Singh’s threat and demand for a better portfolio adds to the mounting challenges of the Bommai-led government which has found itself trying to douse one crisis after another in the two weeks of its existence.Singh, in the past, has claimed to have got more than his demands when Yediyurappa carved out Vijayanagara as a district from Ballari. In February last year, Singh had even forced Yediyurappa to change his portfolio from food & civil supplies to forest. Incidentally, there are over a dozen cases of violating the Forest Act in mining, creating a conflict that was clearly overlooked by the BJP. Singh, who was once seen as a powerful political force, landed in a hospital in January 2019 with grievous injuries after his former aide and Congress colleague Kampli Ganesh allegedly assaulted him in Eagleton resort where the party was trying to keep its MLAs safe from any attempt by the BJP to poach them before the coalitions trust vote. While Singh and N Nagaraju (MTB) are demanding re-allocation of portfolios, a significant chunk of legislators are also demanding that they be included in the Cabinet after being overlooked to favor those loyal to Yediyurappa. One set of disgruntled legislators of the BJP have been meeting at former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi’s house while the supporters of several others have been threatening to lay siege the chief minister’s house to get a berth for their MLA. Supporters of Madikeri (Kodagu) BJP legislator, Apachu Ranjan, have threatened to drive to Bengaluru and “gherao” Bommai’s home for excluding the MLA from the Cabinet despite his seniority. “Things will fall in place in a few days. There will be some dissatisfaction among those who missed out (on ministerial berths),” one minister said, requesting not to be named. Though Bommai replaced Yediyurappa as chief minister, the latter has so far had full control over the selection of the Cabinet and rewarding those loyal to him, including the defectors, antagonizing core-BJP legislators who have nursed a feeling of neglect in the last two years. This was exacerbated when Bommai, who has been in the BJP only for the last 13 years, was named as chief minister over seniors who have been there for much longer and identify with the core ideology of the saffron party. Bommai himself is under fire over the floods, resurgence of Covid-19, economy and even for meeting JD(S) supremo, HD Deve Gowda within 24 hours of taking oath as chief minister. Preetham Gowda, a first-time MLA from Hassan district, has questioned the chief minister’s decision to meet the former Prime minister as it would send out a wrong message to the party workers ahead of the Zilla and taluk panchayat elections, expected to be held later this year. On Thursday, the BJP MLA from Mudigere, MP Kumaraswamy staged a protest against his own party’s government for failing to provide flood relief to people in his constituency, adding to the embarrassment of the new chief minister. “There are another 18-19 months of our term left and are hopeful of getting a chance (in the cabinet) now,” MP Renukacharya, a BJP legislator said on Thursday after meeting with the party’s senior leadership in Delhi. Bommai has his hands full. While Singh can be called the catalyst in the first defection drama to instate Yediyurappa in the top post two years ago, his threats to resign is just one of the many hurdles that has kicked up a storm in the Bommai era.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anand-singh-the-man-at-centre-of-discontent-in-karnataka-cabinet-101628796288000.html
13-08-2021||India||Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar meets Amit Shah in Delhi||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar met Union home minister Amit Shah at the latter’s residence in New Delhi on Thursday. The meeting took place a day after Dhankhar met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Parliament House, triggering strong reaction in Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) which shares an acrimonious relationship with the governor. “WB Governor Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar called on Shri @AmitShah Union Home Minister @HMOIndia today at his residence.” Dhankhar tweeted around 10 pm on Thursday and also posted a photograph. TMC leaders did not react to this till 10.30 pm. During his earlier trips to Delhi, the governor met Shah and submitted reports on the law and order situation in the state. Dhankhar has been extremely vocal on the political violence in the state since the March-April assembly polls. On Wednesday, Dhankhar described his meeting with the Prime Minister as a “courtesy call.” This, however, did not stop the TMC from attacking him. “We don’t know why the governor met the Prime Minister. Probably he is making preparations to formally join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which he represents anyway,” said TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh. Raj Bhawan officials said Dhankhar did not specify how long he will stay in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-governor-jagdeep-dhankhar-meets-amit-shah-in-delhi-101628795927906.html
13-08-2021||India||Kinnaur landslide toll rises to 14 with recovery of four more bodies||The death toll in the Kinnaur landslide rose to 14 with the recovery of four more bodies on Thursday morning. The bodies were found in the wreckage of a Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus, which had slid down National Highway 5 after being hit by big boulders during the landslide.The bus carrying around 22 passengers was en route to Haridwar from Reckong Peo when the mishap took place. A few other private vehicles, including a truck, a car and a Tata Sumo were also buried under the debris, and have now been recovered. Kinnaur superintendent of police Sarju Ram Rana said, “The wreckage of the HRTC bus was found 70metres down the National Highway 5. It was carrying around 22 passengers when it got buried.”“Four bodies of passengers were recovered from the wreckage of the bus this morning, taking the toll to 14. Until last night, 10 bodies had been retrieved till the suspension of rescue operations.” Stating that more people are feared to be trapped under the debris, Rana said, “We don’t have the exact number but we expect that it could be as high as 25.”HRTC managing director Sandeep Kumar confirmed that there were about 22 passengers in the HRTC bus. “Both the driver and conductor had alighted from the vehicle to inquire about the condition of the road when the bus got buried under the debris,” said Kumar, adding that both are still in a state of shock.Teams of the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), National Disaster Response Force, Army and Himachal Police, are carrying out rescue operations. About a 70 metre stretch of the highway has been blocked by the debris. The road was reopened for traffic last night. There were about 300 vehicles stranded on the both sides of the road. CM visits Negulseri to oversee rescue opsChief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday visited Negulseri, the landslide site in Kinnaur to oversee the relief and rescue operations. He also announced ₹4 lakh relief for the next of kin of the deceased and ₹50,000 to those critically injured in the tragic incident. He said the transport department would also provide ₹1 lakh to kin of the passengers of the HRTC bus who died in Wednesday’s incident. He said that free treatment would also be provided to all the injured by the state government. The CM later paid a visit to the community health centre in Bhawanagar and enquired about the well-being of the injured and wished them speedy recovery. The CM also lauded the services of the ITBP, NDRF, CISF, state police personnel and local people in relief and rescue operations. He said that the state government will conduct a geological survey of the area as a long-term solution. Assembly expresses grief Meanwhile, the Himachal Pradesh assembly which is in session has expressed grief over the loss of life in the incident. Urban development and parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj briefed the House about the incident. Dalhousie legislator Asha Kumari expressed concern over the frequently occurring natural disasters in the state and stressed on the need to take steps to mitigate such calamities. CPIM legislator Rakesh Singha castigated the government for delay in the rescue operation, citing media reports. He said it took heavy machinery mobilised from Narkanda to reach the spot. Vidhan Sabha speaker Vipin Parmar also condoled the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kinnaur-landslide-toll-rises-to-14-with-recovery-of-four-more-bodies-101628795869647.html
13-08-2021||India||BKU faction seeks feedback on contesting polls||A faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, a farmers’ outfit protesting against three agricultural laws enacted by the Modi government last year, on Thursday launched a Twitter poll on whether it should contest elections, taking an idea it has been toying with to the public. The Bhupinder Singh Mann-led faction, mainly active in Punjab, said this was the second time it had launched such a drive to test political waters and it is yet to take a decision. The last poll in August showed over two-thirds of the people wanted it to contest elections. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation spearheading the protests, however, said the platform would remain apolitical, but it would ask voters in the forthcoming state elections to cast their votes against the Bharatiya Janata Party, which rules both at the Centre and poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. Farm unions have been on protests since last November, demanding the government roll back three agricultural laws that seek to bring a more liberal regime of farm trade. The government has argued that these reforms are necessary to modernise the farm sector, while the farmers say the changes will leave them at the mercy of large corporations. “We as a farmers’ collective have already made three decisions. One, we will tell farmers to vote against the BJP; two, we will not ask farmers to vote for any particular party; and three, we will not allow any political party to campaign from our platform,” said Hannan Mollah, a key member of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. The faction which has asked for public’s suggestion on whether it should contest polls said it will decide only after detailed deliberations and the Twitter poll is just one of them. “We believe it is time for farmers to act politically, but we have not taken any decision yet on registering a political party,” Jai Singh, a spokesperson of the outfit said. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said in the just-concluded Parliament session that the Union government was ready to discuss the farm laws and their provisions with the protesting farmers but there was no possibility of repealing the legislation. The minister also said the system of assured prices for agricultural produce, known as minimum support prices, would continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bku-faction-seeks-feedback-on-contesting-polls-101628795209001.html
13-08-2021||India||Infra and maritime security top agenda at virtual Quad meeting||Senior officials of the four members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad on Thursday discussed ways to take forward cooperation in areas such as infrastructure, maritime security and humanitarian aid in order to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific.The virtual meeting of officials from India, Australia, Japan and the US also reviewed progress in key areas such as the Quad vaccine partnership, critical and emerging technologies and climate change. During the grouping’s first summit in March, the Quad decided to set up working groups focused on these three areas.Thursday’s meeting was a follow-up to the meeting of foreign ministers on February 18 and the virtual Quad leaders summit on March 12. The external affairs ministry said the officials discussed the wide-ranging impact of Covid-19 in the Indo-Pacific and the importance of collaborative efforts to contain the pandemic and ensure health security and a quick economic recovery.The officials explored the possibility of collaboration in resilient supply chains, emerging and critical technologies, maritime security, cyber security, counter-terrorism, infrastructure and connectivity, higher education, climate change and humanitarian assistance and disaster relief, the ministry added.Japan’s foreign ministry said in a readout that the officials concurred on advancing practical cooperation on these issues to achieve a free and open Indo-Pacific. The officials also exchanged views on regional issues such as the situation in North Korea, the East and South China Seas and Myanmar.A statement from the US state department said the “four democracies acknowledged that global security and prosperity depends on the region remaining inclusive, resilient, and healthy”.Also Read| India defeats China for ReCAAP elections with Quad on its sideThe officials also examined ways to advance cooperation such as strategic challenges confronting the region, countering disinformation, promoting democracy and human rights, strengthening international institutions such as the UN and related bodies, and “supporting countries vulnerable to coercive actions in the Indo-Pacific”, the US statement added.The Quad vaccine partnership was created to manufacture vaccines developed by the US in India with funding from the American and Japanese development banks. These jabs were to be distributed among developing countries across the Indo-Pacific with Australia’s logistics chain.The members of Quad were looking to start the distribution of the vaccines as early as the second quarter of this year, but these plans suffered a setback after India was hit hard by a second wave of Covid-19 infections in March and all vaccine stocks were repurposed for the domestic vaccination programme.The Quad members are now hoping to get the initiative rolling by early 2022, especially to counter China, which has taken the lead in delivering jabs to South and Southeast Asian countries either as donations or commercial supplies.During the meeting, the officials welcomed the fact that a free and open Indo-Pacific as a “vision for the peace and prosperity of the region and its importance in the post-Covid world is increasing”, the readout from Japan’s foreign ministry said.This vision has spread in the world community, including the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) and Europe, and the officials reaffirmed the importance of broadening cooperation with more countries for its further achievement, the readout added.The officials reaffirmed their strong support for Asean’ unity and centrality and the Asean-led regional architecture, as well as full support for Asean’s Indo-Pacific policy.The officials agreed to work towards holding an in-person summit by the end of this year, as well as a foreign minister’s meeting at least once a year.Also Read| Quad special forces to wargame off Guam in Indo-PacificThe meeting was joined by Vani Rao, joint secretary (Americas) and Naveen Srivastava, additional secretary (East Asia) from the external affairs ministry, deputy minister for foreign policy Masataka Okano and deputy director general (Asian and Oceanian Affairs Bureau) Kazuya Endo from Japan’s foreign ministry, Justin Hayhurst, deputy secretary (Indo-Pacific Group) and Lauren Bain, assistant secretary (ASEAN and regional architecture branch) from Australia’s foreign ministry, and Richard Buangan from the bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs and Dean Thompson, acting assistant secretary (South and Central Asian Affairs) from the US state department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infra-and-maritime-security-top-agenda-at-virtual-quad-meeting-101628795087169.html
13-08-2021||India||Health minister meets WHO chief scientist, talks nod for Covaxin||Union health minister, Mansukh Mandaviya, met World Health Organisation (WHO) chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan on Thursday to discuss, among other coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related issues, Bharat Biotech’s impending approval for the Covaxin vaccine with the UN health body.“Held a meeting with Dr Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist of @WHO. We had a productive discussion on WHO’s approval of @BharatBiotech’s COVAXIN. @DoctorSoumya also appreciated India’s efforts for the containment of #Covid-19,” tweeted health minister Mandaviya.Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has applied for WHO’s emergency use listing for the anti Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, that the company co-developed with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).All documents required for the emergency use listing (EUL) have been submitted by Bharat Biotech for Covaxin to the World Health Organization by July 9, and the review process by the UN health body has also started.“The discussion was fruitful. The EUL process is on track; and the approval should come through soon. There’s a due process that needs to be followed, which takes its own time,” said a senior government official familiar with the matter, on condition of anonymity.Responding to question on whether it has come to the notice of the government that Covaxin used in India as Covid vaccine is not recognised by many countries, minister of state for health, Bharati Pravin Pawar, in a written reply earlier in Parliament said, “The Government of India is aware that Covaxin at present is not part of WHO Emergency Use Listing (EUL).”Elaborating on efforts that have been made by the government to resolve this issue, Pawar had said, “All documents required for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) have been submitted by Bharat Biotech International Ltd. to WHO as of 9th July 2021. The review process by WHO has commenced. WHO usually takes up to six weeks to decide on Emergency Use Listing (EUL) submissions.”Developed by Bharat Biotech in partnership with National Institute of Virology and ICMR, Covaxin was approved for emergency use on January 3, 2021. The clinical trials have shown that the vaccine has an efficacy if nearly 78%.Bharat Biotech has repurposed its Chiron Behring manufacturing plant in Ankleshwar, Gujarat, that it had been using for anti-rabies vaccine production, to scale up production of Covaxin.“Decision to manufacture Covaxin at Ankleshwar Gujarat was taken several months ago with planning and preparatory activities. Facility preparations and production activities commenced during June 2021, Product will be available for supplies during September 2021,” said a person familiar with the matter, on condition of anonymity.With a couple of other public sector undertakings (PSU) also being roped in for manufacturing Covaxin doses, the production number of Covaxin is projected to increase from the current 25 million doses a month to at least 58 million doses, according to the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-meets-who-chief-scientist-talks-nod-for-covaxin-101628795029250.html
13-08-2021||India||LCA Mk-1A to take first flight by March, says HAL chairman||State-run plane maker Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) has set a March 2022 deadline to carry out the first flight of the LCA (light combat aircraft) Mk-1A jet after wrapping up the necessary design activities, HAL chairman R Madhavan said on Thursday.HAL will also next week announce a multimillion-dollar engine deal with US firm GE Aviation for 99 F404 engines to power India’s latest indigenous fighter, he said. The developments come six months after the defence ministry awarded a ₹48,000-crore contract to HAL for 83 LCA Mk-1A jets for the Indian Air Force (IAF). The first Mk-1A aircraft will be delivered to the air force by March 2024, with the rest slated to join its combat fleet by 2029.“The preliminary design review is over and so is the critical design review for several systems, including mission computer, digital map generator and digital flight control systems. We are integrating the active electronically scanned array (AESA) radar and the electronic warfare suite on the final operational clearance (FOC) version of the LCA. After it is proven there, we will integrate it on the final Mk-1A version,” the HAL chairman said. AESA radar provides superior detection, tracking and targeting capabilities.The contract for the 83 Mk-1A jets took the total number of LCA variants ordered to 123. The 40 LCAs already ordered by IAF are in the initial operational clearance (IOC) and the more advanced FOC configurations. The LCA Mk-1A will come with a raft of additional improvements over the FOC aircraft, making it the most advanced LCA variant so far.Madhavan said HAL was working with Aeronautical Development Agency, a principal partner in the fighter jet project, on software development for the Mk-1A jet and the effort was progressing smoothly. “This is for all the software that has to be changed in the Mk-1A aircraft because of new systems coming in. We plan to carry of out the first flight of the aircraft by March 2022 and get the certification from the Centre for Military Airworthiness and Certification (CEMILAC) by mid-2023 before kicking off production,” he said.A regulatory body under the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), CEMILAC is responsible for the airworthiness certification of military aircraft, helicopters, aero-engines and air-launched weapons.The delivery schedule requires HAL to provide the IAF with the first two aircraft in 2024, eight in 2025 and the remaining in batches by 2029 at the rate of 14 to 16 fighters every year.“We are working on a tight schedule, but HAL may deliver all the aircraft ahead of time. We will deliver a new aircraft with significant changes three years after the signing of contract. Even foreign original equipment manufacturers (OEM) take about five to six years to do something like that,” the HAL chairman said.He said the deal for the F404 engines for the Mk-1A aircraft had been finalised, with HAL striking a good bargain with GE Aviation after several rounds of negotiations. Expected to be worth around $700 million, the engine deal is the biggest contract being awarded by HAL for the project. The existing LCA variants use the same engine.“We have got a good price from GE Aviation after 17 to 18 rounds of negotiations. HAL is also holding discussions with its entire vendor base for reducing cost as the volumes are higher. The target is a price reduction of 15% to 20%,” Madhavan said. HAL has set a deadline of November 2021 to place purchase orders for raw materials so that machining activities can begin next year onwards, he said.The Mk-1A variant will come with digital radar warning receivers, external self-protection jammer pods, AESA radar, advanced beyond-visual-range (BVR) missiles and significantly improved maintainability. The fighter’s indigenous content is expected to be around 60%, compared to 50% in the existing variants.“HAL now has to perform since the stakes involved are very high -- IAF’s potency is dependent on it. HAL’s work culture and ethos have to turn a new leaf to ensure that aircraft production timelines are met. Rigid adherence to quality in production and timely provisioning of spares would define successful contract implementation,” Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), former additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies, previously told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lca-mk-1a-to-take-first-flight-by-march-says-hal-chairman-101628794848874.html
13-08-2021||India||Body of missing 19-yr-old found on Goa beach||The semi-naked body of a 19-year-old woman was found on Calangute beach in Goa on Thursday, a day after her family reported her missing complaint, police said.According to the police, the post-mortem report confirmed drowning as the cause of death while ruling out sexual assault.“The post-mortem report has said she died of drowning and there is no evidence of sexual assault or attack prior to her death so we have ruled out rape or assault. But we are conducting an inquest into the circumstances surrounding her death,” said Shobit Saksena, North Goa superintendent of police.Police said according to the missing complaint filed by the woman’s father, the 19-year-old left for work on Wednesday morning and was dropped off by her father at the bus stop from where she would take the bus to work. She worked as a salesperson at a shop in the city. But when she did not return home after work, her father filed a missing complaint at Mapusa police station, said a police officer.When she was spotted washed ashore on the Calangute beach on Thursday morning, police said a preliminary inquiry revealed her identity to be the same as the one who was reported missing. She was taken to a health facility nearby, where doctors declared her brought dead, police said. After the identification by her family, the body was sent for post-mortem, said police.Further probe into the circumstances surrounding her death was on, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/body-of-missing-19-yr-old-found-on-goa-beach-101628794848208.html
13-08-2021||India||CBI submits 1st report in Dhanbad judge case||RANCHI: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday submitted its first report on its investigation into last month’s death of Dhanbad additional judge Uttam Anand to the Jharkhand High Court. Both the Supreme Court and the Jharkhand High Court took suo motu cognisance of the incident, with CCTV camera footage showing a vehicle seemigly swerving deliberately to hit the judge, who was out on his morning walk, and speeding away. The apex court directed the central agency to file a status report every week with the high court.The investigation officer in the case also appeared before the division bench of Jharkand HC chief justice Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujit Narayan Prasad that directed the agency to carry out a proper investigation and submit a detailed report next week.During the hearing, the court also sought details from the state government about security measures for judges in Dhanbad. “I can’t comment on the content of the status report. We submitted the first status report today as per the Supreme Court’s direction. The next progress report will be submitted for the next hearing on August 20,” said CBI counsel Rajiv Sinha.A news agency quoted Jharkhand advocate general Rajiv Ranjan saying that the HC was not satisfied with the status report. “CBI submitted its report before the HC. The HC was not satisfied with it so it has asked CBI for a detailed report. They have to file it next week,” Ranjan told news agency ANI.People involved in the proceedings said the bench sought to know from the investigation officer details of the forensic report of the crime scene and the auto rickshaw and the interrogation of people seen passing by in the footage. The agency informed the court that with a local court’s permission they took custody of the auto rickshaw involved in the accident to recreate the crime scene and that the forensic report of the samples lifted f was still awaited. The agency also informed the court that they have questioned one of two bike riders captured on CCTV passing by the same road at the time of the accident.Additional district judge Uttam Anand was brought dead to the hospital on July 28, about an hour after he was hit by a vehicle near Randhir Verma square in Dhanbad. Two people who were riding the three-wheeler, identified as driver Lakhan Verma and his associate Rahul Verma were arrested by Jharkhand police the next morning and the vehicle was seized. CBI took over the investigation from the SIT headed by an ADG rank officer of Jharkhand Police at the state government’s instance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-submits-1st-report-in-dhanbad-judge-case-101628794731281.html
13-08-2021||India||Encounter breaks out in J&K after terrorists attack BSF convoy: Police||Two security personnel, including a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) constable, and two civilians were injured in an ongoing encounter between terrorists and security forces in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Thursday, police said, adding that terrorists were trapped in a building after attacking a convoy of Border Security Forces traveling on the National Highway at Malpora Kulgam.“Terrorists fired upon BSF convoy at NHW, Kulgam,” said Kashmir inspector general of police, Vijay Kumar.“Two terrorists of LeT (Lashkar-e-Taiba) are still trapped. Exchange of fire is on. Two security personnel and two civilians are injured in firing by terrorists,” Kumar added.He said the reinforcement of forces reached the area as did the senior officers of police, CRPF and army.CRPF spokesperson Junaid Khan said a constable of CRPF was injured in the encounter. “He has a minor bullet injury in his foot and is stable,” Khan added.The official said the CRPF’s road opening party were the first to retaliate when the terrorists opened fire on the BSF convoy. “The terrorists took shelter in a nearby three-storey building where they have been trapped and the encounter is going on,” Khan said.There has been a spurt in terrorist attacks in Kashmir in the run up to the Independence Day celebrations on August 15.On Tuesday, 10 civilians were injured in a grenade attack by suspected terrorists in Srinagar, police said. The terrorists attempted to hurl the grenade towards a bunker vehicle of SSB and it exploded on roadside.On Monday, BJP’s Kisan Morcha president of Kulgam, Gulam Rasool Dar, and his wife died after terrorists opened fire at the couple in the Lal Chowk area of Anantnag in south Kashmir.On Saturday, a police official was killed in Kulgam district in another terrorist attack on a police party.On August 3, a police official and a civilian were injured after suspected terrorists opened fire on a police vehicle at Khanyar in Old City Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/encounter-breaks-out-in-j-k-after-terrorists-attack-bsf-convoy-police-101628794727696.html
13-08-2021||India||Former IIT prof moves OBC panel over ‘caste bias’ at the institute||A former assistant professor at the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras, who resigned from the institution in July alleging caste-based discrimination, has approached the National Commission for Backward Classes in Delhi and complained that he was denied opportunities due to his caste.Vipin P Veetil, who joined the department of humanities and social sciences in March 2019, resigned on July 1 and in his resignation letter alleged that he was moving to another institution due to caste bias at IIT-Madras.“I filed a complaint last Thursday and I’ve asked for the head of the department of humanities and sciences to temporarily step down from the position until investigations are over,” Veetil said.He said that he has also applied to return to IIT-Madras. “It’s within the in lien period of one year (to withdraw resignation) so I’ve expressed interest to (re)join,” Veetil said. He added that he wanted to take the issue up so that others did not face discrimination in the institution.Veetil belongs to the other backward class community. IIT-M did not respond to requests for a comment.His resignation on July 1 triggered outrage among activists and educationists due to serious allegations of caste bias. “The discrimination came from individuals in position of power, irrespective of their claimed political affiliations and gender,” he said in his email at the time, which was leaked to reporters.In response, on July 2, IIT-Madras said, “Any complaint received by the institute from employees and students is attended to promptly through the established process of redressing grievances.” The institute, one of the country’s finest, didn’t comment on the specifics of his e-mail.Veetil has a Ph.D in Economics from the George Mason University in the US ; he was subsequently a postdoctoral fellow in Paris, according to the faculty page of IIT-Madras website. He completed his undergraduate degree from the University of Delhi in 2006.The National Commission for Backward Classes is a constitutional body and has quasi-judicial powers , similar to those of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes and National Commission of Scheduled Tribes , to decide on complaints of discrimination by OBC community members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-iit-prof-moves-obc-panel-over-caste-bias-at-the-institute-101628794728149.html
13-08-2021||India||India again asks nationals to leave Afghanistan||The Indian embassy in Kabul on Thursday again advised Indians in Afghanistan to return home in view of the deteriorating security situation, saying three engineers who remained at a project site not controlled by Afghan forces had required an “emergency air rescue”. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the three engineers were at a dam site in a Taliban controlled area. Further details of the emergency air rescue, such as the area and when it was carried out, could not immediately be ascertained. The security advisory from the Indian embassy was the fourth such alert issued since June 29 and reiterated the call for Indian nationals in Afghanistan to make immediate arrangements to return home via commercial air services. It also reiterated a warning to avoid non-essential travel because of a serious threat of kidnapping. The advisory pointed to the case of the three Indian engineers and said those ignoring the embassy’s advisories were putting themselves in “mortal danger”. “A recent case that required emergency air rescue of three Indian engineers who remained at a dam project site, in an area not under the control of government forces, has brought to light that Indian nationals receiving this embassy’s advisories are not heeding its advice and continue to put themselves in mortal danger,” the alert said. The Indian embassy underscored the “need for all Indian nationals to fully adhere to steps” in previous security advisories. It also referred to the killing of photojournalist Danish Siddiqui by the Taliban in the border town of Spin Boldak on July 16 and said Indian reporters visiting Afghanistan faced additional risks. “Special attention is once again drawn to members of the Indian media arriving in Afghanistan for ground reporting. As a recent tragic incident demonstrated, the public profile of Indian journalists in Afghanistan entails additional risks,” the advisory said. The embassy advised members of the Indian media to take “additional security measures for their stay and movements inside Afghanistan, including tying up of interviews and planned coverage before arrival in Afghanistan”. Indian reporters travelling to Afghanistan should also identify well established security logistic firms who can make arrangements for their stay and movement, it added. Reports emerging after Siddiqui’s death have suggested he was captured and killed by the Taliban. According to information provided by the government in Parliament last week, there were some 1,500 Indian nationals in Afghanistan. Officials said this figure has come down as many Indians have returned in recent days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-again-asks-nationals-to-leave-afghanistan-101628794667962.html
13-08-2021||India||Merit must be the key: Justice Nariman on SC appointments||At a time when an unprecedented stalemate has prevented the Supreme Court collegium from making any appointment in the top court for 21 months, justice Rohinton F Nariman, who retired on Thursday, said that “merit must predominate” in judges’ appointments to ascertain that the people of India get quality justice.“Nobody has any legitimate expectation to come to this court. I believe there is a legitimate expectation in the people of India and the litigating public to get a certain quality of justice from this final court. For that, it is very clear merit must predominate, subject to all other factors. The merit must always come first,” justice Nariman said at an event organised by the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) to bid farewell to him.The function was presided over by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, who said he felt in justice Nariman’s departure from the top court as if he was “losing one of the lions that guarded the judicial institution”.Addressing a gathering of his colleagues from the Supreme Court, and senior and junior lawyers, justice Nariman was of the view that a greater number of lawyers should be appointed as judges.“I will second Mr Vikas Singh (president of SCBA) that it is time that more direct appointees were elevated to the bench. I would also say and exhort those direct appointees, who are asked, never to say no. It is their solemn duty, having reaped so much from the profession, to give back,” emphasised the outgoing judge, who is only the fifth lawyer in Indian legal history to be directly appointed from the bar.Since the retirement of justice Ranjan Gogoi as the Chief Justice of India in November 2019, the collegium has not sent even a single recommendation to the Union government for appointments in the top court, which will have nine vacancies after justice Nariman’s exit. Additionally, justice Navin Sinha is set to retire on August 19, which will leave the Supreme Court with 10 vacancies out of 34.The previous CJI SA Bobde’s 17-month tenure turned out to be the only one in the judicial history when a CJI demitted office without making any recommendation for the Supreme Court after the advent of the collegium system in 1990s.As reported by HT on February 21, the impasse in the collegium, according to the people familiar with the development, persisted due to justice Nariman’s firm stand over recommending justice Akil A Kureshi, currently chief justice of the Tripura high court, as a judge in the apex court.Justice Nariman had asserted that any recommendation to be made by the collegium of the five most senior judges must include justice Kureshi, who stood at number 2 in all-India seniority list of high court judges. A lack of consensus within the collegium has stalled appointment of judges in the top court ever since.The standoff over justice Kureshi, HT reported at the time, may cost the country the opportunity to have its first woman CJI since it has led to uncertainty over the timely elevation of justice BV Nagarathna from the Karnataka high court, who, if elevated now, could become India’s first woman CJI in 2027.Speaking at the farewell function on Thursday, SCBA president and senior advocate Vikas Singh on Thursday said that a fitting tribute to justice Nariman by the collegium will be to elevate the outgoing judge’s picks. “I will beseech the CJI and all the judges in the collegium to ensure all the judges, he (justice Nariman) wanted appointed in the Supreme Court in his last few days, should be elevated,” said Singh.CJI Ramana paid rich tributes to justice Nariman.“It is rare to find those who stand by their principles. Brother Nariman is one of them... He has left an indelible mark on the jurisprudence of the country...Our loss will be a huge gain elsewhere. I am sure; that gain will continue to be for the larger public good,” said justice Ramana, highlighting that justice Nariman has delivered around 350 judgments in his seven years’ tenure disposed of nearly 13,565 cases.‘NOT AN EASY LIFE’Both the CJI and justice Nariman underscored that a judge’s life is not a bed of roses.“We either burn the midnight oil, or wake up before sunrise, or sometimes even both, to fulfil our judicial duties. We continue to work even during the Court holidays, do research and author pending judgments. Therefore, when false narratives are created about the supposed easy life led by judges, it is difficult to swallow,” said CJI Ramana.Justice Nariman -- his father is the eminent jurist Fali S Nariman -- emphasised that taking up judgeship after being a lawyer was not a cakewalk. “When I was at the bar, I had no idea how it would be like to be at the bench. This side (as a judge) is much more difficult than a lawyer. You have to read much, much more..I cannot say I enjoyed every minute of being a judge. It is very hard work. But I certainly enjoyed writing judgments. At the end of it all, it has worked out well,” he said.Justice Nariman also thanked attorney general KK Venugopal, whom he calls his “guru”, and in whose chamber the retiring judge had worked after he moved from Mumbai to Delhi in 1986.Justice Nariman also expressed his gratitude for former CJI RM Lodha, who had persuaded him to become a judge. “He (justice Lodha) did the greatest possible service to me by making me do a public service in turn as a judge. He said he won’t accept no. And that is how, by accident, I became a judge,” quipped justice Nariman.Justices AM Khanwilkar, L Nageswara Rao, Sanjay Kishan Kaul, BR Gavai, and V Ramasubramanian were also present at the function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/merit-must-be-the-key-justice-nariman-on-sc-appointments-101628794609663.html
13-08-2021||India||No plan to shut embassy in Kabul: India||India on Thursday ruled out immediate closure of its embassy in Afghanistan amid the rapid deterioration of the security situation and said it continued to be engaged with all stakeholders to work for a comprehensive ceasefire and a political settlement. Rapid advances made by the Taliban in recent days, including the capture of nine provincial capitals and fresh attacks on Kandahar and Herat on Thursday, have sharpened security concerns in New Delhi. The Indian government is keeping a close eye on the situation and plans have been drawn up to deal with all contingencies, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi dismissed the possibility of any immediate closure of the Indian mission in Kabul but acknowledged that the rapidly evolving security situation across Afghanistan was “of concern”. “We are monitoring the situation very carefully but there are no plans as such [to close the embassy],” Bagchi told a regular media briefing. India evacuated some 50 officials and security officials from its consulate in the northern city of Mazar-e-Sharif early on Wednesday against the backdrop of Taliban fighters making rapid advances in the region. The move came exactly a month after evacuated a similar number of personnel from the consulate in southern Kandahar city. The people cited above ruled out any immediate evacuation of officials from Kabul, saying that the government was preparing for all eventualities, including the possible rapid withdrawal of diplomats and Indian nationals. According to information provided by the government in Parliament recently, some 1,500 Indians were in Afghanistan. However, the people said this figure would have come down as many Indians working on development projects had been sent back. Bagchi also pointed to the role being played in Afghanistan by terrorists and jihadi fighters from Pakistan-based groups. Recent reports have said thousand of fighters from groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan have been fighting alongside the Taliban. “Everyone in the world knows what type of role is being played and what concerns others have about jihadi and terrorist elements from Pakistan and what they have done in Afghanistan. The whole world knows it, we don’t need to tell others about it,” he said. The removal of “external malign influences” is essential for for peace in Afghanistan. “We would hope all parties, including regional countries, understand this and work towards a situation where Afghans can have a process that is owned, controlled and led by them. We certainly don’t think that’s currently the situation,” he added. Bagchi said the Indian government is also keeping a close eye on all developments regarding Afghanistan’s Hindu and Sikh minorities. “Last year, our mission in Kabul had facilitated the return of 383 members of the Sikh and Hindu communities in Afghanistan. Our mission continues to remain in touch with the Afghan Hindu and Sikh community members and we will ensure the provision of all necessary assistance to them,” he said. He declined to comment on reports about a fresh US security assessment that Kabul could fall to the Taliban within 30 to 90 days. He added: “We continue to hope that there will be an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire. We are supporting all peace initiatives in Afghanistan. Our primary concern is peace and stability in that country and offering a prosperous future [in an] independent, sovereign and democratic [country].” The external affairs ministry’s pointperson for Afghanistan, joint secretary JP Singh of the Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran desk, represented India at a regional conference hosted by Qatar in Doha on Thursday to find ways to take forward the stalled Afghan peace process. Key stakeholders from Afghanistan also joined the meeting, for which Qatari special envoy Mutlaq bin Majed Al-Qahtani extended an invitation during a visit to New Delhi last week. This was the third meeting on Afghanistan held in Doha since Tuesday, when representatives of the US, the UK, China, Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Qatar, Russia, the UN and the European Union met in the Qatari capital. Wednesday saw a meeting of the “extended troika” that was joined by special envoys from the US, Russia, China and Pakistan. However, the lack of consensus was evident from the fact that extended troika meeting did not produce a joint statement. The last two meetings of this group convened by Russia had resulted in such statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-plan-to-shut-embassy-in-kabul-india-101628794488910.html
13-08-2021||India||Congress objects as Twitter locks accounts of party, key leaders||New Delhi: Nearly 5,000 twitter accounts, including those of several senior Congress leaders and the party’s official handle, were temporarily locked on Thursday after they shared a photograph of Rahul Gandhi meeting a minor rape victim’s family — his account was already locked on Saturday — even as the party mounted an attack on the Central government for scuttling free speech. The microblogging platform, however, maintains that it “impartially” enforces its rules and terms of service.Accounts of senior leaders such as Randeep Singh Surjewala, Ajay Maken, Sushmita Dev and Manickam Tagore were temporarily locked, Congress functionaries familiar with the matter said. The party’s official handle was also barred from posting, they added.The party’s social media head Rohan Gupta said “Twitter is acting under govt pressure. It has already blocked 5000 accounts of our leaders and workers across India”.“They need to understand we can’t be pressurised by Twitter or government,” he addedGupta said he has started the campaign “I too am Rahul” in light of Twitter’s action to temporarily lock the former Congress chief’s account , which he claimed was singling out Gandhi. “If a government body can post a similar picture without being actioned, then why is Rahul Gandhi being singled out?”His reference was to a post by the National Commission for Scheduled Castes wherein a similar photograph of the family was shared.The tweet in question has been withheld from public view.Twitter said that it enforces its rules judiciously and impartially. “Twitter rules are enforced judiciously and impartially for everyone on our service. We have taken proactive action on several hundred Tweets that posted an image that violated our Rules, and may continue to do so in line with our range of enforcement options,” a Twitter spokesperson said. “Certain types of private information carry higher risks than others, and our aim is always to protect individuals’ privacy and safety. We strongly encourage everyone on the service to familiarise themselves with the Twitter Rules and report anything they believe is in violation.”Twitter admitted that it was alerted by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) about the tweet which revealed the victim’s identity. It added that it reviewed the tweet against Twitter rules and policies, as well as the concerns expressed as a matter of the Indian law.The NCPCR has moved the Delhi High Court over the issue.The incident came to light on Saturday after the opposition party tweeted that the former Congress party chief had been barred from posting from his account.The Congress first said Gandhi’s account was suspended. “Shri @RahulGandhi’s Twitter account has been temporarily suspended & due process is being followed for its restoration. Until then, he will stay connected with you all through his other SM platforms & continue to raise his voice for our people & fight for their cause. Jai Hind,” Congress’ official handle posted on the microblogging website on date.It later clarified that the account was temporarily locked.When an account is locked, under Twitter’s enforcement guidelines, the account holder is barred from posting any new updates. To unlock the account, the post in question needs to be deleted.NCPCR asked the Delhi Police and Twitter last Wednesday to take action against Gandhi over a photograph he posted after meeting the family of the nine-year-old girl who was raped and killed.The child rights body said the tweet violated the Juvenile Justice Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. Gandhi met the girl’s family last week and assured his support. “Parents’ tears are saying only one thing -- their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path to justice,” Gandhi tweeted in Hindi and posted the photo of his meeting with the girl’s relatives.Twitter has taken down the post. “When we determine that a Tweet violated the Twitter Rules, we require the violator to remove it before they can Tweet again. We send an email notification to the violator identifying the Tweet(s) in violation and which policies have been violated. They will then need to go through the process of removing the violating Tweet or appealing our review if they believe we made an error,” the enforcement page states.Experts on the subject are split, with some arguing that Gandhi’s tweet is in violation of Indian law and Twitter’s actions are justified. Kazim Rizvi, founder of the policy think tank The Dialogue, said that Gandhi’s tweet violates Section 23 (2) of POCSO Act and Section 74 of Juvenile Justice Act, which outlaws the disclosure of any sensitive information about child victim of rape. “This law has been reinforced by Justice Deepak Gupta of the Supreme Court in Nipun Saxena vs Union of India wherein the court provided exhaustive guidleines to prohibit disclosure of personal information regarding a rape victim including those who are deceased in order to protect their dignity,” he said. “Posting pictures with the family of a rape victim poses concerns regarding the safety and security of the family. This is violative of both the terms of service of platforms and also the global best practices on Platform Regulation. Towards this, the action by Twitter is in accordance with the Indian laws and its own Rules.”Rizvi added that the accounts have only been temporarily locked, and not suspended, as per Twitter’s rules. “It requires the account holders to remove the violative Tweet. Once the tweet is deleted, the account is reinstated,” he said.Supreme Court lawyer Sourav Roy said that one has to take cognizance of the context of the tweet. “It is important to highlight the plight of a victim’s family,” he said. “This is minor Dalit girl and the police were harassing victim’s family. If Gandhi’s visit aimed to highlight the plight of the victim then there is no hard and fast rule that he should not be allowed to post such a photograph. One has to understand the law and not just follow it blindly.”Roy added that Gandhi’s tweet in no way attempted to jeopardize the family of the victim. “The larger question that needs to be addressed here is whether companies like Twitter should be allowed to wield so much power.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-objects-as-twitter-locks-accounts-of-party-key-leaders-101628794487739.html
13-08-2021||India||DNA analysis, camera trapping for new elephant census||India will embark on a first scientific estimation of its elephant population next year, using DNA analysis of dung samples, camera trapping, and statistical modelling, following a process similar to that used in the quadrennial tiger count. India does have an elephant census, but this is largely a headcount of elephants in various elephant habitats conducted by state forest departments. The last one was carried out in 2017 and concluded that India has at least 27,000 elephants. “Head count is not a scientific method for population estimation. We have realised that we can conduct a very scientific population estimation if we followed estimation methods used for tigers and leopards. So now we will apply a statistical framework and conduct double sampling. First ground surveys will be conducted, indirect elephant signs will be recorded like broken branches, footprints, dung etc. Camera trapping will also be conducted along with DNA analysis of dung samples. Then the numbers will be extrapolated to give a range for each region. Such a scientific method will definitely improve our understanding of elephants and the issues facing them,” said SP Yadav, member secretary, National Tiger Conservation Authority and head of Central Zoo Authority.According to the new estimation methodology released on Thursday on the occasion of World Elephant Day, the process “involves rigorous statistical analyses of ground data on animal signs, human impacts, habitat attributes and absolute density”. The methodology adds that the process will involve three phases: ground surveys, analyses of remotely sensed data and camera traps. “Elephant populations using this method will be assessed for first time. The procedure is routinely used for estimating tiger and leopard populations in India.”The 2017 elephant census results revealed that the distribution range of elephants in the country had expanded and many states that never had any elephants were recording elephant presence. Elephant populations were reported for the first time from Manipur, Mizoram, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Andaman and Nicobar.“We know that the distribution is expanding. There are 40 to 50 elephants in Madhya Pradesh which never had elephants. Chhattisgarh also has a sizeable number of resident elephants now which possibly moved from neighbouring Jharkhand. Elephants may be moving to new areas under stress or because they are being driven out by people,” explained Yadav adding that these trends will also be studied. “Elephants are like engineers of the jungle. They manipulate habitat, pulverise soil which helps the forest ecology.” “There has been a need to harmonise population estimation methods along more scientific lines. The @moefcc for the first time is converging elephant & tiger population estimation. On #WorldElephantDay, released the protocol for the exercise,” Bhupender Yadav, union environment minister tweeted.Asian elephants are listed as “Endangered” on the IUCN Red List of threatened species. That’s because most states except India, have lost their viable elephant populations due to loss of habitat and poaching. The current population estimates indicate that there are about 50,000 -60000 Asian elephants in the world. More than 60 % of the population is held in India.In 2020, 87 elephants and 359 people died in human-elephant conflicts; the corresponding numbers for 2019-20 were 19 elephants and 585 people according to MoEFCC’s reply to a question raised in the Rajya Sabha last week on human-elephant conflict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dna-analysis-camera-trapping-for-new-elephant-census-101628794308310.html
13-08-2021||India||Om Birla: ‘Can’t impose any debate on the House’||Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla spoke to Hindustan Times about Parliament’s curtailed monsoon session, the disruption in the House, the passage of bills without debate, the demands for a discussion on the Pegasus list, the allegation by Opposition leaders that Lok Sabha TV was blacking them out, and other issues related to the session .Edited excerpts:The previous sessions under your tenure as the Speaker logged 100% productivity. But in the monsoon session, the House could use only 22% of its time. In the last five sessions, the House ran well, and the MPs fulfilled their responsibilities. Earlier, efforts were made to run the House smoothly, and that’s why the House ran for long, even till midnight. But, in this session, the deadlock continued. The Opposition made some specific demands, while the government maintained that we should first discuss the issues identified during the all-party meeting (held on July 18 when the Pegasus controversy broke). So, a consensus couldn’t be reached on the business. I tried my best and repeatedly appealed to both sides that the House is meant to debate and discuss issues. But, despite my efforts, deadlock continued.People had started believing that the Lok Sabha is the place where public issues are discussed. A positive image of India’s democratic institutions had started building as Parliament also acts as a margdarshak (guide) to other democratic institutions.Who is responsible for the deadlock? How can I hold someone responsible? If both ruling and Opposition sides agree on an issue, the House can run. If they don’t agree, a deadlock will continue. Lawmakers can adopt many ways to express their dissent. But showing placards, shouting slogans, coming down in the Well of the House, are not in the best traditions of the House, and therefore, not acceptable. I will talk to all party leaders, and I am hopeful that the parties will also do self-introspection.The logjam could have ended with a debate on the Pegasus issue.It’s between the government and the Opposition. They couldn’t agree. As the Speaker, I can’t impose any debate on the House.Several bills were being passed without any discussion. Do you think it is the right way to conduct legislative business? I always favour that every bill is debated in the House before passage. But despite every effort, debate couldn’t take place as the House was not in order. But it would have been better if discussion had happened.Opposition has alleged that Lok Sabha TV didn’t show their speeches or visuals, and it was almost like a blackout. Lok Sabha TV or any other channel shows every speaker when the House is in order. I don’t think that even during earlier times, the Well of the House was shown during the proceedings. LSTV works when the House is in order. But, during disruption, LSTV possibly tries to focus on a lawmaker who is speaking on the agenda. I have not given any direction to LSTV on who should be shown or not. That’s not my job. I have not told them that you can’t show lawmakers in the Well or black out someone else. This is decided by the Lok Sabha TV according to the decorum or rules of the House.In this session, all bills, except the Constitution amendment bill were passed amid din. Is it a new normal in the House that bills would continue to be cleared even amid din, and when the House is not in order? Our job is pass the bills after debate. But sometimes, due to deadlock, debate can’t take place. If I am able to conduct a debate on the bill, I will definitely do it. But, at times, debate can’t take place but the minister may insist that the bill be passed. As the Speaker of the House, I have to allow the passage of the bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/om-birla-interview-can-t-impose-any-debate-on-the-house-101628794129774.html
13-08-2021||India||Oppn calls on Naidu over govt action, Sonia plans meet with top leaders||Fourteen Opposition leaders met vice-president Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday to condemn the government’s actions in the recently concluded monsoon session, even as Congress chief Sonia Gandhi announced a meeting with top leaders on August 20 to discuss the future course of a united Opposition.Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, and 13 others, met Naidu and submitted a letter to express their “strongest possible condemnation” at the manner in which Rajya Sabha was conducted on Wednesday evening, when the general insurance amendment bill was cleared amid furious protests by Opposition leaders.“A very large number of security personnel, who were not part of the regular part of the watch and ward staff of the Rajya Sabha were deployed. They used unacceptable force and physically manhandled members of Parliament, including women members,” he said in a letter given to Naidu.Describing the developments as “a shocking, unprecedented insult” to Indian democracy and dignity of the Rajya Sabha, the Opposition MPs alleged that they were “prevented from registering their protest” against the bill.Naidu told the opposition leaders that he was “deeply hurt” by the incidents in the House on August 10 and cautioned that “such unruly behaviour by some members is not pardonable and necessary action needs to be taken against such erring members”, according to a senior leader.“He even expressed concern over even the Chairman not being allowed to make some important observations,” said a second functionary.The Rajya Sabha secretariat deployed 42 marshals from both Houses of Parliament in the chamber on Wednesday evening, when furious Opposition leaders stormed the Well and protested against the passage of the general insurance bill.After the Opposition allegations, Naidu summoned officials on Thursday. “The officials reported that no outsiders were deployed as martials in the Rajya Sabha on August 10,” said an official release.“They stated that only the watch and ward staff of the Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha secretariats was deployed, which is permitted, based on the need. They also informed that only 14 martials were deployed to started with and was gradually scaled up to 42, based on the situation in the House and in view of the incidents in the House on previous days,” the release said.Opposition parties also staged a protest match to Vijay Chowk and later issued a joint statement accusing the government of deliberately derailing Parliament.“The Parliament session is over. Frankly, as far as 60% of the country is concerned, there has been no Parliament session because the voice of 60% of this country has been crushed, humiliated and yesterday in the Rajya Sabha (the MPs were) physically beaten,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged.In a separate development, Sonia Gandhi called a virtual meeting with top Opposition leaders on August 20.A senior Congress leader said the meeting was aimed to take forward the new-found unity between many Opposition parties during the parliament session. The leaders will discuss the current political scenario and come out with a joint statement.The Congress leader pointed out that West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had also indicated that Opposition parties would meet again after the session is over. The meeting is expected to discuss the Pegasus row, price rise and other related political issues.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut confirmed the meeting. “Maharashtra chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) too will participate in it,” he said.Banerjee was yet to take a decision, a Trinamool Congress MP said. “We cannot say anything without holding a meeting with Banerjee,” he said.Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MP TKS Elangovan said issued related to Parliament will be taken up at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-calls-on-naidu-over-govt-action-sonia-plans-meet-with-top-leaders-101628793949433.html
13-08-2021||India||Papers torn, ministers blocked, marshal targeted: Rajya Sabha report||Opposition MPs tore papers, obstructed ministers from taking their seats, choked and suffocated one marshal, dragged and pushed another, took videos and even climbed on a LED TV stand, according to a report by the Rajya Sabha secretariat on the pandemonium that rocked the Upper House in the final hours of the disruption-hit monsoon session.The Opposition denied these contentions, and blamed the government for the unruly scenes in the House, which, they said, were sparked by “outsiders” acting as marshals.According to the report, submitted to Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday, the trouble started at 6.02pm with Trinamool Congress MP Dola Sen allegedly making a noose out of scarf and putting it around the neck of her party colleague Shanta Chhetri, purportedly shouting slogans.The report alleged that as Opposition leaders rushed to the Well, Congress member Phulo Devi Netam and Chhaya Verma allegedly started tearing papers and throwing them towards the table of the House, four minutes later.At 6.10pm, Communist Party of India leader Binoy Viswam and Communist Party of India-Marxist’s Elamaram Kareem allegedly snatched papers and folders kept on the Table of the House. Soon, Rajmani Patel of the Congress and Anil Desai of the Shiv Sena allegedly joined them, the report added.Opposition parties rejected the charges with the Congress saying that the developments in the Rajya Sabha were “unprecedented, shocking and an assault on the very dignity of the Rajya Sabha”.“There was no provocation from any opposition member and including women members, who were manhandled and they fell down,” said Congress leader Anand Sharma.“I don’t believe any Rajya Sabha report. They are trying to deflect attention.,” Trinamool Congress member Derek O’Brien told news channel NDTV.The report, a copy of which was accessed by HT, said that when the House met after a short break, Akhilesh Prasad Singh of the Congress was making videos.According to the report, at 6.22pm , Sen obstructed “the way of Piyush Goyal (leader of the House) and Pralhad Joshi (minister of parliamentary affairs) coming from the chairman’s chamber to take their respective seats in the House.”“They were also being pushed by her,” the report added.“Sen also argued and pushed lady officials of Parliament Security Service. Opposition MPs Syed Nasir Hussain, Arpita Ghosh, and Priyanka Chaturvedi tore papers and threw those towards the secretariat’s Table,” the report said.The report said that at 6.29pm, Congress MP Syed Nasir Hussain “first pushed (Shiv Sena’s) Sanjay Raut towards security officials cordoning the ‘Table of the House’ and subsequently pulled him back. They were joined by other MPs viz. Elamaram Kareem (CPM), Ripun Bora (Congress), Binoy Viswam and Congress MP Akhilesh Prasad Singh.”“Ripun Bora climbed on the LED TV stand installed on the left side of the Chair. Elamaram Kareem manhandled and severely choked the neck of one male marshal and dragged him in order to break the security cordon,” the report said.“One lady marshal was pulled and dragged by Phulodevi Netam and Chhaya Verma and assaulted in the Well of the House. Syed Nasir Hussain and Sh. Elamaram Kareem caught hold of shoulder of one male marshal (Security official from PSS/RSS) and tried to drag him out of the security cordon, who was trying to protect the lady Marshal as mentioned above,” the report added.The report came amid bitter exchanges between the government and Opposition over ugly scenes that played out in the House of Elders in its final hours on Wednesday.As the government sought to push the insurance amendment bill, Opposition members demanded it be sent to a select committee. Some Opposition members clashed with marshals, tore papers, flung files and climbed atop tables to shout slogans denouncing the government.The government released visuals and claimed Opposition members pushed and shoved the marshals but the Opposition said the marshals manhandled two women members.On Thursday evening, Naidu and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla met to discuss the disruption-hit session.“Both the presiding officers opined that such persistent disruptions in defiance of repeated appeals from the Chair and in violation of the rules of procedure have dented the dignity and stature of the highest legislature of the country and need to be taken a serious view of. They have decided to undertake a detailed examination of such unruly scenes in the past and action taken for deciding on the future course of action in such cases,” said a person with knowledge of developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/papers-torn-ministers-blocked-marshal-targeted-rajya-sabha-report-101628793767973.html
13-08-2021||India||Government, Opposition spar outside House over chaos inside||The Union government on Thursday launched a broadside against the Opposition over disruptions in Parliament and fielded eight ministers to argue that protests were orchestrated to derail proceedings, prompting angry rebuttals from the Opposition as acrimony that characterised the just-concluded monsoon session spilled outside the House.The government urged Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu to set up a special committee to probe allegations that some Opposition members manhandled security staff and damaged House property and demanded action against those found guilty of violating norms and decorum.“…We were threatened, that if you attempt to pass more bills [after a bill restoring states’ rights to identify other backward classes (OBC)] then more disastrous situation is going to happen. In unambiguous terms it was told to us,” said Union minister for parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi, arguing that raucous protests by the Opposition forced the government to cut short the session.In response, Opposition members said the government stonewalled their demands, muzzled their voice inside Parliament, and violated House norms by rushing bills without debate. Opposition members protested outside the House, and met Naidu to lodge their objections to the government’s conduct.“They don’t let us talk in Parliament. Yesterday, for the first time in the history of our country, members of the Rajya Sabha were manhandled and physically beaten. This was nothing short of murder of democracy,” said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.In an unprecedented move, eight Union ministers were deployed to list the outreach efforts made by the government to break the deadlock with the Opposition. The government asserted that it was willing to be accommodative regarding discussions, but that the Opposition was not interested.“From the first day, even at the all-party meeting chaired by the Prime Minister, there were indications that the Opposition will not allow the House to run. It was made clear by the Trinamool Congress and the Congress who said this session will be a washout,” Joshi said.He was flanked by commerce minister Piyush Goyal, labour minister Bhupender Yadav, education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, junior foreign minister V Muraleedharan, information and technology minister Anurag Thakur and junior parliamentary minister Arjun Ram Meghwal.Joshi said senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders reached out to the Opposition with a request that, at least on the opening day, they should allow the ministers to be introduced. “…That was also not allowed,” he said, alleging that the disruption was orchestrated and pre-planned.The Opposition trained its guns on the government for rushing bills without any debate or discussion, and also sidestepping scrutiny by parliamentary committees.“The government may claim that they have passed so many laws, but was that democratic? Was there discussion? Was there a consensus on the passage of those laws, the answer is No,” said Congress leader Anand Sharma. “We remain committed to continue our fight...” he said, following a meeting of Opposition leaders with Naidu.
13-08-2021||India||Bihar to ramp up oxygen generation, storage by August 31||Bihar is expected to generate 117 metric tonnes of medical oxygen daily by August 31 and ramp up its storage capacity to 310-kilo litre in anticipation of a possible third Covid-19 wave, said state health minister Mangal Pandey.Each of the 10 state-run medical colleges will have at least one Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plant depending on their requirement.“As many as 34 of the 122 PSA oxygen plants have been made operational,” said Pratyaya Amrit, additional chief secretary, health. “Sixteen others have reached the installation site while another 27 are on the way.’Sixty-two oxygen plants were being set up under the PM CARES Fund, nine by the Union petroleum ministry and the remaining 51 by the state government, said Pandey.Cryogenic liquid medical oxygen tanks were also being set up for storage purposes at the 10 state-run medical colleges.The state health minister has said the availability of oxygen was the biggest challenge during the second wave of the pandemic even as he claimed that no deaths were reported due to lack of oxygen in the state.He said the daily requirement of medical oxygen in the state went up 14 times from 16 metric tonnes during the first week of April to 232 MT in the next 20-25 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-to-ramp-up-oxygen-generation-storage-by-august-31-101628762554630.html
13-08-2021||India||Nagaland again opts for an Opposition-less government||The ruling Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP), the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), a major ally of the government, and the opposition Naga People’s Front (NPF) agreed in principle to form an opposition-less “Nagaland United Government” along with two Independent legislators on Wednesday, people familiar with the matter said.The decision was taken in a meeting held at the residential office of chief minister Neiphiu Rio with representatives of all political parties involved.When asked about the new development, state BJP president Temjen Imna Along said “we are in positive consultation” without divulging further details.On July 19, the NPF had passed a resolution for an all-party government and endorsed it to the chief minister for necessary consideration in the interest of the Naga political solution.Although Nagaland’s legislators are not directly involved in the peace talks, subsequent elected members, across party lines, over the years have held ground that they would play a facilitating role for settlement of the Indo-Naga issue.This is not the first time that the state is going to have an opposition-less government. During the third tenure of the NPF-led Democratic Alliance of Nagaland in 2015, Congress MLAs had joined the government and subsequently merged with the ruling NPF.However, this time the NPF MLAs asserted that they would not merge with any party. “We are talking about an all-party government, a coalition, where we will maintain our respective party ideologies,” a senior NPF legislator said, wishing not to be named.Recently, the Nagaland government had formed a parliamentary committee comprising all 60 members of the Nagaland Legislative Assembly and two MPs, led by chief minister Rio, deputy chief minister Y Patton and opposition leader TR Zeliang to act as facilitators in the ongoing peace talks between the Centre and Naga armed groups.On August 3, the assembly passed a resolution, appealing to all Naga political groups to unite to expedite the peace process while urging negotiating parties of the Indo-Naga political issue to resume talks with a positive approach.The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM) had entered into a ceasefire agreement with the government of India in 1997 and the two have been holding political dialogues since then, while a conglomeration of seven different Naga national political groups (NNPGs) also got into separate talks with the Centre in 2017.The Centre signed a “framework agreement” with NSCN (IM) in 2015, and an “agreed position” with the NNPGs in 2017.While it is largely claimed that negotiations have concluded, the NSCN (IM)’s demand for a separate Naga flag and constitution has been a delaying factor in signing a final deal on the Naga peace process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-oppn-ruling-pda-to-come-together-for-united-government-101628749653723.html
13-08-2021||India||Kinnaur landslide: 14 bodies found so far, 26 feared trapped||Wreckage of the bus carrying 22 passengers that was buried under a landslide in Negulsari in Kinnaur district, 210km from Shimla, was found 70 metres down the National Highway 5 on Thursday morning, superintendent of police Kinnaur Sarju Ram Rana said, as the death toll in the incident rose to 14 with the recovery of four more bodies.The rescue operations that were halted on Wednesday night resumed at the break of dawn. “The bus (probably hit by the big boulders) slid down hill with the debris,” said Rana. About a 70-metre stretch of the highway was blocked by debris. The road was reopened for traffic on Wednesday night. There were about 300 vehicles stranded on the both sides. “Three bodies of passengers were recovered from the wreckage in morning. Until last night, 10 bodies were retrieved from the wreckage till suspension of rescue operations,” Rana said.Teams from Indo-Tibetan Border Police, Army and Himachal Pradesh police are carrying out rescue operations, said Sudesh Mokta, director of state disaster management authority, adding 37 personnel from the national disaster response force joined the rescue operations. A total of 16 people are still missing, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur told the state assembly after returning from the landslide site near Chaura village on the National Highway 5 in Kinnaur district.One Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus which was en route from Reckong Peo to Haridwar, one car, one Tata Sumo and one truck were found buried under the debris. Rescue teams retrieved eight bodies from the Tata Sumo. One Bolero vehicle and its passengers are still untraceable. “There were about 22 passengers in the bus when it got buried,” said HRTC managing director Sandeep Kumar. Both driver and conductor had alighted the vehicle to inquire about the road condition and when they turned back the bus was buried under debris,” he said. “Both are in a state of shock,” he said. The truck, hit by boulders had slid to the river side; and the body of the driver was recovered Wednesday yesterday evening. The wreckage of the bus was traced at 8.15am on Thursday.Kinnaur deputy commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq said four more bodies were recovered from the spot on Thursday, adding that 14 bodies have been recovered so far.CM Thakur said the state government will provide ₹4 lakh each to the next of kin of the dead and ₹50,000 to those seriously injured. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind expressed grief over the deaths, he added.With agency inputs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kinnaur-landslide-body-count-rises-to-13-rescue-ops-continue-101628742153622.html
13-08-2021||India||Isro’s satellite launch fails due to technical glitch||The launch of earth observation satellite EOS-03, aboard the Indian Space Research Organisation ’s (Isro) heavy launch vehicle GSLV, was unsuccessful on Thursday morning when the third stage of the engine did not ignite.The satellite was meant to be the Indian space agency’s first launch in four months but had been lost, officials aware of the matter said. Had this mission been successful, it would have provided a picture of India’s landmass every 30 minutes for the next ten years.“Performance of first and second stages was normal. However, Cryogenic Upper Stage ignition did not happen due to technical anomaly. The mission couldn’t be accomplished as intended,” said a statement from the Indian Space Research Organisation.The failure also represented a setback for what is a crucial part of the space agency’s future rocket engine design using cryogenic propulsion, which is far more complex than solid or liquid systems, but offers significant advantages in thrust and efficiency. The Indian space agency has more or less perfected the science around the solid and liquid propulsion systems, which are in use in the PSLV rockets known as Isro’s workhorse launchers.The mission using the heavy launch vehicle GSLV lifted off from the country’s only spaceport at Sriharikota, Andhra Pradesh at the scheduled at 5:43 am on Thursday, which was also the birth anniversary of isro’s first chairperson Dr Vikram Sarabhai.But the mission ran into trouble at four minutes, 56 seconds after launch when the third stage of the rocket was to ignite. There was silence in the mission control well into the seventh minute after the launch while scientists analysed why the launch vehicle deviated from the charted course, a person aware of what happened at mission control said.“The outcome of the mission will be announced by ISRO soon. Right now in the mission control, senior scientists are in discussion regarding the performance of the flight,” said an announcement. Later, ISRO chairperson Dr K Sivan announced, “The EOS 3 mission could not be fully accomplished mainly because of a technical anomaly observed in cryogenic stage.”The mission was significant since this was the first time ISRO was to place an earth observation satellite in a geo-stationary orbit (where the satellite can image the same region throughout the day) instead of a polar orbit that it usually uses. The EOS 3 would have beamed continuous image from over the country, making it an eye in the sky with uses such as in disaster management.The mission was delayed twice – once in March 2020 when the space agency said that there were technical glitches, and then again in March this year when the second wave of the pandemic hit. This was the second launch of 2021, the previous being a commercial PSLV launch carrying aboard Brazil’s earth observation satellite Amazonia 1.The Union minister for state for the department of space Dr Jitendra Singh said in a tweet said, “Spoke to Chairman #ISRO, Dr K.Sivan and discussed in detail. The first two stages went off fine, only after that there was a difficulty in cryogenic upper stage ignition. The mission can be re-scheduled some time again.”The space agency did not clarify whether the minister was referring to the paired satellite or whether the space agency had a backup satellite that could be launched soon.Experts said the glitch could not have been a major one. “The GSLV has been successfully tested so it is unlikely to be a design flaw. Any major glitch would have been caught during flight countdown like we saw in the case of Chandrayaan-2. It might have been a small problem; it was just unlucky for ISRO,” said Ajay Lele, Senior Fellow working with space security and strategic technologies at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses.The Chandrayaan-2 launch was aborted with less than an hour to go because of a faulty nipple in the cryogenic engine that led to leakage of helium used to pressurise the fuel.This was, however, the first time the space agency was using a 4-metre ogive or bullet-like shaped payload fairing (the portion up top where the satellite is placed). The same shaped payload fairing is likely to be used for the human spaceflight mission, albeit with a different launch vehicle – the GSLV Mk III. This launch vehicle has proved successful with one sub-orbital flight, two successful developmental flight, and the first operational flight during which it carried Chandrayaan-2 mission.This was first major failure of the GSLV vehicle since 2010, when two consecutive malfunctions took place, earning the rocket the epithet “naughty boy”. For ISRO, this was the only launch failure since the 2017 PSLV launch when a heat shield that protects the satellite within did not separate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mission-unsuccessful-cryogenic-stage-of-isro-s-gslv-f10-fails-to-ignite-101628737713176.html
13-08-2021||NA||Breaking news: US to send troops to Kabul airport to pull out embassy staff||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get the latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:US to send troops to Kabul airport to pull out embassy staffThe State Department said on Thursday that the US government will send troops to Kabul airport to pull out embassy staff. Haryana records 16 new Covid-19 cases, 1 more deathHaryana on Thursday reported one Covid-related fatality taking the cumulative toll to 9,654 while 16 new infections pushed the total case count to 770,146.Govt allows airlines to increase capacity in domestic flights to 72.5% from 65%The ministry of civil aviation has allowed airlines to increase capacity for domestic flights to 72.5% from 65% immediately.‘Mysterious blast’ at BJP worker's residence in Rajouri, says J&K policeA mysterious blast occurred at a BJP worker's residence in Rajouri. Details awaited: J&K PoliceThe Jammu and Kashmir police said that a mysterious blast occurred at a BJP worker's residence in Rajouri, reports ANI. More details awaited.Delhi reports 49 new Covid-19 cases, no fatalities in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 49 new #COVID19 cases, 41 recoveries and zero deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 14,36,938 Total recoveries 14,11,368 Death toll 25,068Active cases 502 pic.twitter.com/gCst2ccomgWith 49 new Covid-19 cases and no fatalities in the last 24 hours, Delhi's tally reached 1,436,938 while the death toll remained at 25,068, according to a medical bulletin.At least 4 workers falls into chimney at cement factory in GujaratGujarat: At least 4 labourers fell into a chimney while working inside it, at a cement factory in Ranavav, Porbandar this evening. Officials are present at the spot. Ambulances & Health Dept team present. pic.twitter.com/TTqsRLFf9gAt least four labourers fell into a chimney at a cement factory in Ranavav, Porbandar in Gujarat, reports ANI.Pornography case: Abhijit Bhomble, director in Raj Kundra's company, arrestedAbhijit Bhomble, director in business Raj Kundra's company, has been arrested by Mumbai Crime Branch Property Cell, reported news agency ANI. An actress had filed a case against four people from Kundra's company, including Bhomble, Gehana Vashisth, Ajay Srimant and Prince Kashyap.Rajasthan reopens schools for classes 9 to 12 with 50% capacity from Sep 1Government of Rajasthan allows re-opening of schools from class 9-12 with 50% capacity, from 1st September 2021; teaching & non-teaching staff need to mandatorily have taken at least one dose of #COVID19 vaccine 14 days prior to this. pic.twitter.com/V9f90BzB25The Rajasthan government announced that schools for classes 9 to 12 would be reopened from September 1 with 50% capacity. It has also mandated at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine for all staff, 14 days prior to the start date, reports ANI. Venkaiah Naidu, Om Birla express 'deep concern' at behaviour of some MPsThey expressed deep concern at the disruptive behaviour of some parliamentarians. They strongly felt that such unruly behaviour should not be tolerated and appropriate action should be taken.Vice President and Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla expressed "deep concern" at the disruptive behaviour of some parliamentarians during the monsoon session.Fire breaks out in showroom at Nehru Place, Delhi, 6 fire tenders rushed to spotDelhi: Fire breaks out in a showroom located on the first floor of a muli-storey building in Nehru Place. Six fire tenders rushed to the spot. Details awaited.A fire broke out in a showroom located on the first floor of a buil;ding in Nehru Place in Delhi and six fire tenders have been rushed to the spot, reports ANI.More details awaited.Industrial production grows 13.6% in June, reports PTIIndustrial production grows 13.6 pc in June: Govt dataIndustrial production grew by 13.6% in June, reports PTI citing data from the government.Retail inflation at 5.59% in July 2021 compared to 6.26% in June 2021: GovtRetail inflation at 5.59% in July 2021 as compared to 6.26% in June 2021: Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation pic.twitter.com/u1Im38daOgThe ministry of statistics and programme implementation said that the retail inflation in the country has eased to 5.59% in July 2021 as compared to the 6.26% last month.Kabul offers Taliban power sharing to end violence, reports AFP#BREAKING Kabul offers Taliban power-sharing to end violence: source pic.twitter.com/RVdMrnGE8gKabul has offered the Taliban power sharing to end violence in Afghanistan, reports AFP.Covid-19 restrictions in WB extended till Aug 30, says CM BanerjeeCOVID-related restrictions in West Bengal extended till August 30, night curbs from 11 pm to 5 am: CM Mamata BanerjeeWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee extended the Covid-19 related restrictions in the state till August 30 and night curfew will be in effect between 11pm and 5am, reports PTI.British-flagged vessel sunk near Milos, Greece, rescue operation underway for 17 passengersA British-flagged vessel has sunk off the island of Milos in Greece and a rescue operation was under way for 17 passengers at sea, the Greek coast guard said https://t.co/h2dW93bvGX pic.twitter.com/bM7pnNF0RAThe Greek coast guard said that a British-flagged vessel sunk near the island of Milos in Greece and rescue operations are underway for 17 passengers at sea, reports Reuters.Piyush Goyal says dignity of parliament hurt by opposition members"Dignity of Parliament and Rajya Sabha's Chairman hurt by a few Opposition members," said Union minister Piyush Goyal.Union minister Pralhad Joshi demands action against Opposition leaders for behaviour in parliamentUnion parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi demanded "strict action" against Opposition members who climbed the table in Rajya Sabha. "I strongly condemn behaviour of Opposition leaders, demand strict action against members who climbed the table in Rajya Sabha," he said."Action should be such that nobody should dare to do any such thing in the future," he added.Russia reports record-high 808 Covid-19 deathsRussia on Thursday reported a record-high 808 coronavirus-related deaths in the last 24 hours and 21,932 new Covid-19 cases, including 2,294 in Moscow.Cong handles locking row: Twitter says rules enforced judiciously, impartiallyThe Congress on Thursday hit out at the government for “scuttling free speech” and said the party’s Twitter account and accounts of several of its leaders were temporarily locked for sharing a photograph of the family of a nine-year-old rape victim. Accounts of Randeep Singh Surjewala, Ajay Maken, Sushmita Dev, and Manickam Tagore were among those temporarily locked, Congress functionaries aware of the matter said. Read MoreLandslide occurs on National Highway-10 near SiliguriLandslide occurs on National Highway-10 in Sevoke near Siliguri after incessant rainfall overnight, news agency ANI reported. Traffic movement has been affected due to the restoration work underway.Democracy has been shamed: BJP on Congress'protestIt's unfortunate how Congress and other Opposition parties are protesting on road. Democracy has been shamed. I would say that not just VP Venkaiah Naidu cried but democracy also cried. Opposition ensured washout of the whole session, and this is the height of anarchy: Sambit Patra, national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Janata PartyIndian diaspora to hoist biggest tricolour at Times Square on Independence DayAn organisation representing the Indian diaspora in the US has said it will hoist the biggest tricolour at the iconic Times Square in New York on August 15 on the 75th anniversary of India's Independence Day. Read MoreTaliban take control of Ghazni city, 150 kms away from capital KabulTaliban takes control of Ghazni city, 150 kms from the Afghan capital Kabul, AFP reported quoting local lawmaker.Beef up security at our missions, India tells CanadaIndia has asked the Canadian government to ensure the safety and security of its missions in the country as pro-Khalistan groups have warned of demonstrations and disruptions on August 15. Read MoreUddhav Thackeray to attend Sonia Gandhi's meeting with CMs of Congress-ruled statesThe Opposition is united. On 20th August, Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi will speak to CMs of Congress-ruled states. Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray will also take part in this meeting, ANI quotes Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut saying.India logs 41,195 cases, up from yesterday, 490 deaths in a dayThe coronavirus (Covid-19) infections in India rose to 32,077,706 on Thursday after 41,195 people were found to be positive of the viral disease in the last 24 hours. The number has significantly risen from yesterday's 38,353 cases. The daily death toll also saw a rise as 490 people succumbed to the Covid-19, data released by the Union health ministry showed. Read MoreCoaching centres to reopen in BhopalCoaching centres can now reopen in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh with 50% capacity while following Covid-19 protocol, announces District collector Avinash Lavania.Kinnaur landslide: Death toll rises to 13, rescue operations onRescuers recovered two more bodies from the wreckage of a bus following a landslide in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur district, which have now taken the death toll to 13, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. Read MoreIsro's 'eye in the sky' satellite blasts off but fails to reach orbitThe Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) launched India's "eye in the sky" GISAT-1 Earth observation satellite (EOS) on Thursday, but the mission suffered a setback due to a performance anomaly in the cryogenic stage of the rocket moments after the launch. Read MoreKinnaur bus tragedy: Death toll rises to 11The death toll rises to 11 after Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel recovered another body on Thursday from the wreckage of a bus following the landslide in Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh.GSLV-F10 lifts off successfully#WATCH | Indian Space Research Organisation's GSLV-F10 lifts off successfully from Satish Dhawan Space Centre, Sriharikota (Source: DD) pic.twitter.com/2OV8iA06XfHelicopter with 16 people on board crashes in Russian far eastHelicopter with 16 people on board crashes in Russian far east, news agency AFP reported qouting authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-updates-august-12-2021-101628726132245.html
