14-08-2021||India||‘Dimensions of security are constantly changing’: Rajnath Singh to armed forces||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said efforts are being made to resolve the differences on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh through dialogue with China and that the process of disengagement has been completed at some places.In an address to the armed forces on the eve of the 75th Independence Day, Singh said the dimensions of security are constantly changing in the evolving environment and called upon the three services to be prepared for any challenge that may come their way."I call upon you to be prepared for any challenge that may come your way. I assure you that the government is ready and will continue to always meet your and your loved ones' needs," he said, in comments that came in the backdrop of the deteriorating security scenario in Afghanistan.Singh said the Indian civilisation has always been peaceful since ancient times, but peace is not possible without power."If non-violence is our ultimate duty, protecting the integrity of the nation is equally important. Therefore, we are ready to sacrifice anything for unity and integrity of the nation," he said."In order to maintain peace and prosperity in the country, it is necessary that you should be alert and aware in protecting the nation wherever you are in water, land or sky," he said.The defence minister also said that the situation along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir remained in check over the last year due to vigilance and indomitable valour of the Indian armed forces."Ceasefire violations have also come down since February 2021. The infiltration from across the border has stopped due to vigilance of the armed forces and para-military forces," he said in the address aired on All India Radio."In eastern Ladakh, efforts are being made to resolve the differences on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) through dialogue with China. The process of disengagement has been completed at some places," he said referring to the border row with China.Both sides have already disengaged from areas around the North and South banks of Pangong lake as well as from Gogra.Referring to Army Subedar Neeraj Chopra's feat, Singh said he has made this year's Independence Day even sweeter by winning the gold medal in the Javelin throw event at the Tokyo Olympics."Subedar Neeraj as well as other Olympic medalists have been specially invited to the Independence Day celebrations at the Red Fort tomorrow. I thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji for this," Singh said.The minister greeted the armed forces on the occasion of Independence Day."The nation is ushering in an important phase of Independence from midnight today, the 75th year of it. There is an atmosphere of celebration all around the country on this momentous occasion," he said.The defence minister said the government has always been aware of the operational requirements of the armed force, adding the capital outlay has been increased from ₹1.13 lakh crore to ₹1.35 lakh crore in the Union Budget for 2021-22.He assured the armed forces that the government will take every step to protect the country.Referring to the acquisition of Rafale fighter jets to maintain the "operational edge" of the Indian Air Force, Singh said 26 aircraft out of 36 have already arrived in India and the remaining ones too will reach soon, adding the fleet will bring qualitative enhancement in the defence capability of the force.The defence minister said Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) Vikrant completed its four-day maiden sea voyage on August 8 and that the construction of the warship is a major achievement of the 'Make in India' initiatives."In another important initiative of 'Make in India', Ministry of Defence has launched a project worth over ₹40,000 crore for construction of six conventional submarines named Project 75 (India) for Indian Navy on July 20," he said.He said the Request for Proposal (RFP) under the strategic partnership model has been issued for the programme to the partners selected for it, adding that these submarines will be very effective in protecting India's strategic interests.Singh also mentioned the Defence Research and Development Organisation's (DRDO) recent successful demonstration of the hypersonic scramjet technology with the testing of Hypersonic Technology Demonstration Vehicle (HSTDV).He also talked about the successful test-fired Agni P and some other missiles.The defence minister said that the government constituted the Special Number 5 Selection Board in September 2020 for the permanent commission of women officers following a judgement on the matter by the Supreme Court.He said on the recommendation of the board, permanent commission was awarded to some officers in November last year."The Supreme Court in March 2021 had passed another order for permanent commission to women officers..."Thereafter, on the recommendation of the Board, 147 more women officers were awarded permanent commission last month," he said.So far, 424 women officers out of 615 have availed this benefit, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dimensions-of-security-are-constantly-changing-rajnath-singh-to-armed-forces-101628964653501.html
14-08-2021||India||Amid rapid deterioration of security in Afghanistan, India may grant refuge to Afghans||The Indian government may grant refuge to Afghan citizens, especially those facing threats or fearing persecution from the Taliban, against the backdrop of the rapid deterioration of the security situation in Afghanistan. Afghans have begun leaving key cities following the rapid advances by the Taliban into urban centres over the past week. As many as 18 out of 34 provincial capital across Afghanistan are now under the control of the Taliban, including some of the largest cities such as Herat and Kandahar. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that there was no immediate update on the issue of granting visas to Afghan nationals fleeing their country though discussions on the matter were underway. Among those who are likely to be granted refuge are political leaders or activists, human rights workers, media personnel, members of minorities and people who have worked with the Indian government, the people said. There has been a sharp increase in requests for Indian visas in Kabul over the past few weeks. Images shared on social media on Saturday showed the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul packed with people waiting for flights out of the country. The airport is currently one of the few ways out of the country and there were reports of people waiting as long as three hours to get into the terminal after buying tickets at counters set up in the parking lot outside. Air India, Emirates, FlyDubai, Pakistan International Airlines and Turkish Airlines are among the airlines currently operating flights to Kabul. With the fall of several provincial capitals surrounding Kabul and the capture of Logar province, located just 11 km south of the city, fears have grown that the Taliban could be knocking at the doors of the capital within a week, if not days. India has provided refuge to several Afghan leaders and their families amid the turmoil of the past four decades. Afghan chief negotiator Abdullah Abdullah’s family currently lives in India and others such as former president Hamid Karzai have lived and studied in the country. Asked about the possibility of India offering refuge to Afghanistan’s Hindu and Sikh minorities at last week’s media briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the government is keeping a close eye on all developments related to the two communities. “Last year, our mission in Kabul had facilitated the return of 383 members of the Sikh and Hindu communities in Afghanistan. Our mission continues to remain in touch with the Afghan Hindu and Sikh community members and we will ensure the provision of all necessary assistance to them,” he said. Several countries have announced plans to give refuge to Afghans facing threats, especially those who have worked with Western countries or foreign troops over the years. The US has plans to help thousands of Afghans under its special immigrant visa programme or as refugees, while Canada has announced it will take in up to 20,000 Afghan refugees, including women leaders, government workers and people facing threats from the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-rapid-deterioration-of-security-in-afghanistan-india-may-grant-refuge-to-afghans-101628965324352.html
14-08-2021||India||India breaks record as more than 1.5 crore Indians upload videos singing national anthem||More than 1.5 crore Indians from India and across the world have recorded and uploaded their videos singing the national anthem, said the Ministry of Culture on Saturday.According to a statement released by the Ministry of Culture, the whole country has announced joyful participation in 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' as more than 1.5 crore Indians uploaded their videos singing the national anthem to achieve a never done before record on the special occasion of 75th independence day."This is evidence of the inherent unity, strength and harmony of India," said the ministry.On July 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had given a clarion call to the people of India to sing the national anthem together in Mann Ki Baat. "Like a mantra, the invitation call permeated through the hearts and minds of the people of India who together have now created history and an unbeatable record," the ministry stated.As is evident from the record-breaking numbers, people from all parts of the country, from all sections enthusiastically participated in this unique initiative. Children, senior citizens, youth, women, no one wanted to be left behind from this feeling of community and shared pride.The ministry said that eminent artists, well-known scholars, top leaders, senior officers, brave soldiers, famous sportsmen to farmers, laborers, people with special needs, everyone came together and sang the national anthem in one voice. "From Kashmir to Kanyakumari, from Arunachal Pradesh to Kutch, the voices singing Jana Gana Mana were reverberating from all directions," it said.It further said that our countrymen living outside India also participated with passion and fervour and proved once again that that their heart is always settled in this land of India. "When Indians sitting in a corner, thousands of miles away, sang the national anthem in private, their voices embodied the pride of one hundred and thirty-six crore citizens of India. The fact that more than 15 million entries were achieved in just twenty-one days is in itself living proof that when the people of India put their heart to something, no goal is difficult or unachievable," it stated."The national anthem is a symbol of our pride. This program of singing the national anthem has not only created enthusiasm among all but the whole world has also got the message of strong unity of India," added the Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-5-crore-indians-upload-videos-singing-national-anthem-101628963666560.html
14-08-2021||India||Kerala starts mass vaccination drive as Covid-19 cases surge||With coronavirus cases climbing steadily, the Kerala government on Saturday started a mass vaccination programme even as Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya is arriving in the state on Monday to review the pandemic situation. For more than two months the state has been reporting the maximum number of cases in the country. With its containment measures failing to evoke desired results the government feels that maximum inoculation is the only way to reduce the caseload. A meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday decided to conduct a special vaccination drive and has approached the Centre for uninterrupted supply of Covid-19 vaccines. The district collectors have been asked to supervise the special drive and at least five lakh vaccines will be administered a day. The state has a stock of 15 lakh doses now and it expects another 10 lakh in a couple of days, a senior health ministry official said. Recipients can avail them through spot registration or online booking. The government has also made permission mandatory for all public activities during the ongoing Onam season_ Thiru Onam falls on next Sunday (August 21). Many experts have warned the state that there can be a surge after Onam so the government has tightened restrictions. In the prevailing situation, the festival will be subdued as the government has banned mass gathering and feasts. The Union health minister will reach the state capital on Monday and has scheduled a meeting with the CM and health minister Veena George later in the day. He will be accompanied by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, National Centre for Disease Control Director Sujit Singh and other experts. Kerala reported 19,451 positive cases with a test positivity rate of 13.91 per cent after 1,39,223 samples were tested on Saturday, according to the state health ministry. It also reported 105 deaths taking total fatalities to 18,499. Malappuram remained on top with 2953 cases followed by Thrissur district at 2459. Four districts reported more than 2000 new Covid-19 cases. Active cases also rose to 1,80,240. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 38,677 new cases and 478 deaths. The current caseload is 3,83,673. In daily cases, deaths and active cases Kerala contributes the lion’s share, statistics show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-starts-mass-vaccination-drive-as-covid-19-cases-surge-101628963825113.html
14-08-2021||India||‘Covid-19 third wave might not be as severe as second wave, vaccines still effective’: AIIMS chief Dr Randeep Guleria||Director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, Dr Randeep Guleria on Saturday said that the third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) would not be as bad as the second wave, however, warning that it depended on the people following Covid-appropriate behaviour.Dr Guleria made the remarks at Gitam Institute in Visakhapatnam, where he received the institution’s Foundation Day award in recognition of his services.Noting that the only unpredictable part was how the virus would behave, Dr Guleria said, “But I don’t think that we will see a third wave which will be as bad as the second wave,” news agency PTI reported.When commenting about the possibility that more children could be infected in the third wave of Covid-19, the AIIMS chief said that children were not being vaccinated against the disease and so would be “more susceptible.” Currently, the scope of India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive is confined only to people above 18 years of age.Also read | Districts to decide on Covid-19 restrictions, testing, vaccination to be increased: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai“The general feeling is that adults are getting vaccinated, children are not being vaccinated and therefore if there is a new wave it will affect those who are more susceptible. Children will be more susceptible,” he said, mentioning why children might be more exposed. Further he also pointed out that more than half of the children have already been infected by the coronavirus, according to the sero survey, and currently possess antibodies against the disease. He also expressed hope that a Covid-19 vaccine for children would also be coming up in a month or two, so that they could also be immunised against the disease.As far as the vaccines are concerned, Dr Guleria said that the jabs were still effective in preventing severe cases of the infection. He also highlighted that people getting reinfected even after the vaccinations are only experiencing mild infections, with the vaccines offering protection from severe cases. “Vaccines are helping in preventing severe disease and death from Covid-19. Infections are still happening but those infected are predominantly those who have not been vaccinated. That’s why we are saying more and more people need to get vaccinated,” he said. “Those getting infected even after vaccination, what we call breakthrough infection, are predominantly getting milder infection. So vaccines are effective in giving protection from severe disease,” he added.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-third-wave-might-not-be-as-severe-as-second-wave-vaccines-still-effective-aiims-chief-dr-randeep-guleria-101628962575202.html
14-08-2021||India||For the first time, IAF helicopters to shower flower petals when PM unfurls tricolour at 75th I-Day||For the first time ever, two Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopters will shower petals at the venue when Prime Minister Narendra Modi unfurls the national flag from the ramparts of Red Fort in New Delhi on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day on Sunday. While the first chopper will be controlled by Wing Commander Baldev Singh Bisht, the second helicopter will be commanded by Wing Commander Nikhil Mehrotra.After the showering of the petals, PM Modi will address the nation and following the conclusion of his speech, the National Cadet Corps (NCC) cadets will sing the national anthem. As many as 500 NCC cadets (Army, Navy and Air Force) from different schools will be participating inAs many as 32 Olympic winners, including star Javelin thrower and Tokyo Olympics gold medallist Neeraj Chopra – who became the first Indian sportsperson to achieve this feat in the track and field at the Games, will be present at the event. Two Sports Authority of India (SAI) officials have also been invited to participate in the celebrations at the Red Fort.“Around 240 Olympians, support staff, SAI and sports federation officials have also been invited to grace the Gyan Path in front of the Ramparts,” an official statement by the Union defence ministry read.Notably, India experienced the best ever haul at the Tokyo Olympics with a total of seven medals, including one gold, as opposed to the six the country won in the London 2012 Games.The statement further stated that a separate block on the south side of the ramparts of the Red Fort has been created to honour the Corona warriors, who “played a vital role in fighting the invisible enemy.”Also Read | On Independence Day, these US buildings will be lit in colours of Indian flagThe ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ that was launched by PM Modi from the Sabarmati Ashramat Ahmedabad in Gujarat in March 2021 in view of the 75th Independence Day will continue till August 15, 2023.On Sunday, the Guard of Honour contingent for the Prime Minister will comprise one officer and as many as 20 men each from the Indian Army, Navy, Air Force and Delhi Police. This year the service is being coordinated by the Indian Navy. The Guard of Honour will be commanded by Commander Piyush Gaur, while the Naval contingent will be led by Lt Commander Sune Phogat. The Army contingent and its Air Force counterpart will be led by Major Vikas Sangwan and Sqn Ldr A Berwal, respectively. The Delhi Police contingent will be commanded by Additional DCP (West District) Shri Subodh Kumar Goswami. Furthermore, Lt Commander P Priyambada Sahoo will assist PM Modi in hoisting the Tricolour.Also Read | Independence Day 2021: Why Pakistan celebrates freedom a day before IndiaMeanwhile, the National Flag Guard will consist of five officers and 130 men from the Army, Navy, Air Force and Delhi Police. They will present the ‘Rashtriya Salute’ at the time of hoisting of the Tricolour by the PM. Commander Kuldeep M Neralkar from the Indian Navy will be in command of this Inter-Services Guard and Police Guard.The National Flag Guard Navy contingent will be led by Lt Commander Praveen Saraswat, whereas the same of the Army will be commanded by Major Anshul Kumar. Sqn Leader Rohit Malik will lead the Air Force contingent and Additional DCP (South West District) Shri Amit Goel will command the Delhi Police contingent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-helicopters-to-shower-flower-petals-when-pm-unfurls-tricolour-at-75th-iday-101628959984170.html
14-08-2021||India||Unmarried girls in India don't have physical relationship unless promised marriage: Madhya Pradesh high court||The Indore Bench of the Madhya Pradesh high court has recently observed that unmarried girls in India will not indulge in carnal activities with a boy just for fun, unless she is promised marriage by the boy, Livelaw reported. The bench of Justice Subodh Abhyankar said that the boy entering into a physical relationship with a girl has to realise that his actions will have consequences."…barring some exceptions...it has not yet reached such level (advance or lower) of civilization where unmarried girls, regardless of their religion,indulge in carnal activities with boys just for the fun of it, unless the same is backed by some future promise/assurance of marriage and to prove her point, it is not necessary every time for a victim to try to commit suicide as in the present case," the court observed.The court made these observations hearing an alleged rape case. The girl tried to commit suicide. The counsel for the boy claimed they were in a relationship and it was a consensual act. The court said it does not find it to be a fit case for grant of bail as apparently the accused allured the girl on the pretext of marriage "despite knowing fully well that both of them are from different religion""In majority of the cases of rape, the defence of the accused is that the prosecutrix was a consenting party and in most of the cases the accused gets the benefit of doubt also," the court said.That the girl tried t commit suicide shows that she was serious about the relationship and it cannot be said that she entered into the relationship for enjoyment, the court observed."It is the girl who is always at the receiving end because it is she who runs the risk of being pregnant and also her ignominy in the society, if her relationship is disclosed. You just cannot plead consent on the part of the prosecutrix and laugh all the way to your home," the judgment read||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unmarried-girls-in-india-don-t-enter-physical-relationship-unless-promised-marriage-madhya-pradesh-high-court-101628960079435.html
14-08-2021||India||Bengal government to speed up vaccination in Kolkata’s suburbs to resume local trains||The Mamata Banerjee-administration is planning to speed up the vaccination process in the adjoining districts of Kolkata so that local trains could be resumed. Senior officials said that while the government has managed to give at least one dose to 75% of population in urban centres like Kolkata, the government plans to vaccinate at least 50% of the population in the rural areas of adjoining districts with one dose. “Once local trains are allowed, people from the adjoining districts would come to the city in large numbers. At present only limited number of people are coming because only buses have been allowed. Trains are suspended. For this we need to speed up things and vaccinate as many people as we can in the rural areas in the adjoining districts,” said a senior health department official. Even though the state government has relaxed Covid-19 restrictions allowing buses, Kolkata Metro, auto-rickshaws and cabs, locals trains continue to remain cancelled. “There is a possibility that the third wave may hit in September. We have to keep Covid-19 cases under control. People may have grievances because local trains are not running. But life is more important,” Mamata Banerjee, chief minister had said earlier this week. Local suburban trains connect Kolkata and Howrah with the villages and towns of the adjoining districts and thus form a major lifeline for the people coming to Kolkata for jobs every day. Howrah and Sealdah stations cater to more than two million passengers every day. “The government is targeting districts like South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, Nadia and parts of Bardhhaman where 50% of the people need to be vaccinated with at least one dose before local trains resume,” said another official. In Kolkata, while around 38 lakh people have received the first dose, around 13.5 lakh people have received their second dose. The city has a population of around 45 lakhs as per the 2011 census. Compared to this North 24 Parganas, which is the second most densely populated district in India and has a population of more than one crore, received around 26 lakh first doses. In South 24 Parganas, 12.8 lakh people received the first dose while in Nadia only around nine lakh people have received the first dose. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has shot off letters to the Prime Minister demanding more vaccines. She had said that even though the state has the capacity to give around 11 lakh vaccines every day, only around three to four lakhs vaccines are being given due to short supply. The ruling Trinamool Congress has been mounting pressure on the Election Commission to hold elections and by-elections in seven assembly seats which are due citing low Covid-19 cases in the state. On Saturday, West Bengal registered 707 new cases and 15 deaths. With 88 new cases North 24 Parganas reported the highest number of cases, while Kolkata registered 82 cases. The six districts including Kolkata, South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia together account for 50% of the new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-government-to-speed-up-vaccination-in-kolkata-s-suburbs-to-resume-local-trains-101628957283562.html
14-08-2021||India||No front possible in the country without Trinamool, says party leader||Trinamool Congress (TMC) MLA Madan Mitra on Saturday reiterated his party’s statement that their slogan ‘Khela Hobe’ will reverberate across India in the days ahead.Referring to the recently concluded West Bengal Assembly elections where TMC registered a landslide triumph over the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Mitra told news agency ANI that the latter wanted to “obstruct” as they are “fond of violence.” “But our party wants peace; soon TMC will reach across the country. Without the TMC, an alliance or any front is not possible,” he added.Mitra further told ANI that ‘khela hobe’ will be celebrated in Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Tripura, Haryana, Bihar and many other states. “Some will celebrate under the flag of Trinamool Congress while many others may not use any party symbol. But the slogan Khela Hobe will reach across India,” he said.Notably, West Bengal chief minister and TMC supremo was on a five-day visit to the national capital between July 26 and 30. During her trip, she met many important party leaders, including Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) head and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi and party leader Rahul Gandhi, among others. She also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and demanded for more coronavirus vaccines for West Bengal besides discussing other matters.Also Read | 'Poore desh me khela hobe': Mamata on Opposition’s unity ahead of 2024 electionsWhile in Delhi, Banerjee had constantly emphasised on the importance of all opposition parties coming together to dethrone BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, saying that when the elections come, “it will be Modi versus [the] country.”She had also said that in the 2024 elections “poore desh me khela hobe” (game will be on all over the country), citing the same to be a “continuous process.” However, the Bengal chief minister had evaded any question on the face of the opposition in the general elections, saying that she is not a “political astrologer.”Also Read | 'Khela hobe', says Mamata even as she skirts Delhi leadership queries“We will sit together and decide, I am not a political astrologer. The decisions depend on the system, and on political parties. I cannot impose my decision on others,” Banerjee had said.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-front-possible-in-the-country-without-trinamool-says-party-leader-101628956654264.html
14-08-2021||India||Full text of President Ram Nath Kovind's Independence Day eve address||President Ram Nath Kovind addressed citizens on the eve of India’s 75th Independence Day. “It is a matter of great joy for me to wish all Indians, living in India and abroad, a very Happy Independence Day!” the President said starting off his televised address on Saturday.Read the full text here:It is a matter of great joy for me to wish all Indians, living in India and abroad, a very Happy Independence Day! This day has a special significance as it marks the beginning of the 75th year of India’s independence for which ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ is being celebrated. My hearty congratulations to you all on this momentous occasion!Independence Day is a festival of freedom for us. This was made possible by generations of freedom fighters; some known, many unknown. They made great sacrifices. Today, you and I breathe under free skies thanks to their heroic deeds. I bow in respect to the pious memory of those brave martyrs.Our nation, like many others, suffered great injustices and tyranny under foreign rule. What distinguishes India, however, is that the character of our nationalist movement, led by Mahatma Gandhi, was based on the principles of truth and non-violence. He and all other national heroes provided us with an invaluable blueprint to not only liberate the nation from colonial rule but also to rebuild it. Gandhiji’s struggle was for a return to Indian ethos and for human dignity.Also Read: No infrastructure could withstand the crisis of 2nd wave of Covid: PresidentNow as we look back to the seventy-five-year journey of our republic, we have reasons to be proud of the considerable distance we have travelled. Gandhiji taught us that slow and steady steps in the right direction are preferable to rapid strides in the wrong direction. The world looks up at the miracle of India, home to the plurality of traditions and yet the biggest and most vibrant democracy.Dear Fellow Citizens,In the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics, our sportspersons have brought laurels to the nation with their stellar performances. India has won the highest number of medals in the 121 years of its participation in the Olympics. Our daughters have achieved world-class excellence in playgrounds overcoming many adversities. Along with sports, epoch-making changes are taking place in the participation and success of women in all walks of life. From higher educational institutions to armed forces, from laboratories to playgrounds, our daughters are making their mark. In this success of our daughters, I see a glimpse of a developed India of the future. I urge every parent to learn from the families of such promising daughters and provide opportunities to their daughters also to explore avenues of growth.Like last year, this year too, the scale of Independence Day celebration may have been reduced due to pandemic, yet our hearts remain always filled with enthusiasm. The intensity of the pandemic has come down, but the coronavirus has not yet gone away. We are yet to come out of the devastating effects of its recurrence this year. Last year, with exceptional efforts from all, we had succeeded in bringing the spread of infections under control. Our scientists had succeeded in developing vaccines in a very short time. Therefore, at the beginning of this year, there was every reason to be hopeful as we launched the largest vaccination exercise in history. Yet, due to the new variants and other unexpected factors, we suffered from a terrible second wave. I am deeply sad that many lives could not be saved and many more suffered immensely in this phase of an unprecedented crisis. I speak for the whole nation when I say that I share the grief of all the affected families with the same intensity.The science is coping with this invisible enemy of terrible might with remarkable speed. We can take solace from the fact that more lives have been saved than the lives lost. It was our collective determination to overcome the challenge that helped us see the weakening of the second wave. Once again, our corona warriors, the doctors, nurses and health workers, the administrators, and others, risked everything to contain the impact of the second wave.The second wave brought our public healthcare infrastructure under stress. The reality is that no infrastructure, even of advanced economies, could withstand a crisis of such enormous proportions. Efforts were made on war-footing to plug the gaps. The leadership rose to the challenge, and the government’s endeavours were supplemented by initiatives of the states, private sector healthcare facilities, the civil society and others. In this extraordinary mission, foreign nations shared the essentials generously, just as India had reached out to many nations with medicine, equipment and vaccines. I am grateful to the global fraternity that came forward with a helping hand.Due to these efforts, the nation breathes a sigh of relief with the return of a semblance of normalcy. If we have learned our lessons well, we know that this is the time of extra care and caution. We shall not let our guard down. Vaccines are the best possible protection science offers to us. Under the world's biggest vaccination campaign going on in our country, more than 50 crore fellow citizens have been vaccinated so far. I urge all eligible citizens who are yet to get vaccinated to do so at the earliest and also inspire others.Dear Fellow Citizens,The economic impact of the pandemic is as disastrous as its health impact. The government has been concerned about the lower middle classes and the poor, as well as about the small and medium industries. It has been sensitive to the needs of the labourers and of employers who have been facing hardships due to the lockdowns and movement restrictions. Sensitive to their needs, the government had taken a series of relief measures last year. This year also, the government had distributed food grains to about 80 crore people in May and June. This benefit has been extended till Diwali. Moreover, the government has announced a new stimulus package worth Rupees 6 lakh 28 thousand crore to boost the selected Covid-affected sectors. In particular, it is heartening to note that an amount of Rupees 23 thousand 220 crore is being spent over one year for expansion of medical facilities.It is heartening to note that rural India, particularly the agriculture sector has kept growing against all odds. In a recent visit to my ancestral village Paraunkh in Kanpur Dehat district, I was quite pleased to find that better infrastructure is being developed to make life better for people in rural areas. The psychological distance between the urban and the rural is now much less as compared to the past. After all, India lives in its villages which cannot be allowed to lag behind in development. That is why special campaigns, including the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi, are being implemented for the welfare of our farmers.These efforts are consistent with the vision of an Atma Nirbhar Bharat, a self-reliant India. With abiding faith in the inherent capacity of the economy, the government has further opened up defence, health, civil aviation, power and other sectors. The government’s new initiatives to promote eco-friendly, renewable sources of energy, particularly solar power, have won praise around the world. If there is an improvement in the ease of doing business, it has a positive impact on the ease of living for all. In addition to these, special emphasis is being given to public welfare. For example, the dream of having a home of one’s own is being realised, thanks to the Rupees 70,000 crore credit-linked subsidy scheme. The series of agricultural marketing reforms will empower our ‘annadata’ farmers and help them get better price for their produce. These are some of the measures the government has taken to unleash the potential of every Indian.Dear Fellow Citizens,A new dawn is rising in Jammu and Kashmir. The government has initiated the process of consultation with all stakeholders who have faith in democracy and the rule of law. I urge the people, especially the youth, of Jammu and Kashmir to utilise this opportunity and work on realising their aspirations through democratic institutions.With all-round progress, India’s stature is rising in the international arena, as it was reflected in our participation in several key multilateral forums as well as in consolidating bilateral relationships with several countries.Dear Fellow Citizens,When India won Independence 75 years ago, many sceptics thought democracy would not survive in India. Little did they know that roots of democracy were nurtured in this soil in ancient times, and even in modern times India was ahead of many western nations in offering franchise to all adults, regardless of any distinctions. The founding fathers had reposed their faith in the wisdom of the people, and ‘we, the people of India’ have made India a strong democracy.We have adopted the system of parliamentary democracy. Therefore, our Parliament is the temple of our democracy which provides us highest forum where we discuss, debate and decide issues for the well-being of our people. It is a matter of great pride for all Indians that our Parliament will soon be housed in a new building. It will be a fitting statement of our outlook: It will honour our legacy while also walking in step with the contemporary world. It is more than symbolic that the new building will be inaugurated in the year of the 75th anniversary of Independence.The government has planned many initiatives to make this special year memorable, and the most exciting of them all may as well be the Gaganyaan mission. Pilots of the Indian Air Force have been receiving training abroad. When they fly off into space, India will become only the fourth nation on the planet to carry out a manned space mission. When it comes to the flights of our ambitions, we don’t let any limitations define us.Yet we keep our feet on the ground. We acknowledge that we still have a long way to go in realising the dreams of those who won the freedom for us. Our Constitution neatly summarises those dreams in four words: Justice, Liberty, Equality and Fraternity. We must strive for more equality in an unequal world, more justice in unjust circumstances. Justice has come to encompass a larger range of connotations, including economic and environmental justice. The road ahead is not easy. We will have to negotiate many twists and turns, but we have the benefit of incomparable guidance. It comes to us from diverse sources, from the venerable seers of millennia ago, down to the sages and leaders of more recent times. In the spirit of “unity in diversity”, we as a nation are following the right course.This vision derived from the unique Indian heritage is going to be helpful not only to us but to the whole world in this century. Modern industrial civilization has posed serious challenges before humankind. Climate change has become a reality of life, with seas rising, glaciers melting and temperatures soaring. India is proud of not only adhering to the Paris climate agreement but doing more than what the country has committed to protect the climate. However, the world desperately needs a course correction. This is why the world is increasingly turning to the wisdom of India, as created by the authors of the Vedas and Upanishads, as depicted in the Ramayana and Mahabharata, as taught by Lord Mahavira, Lord Buddha and Guru Nanak and as reflected in the lives of the likes of Mahatma Gandhi.Learning the art of living in tune with nature requires effort, Gandhiji says, but once you establish a relationship with rivers and mountains, birds and animals, nature reveals its secrets to you. Let us resolve to listen to this message of Gandhiji and also to make sacrifices for the sake of the land we live in.The spirit of patriotism and sacrifice was paramount among our freedom fighters. They faced all kinds of challenges without caring for their own interests. I have seen that in the face of Corona crisis, lakhs of people have taken enormous risks to protect others, with the spirit of selfless service for humanity. I convey my profound appreciation for all such covid warriors. Many of them succumbed to Covid-19. I pay homage to them.Recently, on the occasion of 'Kargil Vijay Diwas', I wanted to visit the 'Kargil War Memorial - Dras' in Ladakh to pay homage to our brave soldiers. But due to bad weather, it was not possible for me to reach that monument. On that day, I paid homage to our brave soldiers at the 'Dagger War Memorial' in Baramulla. That memorial has been built in the memory of all the soldiers who have made the supreme sacrifice in their line of duty. While appreciating the valour and sacrifice of those brave warriors, I noticed that the war memorial has a motto inscribed: “मेरा हर काम, देश के नाम” which means, each and every deed of mine is for the nation.All of us should imbibe this motto as a mantra and work with full devotion and dedication for the development of the nation. I would like that all of us come together to take India forward on the path of progress with the spirit of keeping the interest of the nation and society foremost.Dear Fellow Citizens,I extend my greetings especially to the members of the armed forces, who have guarded our freedom, valiantly and gladly making supreme sacrifice when necessary. I also extend my greetings to the members of the Indian diaspora, who have represented the motherland well wherever they have made home.I once again congratulate all of you, on the eve of India’s 75th Independence Day. While celebrating this anniversary, I cannot stop my mind from imagining a powerful, prosperous and peaceful India of 2047 when we will celebrate 100 years of our independence.I wish that all our people come out of the difficulties caused by the Covid pandemic and move ahead on the path of happiness and prosperity.Once again, my best wishes to all of you!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-text-of-president-ram-nath-kovind-s-independence-day-eve-address-101628955710154.html
14-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Union home ministry notifies Aug 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day and all the latest news||Home ministry notifies August 14 as 'Partition Horrors Remembrance Day'The Government of India on Saturday declared August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, after an announcement from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The gazette notification was issued by the Union home ministry. Read moreCrowd hurl bottle corks near KL Rahul, Virat Kohli signals him to throw it back in India vs England Lord's TestIn an uncalled-for incident, bottle corks were hurled near India batsman KL Rahul from a section of the crowd during the first session of Day 3 of the second Test match against England at Lord’s. Read moreBeckett movie review: John David Washington blazes his own trail in breakneck Netflix thrillerBeckett, the new Netflix film starring John David Washington, is based on a fairly standard premise, but made with uncommon flair. Read moreWhatsApp users, Friends Reunion, missing parcels, here’s how scammers are stealing money from netizensWhatsApp is one of the most popular messaging platforms on the Earth. It is used by over 2 billion users across the world to send around 100 billion messages every month. Unfortunately, its popularity among users also makes it popular among scamsters who are constantly looking for new tricks to dupe innocent netizens. Read moreOlympic winners, Covid, J&K, Economy: President Kovind's Independence Day messageOn the eve of India's 75th Independence Day, President Ram Nath Kovind addressed the nation and hailed India's rise in the global arena. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-union-home-ministry-notifies-aug-14-as-partition-horrors-remembrance-day-and-all-the-latest-news-101628954163730.html
14-08-2021||India||Good news for Indian students! UK cuts cost of Covid-19 test on arrival||Indian students, professionals flying to the United Kingdom were exempt from mandatory government quarantine as the UK moved India to its amber list. But under the rules of the amber list, Indian passengers still have to take a paid test just after their arrival in England, the cost of which is 88 pounds ( ₹9,055). Receiving complaints that it was a lot of money for students and even holidaymakers, the UK government has reduced the price to 66 pounds ( ₹6,791). The price reduction does not affect arrivals from Red list countries, or if they purchase a test from a private provider, the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) said, news agency PTI reported.India's upgrade to Amber list has come to the rescue of thousands of Indian students as they have been saved of the cost of 1,750 pounds ( ₹1.80 lakh) that they would have required for mandatory hotel quarantine which is a rule in the UK for passengers coming from Red List countries. Now students can quarantine at their place of stay, university hostel, for the recent move.This year, a record number of 3,200 students from India have been accepted into UK colleges and universities, which is 19 per cent more than 2020.The high airfare in the Delhi-London route because of pent-up demand became a cause for concern as many pointed out that Delhi-London one-way airfare reached around ₹4 lakh. The civil aviation ministry urged travellers to check the fare from the airlines' website and not from search engines as they do not reflect the actual fare and after making combinations of multiple airlines show some exaggerated figure.The number of flights between India to the United Kingdom has also been increased which is expected to bring down the ticket prices. India-UK flights were suspended in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic in India. The United Kingdom has not yet moved Pakistan from thered list to the amber list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-news-for-indian-students-uk-cuts-covid-19-testing-cost-101628954121279.html
14-08-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir Police personnel awarded top gallantry awards, including Ashok Chakra||Two Jammu and Kashmir Police personnel, one a sub inspector and another a constable, are among the 144 defence and security personnel whose names have been approved for top gallantry awards by President Ram Nath Kovind on the eve of Independence Day, according to a defence ministry release issued on Saturday. The two JKP personnel have been posthumously awarded the country’s highest and second-highest gallantry awards for demonstrating outstanding courage during counter-terrorism operations in the Union Territory. Assistant Sub-Inspector Babu Ram and Constable Altaf Hussain Bhat have been awarded the Ashok Chakra and the Kirti Chakra, the release said. The other awards approved by the President are 15 Shaurya Chakras, four Bar to Sena Medals (Gallantry), 116 Sena Medals (Gallantry), five Nao Sena Medals (Gallantry), two Vayu Sena Medals (Gallantry) and four medals for Indian Coast Guard personnel. Babu Ram, who was from the Special Operations Group of JKP, was killed during a fierce encounter with terrorists at Pantha-Chokh area of Srinagar in August 2020. Altaf Hussain sacrificed his life while saving the life of his protected person who was attacked by terrorists in Ganderbal. Shahbaz Ahmed, a special police officer in JKP, was posthumously awarded the Shaurya Chakra, the country’s third-highest peacetime gallantry award. “DGP Dilbag Singh salutes fallen heroes, ASI Babu Ram, Const Altaf and SPO Shahbaz of JKP who bring honour and glory to the force in their sacrifice and service to the nation,” the JKP wrote on Twitter. The Shaurya Chakra awardees include six army personnel, two Indian Air Force officers, a navy officer, four CRPF personnel and two police personnel. They are Majors Arun Kumar Pandey, Ravi Kumar Chaudhary, Captains Ashutosh Kumar (Posthumous), Vikas Khatri, Rifleman Mukesh Kumar, Sepoy Neeraj Ahlawat, Group Captain Perminder Antil, Wing Commander Varun Singh, Captain Sachin Reuben Sequeira (navy), Deputy Commandant Chitesh Kumar (CRPF), Sub Inspector Manjinder Singh (CRPF), Constable Sunil Choudhary (CRPF), Commandos Debasis Sethy (Odisha Police, Posthumous), Sudhir Kumar Tudu (Odisha Police, Posthumous) and SPO Shahbaz Ahmad (JKP, Posthumous).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-police-personnel-awarded-top-gallantry-awards-including-ashok-chakra-101628953562954.html
14-08-2021||India||As Jammu and Kashmir Police bags gallantry medals, DGP heaps praises||Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh congratulated the force on Saturday after some of its personnel were awarded gallantry awards, including Ashok Chakra, Kirti Chakra and Shaurya Chakra, on the eve of Independence Day.Singh, in a press release, thanked Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, Union home minister Amit Shah and Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla for their recognition of the “valour and sacrifice” of the J&K police and for "awarding the highest ever number of Service and Gallantry medals on the eve of the 75th Independence Day."He also said that the force has been awarded the highest number of 275 service and gallantry medals announced by the Union home ministry on the Independence Day.“J&K Police is awarded 1 out of total 2 President's Police Medal for Gallantry (PPMG), 256 out of total 628 Police Medals for Gallantry (PMG),02 President's Police Medals for Distinguished Service, (PPM DS),16 Police Medals for Meritorious Service,” the press release said, detailing the awards won.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Babu Ram, Constable Altaf Hussain Bhat and Special Police Officer (SPO) Shahbaz Ahmad all posthumously won the Ashoka Chakra, Kirti Chakra and the Shaurya Chakra awards respectively.“DGP,J&K Sh Dilbag Singh salutes fallen heroes,ASI Babu Ram,Const Altaf and SPO Shahbaz of JKP who bring honour and glory to the force in their sacrifice and service to the nation for which Ministry of Defence has awarded Country's highest peace time honour,” the J&K Police tweeted earlier on Saturday.DGP,J&K Sh Dilbag Singh salutes fallen heroes,ASI Babu Ram,Const Altaf and SPO Shahbaz of JKP who bring honour and glory to the force in their sacrifice and service to the nation for which Ministry of Defence has awarded Country's highest peace time honour (1/4) pic.twitter.com/UQclrY47lWIn a series of tweets congratulating the awardees, the police further said that ASI Babu Ram made “supreme sacrifice” during an assault against holed up terrorists at Panthachowk during last year. It also said that Constable Altaf sacrificed his life while saving the life of his Protected Person who was attacked by terrorists in Ganderbal.The police also said that SPO Shahbaz was awarded for his “gallant action” against terrorists in a counter-terrorist operation at Khrew Awantipora last year. “For the first time in J&K Police history Ashok,Kirti and Shaurya chakras have been awarded to the force together,” it also said.Meanwhile, the Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, too congratulated the awardees. “Matter of #pride for JKP. Nation recognising the service of our #BraveHearts. Ashok Chakra, Kirti Chakra & Shauriya Chakra for #Martyrs ASI Babu Ram, Ct Altaf & SPO Shahbaz. We pledge to never fail in maintaining the standards set by these brave hearts,” he said, the Kashmir Zone Police tweeted.Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha also congratulated the police on the feat. “Proud of bravery and sacrifices made by Jammu and Kashmir Police in defending the sovereignty of the country. Ashok Chakra, Kirti Chakra, Shaurya Chakra and 257 police gallantry medals to JKP at the forefront of fight against terrorism is commendable,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-jammu-and-kashmir-police-bags-gallantry-medals-dgp-heaps-praises-101628948167153.html
14-08-2021||India||Negative RT-PCR report for entering apartment, buying liquor | Check list||Several states have again made negative RT-PCR reports mandatory for people coming from other states amid the apprehension of a third wave of the pandemic. But now it is different from the earlier situation on two counts. First, negative RT-PCR can be replaced with vaccine certificates, as in people who have received both doses of their Covid vaccines can show their certificates instead of the test report. Two, local people also need negative RT-PCR reports for some purposes.Why travel restrictions are making a comebackIndia's present Covid-19 situation is in control, leaving a few states. But teh Centre has been warning that there is no room for complacency as several occasions including Muharram, Onam, Raksha Bandhan, Ganesh Chaturthi fall in August. Hence, these travel restrictions can be seen as preventive measures.RT-PCR must in these states for travellers coming from other statesTamil Nadu (for people coming from Kerala)Karnataka ( for people coming from Maharashtra and Kerala)Himachal Pradesh (for all travellers)Chhattisgarh (for all travellers)Goa (for people coming from Kerala)Punjab (For all travellers)West Bengal (For travellers from Pune, Mumbai and Chennai)Maharashtra (all flyers)Uttar Pradesh (For travellers from Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu)RT-PCR test report versus vaccination certificateAs a considerable number of people in India are fully vaccinated, many states have clarified that fully vaccinated people don't require to get tested. But some authorities have specified that a vaccine certificate will not be enough; a recent RT-PCR test report is mandatory. For example, Bengaluru civic authorities said that people coming from Maharashtra and Kerala must produce RT-PCR reports even if they are fully vaccinated.RT-PCR report must for joining duty, buying liquor, entering flatIn Jharkhand, an RT-PCR test report is mandatory for security personnel and police who have been on leave.Kerala has made RT-PCR tests or vaccine certificates mandatory for visiting shops. The government said that people who queue up in front of liquor stores will also have to produce negative RT-PCR test reports.Bruhat Bengaluru Municipal Corporation has made negative RT-PCR mandatory for residents of apartments when they are returning from any other state. If they do not have a report, they will be tested and until the report comes, they will have to be quarantined in their flats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/negative-rt-pcr-report-or-jab-certificate-must-in-these-states-for-these-purposes-check-list-101628944400696.html
14-08-2021||India||Home ministry notifies August 14 as 'Partition Horrors Remembrance Day'||The Government of India on Saturday declared August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, after an announcement from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The gazette notification was issued by the Union home ministry."The Government of India declares 14th August as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day to remind the present and future generations of Indians of the pain and suffering faced by the people of India during the partition," the notification said.Earlier on Saturday, PM Modi announced that August 14 will now be observed as 'Partition Horrors Remembrance Day' in memory of the struggles and sacrifices of people.The Prime Minister noted that millions of people were displaced and many lost their lives due to the mindless hate and violence caused by the Partition.Many Union ministers and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders welcomed the announcement. Union home minister Amit Shah congratulated PM Modi for his "sensitive decision" while asserting that the wound of Partition and the grief of losing loved ones cannot be described in words.The ministry of information and broadcasting said 'Partition Horrors Remembrance Day' will be a fitting tribute to all those who lost their lives due to the Partition of the nation and were displaced from their roots.Declaration of such a day would remind the present and future generations of Indians of the pain and suffering faced by the people during the partition, it said.Pakistan was carved out as a separate country after the Partition in 1947. Millions of people were displaced and many lakhs of them lost their lives in the communal violence that followed.India will celebrate its 75th Independence Day on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-ministry-notifies-august-14-as-partition-horrors-remembrance-day-101628944798955.html
14-08-2021||India||Rajya Sabha chairperson Venkaiah Naidu views footage from August 11||Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday went to Parliament House to watch the recorded proceedings of the house on August 11 when some marshals and a few opposition lawmakers were seen jostling on the floor of the house.According to people aware of the details, Naidu watched the entire visual recording of the incidents in the House including those involving some members and marshals on August 11. Officials of the Rajya Sabha Secretariat on Friday said legal consultation is being sought to arrive at a decision on how to take action against the MPs who have been caught on tape manhandling the marshals, damaging house property and were named in the complaints by two marshals who were injured in the melee.Opposition members had staged a walk out from the house protesting over the hurried passage of bills and the deployment of security personnel inside the House, while the government blamed the opposition members for manhandling the marshals.At least two marshals, one man and a woman have submitted a complaint to the Rajya Sabha Secretariat listing the injuries they received while trying to restrain the lawmakers who were protesting in the well of the House. Speaking to the media outside the House, Congress’s Phulo Devi Netam and Chhaya Verma had alleged they were manhandled by male marshals. Leader of the Opposition in the house Mallikarjun Kharge had alleged that women MPs do not feel safe inside Parliament and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar also said he had never witnessed such scenes in Parliament in his 55-year parliamentary tenure.The government however sought exemplary action against the MPs accused of violating parliamentary decorum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-chairperson-venkaiah-naidu-views-footage-from-august-11-101628944501093.html
14-08-2021||India||Mumbai local trains, gyms and malls: Maharashtra relaxations coming into effect from Aug 15||The Covid-19 relaxations announced by the Maharashtra government will come into effect from Sunday. The state government has been easing curbs, announced during the second wave of the coronavirus disease in May, in phases.The most important change to come into effect from Independence Day will be that the local trains will be thrown open to all those who have recived both the doses of Covid-19 vaccines. This has been a key demand of the people of Maharashtra; currently, only government employees and essential services staffers are allowed to travel in local trains.The Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra has come under control in recent weeks. From a peak of over 60,000 cases, the daily numbers have come down to a little over 6,000. On Friday, Maharashtra reported 6,686 new coronavirus infections and 158 fatalities.Here are the relaxations coming into effect on the state from Sunday:Mumbai local trainsThe local trains in Mumbai will be open for fully vaccinated people from Sunday (August 15). Holders of the final vaccination certificate approved by the designated authority will be given a railway pass to travel in local trains in Mumbai, the Maharashtra government said in its order released earlier this month.It has also made gap of 14 days from the second dose of Covid-19 mandatory to travel in the locals, considered lifeline of Mumbai.Railway ticket-checkers have been authorised to demand the verified copy of the final vaccination certificate and identity card from passengers.Shops and mallsFrom August 15, shopping malls and other establishments will be allowed to operate till 10pm, provided the entire staff is fully vaccinated against Covid-19.Those visiting the shopping malls will also have to carry the final vaccination certificate, according to Maharashtra government order.Employees in shops, establishments and offices, however, will have to be fully vaccinated.OfficesPrivate offices whose employees are fully vaccinated have been allowed to keep their offices functional 24*7, but they have to stagger the work hours and keep 25 per cent strength at one time.Restaurants and eateriesThe timings of these places have been extended to 10pm, from the current deadline of 4pm. However, the restaurants have been asked to reopen with 50 per cent capacity, and ensuring that the entire staff is fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease.Gyms, parlours and salonsAccording to revised guidelines issued by Maharashtra government, gyms, parlours and salons in the state will be allowed to open with 50 per cent capacity from August 15.The spas and gymnasiums will be allowed to function till 10pm, the government order said. However, the entire staff of these establishments will have to be fully vaccinated.WeddingsThe government has allowed weddings in open place with a cap of 200 people. In case the venue is a closed hall, the number has been limited to 100 or 50 per cent capacity of the venue, whichever is less.Indoor games have been allowed till 10pm provided everyone is fully vaccinated.Cinema halls and theatresCinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, auditoriums and places of worship will continue to remain shut in Maharashtra, state health minister Rajesh Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-relaxations-coming-into-effect-from-aug-15-101628942191098.html
14-08-2021||India||Amid spike in terror attacks, India exchanged sweets on Pakistan’s I-Day||Amid a spike in terror activities and infiltration by armed terrorists from across the border, India and Pakistan indulged in sweets-diplomacy along the Indo-Pak border on Saturday to mark Pakistan’s Independence Day. “Indian Army and Pakistan Army exchanged sweets on the latter’s I-Day at the Line of Control at Poonch-Rawalakot Crossing Point and Mendhar-Hotspring Crossing Point in Poonch district on Wednesday,” said a defence spokesperson. “Greetings and best wishes of peace and harmony were conveyed to the Pak Army representatives from the Indian Army. The gesture was appreciated by both the armies and is expected to further promote goodwill and mutual trust,” he added. A senior Border Security Force (BSF) officer said that sweets and pleasantries were exchanged between BSF and Pak Rangers on four meeting points along the 200 km long international border in Jammu region on the occasion of Pakistan’s I-Day. “Today, Pak Rangers and BSF exchanged sweets on the occasion of Pakistan’s Independence Day at various border outposts along the 200 km long Indo-Pak international border from Kathua to AKhnoor,” said BSF Jammu frontier DIG SPS Sandhu. The sweets exchange programme was held at Chamliyal, Chinaz and Octroi posts. At Octroi post, Pak Rangers officer Ashiq led his side. This was the second exchange of sweets between the countries after the Pulwama terror attack on a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) convoy by a suicide bomber that left 40 CRPF personnel dead on February 14, 2019. On July 21, both the countries indulged in sweets diplomacy on the Indo-Pak borders to celebrate the festival of Eid-ul-Adha. On August 10, director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said that “after a brief lull following renewed truce deal between the two DGMOs on February 25, infiltration into Jammu and Kashmir has resumed” and that “terror camps across the border were still intact.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-spike-in-terror-attacks-india-exchanged-sweets-on-pakistan-s-iday-101628942341157.html
14-08-2021||India||Muraleedharan accuses Kerala MPs of trying to re-enact in Parliament 2016 assembly violence||Union minister V Muraleedharan on Saturday accused some members of parliament (MPs) from Kerala of trying to “re-enact” in Parliament violence that erupted in the state assembly in 2016 and said it will not be allowed. He said they were trying to unleash the same “goondaism (rowdyism)” in the parliament. “It seems some of them have got good lessons from the school of state minister V Sivankutty,” he said while showing pictures of MPs standing on the desk of the Rajya Sabha. The pictures showed the Communist Party of India’s Binoy Viswom and V Sivadasan of the Communist Party of India (Marxist). Elamarom Kareem, a third member of Parliament from Kerala, is accused of attacking marshals in Rajya Sabha. Sivankutty is one of the accused in the 2016 assembly violence case. The Supreme Court last month ordered he and five other former legislators will face criminal charges for destroying assembly property during protests in the Kerala assembly in 2016. Sivankutty is accused of damaging a mike, furniture, and hopping from one desk to another. Muraleedharan, who is from Kerala, cited the pictures and said they show what really happened in Rajya Sabha. “Assembly-model violence and goondaism will not be allowed in parliament. Those responsible will have to answer for their irresponsible behaviour in the House,” he said.Kareem has denied the charges against him and sought action against marshals for assaulting opposition lawmakers. He wrote a letter to the Rajya Sabha secretary general and asked him to check the visuals of the House to get a clear picture. Viswom has also denied allegations against him.Sivadasan and Sivankutty were unavailable for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muraleedharan-accuses-kerala-mps-of-trying-to-re-enact-in-parliament-2016-assembly-violence-101628941861007.html
14-08-2021||NA||President's address highlights: ‘New parliament building matter of great pride’||President Ram Nath Kovind addressed the nation on the eve of 75th Independence Day. The address was broadcasted from 7pm on the entire national network of All India Radio (AIR) and telecasted over all Doordarshan in Hindi, followed by the English version.  It would later be telecasted in regional languages by regional channels of Doordarshan. AIR would be broadcasting the address in regional languages at 9.30pm on its respective regional networks. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will unfurl the Tricolour the next day and address the nation from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. After PM Modi's speech, the ministry of defence said, for the first time ever, flower petals will be showered at the venue by two Mi-17 1V helicopters of the Indian Air Force in Amrut formation.Follow all the updates here:'Climate change has become reality of life'President noted that India is proud of not only adhering to the Paris climate agreement but doing more than what the country has committed to protect the climate.India yet to come out of devastating effects of pandemic: KovindThe intensity of the pandemic has come down, but the coronavirus has not yet gone away. We are yet to come out of the devastating effects of its recurrence this year. pic.twitter.com/ruehjTKozFPresident Kovind said India is yet to come out of the devastating effects of its recurrence this year.New awakening in Jammu and Kashmir visible: Prez KovindThe president said the government has started the process of consultation with all stakeholders in Jammu and Kashmir who believe in democracy and the rule of law, adding that a "new awakening is visible."Ease of doing business has improved ease of living in the country: PresidentPresident Kovind said improvement in ease of doing business has had a positive impact on the ease of living of the countrymen.President urges everyone to get vaccinatedPresident Kovind urged all the countrymen to get vaccinated as per protocol as soon as possible. He also asked everyone to motivate others.This year's Independence Day has special significance: KovindAddressing the nation, President Ram Nath Kovind said that 75th Independence Day has special significance because the country will be celebrating the Amrit Mahotsav of Independence from this year onwards.Entire nation is proud of your achievements: President KovindPresident Ram Nath Kovind congratulated athletes for their stupendous performance in Tokyo Olympics.“This team has bagged the highest number of medals for the country in Olympics history. The entire nation is proud of your achievements,” he said.“We're especially proud of our daughters who displayed world-class performance despite facing many challenges. You gave us a reason to celebrate amid Covid. Sometimes you win and sometimes you lose when you participate in a game but every time you learn a new thing,” he added.President hosts the Indian contingent of the Tokyo Olympics 2020President Ram Nath Kovind hosts the Indian contingent of the Tokyo Olympics 2020 over a 'High Tea'. "The entire country is proud of our Olympians for bringing glory to the nation," the president said.PV Sindhu shows her medal to fellow OlympiansCheck this out 👇🇮🇳's Ace Shuttler @Pvsindhu1 shows her medal to fellow Olympians ahead of #TeamIndia's High Tea with the President of India#Cheer4India@PMOIndia @ianuragthakur @NisithPramanik @BAI_Media @WeAreTeamIndia pic.twitter.com/3AdGbFfZLDPV Sindhu shows her Tokyo Olympics bronze medal to fellow Olympians ahead of the Indian contingent's High Tea with President Ram Nath Kovind at the Rashtrapati Bhavan Cultural Centre in Delhi. President Kovind to host Indian Contingent of the Tokyo Olympics over 'High Tea'President Ram Nath Kovind is about to host the Indian Contingent of the Tokyo Olympics 2020 over a ‘High Tea’ at the Rashtrapati Bhavan Cultural Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-2021-president-ram-nath-kovind-to-address-nation-at-7pm-101628936632268.html
14-08-2021||India||No infrastructure could withstand the crisis of 2nd wave of Covid: President||In his address to the nation on the eve of India's 75th Independence Day, President Ram Nath Kovind said when the country is still battling with the coronavirus pandemic and urged everyone to get vaccinated. Expressing grief over the loss of lives during the second wave of the pandemic, the President said it pains him, but the solace is that more lives were saved than lost thanks to the relentless efforts of the healthcare staff and the government. “When India got freedom 75 years ago, many sceptical people thought democracy won't survive in India. little did they know that India has remained the nurturing ground for democracy since time immemorial and continues to remain so,” the President said marking the beginning of the celebration of the 75th Independence Day.This year's Independence day is significant as India is beginning the celebration of the 75 years of its freedom, the President said paying homage to all freedom fighters and remembering the contribution of Mahatma Gandhi. The President said that Gandhi taught us that it is better to move in the right direction, taking small steps, instead of taking giant strides in the wrong direction.Celebrating India's unprecedented feat in the Olympics, the President said, "Our sportspersons have brought laurels with their stellar performances. Our daughters have achieved world-class achievement in playgrounds fighting many adversities. I urge all parents to raise their daughters like this."“The intensity of the pandemic has come down. But we are yet to come out of the devastative effects of the pandemic… I am deeply sad that many people lost their lives during the second wave of the pandemic, but we have been able to save more lives,” the President said, acknowledging the contribution of the healthcare staff, the vaccine scientists. Watch live Lauding the government's steps taken to cushion the impact of Covid in the economy, the President said adequate measures have been taken for small and middle-scale businesses. The leadership rose to the challenge and no infrastructure, even if that of advanced economies, could withstand the crisis the second wave posed, the President said. The speech was broadcast on All India Radio and telecast over all channels of Doordarshan-- first in Hindi and then in English. All India Radio will broadcast the speech in regional languages at 9.30pm on its respective regional networks.Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu has greeted the nation on the eve of Independence day. "On this momentous occasion, let us also remember that the progress and wellbeing of our nation impinge on delivering the benefits of development and ensuring dignity of life to each and every individual in our country. This is the foundational belief behind our civilizational value of ‘share and care’. We must work together to achieve the noble constitutional ideal of securing for all our citizens - justice, liberty, equality and fraternity," the vice president said in his message.PM Modi's Independence Day speech: When and where to watchPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said August 14, from now on, will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day. "Partition’s pains can never be forgotten. Millions of our sisters and brothers were displaced and many lost their lives due to mindless hate and violence. In memory of the struggles and sacrifices of our people, 14th August will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day," PM Modi said.PM Modi will address the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on Sunday after hoisting the National Flag. The Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, which PM Modi had launched from Sabarmati Ashram at Ahmedabad in March 2021 will continue till August 15, 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-india-independence-day-august-15-narendra-modi-president-address-101628940164487.html
14-08-2021||India||24 hrs before Independence Day, school bombed near Assam-Mizoram border||A day before the 75th Independence Day, fresh tension erupted along Assam-Mizoram border in Hailakandi district of Assam after a primary school was bombed by unknown miscreants at Kachurthal area on Friday night, police said. Parts of the lower primary school known as Sahebmara LP School has been damaged in the second such instance in this area after Muliwala Lower Primary School was bombed in February this year by unknown miscreants.Sahebmara LP School, located within two kilometres of the Assam-Mizoram Border, demarcated by Survey of India map, was attacked by grenades while it was closed due to the second wave of Covid-19 outbreak.Hailakandi’s superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Upadhyay said the latest incident happened at around 11:30 pm on Friday but no person was injured. “The bombing was done by miscreants from Mizoram side between 11 to 11:30 pm. The area comes under Ghutghuti police outpost and we have raised the security immediately after the incident. We are trying to ensure that this incident does not create fear among the residents in the locality. We are also investigating the matter and once it is completed, we’ll be able to give a clearer picture,” He said.In February this year, unknown miscreants used grenades to damage Muliwala Lower Primary School, resulting in hundreds of families moving out of the area in fear. “There has been a series of attempts to terrorise locals by unknown miscreants from Mizoram side throughout the year. They mostly target the government buildings to create panic among the civilians,” said a local from Hailakandi.The border dispute between the two states resulted in an exchange of fire between the policemen from both sides on July 26, causing the death of six Assam policemen and one resident. More than 60 people from Assam, including superintendent of police of Cachar district, sustained severe injuries. Few persons from Mizoram side were also injured.Following the clashes, a 10-day-long economic blockade in Assam prevented transport of goods to Mizoram, resulting in a price rise of essential goods in the state. Under the instruction of the Central government, both Assam and Mizoram have agreed to resolve the border dispute peacefully.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24-hrs-before-independence-day-school-bombed-near-assam-mizoram-border-101628940721104.html
14-08-2021||India||DMK govt in Tamil Nadu fulfills poll promise, presents separate agri budget||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday presented an exclusive budget for the agricultural sector in the state assembly. This was the first separate budget for agriculture in the state, which MK Stalin-led Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) had promised in its poll manifesto for the state assembly elections earlier this year.MRK Panneerselvam, the minister for agriculture and farmer’s welfare, presented the budget and said that it was in line with the views of farmers and experts, whose opinions were sought before preparing it. “The agriculture budget is the aspiration of farmers. It is a dream of nature lovers,” he said.The minister announced that a sum of ₹34,220.65 crore will be allocated for agriculture and related departments like animal husbandry, fisheries, dairy development, irrigation, rural development, sericulture and forest for the year 2021-22. Also, for providing free of cost electricity to farm pump sets, an amount of ₹4,508.23 crore has been earmarked for the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (TANGEDCO), the state-run electricity entity.Also read | Climate crisis fund, petrol tax cut part of Tamil Nadu budgetWhile the previous All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) government had declared the Cauvery delta region as a protected agriculture zone, Panneerselvam proposed to declare the area as an agro-industrial corridor. It was aimed at bringing more prosperity to farmers and farm labourers in the delta region and to promote agro based industries, he added.Further, he said that in places such as Thanjavur, where rice, pulses, banana and coconut are grown throughout the year, rice and oil mills, coir units and pulse processing units would contribute more to the welfare of farmers and farm workers. These industries are promoted to use agricultural products grown in these regions to produce more value added products, he saidUnder the plan named Kalaignarin Anaithu Grama Orunginaintha Velaan Valarchi Thittam (named after former chief minister M Karunanidhi) costing ₹1,245.45 crore, overall agricultural development and self-sufficiency would be ensured in all villages of the state, he said. The plan will be implemented in 2,500 village panchayats in the current year. Moreover, each year, one-fifth of the total 12,524 villages in Tamil Nadu will be identified over the next five years where the scheme will be implemented, the minister said. The major objectives of the scheme include turning fallow lands cultivable, augmenting water resources, installing solar powered pump sets, marketing value added farm produce, adoption of micro-irrigation and ramping up milk production.The chief minister’s Dry Land Development Mission to increase income of farmers depending on rainfed farming and organic farming development scheme to promote organic farming were also introduced in the budget. Farms under the organic farming scheme will be certified as organic and the necessary inputs would be made available in agricultural extension centres.Tamil Nadu assembly’s budget session commenced on Friday, when finance minister Palanivel Thiagarajan presented the new government’s maiden budget. Among major announcements, the state tax on petrol was was slashed, which led to a reduction in prie by ₹3 per litre. A separate fund was also announced for climate change adaptation and mitigation activities.(With PTI input)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmk-govt-in-tamil-nadu-fulfills-poll-promise-presents-separate-agri-budget-101628940222492.html
14-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: J&K Police busts Jaish module planning to disrupt I-Day and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Jaish module planning to disrupt I-Day celebrations busted in Jammu, 4 arrestedJammu and Kashmir Police on Saturday claimed to have foiled a plot to disrupt the 75th Independence Day celebrations and launch several terror attacks with the arrest of four Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terrorists from Jammu city on Saturday. Read MoreVijay Mallya's Kingfisher House sold for ₹52.25 crore in ninth attemptBusinessman Vijay Mallya’s Kingfisher House at Vile Parle in Mumbai was finally sold to Hyderabad based Saturn Realtors for ₹52.25 crore in the ninth attempt by the Debt Recovery Tribunal. Read More'Pakistan is complicit': US Congressman calls for sanction as Taliban advanceAmid accusations against Pakistan of covertly assisting the Afghan Taliban, a US Congressman has urged President Joe Biden to impose sanctions on Islamabad unless they "change course." Read MorePant reveals what happened between him, Kohli, Siraj and why India went for DRS twice against RootIn whatever cricket we have seen in the two Tests in England so far, India have had the slight edge in pretty much all three departments. Their seamers have been impeccable while openers KL Rahul and Rohit Sharma have been scoring the bulk of the runs. Read MoreWhen Sridevi's decision to not work anymore gave Manish Malhotra ‘a lump’ in his throatFashion designer Manish Malhotra has spoken about his reaction when late actor Sridevi told him that she wasn't planning to work anymore. Read MoreManushi Chhillar in wine red thigh-slit gown stuns internet with her goddess-like charmMiss World 2017 winner Manushi Chhillar may not have made her Bollywood debut yet, but that has never stopped the beauty queen from making ultra-glam fashion statements every now and then. Read MoreMahindra XUV700 unveiled; gets bold styling, mile-long list of featuresMahindra XUV700 was officially showcased to the world on Saturday afternoon after much anticipation and dozens of spy shot images and videos that had flooded online space in recent months. Read MorePUBG Mobile, Honour of Kings, Among Us! in list of top online games played the most in 2021The mobile gaming market has grown extremely fast ever since the Covid-19 pandemic forced people to stay indoors. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-j-k-police-bust-jaish-module-planning-to-disrupt-i-day-and-all-the-latest-news-101628939061446.html
14-08-2021||India||Vijay Mallya's Kingfisher House sold for ₹52.25 crore in ninth attempt||Businessman Vijay Mallya’s Kingfisher House at Vile Parle in Mumbai was finally sold to Hyderabad based Saturn Realtors for ₹52.25 crore in the ninth attempt by the Debt Recovery Tribunal. Kingfisher House was once the headquarters of the now defunct Kingfisher Airlines owned by Mallya, who is accused of fraud and money laundering allegedly amounting to around ₹9,000 crore.Saturn Realtors paid ₹2.612 crore as stamp duty to Maharashtra government for this deal. The deal was registered on July 31 last month.This 2401.70 square metres property outside the Mumbai airport has been up for grabs since 2016. The Debt Recovery Tribunal, Bengaluru sold this house-- after failing in the previous eight attempts-- at a fraction of the initial reserve price of ₹135 crore.Pankaj Kapoor, managing director, Liases Foras, a real estate research firm attributed the reduced rates to its location and market condition. “There is not much development potential in this plot due to height restrictions as it is close to the airport. In addition, market conditions are bad...,”said Kapoor.Kingfisher Airlines was grounded on October 20, 2012, after it plunged into a financial crisis. Mallya is accused of fraud and money laundering involving Kingfisher Airlines and was declared a fugitive economic offender for defaulting on loans and for allegedly defrauding banks.Mallya fled to the United Kingdom and has been fighting on multiple fronts to avoid extradition to India. He has been on bail in the UK on an extradition warrant since his arrest in April 2019.Earlier in June, the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court ruled that properties worth ₹5646.54 crores, belonging to Kingfisher Airlines and Vijay Mallya should be restored to State Bank of India (SBI) and its consortium, enabling its sale to recover part of the ₹6203 crores dues owed by Mallya and his now defunct-company.These included properties in UB City, Bengaluru worth ₹712.94 crore, under construction flats in Kingfisher tower worth ₹564.25 crores, several pledged and unpledged shares and many other properties owned by Dr Mallya through various companies in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijay-mallya-s-kingfisher-house-sold-for-rs-52-25-crore-in-ninth-attempt-101628938017346.html
14-08-2021||India||Nadda, BJP leaders thank PM for 'Partition Horrors Remembrance Day' announcement||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to observe August 14 as 'Partition Horrors Remembrance Day'. He said on Twitter that Partition allowed the politics of appeasement and negative forces to dominate."Honorable Prime Minister Shri @NarendraModi Thank you from the heart for taking the historic decision of celebrating 14th August as “Partition Memorial Day”. The circumstances arising out of Partition allowed the politics of appeasement and negative forces to dominate. We must learn from history to ensure that this mistake is never repeated because those who do not learn from history are forced to suffer again and again," Nadda said on Twitter on Saturday.विभाजन के दंश से प्रभावित लोगों के संघर्ष व बलिदान की स्मृति में आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री श्री @NarendraModi जी द्वारा 14 अगस्त को “विभाजन स्मृति दिवस” के रूप में मनाने का ऐतिहासिक निर्णय लेने के लिए ह्रदय से धन्यवाद है। #PartitionHorrorsRemembranceDayUnion home minister Amit Shah congratulated the Prime Minister for his "sensitive decision" while asserting that the wound of Partition and the grief of losing loved ones cannot be described in words.Thanking the Prime Minister for his announcement, defence minister Rajnath Singh said that this decision to remember the sacrifice of the people during the Partition is a "testament to his sensitivity".BJP leader and Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan said that the Partition remains a "gaping hole" in the soul of India."Announcing August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day is a rightful tribute to the struggles and sacrifices of our people who were a casualty of the Congress’ ambition and tunnel vision," he said.A day before India's 75th Independence Day, PM Modi, in a tweet on Saturday, announced that in memory of the people's struggles and sacrifices during the Partition, August 14 will be observed as 'Partition Horrors Remembrance Day.The Prime Minister said that it will keep reminding the country of the need to remove the poison of social divisions, disharmony and further strengthen the spirit of oneness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-bjp-leaders-thank-pm-for-partition-horrors-remembrance-day-announcement-101628936500138.html
14-08-2021||India||Independence Day: Heavy to very heavy rainfall predicted in Bengal, Uttarakhand||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast extremely heavy rainfall in northeastern states and West Bengal till Sunday. The weather department also said that Meghalaya will experience extremely heavy falls today, after which the intensity will reduce."Current spell of widespread rain activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls likely to continue over Northeast India and SHWB (Sub-Himalayan West Bengal) on 14th & 15th August with extremely heavy falls over Meghalaya on 14th August and reduction thereafter," the IMD said on Twitter on Saturday.The increased rainfall is predicted due to the presence of a cyclonic circulation over westcentral Bay of Bengal, according to the IMD. Odisha and Coastal Andhra Pradesh are also likely to get heavy rainfall under its influence.It is likely to increase thereafter spatially to adjoining areas of Telangana, Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh, east MP during 16th -18th. Isolated heavy to very heavy falls are likely over Odisha during 16th-17th; over north CAP on 16th and over Telangana on 17th-18th August."Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls very likely to continue over East Uttar Pradesh & Bihar on 14th August and reduction thereafter," it said in a subsequent tweet.At least 600 villages in 24 districts of Uttar Pradesh are affected by floods due to release of water from various dam following heavy rainfall. The state recorded an average rainfall of 9mm in a span of 24 hours (till Friday), which is 87 per cent more than normal.The NDRF, SDRF and the state PAC have been pressed into service to help the people, and 59 rescue teams are pre-deployed in various districts.Meanwhile, the weather department said that there is a probability of fairly widespread rainfall in the western Himalayan region during the next 3-4 days. It added that heavy rainfall is expected over Uttarakhand on Independence Day.Another cyclonic circulation lies over north Chhattisgarh in lower tropospheric levels, the IMD said.The weather office has predicted partly cloudy sky for national capital on Saturday with the maximum temperature likely to settle around 36 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-heavy-to-very-heavy-rainfall-predicted-in-bengal-uttarakhand-101628934100709.html
14-08-2021||India||3 opposition lawmakers refused to preside over House proceedings in protest||As Opposition lawmakers trooped daily into the Well of the House during Parliament's Monsoon Session, shouted slogans, and carried placards in the Rajya Sabha over Pegasus snooping controversy, farm laws, and the price rise, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) lawmaker Vandana Chavan and two of her colleagues chose to protest in her own way. They refused to chair the House proceedings and stood by their colleagues in the Opposition.Both Houses of Parliament have 12 presiding officers to run them in the absence of the Rajya Sabha chairman or deputy chairman and the Lok Sabha Speaker.Congress lawmaker L Hanumanthaiah and Trinamool Congress (TMC)'s Sukhendu Sekhar Ray also refused to be presiding officers--a role that would have entailed asking opposition lawmakers to stop protests and return to their seats."It was not morally the right thing to do. I cannot protest and also go and officiate," said Chavan.Hanumanthaiah and Chavan met deputy chairman Harivansh to explain their position."Harivansh understood (their position) and said he hoped things would function normally soon and we could resume duties," said Chavan.The Monsoon Session of Parliament came to a premature end on Wednesday when it was adjourned ahead of schedule. Protests by a united Opposition and repeated disruptions marred the session even as the government pushed key laws.TMC's floor leader, Derek O'Brien, maintained his party colleague Ray showed "outstanding commitment to the Opposition's cause.""Being a senior member, he was one of the obvious choices to run the House. But he refused," said O'Brien.Biju Janata Dal's Bhartruhari Mahtab, one of the 12 presiding officers in Lok Sabha, maintained that one cannot find fault in the decision of the three leaders. "It is the prerogative of a member to decide whether he or she wants to sit in the chair and run the House in the chairman's absence. They cannot be forced to preside," said Mahtab.After a new government comes in, both Houses ask different parties if they want to nominate a member as presiding officer. "Usually, the presiding officers inform beforehand when they are available to sit in the chair. If anyone is not interested, he or she can simply inform that he is not available," said Mahtab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-opposition-lawmakers-refused-to-preside-over-house-proceedings-in-protest-101628933035528.html
14-08-2021||India||RT-PCR for travellers, masks for children above 3 must in Bengaluru residential apartments||As over 500 children and teenagers tested Covid positive between August 1 and 11 in Bengaluru, the civic authorities of the city have issued a fresh guideline for residential societies and apartments. Children above 3 years of age must wear masks at all times while they are in open areas or playing in the parks of housing societies. The fresh guidelines, issued by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike in the wake of a small rise in the number of Covid cases in Karnataka and Bengaluru, are aimed at keeping a check on the situation in apartments as 50 per cent of the city's containment zones are apartment complexes.While negative RT-PCR is mandatory to enter Karnataka for travellers from Kerala, the new guideline says the resident welfare associations must check for negative RT-PCR tests for apartment residents coming from any other state. If they do not have one, then they will have to undergo the test and until the results come, they will have to remain in home quarantine.Also Read | Around 250 cases in 5 days: Bengaluru sees spike of Covid cases among youth, childrenResidents with pets are allowed to walk them in the open space but following Covid norms. Gymnasiums of complexes will operate at 50 per cent capacity, the new rule said. Community halls, clubhouses and other common closed places in societies will remain closed. Courier and delivery services will not be allowed inside the complexes while emergency and necessary services such as medical, plumbing, electrical, cooking gas, water supply etc will be allowed, the directive said.Bengaluru on Friday reported 425 fresh infections and five deaths. The city has been seeing a steady increase in the number of Covid infections since the last week of July. The number of patients between the age of 0 to 19 years has become a cause of concern as it is believed that children will be more susceptible to a possible Covid third wave. But BBMP officials said the surge is not huge in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rtpcr-for-travellers-masks-for-children-above-3-must-in-bengaluru-societies-101628932307382.html
14-08-2021||India||20 ITBP personnel who fought Chinese troops in Ladakh get gallantry medals||Twenty Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel, who fought shoulder-to-shoulder with the Army in keeping the Chinese troops at bay in Eastern Ladakh's Galwan Valley and Gogra Hot Springs during clashes along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) last year, have been awarded gallantry medals ahead of the 75th Independence Day on Sunday.In all, 630 security personnel, including 257 from the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Police, have been awarded medals for their bravery, the Union home ministry said on Saturday. The gallantry medals to J&K Police personnel have been awarded for counterterrorism and security/law and order-related operations. As many as 152 medals have been awarded to Central Reserve Police Force personnel involved in counterinsurgency and anti-Naxal operations across the country.Overall, 1,320 police personnel across the country have been awarded gallantry, distinguished services, and meritorious services medals.ITBP spokesman Vivek Pandey said ITBP has got 23 gallantry medals, out of which 20 have been awarded for bravery during Eastern Ladakh skirmishes in May-June 2020.“This is the highest number of gallantry medals for ITBP for the bravery of its men in border face-off/skirmishes/border guarding duties,” Pandey said.The Galwan Valley clash of June 15, 2020, was the deadliest between Indian and Chinese troops along the LAC in more than five decades and pushed the bilateral relationship to a breakpoint. It left 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops dead.Pandey said out of 20 jawans/officers awarded for gallantry in Eastern Ladakh, eight have been decorated for their gallant acts, meticulous planning, and tactical insightfulness and for defending the country in Galwan on June 15, 2020. “Six personnel have been awarded police medal for gallantry for their bravery during violent face off on May 18, 2020, in Finger IV area while six personnel have awarded for their gallant action near Hot Springs in Ladakh on May 18, 2020."The decorated officers of ITBP include Kishor Singh Bisht (Commandant) Rinku Thapa (2nd In Command) Sarat Kumar Tripathi (Deputy Commandant) and Arbind Kumar Mahato, Akshay Ahuja, Pankaj Srivastava, and Dharmendra Kumar Vishwakarma (Assistant Commandants).“In eastern Ladakh, the ITBP troops not only effectively used shields to protect themselves but also responded fiercely to PLA (People's Liberation Army)'s advancing troops and brought the situation under control during fierce face-offs and skirmishes. With the highest order of professional skills, ITBP troops fought shoulder to shoulder and also brought the injured troops to the rear,” Pandey said.“Even when the ITBP troops fought the whole night, they received minimum casualties by giving befitting reply to the stone pelters of the PLA. At places, they gave determined responses for about 17 to 20 hours throughout the intervening night in extremely challenging conditions."Pandey said due to the high-altitude training and survival experience of the force in the Himalayan deployments at the icy heights, the ITBP troops kept the PLA troops at bay. He added due to the befitting response of ITBP troops at several fronts, many areas were safeguarded.“The ITBP troops showed the highest level of devotion, courage, determination, utter disregard to personal safety even in injured condition and exhibited great professional skills in the face of the violent physical scuffle with the PLA,” Pandey said.In September last year, 300 ITBP personnel were awarded Director General’s Commendation Roll and insignias for bravery by SS Deswal, the head of the force, in Eastern Ladakh.Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) joint director Manoj Shashidhar, who heads the agency’s key Anti-Corruption Headquarters unit, has been awarded President’s Police Medal for distinguished service.A 1994 batch Gujarat cadre Indian Police Service officer, Shashidhar has been posted with the agency since January last year. Shashidhar is supervising probes into the AgustaWestland scam, Bollywood actor Sushant Singh’s death as well as corruption case against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. He is among six CBI personnel, who have been awarded medals for distinguished service. Twenty-four other CBI officers have been decorated for meritorious service.Inspector Neeraj Sharma of the National Investigation Agency’s Jammu branch, who was part of the team that cracked the 2019 Pulwama attack, has also been awarded the medal for meritorious service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-itbp-personnel-who-fought-chinese-troops-in-ladakh-get-gallantry-medals-101628930148774.html
14-08-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan asked to shift NCR industrial units to PNG||The states which have industrial units in the National Capital Region (NCR) have been asked to prepare a plan to shift them to piped natural gas or PNG. The direction from the commission for air quality management was given to Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan. Several districts of these three states constitute the NCR.The commission has also asked these states to develop an action plan to supply PNG in the industrial areas in NCR where infrastructure and gas supply are not available.All the three states have to submit a compliance report to the commission by August 31.The commission was formed by the ministry of environment on November 5 last year. It is headed by former chief secretary of Delhi M M Kutty. It has already directed the industrial units in Delhi to shift to PNG.When it comes to NCR, Uttar Pradesh has shown the highest compliance among the three states, where 1,161 of the identified 2,273 units have switched over to PNG. Only 124 of the 436 such units in Rajasthan have so far made the shift.In case of Haryana, 408 of the 1,469 identified industrial units have shifted to PNG.The commission has asked these states to audit and inspect the industries, which are already connected to PNG supply, and ensure that these units are not using any other polluting fuels like coal etc.They have also been directed to maintain strict vigil to prevent the use of unapproved fuels in the NCR region and take stringent action against defaulting units.According to NCR planning board - a part of Union ministry of housing and urban affairs - NCR comprises of an area of about 55,083 square kilometres. While Haryana has the highest number of districts (13) in NCR, Uttar Pradesh has eight and Rajasthan two.The districts in Haryana, which are part of NCR, are Faridabad, Gurgaon, Mewat, Rohtak, Sonepat, Rewari, Jhajjhar, Panipat, Palwal, Bhiwani (including Charkhi Dadri), Mahendragarh, Jind and Karnal. In Uttar Pradesh, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Baghpat, Hapur,Shamli and Muzaffarnagar come under NCR, while in Rajasthan, Alwar and Bharatpur are a part of it.According to NCR planning board, a territory is selected based on its location, population and potential for growth to serve as a 'counter magnet area'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-haryana-and-rajasthan-asked-to-shift-ncr-industrial-units-to-png-101628929031123.html
14-08-2021||India||Modi says August 14 will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day||A day before he addresses the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on India’s Independence Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared that August 14 will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day. Pakistan celebrates August 14 as its Independence Day.“Partition's pains can never be forgotten. Millions of our sisters and brothers were displaced and many lost their lives due to mindless hate and violence. In memory of the struggles and sacrifices of our people, 14th August will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day," Modi tweeted.In a subsequent tweet, he said lessons should be drawn from the violence that erupted during Partition to further enhance harmony and human empowerment. “May the #PartitionHorrorsRemembranceDay keep reminding us of the need to remove the poison of social divisions, disharmony and further strengthen the spirit of oneness, social harmony and human empowerment."Commenting on the decision to observe August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, Vijay Chauthaiwale, in charge of the foreign affairs department of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said it is time to acknowledge the horrors of Partition and the violence that ensued after India and Pakistan were carved out as two countries in 1947.“This is a long-overdue recognition that Partition resulted in violence, displacement of millions of people, incidents of killing and rape of those who came from the present-day Pakistan. The stories are still vivid and observing this day is a recognition of their sacrifices. Partition was a tragic part of history and the violence that followed it as well. PM Modi has shown tremendous courage by acknowledging the same,” Chauthaiwale said.The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the ideological mentor of the BJP, has been observing August 14 as the Akhand Bharat Divas or Unified India Day. On several occasions, its top leaders have made a case for the reunification of Akhand Bharat, including parts that got separated from India such as Afghanistan and Pakistan but not through coercion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-says-august-14-will-be-observed-as-partition-horrors-remembrance-day-101628927370700.html
14-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi's Twitter handle unlocked||Twitter on Saturday unlocked accounts of Rahul Gandhi and those linked to the Congress days after nearly 5,000 handles associated with the party were temporarily blocked for sharing a photograph of the parents of an alleged rape victim. This came after Gandhi submitted a consent letter to Twitter from the parents, authorising him to use the image.Gandhi’s Twitter handle was locked after he tweeted their image on August 4. Twitter said Gandhi's tweet that carried the photo will remain withheld in India.Vipin Yadav, the national coordinator of the Congress' social media department, said almost all the party handles have been unlocked. He added some handles of national coordinators remain locked.Yadav said Congress on day one gave the consent letter to Twitter, but it was not entertained. "Following this, we started a massive campaign on Twitter against the ban on Congress accounts," he said. He said the public pressure forced Twitter to acknowledge the letter and unlock the accounts.Minutes after unlocking, the Congress main's handle tweeted “Satyamev Jayate” which means that truth alone triumphs.A spokesperson for Twitter said as part of the appeal process, Gandhi submitted a copy of the formal consent/authorisation letter to use the referenced image via its India Grievance Channel. "… and based on the written consent provided by the people depicted in the image, our teams initiated the necessary due diligence... the process to review… We have updated our enforcement action based on the consent provided by the people depicted in the image… and the account access has been restored.'The spokesperson added the tweet in which Gandhi shared pictures of the family shall be “withheld in India” and will be invisible to users in the country.“As explained in our Country Withheld Policy, it may be necessary to withhold access to certain content in accordance with valid legal provisions under the Indian law(s). The withholding actions are limited to the specific jurisdiction/country where the content is determined to be unlawful and remains available elsewhere,” the spokesperson said.Gandhi on Friday accused Twitter of being “a biased platform” that “listens to what the government says”. He called the restrictions on his and his party colleagues’ accounts an interference with India’s political process.The girl's mother told journalists on Friday that they have no objection about Gandhi tweeting their image. She said whatever Gandhi did was in good faith.Gandhi's Twitter handle was locked after the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights filed a complaint citing violation of the law, which prohibits the identification of victims of sexual crimes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-s-twitter-handle-unlocked-101628927052122.html
14-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: 1380 police personnel awarded medals on 75th Independence Day and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Independence Day 2021: 1380 police personnel awarded medals, announces MHAThe Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) announced on Saturday that 1380 police personnel have been awarded medals on the occasion of 75th Independence Day. Read moreThreats to blow up Mumbai University if undergrad results not declared soonestThe email bomb threats to Mumbai University come in the backdrop of two hoax bomb calls made to the Mumbai police in the last fortnight. Read more'Few batsmen have a record where their initial 8-10 centuries are away from home': Inzamam hails 'rare' batsman KL RahulKL Rahul's century on the opening day of the Lord's Test won him plenty of plaudits from several former cricketers, including Pakistan great Inzamam-Ul Haq. Read moreSneaky fan films Priyanka Chopra's dinner date with Awkwafina in London, gets 'entirely new level of FOMO'. A video of actor Priyanka Chopra in London, out on a dinner date with Awkwafina, Sandra Oh and director Paul Feig and his wife, has been shared online. Read moreSmriti Irani’s latest viral Instagram post is all about motivationUnion Minister Smriti Irani is a regular user of Instagram. Taking to the platform, she often shares different kinds of posts that are highly relatable. Read moreRadhika Apte shows how to wear white with two chic and glam looks, see pics hereParched actor Radhika Apte shows us how to wear white in two chic and glamorous looks for a shoot. She wore a bralette-style top with bikini bottoms and a bodycon cut-out dress. Read moreMuch-awaited Lamborghini Countach LPI 800-4 is here in hybrid formLamborghini has unveiled the much-awaited Countach LPI 800-4 supercar. The original Countach is known to have given birth to the supercar segment decades back. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-1380-police-personnel-awarded-medals-on-independence-day-and-all-the-latest-news-101628924722388.html
14-08-2021||India||Independence Day 2021: 1380 police personnel awarded medals, announces MHA||The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) announced on Saturday that 1380 police personnel have been awarded medals on the occasion of 75th Independence Day, which will be observed on Sunday. The recipients have been awarded with medals such as the President’s Police Medal for Gallantry (PPMG), Police Medal for Gallantry (PMG), President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service (PPMDS) and Police Medal for Meritorious Services (PMMS), among others, the ministry noted in a statement.Total 628 personnel have received the Gallantry Awards, a break-up of medals showed. “Among the majority of these awardees, 1 PPMG each is being awarded to the Jammu and Kashmir Police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). 398 personnel have been decorated for their gallant action in the Jammu and Kashmir region, 155 for their gallant action in the Left-Wing Extremism affected areas, and 27 for their gallant action in the northeast,” the MHA statement read. “Among the awardees, 256 are from the J&K Police, 151 from the CRPF, 20 from the ITBP, and 67, 25 and 20 from the Odisha, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh Police respectively. The remainder are from other states/UTs and Central Armed Police Forces,” it added.Significantly, the 20 personnel from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), which guards India’s border with China, have been awarded for their bravery in thwarting Chinese aggression in eastern Ladakh, along with the Army. Three others have received the PMG for anti-Naxal operations in Chhattisgarh, taking the total number of awardees from the force to 23, the ITBP said in a statement. “This is the highest number of gallantry medals awarded to the ITBP for the bravery of its men in border face off/skirmishes/border guarding duties. The awardees include personnel involved in action at the Galwan Nalla on 15 June, 2020, as well as those involved in the violent faceoff in the Finger 4 area and Hot Springs, on 18 May, 2020,” the ITBP statement read.The full list of police medal awardees can be accessed here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-2021-1380-police-personnel-awarded-medals-announces-mha-101628924054084.html
14-08-2021||India||Twitter restores Rahul Gandhi's account, a week after locking it||Twitter on Saturday said it has restored access to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's account, a week after the social media platform temporarily locked it. According to Twitter, the account was locked after the Congress leader ‘violated' its rules by posting pictures of the family of a nine-year-old victim of alleged rape and murder in Delhi.However, even though the account has been restored, the tweet in question was withheld in India, Twitter said. “As explained in our country withheld policy, it may be necessary to withhold access to certain content in accordance with valid legal provisions under the Indian law(s),” a company spokesperson explained, adding that the withholding actions are limited to the specific jurisdiction of the country where the content is determined to be unlawful but remains available elsewhere.Also Read | Twitter is attacking democracy, interfering in political process: Rahul GandhiTwitter accounts of other Congress leaders, who shared the same photographs, have also been restored, said Rohan Gupta, the head of Congress' social media department. He called it a “win for the people of India”.According to a Twitter spokesperson, the accounts were restored as the company received formal consent letters from the individuals depicted in the photos that were shared.“As part of the appeal process, Rahul Gandhi has submitted a copy of the formal consent and authorisation letter to use the referenced image via our India grievance channel,” the spokesperson for Twitter said. “We have followed the necessary due diligence process to review the appeal in order to protect the safety and privacy of the affected individuals. We have updated our enforcement action based on the consent provided by the people depicted in the image.”The development comes a day after Rahul Gandhi made a video statement from his official YouTube channel, titled “Twitter's Dangerous Game”. Accusing Twitter of being a “biased platform”, he said that the social media network is interfering in India's political process. “I have some 19 to 20 million followers, you are denying them the right to an opinion,” Gandhi had said. “It is not only patently unfair but also breaching the idea that Twitter is a neutral platform.”Twitter temporarily locked several Congress leaders out of their accounts a week ago for sharing a photograph of the family of the nine-year-old rape victim in Delhi. Accounts of Randeep Singh Surjewala, Ajay Maken, Sushmita Dev, and Manickam Tagore were among those temporarily locked, Congress functionaries aware of the matter said.Twitter, however, insists that the accounts of the Congress leaders were locked because the image was posted in violation of its rules, which are enforced “judicially and impartially”.Also Read | Cong handles locking row: Twitter says rules enforced judiciously, impartiallySpeaking on the matter, a Twitter spokesperson told Hindustan Times that “certain types of private information carry higher risks than others”. It was the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), it said, which alerted the company about the specific content on the platform allegedly revealing the identity of the alleged sexual assault victim and her parents. The company added the matter was reviewed in line with Twitter rules as well as the concerns expressed as per Indian law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-restores-rahul-gandhi-s-account-a-week-after-locking-it-101628921492325.html
14-08-2021||India||Meghalaya: Top insurgent killed in police encounter; outfit swears vengeance||One of the founders of Meghalaya’s proscribed insurgent outfit Hynñiewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC), which claims to fight for the Khasi-Jaintia tribal community against the outsiders from the Indian mainland, died when his home in Shillong was raided by police early on Friday, police said. However, Cheristerfield Thangkhiew’s family alleged that he was killed in cold blood by the police.Meghalaya director general of police (DGP) R Chandranathan said on Friday evening that there was enough evidence to link the former HNLC leader to the two recent improvised explosive device (IED) blasts claimed by the outfit. “We found incontrovertible evidence of the involvement of Cheristerfield Thangkhiew, especially in the Khliehriat bomb blast case, and we also found his links to the Shillong blast case,” he said.The last such blast suspected to be triggered by HNLC injured two people at Laitumkhrah on Tuesday. Earlier in July, HNLC cadres triggered another blast at the barracks of a special police team at the Police Reserve in East Jaiñtia Hills district headquarters, injuring a policeman and damaging a building partially.The police chief said that when the joint team led by East Jaiñtia Hills police chief Jagpal Singh Dhanoa and East Khasi Hills SP (superintendent of police) (Traffic) Shailendra Bamaniya entered Thangkhiew’s house, he resisted the police. “In the melee, he tried to stab one of the constables. Purely exerting the right of defence, one round was fired. Cheristerfield Thangkhiew was injured in his abdomen [and] he unfortunately succumbed to his injuries at the hospital,” Chandranathan claimed.Police claim to have seized a 9 mm pistol, one knife, a laptop and a number of mobile phones and incriminating documents from the house of the former insurgent leader. The DGP also stated that the police had also picked up Thangkhiew’s two sons for verification. “We have to ascertain their role also,” he said, clarifying that they were not under arrest and were taken to the Civil Hospital in Shillong for medical check up.Thangkhiew’s brother Granary Starfield Thangkhiew said it all happened in a flash. “It is amply clear that they (police) came with the intention to kill and nothing else. Found a gun, no way, no way. It is clear by this action they came with one and only one mission, to kill my dear brother.”“They could have come in the daytime like any other normal person or even summoned him to the police station; why early at 3am when the whole world is fast asleep? They (police) just wanted to show strength like cowards, shame on them,” he continuedIn an emailed communiqué, HNLC general secretary cum spokesperson, Saińkupar Nongtraw said Thangkhiew was involved in talks and mediation between the Central agencies and the banned outfit.“The correspondences which we sent to the IB and SB were all through Thangkhiew,” Nongthraw said and added that Thangkhiew was threatened by surrendered HNLC cadres, Herman Pakyntein and Treng Saw. “In fact the duo planned the killing of the former general secretary in active connivance with the police,” Nongtraw alleged.Nongtraw also alleged that the operation against Thangkhiew couldn’t have been carried out without approval from a senior minister in the Meghalaya government.“Without his permission, this wouldn’t have happened to a person. We will see how long he remains in that chair,” the rebel leader threatened.54-year-old Thangkhiew was known to be one of the most dreaded militant leaders and was the founding general secretary of the HNLC (in August 1987) along with chairman Julius Dorphang, who surrendered on July 24, 2007 and Bobby Marwein as the commander-in-chief. Thangkhiew had surrendered before Meghalaya deputy CM Prestone Tynsong at Shillong in October 18, 2018 and maintained a low profile since then.Known to be close to Nagaland's NSCN (IM) and Tripura's NLFT, the HNLC is a product of a 1992 split in the Hynniewtrep Achik Liberation Council (HALC), the first militant tribal outfit in Meghalaya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-top-insurgent-killed-in-police-encounter-outfit-swears-vengeance-101628922001699.html
14-08-2021||India||If your name is Neeraj, you’re up for goodies!||What’s in a name? Well, if you are named Neeraj, then there’s certainly a lot you got in thy name! Free chhole bhature, or ice cream, or even free fuel is actually on offer if you are the one who shares your name with ace javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra. In fact, some of these deals or goodies can also be claimed if you share a common surname with the Olympic gold medallist. Cool... right? Eateries and restaurants across India are cashing in on the recent popularity of the Olympic champion, by serving free meals and discounts to anyone who is a namesake of Chopra, who recently became the first Indian athlete to win a gold medal in track and field event at the Tokyo Games. Take for instance, Sita Ram Diwan Chand, a Paharganj-based eatery in Delhi, which is famous for its Chhole Bhature! To celebrate the victory of Chopra at the world level, this place is offered free Chhole Bhature, on August 13, to anybody named Neeraj! And since then, their phones haven’t stopped ringing. “Ever since we posted this offer on our social media handles, we’ve been getting so many enquiries from anyone and everyone who is named Neeraj. People are simply loving the offer, and planning to come over with their families!” says a manager from the food outlet. Dilli ke Chhole Bhature have a tough competition with Maharashtra-based SavlaHari Pot Ice Cream & Mastani, which is offering free ice cream to anyone named Neeraj Chopra! There’s also an offer of 50% discount, which can be availed by those named Neeraj or with the surname Chopra. “Hey Neeraj, don’t forget to bring your Aadhar card,” says Kavan Patel, from an Ahmedabad-based fast food restaurant, which is offering Chinese food and a pizza meal for all the Neerajs! Patel adds, “The whole country is celebrating and we wanted to as well. Our offer it on till August 15. People are thrilled with this offer! Itna rush hai; sab apne friends ko saath leke rahe hain, aur phir social media pe bhi share kar rahe hain.” And then there’s Countryside Meadows restaurant based in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh. It’s offering 50% discount on food to everyone named Neeraj. Pushkar Sharma, from the restaurant, says, “Our social media team came up with this idea. Neeraj Chopra has won the gold medal for our country. Us khushi mein whoever is named Neeraj, we are giving them a 50% discount on food! We were earlier giving offers on only Wednesdays, but then so many people by the name of Neeraj have come forward that we expanded the offer to more days... Yeh jeet, humare desh ke liye garv ki baat hai, and we are doing this to celebrate that expression of pride and joy.”Not just food, there are other offers as well, for those named Neeraj! Like a gas station in Bharuch, Gujarat has found a unique way to honour the athlete, by offering free fuel up to ₹501 for people sharing their name with the golden boy! This offer has been availed by 28 people so far, on showing their identity proof, and were also felicitated with bouquets. Also part of this list is Girnar Ropeway service in Junagadh, which has announced free ropeway rides for people named Neeraj, till August 20. Are you Neeraj, too? Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-your-name-is-neeraj-you-re-up-for-goodies-101628921520786.html
14-08-2021||India||August 14 to be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that August 14 will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day across the country to remember the "struggles and sacrifices of our people". "Partition’s pains can never be forgotten. Millions of our sisters and brothers were displaced and many lost their lives due to mindless hate and violence. In memory of the struggles and sacrifices of our people, 14th August will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day," PM Modi tweeted."May the #PartitionHorrorsRemembranceDay keep reminding us of the need to remove the poison of social divisions, disharmony and further strengthen the spirit of oneness, social harmony and human empowerment," he added.May the #PartitionHorrorsRemembranceDay keep reminding us of the need to remove the poison of social divisions, disharmony and further strengthen the spirit of oneness, social harmony and human empowerment.The Prime Minister's announcement on Partition Horrors Remembrance Day comes a day ahead of India's 75th Independence Day. Pakistan observes its Independence Day on August 14.Also read | Partition museum opening pushed to 2022 R-Day as Covid halts workUnder a plan released by India's last viceroy Lord Mountbatten on the country's independence from the British on June 3, 1947, it was announced that India would be splitting into two nations after its independence. The plan, also known as the Mountbatten Plan, announced the principles of partition and gave autonomy and sovereignty to both India and Pakistan. It also gave them the right to form their own constitution.Also read | Blaming the Congress for Partition is a travestyMillions of people were displaced and many more were killed after large scale riots broke out as India and Pakistan were divided into two countries after the British colonial rule in 1947. As many as 1 million people, some estimates put the toll at double this figure, were killed in the brutal violence that followed Partition. During the violence of Partition, thousands of women and girls were raped or abducted by both sides.Fifteen million Hindus, Sikhs and Muslims migrated to either of the countries, often by foot, during Partition. “Refugee specials” trains also carried many people between India and Pakistan in 1947.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/august-14-to-be-observed-as-partition-horrors-remembrance-day-pm-modi-101628919216824.html
14-08-2021||India||Toll from Himachal landslide goes up to 19||The toll from the landslide in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur, which buried at least five vehicles on a road on Wednesday, rose to 19 with the recovery of two more bodies from the rubble on Saturday, said deputy commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq.Sadiq said the bodies are scattered around 50-100 feet radius of the bus that was among the vehicles buried under the landslide. He added rescue operations are being repeatedly hampered due to shooting stones.Teams from Indo-Tibetan Border Police, National Disaster Response Force, the Army, and Police were involved in the operation.The district administration said one more fork line machine has been pressed into service to trace the bodies feared trapped under the rubble. On Friday, it released a list of the 13 people who were on the bus.“We are hopeful that by (Saturday) evening, we would be able to retrieve more bodies," said police superintendent Sarju Ram Rana.Separately, the flow of the Chanbdrabagha tributary of Chenab, which was obstructed due to a landslide, has returned to normal. "The district administration, as a precautionary measure, has asked the villages downstream to remain alert,” said deputy commissioner (Lahaul-Spiti) Neeraj Kumar.Chief secretary Ram Subagh Singh, police chief Sanjay Kundu, and minister Ram Lal Markanda conducted an aerial survey of the region to assess the situation on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toll-from-himachal-landslide-goes-up-to-19-101628918129399.html
14-08-2021||India||Goa island residents wary of navy’s flag hoisting event, CM warns of action||The Indian Navy’s initiative to hoist a national flag on the Island of São Jacinto, near the port town of Vasco da Gama in Goa, to celebrate the 75th Independence Day faced resistance from locals who said they were suspicious of government and military authorities’ motives. While the navy cancelled the event, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said his government will deal with “anti-India” activities with an iron fist.The navy said that the event, now cancelled, was part of the ministry of defence’s initiative to unfurl the national flag in islands across the nation between 13 and 15 Aug, 21 under the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' celebrations to mark the 75th Independence Day.“...A team from Goa Naval Area visited islands of Goa including Sao Jacinto Island as part of this pan India initiative,” a statement by the navy said, adding, “However, the plan at Jacinto Island had to be cancelled as the same was objected to by the residents. This initiative was taken nationwide to instil a sense of patriotism and celebrate the run up to the 75th year of independence,” the statement said.Earlier, the villagers of the island said they were not opposed to hoisting of the national flag but would rather do it themselves since they feared that the navy or the Central authorities could end up “capturing” their island. Former Goa revenue minister and state Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president José Philip D’Souza said they won’t let the flag hoisting event go ahead.“Navy's officers came here and said they will be holding a flag hoisting ceremony here for Independence Day celebrations. We only wish to state, be it the navy, the government, or any private company, we are not authorising anyone to come here and do this. We are together in this,” D’Souza said.“If it is in their minds, the mind of the navy or the Central government to come here and 'capture' this island, then we will not allow it,” D’Souza added.The São Jacinto Island is around a kilometre in diameter and is home to around 200 people. The rocky island was once home to a lighthouse and contains no agricultural land besides coconut groves. Villagers said they will unfurl the national flag on their own on Independence Day.“Flag hoisting needs to be done on August 15, and we the villagers will do it under the guidance of village elders,” Custodio D’Souza, a resident, said.Meanwhile, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant accused the islanders of anti-India activities and promised to deal with them with an iron fist."It is unfortunate and shameful that some individuals at St Jacinto Island have objected to the hoisting of the national flag by the Indian Navy on the occasion of India's Independence Day. I condemn this and want to state on record that my government will not tolerate such acts," Sawant tweeted on Saturday."I have requested the Indian Navy to go ahead with their original plan and have assured [them of] full cooperation from Goa Police. These attempts at anti-India activities shall be dealt with an iron fist. It will always be 'Nation First'," Sawant added.Goa has a love-hate relationship with the navy in the state due to a couple of issues including its alleged ‘takeover’ of the Island of Anjediva, off the coast of Karwar, that was once a part of Goa but became off-limits for locals, wishing to pray at the Island’s two churches, after the navy occupied it for strategic reasons. The two historical churches were built by the Portuguese who occupied the island in 1506 and surrendered it in 1961, 48-hours after mainland Goa was surrendered to India.Devotees are especially peeved that they are denied even nominal attendance at the two churches even on the occasion of the religious feasts. The people of Goa, especially those from the southernmost taluka bordering Karnataka, used to religiously make the pilgrimage to the island twice a year to celebrate the feast until 2004.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-island-residents-wary-of-navy-s-flag-hoisting-event-cm-warns-of-action-101628917677077.html
14-08-2021||India||NCPCR summons Facebook official over Rahul Gandhi's Instagram post||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has summoned an official of Facebook India next week along with details of the action taken against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for posting a video on his Instagram account revealing the identity of the family of the nine-year-old girl allegedly raped and murdered in southwest Delhi. NCPCR has said Facebook India's trust and safety head, Satya Yadav, must appear before it at 5pm on August 17 virtually, according to news agency ANI.On Friday, the child rights body asked Facebook to take action against Rahul Gandhi for posting the video of the girl's family, saying it violated the provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012, and the Indian Penal Code (IPC). It also demanded the removal of the video from the platform.Also watch | 'Not Neutral': Rahul Gandhi lashes out at Twitter for blocking his account
14-08-2021||India||PM Modi's Independence Day speech: When and where to watch||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Sunday address the nation from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort on the occasion of 75th Independence Day, in what will be his eighth consecutive I-day address. PM Modi’s speech is likely to begin at around 7:30am after he unfurls the tricolour at the Red Fort. While there are those who have been invited to attend the ceremony in person, others, too, can witness the celebrations from the comfort of their homes.Also Read | Govt plans to honour ‘unsung’ freedom fighters on 75th Independence DayPM Modi’s address will be broadcast live by national public broadcaster Doordarshan, while the Press Information Bureau (PIB), too, will live-stream the speech on its YouTube channel, as well as on its Twitter handle. The official YouTube channel of the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) will also air the national address. Also, the PMO’s Twitter handle will provide live updates of the speech.Also Read | On Independence Day, these US buildings will be lit in colours of Indian flagIndia’s Olympic contingent, which registered its best ever Olympics performance in the recently concluded Games in Tokyo, has been invited by the Prime Minister for the Independence Day ceremony at the Red Fort. Indian athletes won a record seven medals at the Tokyo Games, including a gold, two silver medals and four bronze ones. On Saturday, President Ram Nath Kovind will address the nation on the eve of I-Day. The President, too, will host the Indian contingent, whom he has invited over high tea.Also Read | President Kovind to host Olympic contingent over ‘high tea’, address nation in the eveningFor the second consecutive year, August 15 will be celebrated amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. As always, security has been heightened in the national capital, and a traffic advisory has been issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-independence-day-speech-when-and-where-to-watch-101628913442835.html
14-08-2021||India||Delta Plus advances in Maharashtra: 5 deaths, 66 cases from coronavirus variant||Maharashtra health department has said five people have died from the Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus and as many as 66 cases have been detected in the state so far. The department said on Friday that a revision in the state's Covid-19 infection tally was made after a fresh case of the Delta Plus variant was detected from the Thane district a day before.Also Read | 3 fresh cases of delta-plus variant in Pune districtOf the five deaths from the Delta Plus variant reported in Maharashtra, two are from the Ratnagiri district while one each has been recorded from Mumbai, Beed, and Raigad. Of the 66 patients down with the Delta Plus variant of the virus, seven were aged under 18, the PTI news agency reported.An 80-year-old woman from Ratnagiri was the first person in the state to succumb to the Delta Plus variant, followed by a 63-year-old fully-vaccinated woman from Mumbai.Although the Mumbai woman had taken both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, she tested positive for the coronavirus. A resident of the suburban Ghatkopar area, she died on July 27 in the ICU of a hospital. Authorities detected the Delta Plus variant in her case on August 11, over an entire fortnight after her death.Also Read | Rise in Delta variants, vaccine shortage main concerns amid relaxation in MaharashtraAccording to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), at least two close contacts of the victim were also found infected with the same variant.The PTI news agency reports that of all the Delta Plus patients in Maharashtra, the maximum belongs to Jalgaon (13) in the northern part of the state, followed by Ratnagiri (12) and Mumbai (11).Genomic sequencingThe Delta Plus variant, considered highly infectious, was detected during the genomic sequencing, a very important component of lab surveys for coronavirus cases, that the state government is conducting on a regular basis as part of its pandemic control measure.Under the sentinel survey as part of Covid-19 genomic sequencing, each ‘sentinel centre' in the state selected for the study sends 15 laboratory samples each fortnight to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) and the National Institute of Cell Science in Pune. As many as five laboratories and hospitals all across Maharashtra have been selected for the purpose of conducting the sentinel survey for genomic sequencing.The Maharashtra government is also reported to have entered into an agreement with the Institute of Genomics and Integrated Biology, a laboratory under the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, to expedite the genetic sequencing survey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-plus-advances-in-maharashtra-5-deaths-66-cases-so-far-101628910642021.html
14-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Canada to resettle 20,000 Afghan refugees and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Canada to resettle 20,000 Afghan refugees amid Taliban blitzkrieg, focus on vulnerable groupsCanada has said it will be taking in 20,000 vulnerable refugees from Afghanistan, who face a direct threat from the rapid Taliban blitzkrieg in recent weeks. Read morePresident Kovind to host Olympic contingent over ‘high tea’, address nation in the eveningPresident of India Ram Nath Kovind will host the Indian contingent of the Tokyo Olympics 2020 over a ‘high tea’ on Saturday, the eve of India's 75th Independence Day. Read more'Rahane and Pujara are repeating the same mistake, they will be disappointed': VVS LaxmanFormer India batsman Laxman’s comments came after both Pujara and Rahane failed in the first innings of the second Test match against England at Lord’s. Read moreRhea Kapoor and Karan Boolani to get married today? Hustle and bustle seen outside Anil Kapoor's houseRhea Kapoor, the daughter of actor Anil Kapoor, will reportedly tie the knot with her longtime boyfriend Karan Boolani on Saturday. Read moreMouni Roy in bralette and bodycon skirt proves she can slay any style in pics from MaldivesMouni Roy sets the Maldives on fire with her new pictures in a deep blue bralette and bodycon skirt set. Read moreAfghanistan: Taliban bans Covid vaccine in Paktia, say reportsThe Taliban have reportedly banned Covid-19 vaccine in the eastern Afghanistan’s Paktia province, as per reports. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-canada-to-resettle-20-000-afghan-refugees-101628908629995.html
14-08-2021||India||As Assam passes bill to regulate cattle slaughter, CM Himanta Sarma talks about communal harmony||The legislation in Assam to regulate slaughter, consumption and transportation of cattle has no ill intention and it will strengthen communal harmony, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has said. The legislation doesn't intend to stop anyone from consuming beef, but the person who eats so must also respect the religious sentiments of others, the chief minister said.“Data shows that most of the cases of communal tension in Lower Assam in the past few years are related to beef. The provisions of the Bill will lead to communal harmony as it would allow those who consume beef to eat it with some restrictions and also respect the sentiments of non-beef eating communities like Hindus, Jains, Buddhists and Sikhs,” Himanta Sarma said during his reply on a discussion on the legislation on Friday.Also read | Assam approves bill to regulate cattle slaughter, transport, sale of beefThe Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021, was passed through a voice vote even as opposition members staged a walkout from the House. They wanted the bill to be sent to a Select Committee during a two-hour discussion on the legislation. The legislation will regulate the transportation and slaughter of all cattle and the sale of beef and beef products but will not ban the beef business in the state.Under the legislation, all cow genus, including bull, calf and heifer will be considered as cattle in Assam. However, buffaloes will be exempted from provisions of the legislation. Cattle slaughter is permitted in Assam with certain procedural conditions, as is the sale and consumption of beef.Also watch | Assam okays bill to regulate cow slaughter: What CM Himanta Biswa Sarma said
14-08-2021||India||President Kovind to host Olympic contingent over ‘high tea’, address nation in the evening||President of India Ram Nath Kovind will host the Indian contingent of the Tokyo Olympics 2020 over a ‘high tea’ on Saturday, the eve of India's 75th Independence Day. Making the announcement earlier this week, an official release from the President's Secretariat informed that the Indian Olympic contingent will be hosted at the Rashtrapati Bhavan Cultural Centre in New Delhi.After hosting the high tea for the Indian contingent, President Kovind will be addressing the nation on the eve of Independence Day. According to a release issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan, the President's address will be broadcast on all networks of the All India Radio (AIR) and Doordarshan from 7pm onwards.Also Read | 75th Independence Day: History, significance and rare factsThe Indian contingent of the 2020 Tokyo Olympics will also attend the Independence Day celebrations at Red Fort in the national capital a day later. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be meeting and interacting with the athletes at the event.India bagged seven medals in total, including a historic gold by javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, at the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo this year. The performance is being deemed as India's best showing at any Olympics yet. The country finished 48th in the overall medal tally, the highest ranking in over four decades.Also Read | Independence Day 2021: Delhi Police issue traffic advisory. Details hereAfter stories about being "nearly there" for years, India finally had its first track-and-field medal winner, thanks to Chopra's throw of 87.58 metres. In the process, the 23-year-old javelin thrower also became only the second Indian to win an individual gold in the Olympics.On the other hand, Manipuri weightlifter Mirabai Chanu ended India's 21-year wait for a medal in the event, bringing home a silver medal in the 49kg category on the very first day of the Olympics on July 24. One more silver went to the country's account when Haryana-born wrestler Ravi Dahiya stormed to the final of the men's 57kg freestyle event.Also Read | The stars of India's best-ever Olympic performanceBadminton star PV Sindhu delivered once again, this time snatching bronze in the women's singles event. The men's hockey team also clinched bronze after a gap of 41 years. Lovina Borgohain brought in India's lone boxing medal at the Tokyo Games, bagging the bronze and carving a niche for herself in the history of Indian women's boxing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-to-host-olympic-contingent-over-high-tea-address-nation-in-the-evening-101628905905094.html
14-08-2021||India||India rubbishes Pak’s allegations on attack that killed 9 Chinese nationals||India on Friday rejected the Pakistan foreign minister’s claim that the Indian and Afghan spy agencies were behind a suicide attack on a bus last month that killed nine Chinese nationals, saying it was an attempt to deflect global attention from Pakistan’s “role as the epicentre of regional instability”.Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi contended on Thursday that the bombing was carried out by terrorists backed by the Indian and Afghan intelligence agencies. He claimed a probe revealed a “nexus of Indian RAW and Afghan NDS” in the attack, referring to the intelligence agencies of the two countries.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi rubbished Qureshi’s allegations and described them as “absurd comments”. “This is yet another attempt by Pakistan to malign India, in a bid to deflect international attention from its role as the epicentre of regional instability and a safe haven for proscribed terrorists,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rubbishes-pak-s-allegations-on-attack-that-killed-9-chinese-nationals-101628903041617.html
14-08-2021||India||Jallianwala Bagh memorial, with names of 492 martyrs on its walls, to be unveiled in Amritsar today||On the eve of Independence Day 2021, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh will on Saturday inaugurate the Jallianwala Bagh massacre centenary memorial in Amritsar. The chief minister is presently on a two-day visit to the holy city and will introduce the memorial commemorating the passage of more than a century since the tragedy which unfolded there on April 13, 1919.The Jallianwala Bagh massacre is a painful reminder for India of all the lives lost during the country's struggle for freedom against British colonial rule. The incident is particularly haunting because it involved a large crowd of peaceful protesters being ruthlessly shot at by armed British soldiers under the command of brigadier-general REH Dyer. According to subsequent inquiry committees probing the firing, at least 1,000 people were killed in Jallianwala Bagh, more than 1,200 were injured and 192 people were reported to have suffered “grave” injuries. The incident went down in history as a “massacre”, implying a sense of wanton murder and indiscriminate killing inflicted upon a defenceless crowd.The Jallianwala Bagh massacre centenary memorial, set to be unveiled in Amritsar by the Punjab chief minister on Saturday, is intended as a mark of respect to all those who were killed at the site over a century ago. The structure has been elevated at Anand Amrit Park in the city's Ranjit Avenue locality.The memorial has been set up over 4,490 square metres at a cost of ₹3.5 crore to serve as a memory of the Jallianwala Bagh martyrs for future generations. The foundation stone was laid by the chief minister in January this year.The Jallianwala Bagh massacre memorial has the names of 492 martyrs engraved on its walls, according to the list available with the Amritsar deputy commissioner’s office. The chief minister, Captain Amarinder Singh, will also honour the martyrs’ families on the occasion.Notably, the Punjab government has been able to trace the family members of only 29 martyrs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jallianwala-bagh-centenary-memorial-names-of-492-martyrs-on-walls-amritsar-today-101628902656121.html
14-08-2021||India||Climate crisis fund, petrol tax cut part of Tamil Nadu budget||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)-led Tamil Nadu government on Friday presented its maiden state budget, announcing a reduction of ₹3 per litre in petrol prices and focusing on school education and climate crisis, even as the Opposition All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) staged a walkout from the legislative assembly.After releasing a White Paper on Monday to show the dire straits of the state’s finances, Tamil Nadu finance minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan presented a revenue-deficit budget.“This budget lays the foundation for our plans to restore TN’s finances, grow the economy and improve people’s lives. We will stem the decline this year,” Rajan tweeted.One of the highlights of the budget was the announcement of cut in petrol prices by ₹3 a litre, which aims to benefit the working class in the state. “The price cut will come into effect on August 14,” said finance secretary S Krishnan at a press conference.In its election manifesto, the DMK had promised to cut the state tax on petrol by ₹5 per litre. However, it reiterated in the budget that the onus of providing relief to consumers also lies with the Union government. Rajan also announced that Tamil Nadu Climate Change Mission will be launched to focus on climate change adaptation and mitigation activities with a total outlay of ₹500 crore.The DMK government in its budget also announced establishing an expert advisory council to develop a ‘Federal Fiscal Model’ on legislation involving revenue and taxation (including GST). “Nowhere is this dilution of the spirit of federalism more apparent than in the taxation of petrol and diesel at the pump. The overall Union levies on petrol were increased from ₹10.39 per litre in May 2014 to ₹32.90 per litre today,” Rajan said.The government also announced setting up a high-level committee of educationists and experts to formulate a State Education Policy for Tamil Nadu. The DMK has been critical of the Centre’s new National Education Policy. The highest allocation of ₹32,599.5 crore in this budget went to the department of school education with an aim to bring Tamil Nadu among the top three states in terms of learning outcomes in the country. The school education department had seen the highest ₹34,181 crore allocation in 2020-21 as well.The minister said that maternity leave for women employed in the public sector will be increased from 9 to 12 months.Experts have welcomed the announcements made in the budget but added that the roadmap for how revenue would be improved was missing in the minister’s budget speech.“The budget has set an ambitious target of lowering the revenue deficit to ₹58,692 crore, which is lower than the figure in 2019-20 and less than 60% of the revised revenue deficit estimate for 2020-21. It is unclear for now, without knowing the details on the revenue side how this would be achieved,” said Vidya Mahambare, professor of economics, Great Lakes Institute of Management, Chennai.The finance minister said that the most critical reform the government has to undertake is to increase the tax GSDP (Gross State Domestic Product) ratio of Tamil Nadu. The White Paper found significant deterioration of the tax GSDP ratio from 8.4% in 2006-07 to 5.46% in the current year. This represents a loss of about Rs.65,000 crore worth of revenue annually.“That’s a huge loss,” says A Kalairasan, assistant professor, Madras Institute of Development Studies and a Fulbright-Nehru scholar at the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs, Brown University. “The state’s capacity (ratio of tax GSDP is one method to measure it) to intervene in the socio-economic condition of people's lives has been continuously declining. This is alarming in the sense that for any major reform to take place revenue has to come in.” With the minister indicating that major reforms will be brought in during the full budget next year, Kalaiarasan says that the good thing about this budget is the White Paper being tabled ahead so the two can be studied in comparison. “Like how we get the economic survey before the union budget is presented, we now have more clarity and transparency on the status of the state’s economy which we can compare with the government's roadmap,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/climate-crisis-fund-petrol-tax-cut-part-of-tamil-nadu-budget-101628902834017.html
14-08-2021||India||‘Oppn voice wasn’t heard…BJP missing leader like Jaitley': Jairam Ramesh||A day after the Centre accused the Opposition of orchestrating protests to derail proceedings during the recently concluded monsoon session, former Union minister and senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh accused the government of not listening to the Opposition’s demands of holding discussions on key issues.Edited excerpts:Union ministers said on Thursday that the Opposition must apologise.Apologise for what? Is the government willing to apologise for not fulfilling the commitment or malign the Rajya Sabha and turn it into a war like zone? Why should we apologise? They said it was our compulsion to support the 127th Constitution amendment bill. I would say, it was their compulsion to nullify the Supreme Court order. Opposition voice was never heard. We also found the chair partisan. I’ve seen Bhairon Singh Shekhawat in the chair. He managed such situations in a far better way.The BJP’s basic problem is absence of Arun Jaitley. What he said, he delivered. They are feeling the absence of man of his seniority and gravitas.The BJP is blaming the Opposition for continuous disruptions and ruckus in the House.The same BJP engineered a complete washout in 2010. The current chairman was a front row member that time. They masterminded the washout of the winter session and half the monsoon session in 2010. BJP leader late Arun Jaitley had said, disruption is a legitimate instrument fort the Opposition. We wanted to debate, not agitate and protest. But who can agree to have bills passed in the din?The government said the Opposition pre-planned disruption as they were not interested in running Parliament.We wanted the House to run. In fact, I am accused by some Opposition leaders for trying to run the House. But Pegasus was a serious issue, and it agitated us. On July 22, we said first and foremost discussion on Pegasus in the presence of PM and HM, and a probe by a Supreme Court-appointed committee. We dropped the second demand and only sought a reply from HM. It’s bizarre to have IT minister give a bland, meaningless statement. We also said insurance bill is deeply problematic and so refer it to a parliamentary committee. In fact, Leader of the House Piyush Goyal told me, “The government is in no hurry to pass the bill.”Congress leader Rahul Gandhi got very active. He attended 3 Opposition meetings, chaired a breakfast meeting…There is no competition for the opposition space. We have to first consolidate this unity. Opposition has to work on four pillars. The Maharashtra pillar is parties averse to each other can come together to form a non-BJP government. The second is the Tamil Nadu pillar, which stands for long-term alliances like the one between the Congress and DMK. The third is the Bengal pillar, where a very strong regional party and takes on the BJP as Mamata Banerjee has done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-voice-wasn-t-heard-bjp-missing-leader-like-jaitley-jairam-ramesh-101628899531407.html
14-08-2021||India||Erratic rains throw sowing schedules off for farmers||Erratic rainfall this summer, believed to be linked to climate change, upended sowing patterns in many states, keeping farmers on tenterhooks as rains tapered off around the end of June before reviving in late July, several cultivators have said.Even after accelerating towards mid-July, the monsoon rains were 7% deficient on August 13 for the season as a whole.Some farmers, especially in Gujarat, said the lack of rains for a considerable period meant growers were pushed into a guessing game on what to sow. Another in Haryana said he expected poorer yields from cotton. A third farmer in Madhya Pradesh said he had nearly given up on his soya crop until the rains revived.The June-September monsoon, which waters nearly 60% of the country’s net-sown area, had stalled towards June-end and then dumped excess rainfall after reviving in mid-July in a pattern scientists say is consistent with a changing climate.According to climatologists, longer dry spell and short spurts of heavy rainfall are tell-tale signs of a changing monsoon owing to the impacts of a warming planet. The India Meteorological Department has forecast a normal monsoon for 2021.The monsoon has been quite uneven, data from the IMD shows. Gujarat, which accounts for 40% and 20% of groundnut and cotton acreage, has faced a cumulative rainfall deficit of 43%.“With Indian agriculture largely rainfall-dependent, the now-on, now-off monsoon this year has shifted the sowing from much-expected oilseeds (groundnut and soybean) to maize and paddy for kharif,” said Hetal Gandhi, director of Crisil Research Ltd.According to reports, the shortfall from June 1 to August 8 prompted Gujarat farmers to shift from groundnut and cotton to castor, a hardier crop that can withstand dry weather. “We were guessing all the time. After sowing a crop and spending so much, you can’t invest again to replace it. So, ultimately many in our village decided to sow castor instead of groundnut,” Chabil Patel, a potato and groundnut farmer in Sabarkantha, said over the phone. To the east in Odisha, cumulative rainfall deficit has been around 8%. The state accounts for 8% of the country’s total paddy acreage.While northeastern states such as Assam faced a drought in the paddy and tea growing belt, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Haryana received excessive rainfall. East Rajasthan and north Madhya Pradesh were deluged by a violent surge in the monsoon. “I am not very confident of what my yields will be,” said soy grower Ravikant Moria, a farmer in Mandsaur, Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/erratic-rains-throw-sowing-schedules-off-for-farmers-101628881867413.html
14-08-2021||India||4 teenagers detained in MP’s Morena for hacking ECI website, creating fake voter IDs||The Madhya Pradesh police detained four teenagers from Morena to nab an 18-year-old accused in connection with an alleged compromise of the Election Commission of India’s website and creating fake voter IDs, said a police officer. The Election Commission, however, said that its website has not been hacked. The police in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday arrested Vipul Saini, 24, for allegedly creating hundreds of fake voter IDs. Saini had created more than 10,000 fake voter IDs over a time span of three months, at the behest of a person named Armaan Malik, a resident of Harda, Madhya Pradesh. UP police informed MP police about the involvement of 18-year-old Hariom Singh, a resident of Ambah, Morena. Police are trying to nab Hariom, son of a daily wage earner. “Hariom Singh was directly in touch with Vipul Saini and used to keep IDs to sell it to others. Police on Friday detained four teenagers aged between 17 and 19 years who were in contact with Hariom. One of the detainees told the police that they have at least 10 million genuine and fake IDs. They used to sell the data to fraudsters who mainly used the IDs for purchasing SIM cards, opening bank accounts and for committing online fraud,” said a senior police official, who is not authorized to talk to the media. According to the police, these teenagers reportedly claimed that they were working for Hariom and the police are trying to find out details about their bank accounts to find how much money they made. The MP police have also seized their mobile phones to know more about the other gang members, said another officer, who was not willing to be named. All of the detained belong to underprivileged families and are school drop-outs, police said. They became a part of the gang to earn quick money, the officer added. MP police is also trying to get details of Malik. Malik is presently living in New Delhi and seems to be the mastermind of the gang. Saini told the police that Malik used to give him details for creating fake voter IDs. He used to get ₹200 for one voter ID. Police found ₹60 lakh in Saini’s account.MP, director-general of police (DGP), Vivek Johri said, “I can’t share much information as the case is under investigation and we are just helping UP police.” The election commission said that the ECI’s database is safe and secure. In a press communiqué, ECI said Assistant Electoral Roll Officers (AERO) are mandated to provide citizen-centric services including printing of Voter ID cards and timely distribution in line with the theme of “No voter to be left behind”. “Data Entry Operator of one of the AERO offices had illegally shared his user id password with a private unauthorized service provider in Saharanpur’s Nakud town to print some Voter ID cards. Both these persons have been arrested,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-teenagers-detained-in-mp-s-morena-for-hacking-eci-website-creating-fake-voter-ids-101628885575938.html
14-08-2021||India||Climate crisis fund, petrol tax cut part of TN budget||Chennai: The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)-led Tamil Nadu government on Friday presented its maiden state budget, announcing a reduction of ₹3 per litre in petrol prices and focusing on school education and climate change, even as the principal opposition All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) staged a walkout from the legislative assembly. After releasing a White Paper on Monday to show the dire straits of the state’s finances, Tamil Nadu finance minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan presented a revenue-deficit budget without announcing any major reforms. Rajan said given the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on the economic situation, it was not the ideal time for fiscal consolidation while adding that the primary aim of the revised estimates, which covers only the next six months, was to lay a foundation for the 2022-23 full budget. An interim budget was presented by the previous AIADMK government in February before the state went for assembly elections on April 6. Rajan presented a three-hour-long budget, which is Tamil Nadu assembly’s first paperless budget, amid walkout from the AIADMK. Legislators sat through the session reading from the computer monitors that were set up for them more than a week ago. The revenue deficit for this year is expected to go up to ₹58,692.6 crore from ₹41,417.3 crore, which Rajan said, was estimated unrealistically in the interim budget. “This increase in revenue deficit is on account of the exceptional times that we find ourselves in and does not detract in the least from this government’s commitment to fiscal rectitude and consolidation in the coming years, as emphatically indicated in the White Paper,” Rajan said. “As soon as the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic is overcome, deeper reforms will be undertaken to ensure that Tamil Nadu’s debt overhang is corrected without any delay.” According to the White Paper, the projected outstanding debt of the state is likely to be ₹5.7 lakh crore as of March 31, 2022, which effectively means the burden on every resident in the state is around ₹70,000. The fiscal deficit is also estimated to go up to Rs.92,529.4 crore by the end of the current fiscal. One of the highlights of the budget was the announcement of cut in petrol prices by ₹3 a litre, which aims to benefit the working class in the state. Around 26.3 million people in Tamil Nadu use two-wheelers. The price cut will come into effect on August 14, said finance secretary S Krishnan in a post-budget press conference. The price cut will, however, result in a loss of Rs1,160 crore a year in revenue for the state government, the minister said in his budget speech. In its election manifesto, the DMK had promised to cut the state tax on petrol by ₹5 per litre. However, it reiterated in the budget that the onus of providing relief to consumers also lies with the Union government. The DMK government in its budget also announced establishing an expert advisory council to develop a ‘Federal Fiscal Model’ on legislation involving revenue and taxation (including GST). “Nowhere is this dilution of the spirit of federalism more apparent than in the taxation of petrol and diesel at the pump. The overall Union levies on petrol were increased from Rs.10.39 per litre in May 2014 to Rs.32.90 per litre today,” Rajan said. The government also announced setting up a high-level committee of educationists and experts to formulate a State Education Policy for Tamil Nadu. The DMK has been critical of the Centre’s new National Education Policy. The highest allocation of ₹32,599.5 crore in this budget went to the department of school education with an aim to bring Tamil Nadu among the top three states in terms of learning outcomes in the country. The school education department had seen the highest allocation of ₹34,181 in the 2020-2021 budget as well. In the budget speech, Rajan also announced that Tamil Nadu Climate Change Mission will be launched to focus on climate change adaptation and mitigation activities with a total outlay of Rs.500 crore. This year, a bank-linked fund flow of ₹20,000 crore, including a special pandemic loan assistance, will be provided to various Self Help Groups and the third highest allocation of ₹18,9333 crore has been earmarked for the health department. Several disabled-friendly infrastructure projects were also announced in the budget. Subsidies for transgender were also in focus. The White Paper had called for the re-orientation of subsidies, which had alarmingly increased in the state in terms of food, power and transport. Rajan had previously said that even people who are well off were receiving the state’s cash doles and other benefits intended for the poor. While earlier the government did not have data on taxpayers and ration-linked economic status, in this budget, it has indicated moving towards targeted subsidies by announcing that it will link all available government data sources to understand the true economic status of all citizens and households. Rajan said the government was in the process of identifying households eligible for receiving benefits of ₹1,000 to women heads, another poll promise of the DMK. A major initiative for smart metering for all public utilities will be launched to ensure that people pay based on consumption, the minister announced. Meanwhile, experts have welcomed the announcement to meet the drinking water objectives by implementing Jal Jeevan Missions at ₹2,000 crore, creating industrial parks in tier-2 cities and districts and four Tidel (IT) parks in Villupuram, Vellore, Thoothukudi, and Tiruppur districts. They, however, added that the roadmap for how revenue would be improved was missing in the minister’s budget speech. “The budget has set an ambitious target of lowering the revenue deficit to ₹58,692 crore, which is lower than the figure in 2019-20 and less than 60% of the revised revenue deficit estimate for 2020-21. It is unclear for now, without knowing the details on the revenue side how this would be achieved,” said Vidya Mahambare, professor of economics, Great Lakes Institute of Management, Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/climate-crisis-fund-petrol-tax-cut-part-of-tn-budget-101628884495668.html
14-08-2021||India||CM calls for an emergency meet as Covid cases surge||Bengaluru: Even as Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has called for an emergency meeting on Saturday, following the increase in Covid cases in the state, especially among children in Bengaluru, state revenue minister R Ashok said that there is no proposal to impose any lockdown in the capital city. “Curfew is not the solution. People will face problems if we announce any sudden lockdowns. Just like a slow medicine, we will control the spread. The cases are reducing in Bengaluru, so it is not a big concern. The districts which are seeing a rise, we have informed the concerned authorities there to take the required action. I want to make it clear that there is no proposal to implement a complete lockdown Bengaluru,” he told reporters on Friday The chief minister, meanwhile, said that the experts have warned that the children will likely be affected during the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, as they belong to the non-vaccinated group. As a result, the state government has started the ‘Vathsalya’ scheme in Udupi and Haveri districts for complete monitoring of children. “We will organise pediatric health camps to check their nutritious strength, and will do all necessary treatment for lack of nutrition and undergrowth,” Bommai said. “We have provided training to all concerned officers working on the scheme, and will try to protect the children from this virus. All district hospitals have been instructed to arrange pediatric ICU,” he added. Talking about cases among children, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) commissioner Gaurav Gupta on Wednesday had said the city administration is monitoring the numbers closely. “We are closely watching the numbers. So far, we are seeing the same rate of infections this year as in 2020. In case these numbers go up we will take the required steps,” Gupta had said. When asked about the dangers the children are likely to face in the third wave, Gupta said that the authorities are working towards ensuring that all age groups are protected. “It is important to keep children safe from getting infected from other family members who have the chance of coming in contact with other people. So, maintaining the Covid protocols at home is as important,” Gupta added. On Wednesday, HT had reported citing state health bulletin that in the first week of August, Bengaluru reported 499 cases of Covid-19 among children under the age of 19. Among the 499 cases, 263 were reported between August 5 to August 10, and out of these, 88 were between 0 to 9 years and 175 were between 10 and 19 years old. The state reported 1,669 new cases on Friday taking the active caseload to 22,703. Bengaluru accounted for 425 new infections, taking its active cases to 8,189. As many as 22 fatalities were reported across the state on Monday, which took the state’s toll to 36,933. Bengaluru’s toll due to Covid-19 jumped to 15,933, with 5 deaths being reported on Friday according to the state health department. Dakshina Kannada district, which borders Kerala continues to record a higher number of cases with 390 new cases, which is the second-highest number of cases reported in the state. All other districts recorded less than 150 new cases on Friday. Meanwhile, BBMP on Friday issued a standard operating procedure to resident welfare associations across the city to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in apartments. “All residents, house helps, delivery personnel, service providers and visitors need to be checked for temperature, existing symptoms and mask usage at the entry point and provision for hand sanitization/hand wash needs to be made available for use before entering,” read the guidelines. It added that a comprehensive list of all non-residents visiting or accessing the complex with their contact details must be maintained at apartments and if any resident or his/her family members has undertaken interstate travel, it is suggested ensuring they are tested. “All those returning from interstate travel shall carry a recent (not older than 72 hours) RTPCR Negative report and if not they shall undergo RTPCR testing and remain under mandatory home quarantine till the results are declared,” the guideline said. Common Open areas like walkways and parks can be used for walking, jogging, cycling, exercising etc subject to the strict maintenance of Covid appropriate behaviour i.e mask usage and maintenance of social distancing. These places should not get converted into socializing or meeting points. “Gymnasiums and non-contact sports facilities can be utilized at 50% of capacity. Caution shall be observed that these places do not get converted into socialising or meeting points. Swimming Pools however shall remain closed,” read the guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-calls-for-an-emergency-meet-as-covid-cases-surge-101628883359069.html
14-08-2021||India||India rubbishes Pakistan foreign minister’s allegations on attack that killed 9 Chinese nationals||New Delhi: India on Friday rejected the Pakistan foreign minister’s claim that the Indian and Afghan spy agencies were behind a suicide attack on a bus last month that killed nine Chinese nationals, saying it was an attempt to deflect global attention from Pakistan’s “role as the epicentre of regional instability”.Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi contended on Thursday that the bombing was carried out by terrorists backed by the Indian and Afghan intelligence agencies. He claimed an investigation revealed a “nexus of Indian RAW and Afghan NDS” in the attack, referring to the intelligence agencies of the two countries.Qureshi told a news conference that the Pakistani Taliban carried out the attack. “As per our investigation, the Afghan soil was used for this incident...about its planning and its execution, we’re seeing a clear nexus between NDS and RAW,” he added.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi rubbished Qureshi’s allegations and described them as “absurd comments”. He added, “This is yet another attempt by Pakistan to malign India, in a bid to deflect international attention from its role as the epicentre of regional instability and a safe haven for proscribed terrorists.”Bagchi said India has been at the forefront of global efforts against terrorism in partnership with the international community, “which is well aware of Pakistan’s credentials when it comes to terrorism”. He added, “Such desperate attempts by Pakistan at peddling lies and propaganda will therefore find few takers.”The July 14 attack on the bus carrying workers to a hydropower project site at Dasu in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province resulted in the death of nine Chinese nationals and four more people. Pakistani authorities have made several flip-flops on the attack, claiming hours after the blast that it was caused by a mechanical failure that resulted in a gas leak.The Chinese side said immediately after the attack that the bus was hit by a blast. After traces of explosives were found at the site, Pakistani authorities claimed that an attack couldn’t be ruled out. On Thursday, Qureshi said the bus blast was a suicide bombing and that the Chinese side was satisfied with the investigation done by Pakistani authorities. The incident had prompted Chinese Premier Li Keqiang to urge his Pakistani counterpart last month to hold the culprits accountable for what he described as a terrorist attack. Both Qureshi and the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) chief had visited Beijing last month to placate the Chinese side. On Friday, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying expressed appreciation for Pakistan’s investigation into the attack. She reiterated Pakistan’s contention that planning for the attack was done in Afghanistan and it was executed by the Pakistani Taliban. Hua also said: “The terrorist network the attacker is associated with has received support from Indian and Afghan intelligence agencies.”The developments come at a time when India’s relations with Pakistan and China are strained. Indian troops have been engaged in a standoff with China forces along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh for more than a year, and relations between New Delhi and Islamabad have been troubled over a string of terror attacks in recent years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rubbishes-pakistan-foreign-minister-s-allegations-on-attack-that-killed-9-chinese-nationals-101628883175614.html
14-08-2021||India||India joined exclusive surveillance group after 26/11, says book||India, ignored by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) over Pakistan during America’s “war on terror” and the decades preceding it, became the member of an exclusive surveillance group after the 26/11 Mumbai attacks, making it a formidable intelligence force, according to a book by journalists Adrian Levy and Cathy Scott-Clark.The book, “Spy Stories – Inside the Secret World of the RAW and ISI”, releasing this week, says Pakistan’s entropy, despite being enriched with billions of dollars post 9/11, brought the American intelligence community, begrudgingly, to Delhi.In 2008, the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), received an invite from US National Security Agency (NSA) to join a regional body known as SSPAC (Signals Intelligence Senior Pacific), which, the book says, was a “step up” for India, which had been trying to gain Washington’s attention for a very long time.The members of this exclusive surveillance group included the so called Five Eyes countries – the US, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Britain – and also South Korea, Singapore, and Thailand.The SSPAC is a platform for sharing technical intelligence, and here countries pooled their signals, gathered through eavesdropping, but also built trust and learned new surveillance techniques from the world’s most powerful spy agencies.The book says the RAW finally began breaking through and winning NSA plaudits. “The RAW officers were now ‘read into’ some highly classified reports and introduced to data produced by cutting-edge technology and coding that bored into Islamist hotspots.”To find suspects and describe their associations – panning out to even wider friendship circles – involved pooling colossal amounts of sensitive metadata from an enormous volume of calls and messages in Five Eyes members states and (surreptitiously) beyond.“This meant the sender and recipient details for emails, or the phone numbers someone called from, and to, as well as time stamps for when these messages, emails, and calls were sent and made. All of it would be funnelled into a new reference repository, known as SMAC, or the Sensitive Metadata Analytic Collaboration programme,” the authors write.A significant part of the surveillance was “contact chaining,” a method used by British technical intelligence at GCHQ in Cheltenham, to describe entire networks linked to a single exposed phone. “Analysts examined calls, messages, and emails from one suspect and derived from them lists of others and their associates, building a matrix of association in top-secret projects, code-named CLASP and Prime Time,” the book adds.Subsequently, work on tracking Thuraya satellite phones as well as countering burner phones was developed by agencies. The face of Kashmir’s new wave of militancy, Burhan Wani (Hizbul Mujahideen commander), who was killed by security forces on July 8, 2016, was, in fact, constantly tracked though his Thuraya satellite phone, the book claims.Quoting a RAW defector identified with her nom de guerre Monisha, the writers say that information for 26/11 had also come through SSAPC apart from 18 detailed briefs, with likely targets, numbers of attackers, etc shared by the CIA.However, the ground for SSAPC had been laid in January 2004 itself, when India and the US, under former Secretary of State Condolezza Rice, signed the “Next Steps in Strategic Partnership”, that opened the way for Delhi to receive assistance with its civilian space programmes, high technology trade, missile defence efforts, and civilian nuclear activities.Levy and Scott-Clark write the by-product was bringing the US and Indian militaries closer together, even the intelligence services, much further down the line, creating an alliance that would immediately concern Beijing.“Geopolitical fault lines had made Pakistan a necessity in 2001, but as Islamabad’s economy collapsed and its institutions crumbled, overcome by the terror war, so India began to shine by virtue of not succumbing, emerging as a bulwark to emerging superpower China,” the book says.The writers add that the Congress party walked the country back from war after 26/11 and with its allies, constructed this (intelligence) grid.By 2010, Levy and Scott-Clark write, the grid in Kashmir had become a formidable tool. “A matrix made of every kind of intelligence, compiled by multiple Indian agencies, and refined with US assistance and Israeli hardware and software, and driven by indigenous persistence.”Comparing the intelligence agencies of the South Asian arch-rivals, the book says while ISI was battle-hardened, accomplished in unconventional warfare, tuned in to insurgencies all over the subcontinent, and flush with US dollars and Saudi riyals in the early days, RAW became more tech-savvy, thanks to a burgeoning relationship with the Mossad, and tactical shopping expeditions in Africa, Europe, and the Middle East.“As Langley refused to supply Aabpara (referring to ISI headquarters) with eavesdropping and surveillance equipment, arguing that these would be used against India, the ISI fell behind,” the writers adds.The journalists spoke to the who’s who of India and Pakistan’s counter-terrorism and security structure for the book over the years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-joined-exclusive-surveillance-group-after-26-11-says-book-101628882395619.html
14-08-2021||India||Row over spelling error during Bengal BJP chief’s Parliament protest||Days after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh staged a protest in the Parliament premises against alleged atrocities on women in Bengal by Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers, some spelling errors in the banner he carried have triggered a row. “Kanyashree chaina, nari samman chai,” (Don’t want Kanyashree, want respect for women), said the small banner printed in Bengali. Ghosh, the Lok Sabha MP from Midnapore, carried it on August 11 while staging a protest near the statue of Mahatma Gandhi alongside eight other MPs from Bengal. While the grammar and composition in the banners carried by the other MPs were correct, the word Kanyashree (the Bengal government’s welfare scheme for girls) was spelt incorrectly. Also, the symbol of a vowel was placed in the wrong direction in two other words. The row started after some people pointed out the errors on the Bengal BJP’s social media page. To avoid a controversy, Ghosh told the media that the error was made by Hindi-speaking people in Delhi where the banners were printed. “They could not write the words correctly,” he said. “It is good in a way. The errors drew the attention of the media to the real issue,” he added. A critic of Ghosh, senior BJP leader and former governor of Meghalaya and Tripura, Tathagata Roy, took a potshot on Twitter on Thursday, 48 hours after the incident. “This is why Vidyasagar said there is no end to mistakes fools make. I am talking of the one who printed the poster,” Roy wrote and posted a photograph of Ghosh holding the banner. Since 19th century social reformer and educator Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar is recognized as the father of the modern Bengali alphabet and typeface, Roy’s comment was picked up by political leaders and people active on social media. Congress leader Kaustav Bagchi on Thursday e-mailed a scanned copy of Barnaparichay --- the booklet on Bengali alphabet and prose that Vidyasagar printed for students --- to Ghosh. “A hard copy of the same shall also be sent to you via speed post tomorrow,” Bagchi wrote. Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders did not spare Ghosh. “What more can one expect from him?” quipped senior TMC legislator Tapas Roy. This is not the first time Ghosh has landed in a controversy of this nature. In November 2019, Ghosh made headlines when he said in public that milk from Indian cows contain gold and consumption of this milk can make one immune to all diseases. “Indian cows have a hump. Foreign cows don’t have that. This hump has a special nerve. Gold is created when sunlight falls on this nerve. That is why the milk is yellowish or golden. This milk is a great antidote. One can survive by having only this milk. It is a complete meal,” Ghosh said while addressing a programme in Bengal’s Burdwan district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-spelling-error-during-bengal-bjp-chief-s-parliament-protest-101628881795560.html
14-08-2021||India||Mixing shots a bad idea; India may not meet Dec 31 target: SII founder||The Serum Institute of India is unlikely to be able to secure a license for its version of the highly efficacious coronavirus vaccine developed by US-based company Novavax, the Pune-based vaccine maker’s chairman said on Friday, when he also urged caution on mixing of doses, said booster shots may be needed for those vaccinated over six months ago, and that the expectation that all Indians will be vaccinated by the end of 2021 was unlikely to be achieved.Cyrus Poonawalla, 80, who founded SII – now the world’s largest vaccine maker by volume – was speaking at an event in Pune, where he credited the Centre for easing regulatory processes for vaccine makers at a difficult time. He, however, stressed that the ideal gap between two doses of Covishield, which his company makes, was two months, and criticised the government for banning the export of doses.On the vaccination target to reach all Indians by 2021, Poonawalla said: ”We are yet to increase our production to 10 crore (100 million) vaccines. No single company in the world can produce 10 crore vaccines in a month. We have promised about 110-120 crore doses annually because we invested in it prior. So you can do the math now. If other manufacturers produce 1-2 crores every month then the production would increase accordingly.”The SII founder also said it was a “bad move by the government” to embargo exports of vaccines. “My son (SII CEO Adar Poonawalla) asked me not to open my mouth. But it is my view that exports ought to be opened,” Poonawalla said, citing SII’s supply commitments. Over 150 countries are dependent on SII for vaccines and are blaming the company for stopping the supply during a crucial period, he said, before adding that these countries have paid “crores” in advances. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and World Health Organisation (WHO) have given it ₹5,000 crore which, Poonawalla said, he offered to return. He hinted that they declined his offer in the hope that the Indian government will lift the ban soon.India banned vaccine exports in April when the second wave of the pandemic began to peak and the need to vaccinate people in the country at a greater pace was felt acutely.Poonawalla, however, credited the Centre for easing regulatory processes. “I must stress that my difficulties are much reduced under the Modi government. Definitely, I am not the one to give lip sympathy to government ministers but certainly, one of the major reasons why we could launch our Covid vaccine so quickly was because of the forthcoming grant of permissions, encouragement to industries and reduction of ‘Licencing Raj’. We have now got a drug controller who responds in the evening hours,” Poonawalla said. SII-manufactured Covishield accounts for close to 90% of all coronavirus vaccine doses administered in India. In mid-July, the Union government announced that it had placed orders for 375 million doses of Covishield at a rate of ₹205 per dose. These doses will be supplied between August and December. The Union government recently told parliament that the company will produce 150 million doses a month beginning next month.On when the Novavax vaccine, to be marketed as Covavax in India, can be launched by SII, Poonawalla said: “Novavax is a very good product, however, unless we get the licence to launch it we cannot do so. The American parent company has got some issues with the US FDA which should be cleared by the end of year. Once they get the licence, we will get the licence. We will also try to get it approved before the parent company if possible.” The SII chairman also said that mixing of vaccine doses may lead to a blame game if the results are not idea. “If cocktail vaccines are administered and if the result is not good, then SII may say that another vaccine was not good, vice versa, the other company might say that since you mixed Serum’s vaccine, it did not give desired results,” Poonawalla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mixing-shots-a-bad-idea-india-may-not-meet-dec-31-target-sii-founder-101628880894764.html
14-08-2021||India||V-P Naidu consults experts on action against MPs||Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu is seeking legal consultation on possible action that can be taken against Opposition MPs who allegedly disrupted House proceedings, damaged property, and manhandled marshals on the last day of Parliament’s monsoon session.During an informal discussion, Naidu said he felt that the any verbal attack on the chair — a new development amid the sharpening battle between the BJP and the Opposition — is targeted to “weaken the democratic structure”. The Rajya Sabha secretariat has reported to Naidu that some Opposition leaders “threatened” deputy chairman Harivansh and even used “abusive language”.For the first time in the recent history of Parliament, some Opposition leaders made political comments targeting the impartial role of the chair.A top functionary said that it was deliberately done as the chair can’t compromise the gravitas of the position to retort or reply to the accusations. “Naidu was so upset that he couldn’t sleep on the night of August 10. He even had to consult a doctor,” said an aide.According to a person aware of the details, Naidu’s office is looking at precedents of punitive action for violation of rules and code of conduct. His office has also started consulting former secretary general VK Agnihotri and other experts before arriving at a decision.The secretariat clarified that steps can be taken against a member even after the session is over. “The monsoon session might have ended, but the lawmaker continues to be a member of the House,” said top functionary.“There are instances when MPs were suspended for violations in the past. However, this is the first time that marshals have been attacked…,” said the functionary cited above. Naidu, however, is personally averse to taking the extreme step of suspending a member for the remaining part of the latter’s term in the House.On Thursday, the Opposition had rejected the Rajya Sabha report and blamed the government for the unruly scenes in the House, which, they said, were sparked by “outsiders” acting as marshals. They also claimed that two women members were manhandled.They said the government stonewalled their requests for a debate on the Pegasus row, farm issues and price rise, rushed bills through the House without debate, and muzzled their voice.The government, meanwhile, requested Naidu to take exemplary action against lawmakers who were seen climbing tables in the Upper House, ripping papers, throwing the rule book and damaging property.Referring to the stalemate and the disruptions during an informal interaction with the media on Friday, Naidu said, “Outside political battles should not be fought on the table of the House.”A day after the Opposition alleged that the chair had not allowed discussions on issues raised by them, Naidu said he has been impartial towards both the government and the Opposition. “The government and the Opposition are like two eyes; I treat them both equally,” he said.While a section of the Opposition alleged that Union ministers had assured them that the general insurance amendment bill would be sent to a panel but later went back on the promise, the Rajya Sabha secretariat pointed out that so such assurance was given during any meeting presided by Naidu or in the House.Based on complaints filed by at least two marshals, listing the injuries they sustained while trying to restrain the lawmakers who had trooped into the well of the House, the government asked the chair to set up a committee to examine the incidents and suggest strict action.On Thursday, Union minister and Leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha, Piyush Goyal, said, “We (a group of ministers) met the chairperson and the deputy chair, and made an earnest appeal for strongest action against the deplorable misconduct, physical manhandling of staff,” referring to incidents on the last day of the session.Later, Opposition members complained that unprecedented security, including from outside Parliament was deployed in the House which escalated the deadlock between the two sides.Countering the government charge, Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien said, “Chairman is an honourable man. But his actions were not honourable.”On the charge that the chair did not agree to the demand to send bills to select committees for scrutiny, Naidu said the decision to do so rests with the government and the House.“Whenever differences persist on such matters in the House, the House collectively takes a decision and the chair cannot force it one way or the other,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vp-consults-experts-on-action-against-mps-101628879098179.html
14-08-2021||India||Ready for all contingencies in Afghanistan, says India||India is prepared for all contingencies in Afghanistan, including the rapid evacuation of its officials and nationals, against the backdrop of a Taliban blitz over the past week that has seen the capture of five provincial capitals since Thursday.Elaborate plans have been prepared for the speedy withdrawal of diplomats from the embassy in Kabul and a dwindling number of Indian nationals, most of them workers engaged in development projects in Afghanistan, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. These plans include putting heavy lift aircraft of the Indian Air Force on standby round the clock, the people said.These efforts have gained urgency following reports that the US is deploying 3,000 troops to Kabul and the UK sending 600 troops to provide security for the evacuation of nationals of the two countries. India has also received requests from several international organisations, among them media outlets and rights organisations, seeking help for the possible evacuation of their personnel from Afghanistan, the people cited above said.According to information provided by the government in Parliament last week, there were 1,500 Indian nationals in Afghanistan. The people said this figure had now come down to few hundreds, including diplomats and the large security contingent at the embassy in Kabul.Another concern for Indian authorities were Indian nationals who haven’t heeded the latest security advisories calling on them to immediately return home. The latest alert issued by the Indian mission on Thursday highlighted the case of three engineers who remained at a project site in an area not controlled by Afghan forces and required an “emergency air rescue”.Among the five provincial capitals captured by the Taliban since Thursday was Pul-e-Alam, the capital of Logar, which put the group’s fighters just 70 km south of Kabul. While a recent estimate by US security agencies had stated that the Taliban could take Kabul within 30 days, the latest reports suggest the Taliban could tighten their grip on areas around the capital and march towards the city within days.Among the provincial capitals captured by the Taliban since August 6 are Zaranj, Sheberghan, Sar-e-Pul, Kunduz, Taloqan, Aybak, Pul-e-Khumri, Faizabad, Ghazni, Herat, Kandahar, Qala-e-Naw, Lashkargah, Pul-e-Alam, Tarinkot, Qalat and Firozkoh. While the fall of provincial capitals in sparsely populated regions in the north were initially attributed to the Afghan government’s new security policy focused on larger and more populated urban centres, the rapid fall of Kandahar and Herat, Afghanistan’s second and third largest cities, dramatically altered the ground situation. The capture of Ghazni also cut the highway between Kabul and southern Kandahar.Despite the Taliban being emboldened by the US drawdown and showing little inclination to return to the negotiating table, India and other countries are continuing with efforts to press for a political settlement and an immediate truce.On Thursday, India joined Germany, Qatar and Turkey in calling for an immediate ceasefire in Afghanistan and asserting that any government imposed by military force in Kabul would not be recognised.A statement issued by Qatar following a meeting of special envoys and representatives of India, Germany, Norway, Qatar, Tajikistan, Turkey and Turkmenistan in Doha also highlighted the urgent need to accelerate the process to find a negotiated settlement.The statement said two separate meetings on Afghanistan – one joined by the representatives of China, Uzbekistan, the US, Pakistan, the UK, Qatar, the UN and the European Union on August 10, and the other held on August 12 – had agreed that the participants “will not recognize any government in Afghanistan that is imposed through the use of military force”.The countries also agreed on the need to accelerate the Afghan peace process as a “very urgent and essential issue for negotiating concrete proposals from both sides”.The participants urged the Taliban and the Afghan government to “build trust and accelerate efforts to reach a political settlement and comprehensive ceasefire as quickly as possible”, and to stop “violence and attacks immediately in and against provincial capitals and other cities”.The meetings expressed “grave concerns” about reports from across Afghanistan regarding violence, high civilian casualties, extrajudicial killings, widespread and credible allegations of human rights violations, and the destruction of physical infrastructure that make reconciliation efforts more difficult.As part of desperate efforts to counter the Taliban’s advance, UN Security Council members Estonia and Norway drafted a statement to condemn the group’s attacks on cities and towns resulting in high civilian casualties. According to Reuters, the draft statement, which has to be agreed by consensus by the 15-member body, threatens sanctions for abuses and acts that risk Afghanistan’s peace and stability.The text also “strongly affirms that the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan is not recognized at the United Nations and declares that it does not and will not support the establishment of any government in Afghanistan imposed through military force or restoration of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan”.This is largely in line with the position taken by India, which holds the rotating presidency of the UN Security Council for August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-for-all-contingencies-in-afghanistan-says-india-101628878678446.html
14-08-2021||India||LeT terrorist killed in Kulgam encounter||Security forces killed a Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorist on Friday morning, ending the overnight gunfight in Kulgam on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway, police said, adding that the second terrorist managed to escape.Two security personnel and two civilians were wounded in the exchange of fire between terrorists and security forces on Thursday. Police said a major tragedy was averted ahead of the Independence Day as the terrorists were planning for a big attack.Inspector General of Police, Kashmir range, Vijay Kumar said they had inputs that terrorists will strike ahead of Independence Day on the national highway from Baramulla to Qazigund. “A big tragedy has been averted. As the terrorist fired, it was retaliated with a strong response within no time.”The terrorist killed in the encounter was identified as Usman from Pakistan, affiliated to LeT, and had been active in south Kashmir for the last six months, police said.A huge cache of arms and ammunition, including an AK-47 rifle, magazines, grenades, RPG-7 rocket launcher, was recovered from the encounter site, Kumar said. He added it shows the “terrorists were planning something big”.“It is after a long time that RPG-7 has been recovered (in Kashmir) and the police and security forces have averted a major incident. I am proud of the police and security forces,” Kumar said, adding, “We achieved a major success by killing Usman – the dreaded Pakistani terrorist.”On Thursday, police said two LeT terrorists were hiding in a building adjacent to the Jammu-Srinagar national highway. The terrorists got trapped inside the building after they fired at the Border Security Force convoy on the highway at Malpora in Kulgam.There has been a spurt in terrorist attacks in Kashmir ahead of Independence Day celebrations on August 15.On Tuesday, 10 civilians were injured in a grenade attack by suspected terrorists in Srinagar. The terrorists attempted to hurl the grenade towards a bunker vehicle of SSB forces but it exploded on the roadside.On Monday, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Kisan Morcha chief in Kulgam, Ghulam Rasool Dar, and his wife died after terrorists fired at the couple in the Lal Chowk area of Anantnag in south Kashmir.Ahead of Independence Day, security has been beefed up around Kashmir and forces have set up additional checking points on major highways leading to rural parts of Kashmir. Even pedestrians are being frisked at many places, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-terrorist-killed-in-kulgam-encounter-101628878614593.html
14-08-2021||India||Assam approves bill to regulate cattle slaughter, transport, sale of beef||The Assam assembly on Friday passed a controversial legislation regulating the transportation, and slaughter of all cattle, and sale of beef and beef products in the state. Though the bill does not ban the beef business, experts said it virtually shuts all doors on running it in the state.The definition of cattle, as per the bill, includes all cow genus, including bull, calf and heifer. Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma informed the House that buffaloes will be exempted from provisions of the Bill.Cattle slaughter is permitted in Assam with certain procedural conditions, as is the sale and consumption of beef.The Assam Cattle Preservation Bill, 2021, was passed through a voice vote after opposition members, who wanted the Bill to be sent to a Select Committee during a two-hour discussion on the legislation, staged a walk out from the House.The legislation bans interstate transport of cows through Assam, ostensibly to control their smuggling to neighbouring Bangladesh. It also bans transport of cattle from other states through Assam to places outside the state, and from any place within Assam to places outside the state “where slaughter of cattle is not regulated by law”. Further, movement of cattle from one place within the state to another located in Assam is also restricted, though a competent authority may issue permits for the transport of cattle for bona fide agricultural or animal husbandry purposes.The bill also bans the sale of beef in areas with a predominant population of Hindus, Sikhs, Jains and other non-beef-eating communities, or within a radius of 5km of any temple, ‘satra’ (Vaishnavite monastery) “or other religious institutions belonging to Hindu religion”.Violations of the provisions of the bill could lead to imprisonment for three to eight years and fine between ₹3 lakh and ₹5 lakh.“Data shows that most of the cases of communal tension in Lower Assam in the past few years are related to beef. The provisions of the Bill will lead to communal harmony as it would allow those who consume beef to eat it with some restrictions and also respect the sentiments of non-beef eating communities like Hindus, Jains, Buddhists and Sikhs,” Sarma said.“We don’t have any ill intention in introducing the Bill. And real Muslims who understand it would have no opposition to it. There’s no ban on eating beef, those who want can eat it 5km away from temples and satras. Communal harmony can prevail only when Muslims respect sentiments of Hindus as much as Hindus respect the sentiments of Muslims,” he added.The Opposition suggested 76 amendments to the Bill including, removal of restrictions on interdistrict transportation of cattle, relaxation of the ban on slaughter of cattle within a 5km radius of temples and satras (Vaishnavite monasteries), and the removalof strict penalties such as eight-year imprisonment and heavy fines for violators.Its leaders also contended that the state will lose revenue since the cattle trade in Assam is worth ₹20,000 crores annually.“The proposed bill in its present form can lead to various problems for people associated with cattle trade, beef products and business in cattle skin etc. I propose that it should be sent to a select committee of assembly to get their views on its efficacy,” said Congress legislature party leader Debabrata Saikia.“Instead of looking at this Bill from a religious perspective, one needs to view it from other angles. Unlike popularly believed, consumption of beef is not mandatory among Muslims and Christians. It is a food product like any other. We should see what impact socio-economic impact the Bill would have in Assam,” said All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) MLA Aminul Islam.Experts criticised the bill, saying that it “targeted at a particular community and has a communal angle”. “It is worth mentioning that this Bill was the first one introduced in the newly elected assembly by the second BJP-led government in Assam. It is extremely worrying that at a time when human lives are in peril due to Covid-19, the government is more focussed on protecting cows. It would have an adverse impact on rural economy irrespective of religion, caste or community as many are involved in raising cows and their trade. Instead of protecting cows through this Bill, the government should have looked at improving the shabby infrastructure of veterinary hospitals in the state. The government may say otherwise, the Bill is targeted at a particular community and has a communal angle. It’s an out and out political move and sends a very bad signal at a time when the state is facing multiple challenges due to Covid-19,” said Akhil Ranjan Dutta, political science professor at Gauhati University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-approves-bill-to-regulate-cattle-slaughter-transport-sale-of-beef-101628878435918.html
14-08-2021||India||HC judges should have discipline, cannot overreach our orders: SC||“Dare they try to do it again,” an exasperated Supreme Court remarked on Friday while taking strong exception to a high court order which tried to bypass the mandate of the top court.“We want the high court judges to have some discipline. They cannot overreach our orders. We cannot accept this conduct,” commented a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah when it came across an order of the Punjab & Haryana high court, passed in contradiction to a Supreme Court order.Justice Chandrachud went on to add that he was going to raise the issue with Chief Justice of India NV Ramana. “How can a high court do this? I will bring this to the attention of the honourable CJI,” said the judge.The court’s anguish arose out of an order by the high court that quashed a show-cause notice issued to a private firm by the excise and tax department of Chandigarh. The bench noted that an earlier order of the high court quashing the previous notices was already stayed by the Supreme Court in December 2020. An application filed by the firm, M/s Shiva Traders, the bench observed, was also pending before it for restraining the department to go ahead with the tax assessment proceedings.However, the firm moved the high court in February against a show-cause notice, and the high court nixed it.“How could the high court entertain the writ petition when it was aware that the case is pending before us? The company had also filed an application before us and it is still pending. But the high court went ahead and passed the order which was being asked for before us,” rued the bench.Advocate Nikhil Goel, appearing for Chandigarh Administration, informed the court that the case involved an inquiry into 884 fabricated entries of assessment and there were fake entries to show that a tax demand of ₹5 crore had been settled for ₹5,000.On his part, senior advocate Puneet Bali submitted on behalf of the firm that a mere stay of the high court order will not revive the show-cause notice automatically.“But you already had filed your application before us trying to restrain the department from proceedings against you. So, why did you go to the high court? And how could the high court entertain you after knowing about all this? It is now between this court and the high court. You are just a party there. And we will not tolerate this,” retorted the bench.It then set aside the high court order, recording in its order that “the high court has overreached the jurisdiction” of the Supreme Court.“The high court should have straightaway dismissed the writ petition (of the firm). Not only the ad interim order is unsustainable but the very act of the high court in entertaining the writ petition shows a lack of respect for pendency of proceedings before this court which this court exercises in its appellate jurisdiction,” stated the court in its order.It directed that a copy of its order be transferred to the registrar general of the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-judges-should-have-discipline-cannot-overreach-our-orders-sc-101628878435242.html
14-08-2021||India||Govt plans to honour ‘unsung’ freedom fighters on 75th Independence Day||The Union government is planning to showcase unsung heros and little-known groups and events of the freedom struggle during the yearlong celebrations to mark 75 years of India’s independence, officials said on Friday, adding that several events and lectures will be organised to underline their contribution.The government has drawn up a list of 146 names and planned 75 regional, six national and two international seminars under the banner of “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”, the campaign to mark 75 years of Independence.The names have been compiled separatelyby government departments and the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR), an autonomous body under the Union education ministry.But some historians have criticised the presence of well-known figures such as Subhas Chandra Bose, Birsa Munda and Tantiya Tope, and called for a revamp. Also included are Jana Sangh ideologue Nanaji Deshmukh and the Hindu Mahasabha in the list compiled by government departments.“When Prime Minister Narendra Modi in March flagged of the 75-week long programme Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav to commemorate 75 years of India’s independence, he referred to a shlok (verse) of Yajurveda. Through that he (PM) conveyed that in the last seven decades we have missed some opportunities to celebrate those who did not get any acknowledgment yet for their role in India’s freedom struggle. So, ICHR has planned a three-tier programme to celebrate the lives of our unsung heroes,” said ICHR director (research and administration) Om Jee Upadhayay.The 146 names have been classified by state of origin, and also include figures from smaller tribes and castes. In the list are Gandhians such as Ghelubhai Naik, agricultural economist Mohanlal Lallubhai Dantwala, former Jana Sangh idelogue Nanaji Deshmukh, and communist leader Ravi Narayan Reddy.The list of also includes several tribal leaders, including Laxman Nayak from Odisha, Telanga Kharia from Jharkhand and Komaram Bheem from Telangana.The list of little-known groups includes Hindu Mahasabha, Andhra Pradesh Library Association, Karnataka Sahitya Parishad, and Bengal’s Anusheelan Samiti, among others.The government also drew up lists of lesser-known events and literature.The first list included the Surat salt agitation (1840s), war against the company raj, also known as the sepoy mutiny, (1857-58), Bundelkhand resistance (1808), and Rangpur peasant uprising (1783), among others.The second list includes Ekshlok Geeta (Marathi book, 1910), Hindu Dharm Ka Jhanda (Hindi pamphlet 1927), Gadar di Gunj (Gurumukhi, 1910), Chauri Chaura judgment (English, 1923), and Inquilab (Urdu, 1927), among others.Some experts criticised the inclusions.“We cannot call Subhas Chandra Bose, Chandrashekhar Azad and Birsa Munda as ‘unsung heroes’. They have included Tantiya Tope, Nanaji Deshmukh, and Ravi Narayan Reddy also in the list. In fact, the list included some names in the list of people who were born in the 1930s and called freedom fighters. It’s a very uneven list,” said historian Mridula Mukherjee. “There is no consistency in the selection of names, it is a haphazard list.’’ she added.Bharatiya Janata Party MP and head of the standing committee of education, Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, disagreed.“If you have not done justice to them, then there has to be a time to do justice. Whether it is Subhas Chandra Bose or any of the others, they haven’t received the credit they deserve,’’ said the MP.Sucheta Mahajan, historian and professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), said the names from some states were indeed of people who were “lesser known” but added that some other names -- such as Bose -- were of popular figures“We should make a distinction on when we use the term freedom struggle. We should pick up people from the late 19th century when the national consciousness came. So, in my opinion people from 1857 cannot be known as freedom fighters. The list definitely needs a revamp,” she said.When asked about criteria of identifying these names, Upadhayay said, “There was no set criterion. We tried to cover all those who contributed or sacrificed their lives for the country but still they are not a part of our mainstream history. We have to update the list almost every day as we get a new name from states or other stakeholders.”He said the seminars will be conducted by ICHR, adding that it will be done in the next 4-5 months.“In academia, everyone may have his or her own arguments. But we are very clear regarding this, that unsung means those who couldn’t find appropriate place in mainstream history, besides their significant contributions in the freedom struggle,” said Upadhayay.Officials pointed out that the list contained personalities like Andhra poet Garimella Satyanarayana, lawyer Bhulabhai Desai from Gujarat, freedom fighter Senapati Bapat from Maharashtra, Captain Mohammad Akram from Punjab, Rao Tula Ram from Haryana, and Mirza Mughal from Delhi, among others.From the North-East states, Rani Gaidinliu from Manipur, Tirrot Singh from Meghalaya, Batan Kachari from Assam, Shanti Bhushan from Tripura and Trilochan Pokhrel from Sikkim were part of the list.“The irony is those who had nothing to do with the freedom movement and consistently attacked Mahatma Gandhi and his lieutenants are now basking in the glory of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav,” tweeted Congress leader Jairam Ramesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-to-honour-unsung-freedom-fighters-on-75th-independence-day-101628878375324.html
14-08-2021||India||SC: Ensure smaller cities don’t become polluted like Mumbai||The Union and state governments should make sure that small cities do not become what Mumbai is today, the Supreme Court said on Friday while describing Maharashtra’s capital as one of the most polluted cities in the country.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah emphasised that smaller cities have to be protected from the kind of development and changes that a big city like Mumbai went through.“If you don’t take steps for cities which are on the brink of industrialisation then what quality of life will these cities have after some years? They will go down the same way,” the bench told the two law officers of the Centre, appearing on behalf of the environment and urban development ministries.The court’s comments came after additional solicitor general KM Natraj, representing the urban development ministry, submitted that the norms for effluent discharge by sewage treatment plants (STPs) in water bodies cannot be the same for all the cities.“Smaller cities cannot compete with a city like Mumbai,” he argued.“Mumbai is worse than smaller cities. Just make sure smaller cities don’t become Mumbai, what it is today. Also, you are talking about different norms but can you say that people in smaller cities deserve a different standard of life? Every citizen is entitled to the same quality of life. In fact, cross-subsidisation has to be there. What is the Union and the state doing? You should provide funds wherever required to make sure smaller cities are protected,” it said.On her part, ASG Aishwarya Bhati, who appeared for the environment ministry, regretted the lack of infrastructure in tier two and three cities with regard to checking the deterioration of water quality.“So, the Union and the states should make infrastructure available. Why should people in a tier two or three city not get the same quality of life that a tier one city has? Everybody is entitled to the same standard of life. We are here to soften the rough edges of law but the governments will have to take the lead,” responded the bench.The court was hearing appeals by the central government and the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) against an order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in 2019. The NGT had found fault with the ministry’s 2017 notification by which new norms for effluent discharge by sewage treatment plants (STPs) in water bodies were laid down. It held that the new notification would lead to deterioration of water quality and prescribed stricter standards based on the recommendations of an expert committee.While the expert committee had suggested a time frame of seven years for existing STPs to switch to higher sewage treatment criteria, the tribunal directed that the existing STPs should apply these norms “without any delay”. The NGT had further held that standards recommended for mega and metropolitan cities will also apply to the rest of the country.At the same time, the green tribunal had imposed a penalty of around ₹100 crore on the MCGM for continued pollution of the city’s creeks and water bodies by discharge of inadequately treated effluent into drains from different STPs. By an order in July, the NGT directed that municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal be present in person to explain why adverse orders should not be passed against him for continuing violations.On Friday, the top court stayed the NGT’s order asking for Chahal’s presence and asked the MCGM to submit a comprehensive response before the tribunal, detailing the steps taken and the timelines of those being contemplated.“Protection of the environment is a matter of the highest concern...The issue is serious since it relates to discharge of untreated waste into the sea. MCGM must, in good faith efforts, demonstrate what steps it has taken to upgrade existing facilities and what it plans to do. This order cannot be taken as a carte blanche to continue to violate environmental norms and the municipal corporation must follow all the standards in the meantime,” stated the bench in its order.The court also clarified that financial constraints cannot be cited by MCGM as a reason not to upgrade the STPs, especially when the municipal body happens to have a budget of ₹10,000 crore which is more than the budget of some states.“The municipal corporation cannot turn a blind eye and keep dumping untreated waste in the sea. Your corporation is ranked number one in the entire country. Please act like one,” the bench told senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Dhruv Mehta, representing the MCGM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-ensure-smaller-cities-don-t-become-polluted-like-mumbai-101628877842824.html
14-08-2021||India||Twitter is biased, only listens to govt: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused social media company Twitter of being “a biased platform” that “listens to what the government says”, calling restrictions on his and his party colleagues’ accounts as interference with India’s political process.Gandhi’s statement, issued in a video uploaded to YouTube, came after nearly 5,000 Twitter accounts including his, the party’s official handle, and multiple senior leaders’ was temporarily blocked for sharing a photograph that included the parents of an alleged rape victim. “This is an attack on the democratic structure of the country,” Gandhi said in the statement. “A company is making its business to define our politics,” he said warning investors that “taking sides in the political contest has repercussions for Twitter.”The company said on Thursday it was enforcing its terms of use – Indian law too prohibits the identification of victims of a sexual crime or of any material that can lead to their identity becoming known – but the party has accused it of bias by pointing to similar images of “a government body” that did not lead to account restrictions.“It’s obvious now that Twitter is actually not a neutral, objective platform. It is a biased platform. It’s something that listens to what the government of the day says,” Gandhi alleged, saying Twitter was previously “a ray of light” as it provided space for people to put out their opinions. On Friday, Twitter reiterated a statement it released a day before. The company said it enforces its rules judiciously and impartially. “We have taken proactive action on several hundred Tweets that posted an image that violated our Rules, and may continue to do so in line with our range of enforcement options,” a Twitter spokesperson said. “Certain types of private information carry higher risks than others, and our aim is always to protect individuals’ privacy and safety. We strongly encourage everyone on the service to familiarise themselves with the Twitter Rules and report anything they believe is in violation.”Twitter admitted that it was alerted by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) about Gandhi’s tweet which revealed the victim’s identity. It added that it reviewed the tweet against Twitter rules and policies, as well as the concerns expressed as a matter of the Indian law. The NCPCR has moved the Delhi High Court over the issue. Gandhi stuck to his guns on Friday, saying the locking of his account was not an attack on him but on his 20 million followers.Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Gopal Krishna Agarwal rejected the suggestion that Twitter is acting under government pressure. “Twitter even suspended former information technology minister (Ravi Shankar Prasad)’s handle (over alleged copyright infringement in June) too. When the government was trying to fix the accountability of the social media giant and regulate it, Congress opposed the action. For anything and everything, they blame the Modi government.” Agarwal asked Congress to support the government’s efforts to regulate tech companies and to hold them accountable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-slams-twitter-calls-it-biased-platform-101628837931884.html
14-08-2021||India||J&K BJP functionary injured, nephew killed in grenade attack in Rajouri||A two-year-old boy was killed, and six others were injured after terrorists threw a grenade at the residence of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionary, Jasbir Singh, in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K)’s Rajouri district late on Thursday, police said.A police officer said Singh (36), his parents and three other relatives sustained injuries in the attack, while his nephew succumbed during the treatment at a government hospital.“It was a terrorist attack. We have initiated investigations under Section 302 IPC, 120-B, 3/4 Explosives Act and 13 UAPA,” said Rajouri SHO, Sameer Jalani.The incident is the latest in a series of attacks on politicians, especially belonging to the BJP, in J&K. On August 9, a village head affiliated with the BJP and his wife were killed by Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists in Anantnag.Also Read | Parra being punished for his commitment towards Kashmir: MehboobaLieutenant governor, Manoj Sinha, condemned the killing of the minor boy at Khandli bridge in Rajouri.“Strongly condemn the cowardly attack in the house of a political leader in Rajouri in which a 2-year old child was killed & others were injured. My deepest condolences to family & prayers for early recovery of injured. Perpetrators of this heinous act will be brought to justice soon,” Sinha said in a Twitter post.Cutting across party lines, leaders of different political parties have strongly condemned the attack.BJP’s J&K unit chief Ravinder Raina, who met the injured at a Rajouri hospital, has appealed to the police to immediately arrest those responsible. “We strongly condemn the attack and appeal to Jammu and Kashmir Police to immediately arrest the terrorists responsible for the heinous and cowardly attack. They have claimed the life of an innocent child and injured six others. They will have to pay the price,” he said.BJP national president JP Nadda also “strongly” condemned the attack and appealed to the local administration to take immediate action.“Grenade attack on BJP Leader Jasbir Singh’s house in Khandli area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri. I strongly condemn the terrorist attack and urge local administration to take immediate action on it. The entire BJP Stands with Jasbir Singh and other injured people,” Nadda said in a Twitter post.The J&K unit of the Congress has demanded enhanced security measures. “We demand the security be further beefed up in the entire district in view of the reports of fresh attempts of infiltration from across the border,” said J&K Congress’ chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma .Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti extended her sympathies to the victims. “Condemn the grenade attack in Rajouri in which a four year old child was killed & several others injured. My sympathies with their loved ones,” Mufti said in a Twitter post.Meanwhile, Rajouri town observed a complete shutdown to protest the attack. The situation briefly turned tense after a clash broke out when an angry mob burnt tyres and shouted slogans, blaming the police and the civil administration for the attack.“Both the communities observed a complete shutdown in protest against the cowardly attack on the house of the BJP leader,” said a local resident who did not wish to be named.Rajouri SHO Jalani said the shutdown was peaceful and there were no reports of any violence or clashes between the protestors and the police.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-bjp-functionary-injured-nephew-killed-in-grenade-attack-in-rajouri-101628825570521.html
14-08-2021||NA||Breaking news: 66 Delta plus patients found in Maharashtra so far||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get the latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Himachal Pradesh makes RT-PCR report mandatory for entering statePeople willing to visit Himachal Pradesh will now have to provide an RT-PCR report of a minimum of 72 hours old as the government on Friday made Covid-19 negative certificate mandatory for anyone who wants to enter the state.66 Delta plus patients found in Maharashtra so farThe Maharashtra health department said on Friday that as many as 66 people have been infected with the Delta plus variant of Covid-19 in the state so far, adding five of them have died.  More than 535 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India so far: Govt#LargestVaccineDrive➡️ More than 20.56 Cr Vaccine doses administered in the age group 18-44, so far.➡️ More than 30 Lakh vaccine doses administered to 18-44 age group for first dose today. pic.twitter.com/touXoQ5WnAMore than 535 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in India as of August 13, under the country's immunisation program, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said.Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, BMC building illuminated in Tricolour ahead of Independence Day celebrationsAhead of Independence Day, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) building in Mumbai were illuminated in Tricolour pic.twitter.com/jjIQzg9PRbThe Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation building in Mumbai were illuminated in the Indian Tricolour ahead of the Independence Day celebrations.West Bengal extends Covid-19 curfew till August 31West Bengal extended its #COVID19 restrictions till August 31, 2021. pic.twitter.com/wmKJQZaGoGThe West Bengal government has extended the Covid-19 curfew in the state till August 31, reports ANI.Twitter says India head Manish Maheshwari moved to new US-based roleTwitter India head Manish Maheshwari has been moved to a new US-based role, VP of Twitter JAPAC said in a tweet.Taliban capture provincial capital in Afghanistan 50km south of KabulThe Taliban have captured a provincial capital in Afghanistan just 50kms south of Kabul, reports AFP citing a local official.1 dead, 12 injured in blast at iron factory in Punjab’s Mandi GovindgarhOne person died and 12 more are injured following a blast in an iron factory at Mandi Govindgarh. Five among the injured are in serious condition.Nato envoys to meet Friday to discuss Afghanistan, reports AFP#BREAKING NATO envoys to meet Friday on Afghanistan: sources to AFP pic.twitter.com/5LzuwuaSemThe Nato envoys are scheduled to meet on Friday to discuss about Afghanistan, reports AFP citing sources.Karnataka minister hints at stricter Covid-19 rules after CM's meeting with experts on SaturdayKarnataka Chief Minister to hold a meeting with experts on Saturday in Bengaluru regarding third wave #COVID19. Likely to impose more strict rules after August 15: State Revenue Minister, R Ashok (file pic) pic.twitter.com/5kXhnaele5Karnataka revenue minister R Ashoka said that the state government might impose stricter Covid-19 restrictions after August 15 as chief minister Basavaraj Bommai is scheduled to meet experts regarding the pandemic situation on Saturday, reports ANI. German chancellor Angela Merkel to visit Moscow next FridayGerman chancellor Angela Merkel is scheduled to visit Moscow next Friday (August 20), news agency AFP reported citing a spokesperson.Greande thrown at security forces in Sopore town; No injuries reportedJammu and Kashmir: Terrorists lob grenade at security forces near SBI Bank in Sopore town of Baramulla district. No reports of any injury. Details awaitedTerrorists threw grenades at security forces near SBI Bank in Sopore, Baramulla in Jammu and Kashmir. No injuries were reported, reports ANI.Russia reports record virus deaths second day in a rowRussia reports record virus deaths second day in a row: Official tall, reports AFP.Full dress rehearsal for 75th Independence Day held in Bhubaneswar"All arrangements are in place. We've deployed additional 12 platoons. Over 70 officers will be deployed in & around the parade ground," says SK Priyadarshi, Police Commissioner, Bhubaneswar-Cuttack.Hearing in Mehbooba Mufti's plea challenging vires of PMLA adjourned to August 20 by Delhi High CourtDelhi High Court adjourns the hearing to August 20 on the plea filed by former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti, challenging the vires of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The matter was adjourned as the concerned bench didn't assemble.Heavy rainfall in Japan causes mudslide, threatens floodsTorrential rain pounding southwestern Japan triggered a mudslide early Friday that swallowed four people and was threatening to cause flooding and more landslides in the region.Landslide occurred near Nalda village of Lahaul and Spiti districtA landslide occurred near Nalda village of Lahaul and Spiti district, affecting the flow of Chenab river. No loss of life or property reported so far.Sydney daily Covid-19 cases hit record high, more troops to enforce lockdownHundreds more defence personnel will deploy next week to Sydney to help enforce the city's lockdown after authorities on Friday reported the biggest daily rise in Covid-19 cases from the outbreak which is spreading beyond Australia's largest city.China has fully vaccinated more than 777 million people against Covid-19China has fully vaccinated over 777 million people against Covid-19 as of Aug. 12, the National Health Commission (NHC) said on Friday.2 people killed as car crashes into truck in UP's SultanpurTwo people were killed when a car rammed into a stationary truck parked on a road in Akaripur village in Dhammaur area here, police said on Friday.Kandahar, southern hub key to control of AfghanistanKandahar, the southern city which fell to the Taliban on Thursday, is Afghanistan's second largest city, a major economic hub and one of the keys to overall control of the country.Grenade found outside a house in Amritsar's residential areaA grenade found outside a house in Amritsar's residential area, Ranjit Avenue. Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad is present at the spot.Over 500 children, teenagers test positive for Covid-19 from August 1-11: BBMPAs many as 543 children and teenagers in 0-19 years of the age group tested positive for Covid-19 from August 1 to August 11, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) informed on Friday. However, no deaths were reported in this age group during this period.1 death reported in Raigad district due to Delta Plus variantOne death reported in Raigad district due to Delta Plus variant. The deceased was a 69-year-old man in Nagothane area of the district: Raigad Collector Nidhi Chaudhary.Death toll from northern Turkey floods rises to 27Flash floods which have swept through towns in the Turkish Black Sea region have killed 27 people, the country's emergency management agency said on Friday, in the second natural disaster to strike Turkey this month.Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai calls emergency meeting with experts on Covid-19Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has called an emergency meeting with experts to review  Covid-19 sitution.China rejects need for further WHO coronavirus origins probeChina on Friday rejected the World Health Organization's calls for a renewed probe into the origins of Covid-19, saying it supported "scientific" over "political" efforts to find out how the virus started, news agency AFP reported."We oppose political tracing... and abandoning the joint report" issued after a WHO expert team visited Wuhan in January, vice foreign minister Ma Zhaoxu told reporters. "We support scientific tracing."Twitter is attacking democracy, interfering in political process: Rahul GandhiCongress Rahul Gandhi slammed Twitter on Friday, saying, it is “attacking democracy, interfering in political process."US to deploy over 3,000 troops to Afghanistan to help in evacuation of diplomats, special visa applicantsThe United States is sending over 3,000 troops to Afghanistan to help in the evacuation of diplomats and special visa applicants (SIV) in view of deteriorating situation. These troops will deploy to the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul immediately. Read More India records 40,120 new Covid-19 infections, active cases fall to 385,227India logs 40,120 new Covid-19 infections in 2 hours. Active cases fall to 385,227. Number of active Covid-19 cases in the country has declined to 3,85,227.Taliban claims to capture Lashkar Gah city in AfghanistanTaliban say they have captured Afghan city of Lashkar Gah, news agency AFP reports quoting security sources. US FDA authorises additional vaccine doses for those with impaired immune systemUS FDA authorises additional vaccine doses for certain immunocompromised personsInfra and maritime security top agenda at virtual Quad meetingSenior officials of the four members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad on Thursday discussed ways to take forward cooperation in areas such as infrastructure, maritime security and humanitarian aid in order to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific. Read MoreAnurag Thakur launches Fit India Freedom Run 2.0Fit India Freedom Run 2.0 was launched by Union Minister for Youth Affairs & Sports Anurag Thakur today, via video conferencing.Search and rescue operations resumes at KinnaurSearch and rescue operations resumed at 4 am today after it was halted yesterday due to shooting stones in Kinnur, Himachal Pradesh following the landslide. Two more bodies were retrieved from the rubbles this morning. A total of 15 bodies recovered by the search and rescue operations till now.China cities declare rain 'red alerts' Five cities in the central Chinese province of Hubei have declared "red alerts" after torrential rain left 21 people dead and forced the evacuation of nearly 6,000 people, state media reported.6 including suspected gunman dead in UK shootingSix people, including the suspected gunman, died Thursday during or shortly after a "serious firearms incident" in the southwestern English city of Plymouth,  Reuters reported.Taliban claim to capture Afghanistan's second-largest city of Kandahar: ReportsThe Taliban claimed to have captured Kandahar, Afghanistan's second-largest city and the birthplace of the movement, on Friday after days of fierce fighting. Read MoreFlooding, power outages hit Michigan as storms rake MidwestFlooding brought by heavy rains shut down some freeways in the Detroit area Thursday as waves of thunderstorms made their way across large swaths of the Midwest, leaving nearly 1 million homes and businesses without power in Michigan at one point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-august-13-2021-101628812117050.html
