15-08-2021||India||NEP will help fight poverty: PM||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that the new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 is a means to “fight poverty” as it encourages teaching in regional language and meets the needs of the 21st century. “Today the country also has a new National Education Policy to meet the needs of the 21st century. Now our children will neither stop due to lack of skills nor will they be bound by language barriers.This new National Education Policy is also going to be a great tool to fight against poverty in a way. The basis of winning the war against poverty is also the education, prestige and importance of the vernacular language,” the Prime Minister said while addressing the country on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day. The NEP, which was approved by the Union cabinet in July last year, recommends imparting early education in regional languages or mother tongue. He said the NEP has a special feature under which sports have been made a part of mainstream education instead of extracurricular. “Sports are also one of the most effective means to move forward in life,” Modi said.Educationist Meeta Sengupta said that NEP offers greater opportunities. “NEP offers an opportunity to greater economic mobility not just by enabling regional languages but also by offering students choices in adding value to their learning according to their potential. Early learning in regional language, and the choice to switch to global languages are both important for student achievement, and are embedded in the NEP,” she said.Earlier in April, the Prime Minister had said that the NEP frees and empowers students to participate in national development and is futuristic as per global standards.On August 12, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan said that the government was working to create synergy between education and skills as envisioned in the NEP 2020, for making a future-ready workforce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nep-will-help-fight-poverty-pm-101629051800621.html
15-08-2021||India||New species of snake with ‘bindi’ on body discovered in Assam||A team of scientists from India, the United Kingdom, and the United States have discovered a new species of snake in Assam – the first such find from the state in over a century – that is characterised by a red mark on its body that resembles a “bindi”.News of the discovery by a team, which consisted of scientists from Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, Natural History Museum, London and University of Texas, Austin, has been published in the animal taxonomist journal Zootaxa, which is published from New Zealand.The new species has been named ‘Rhabdophis bindi’ as it has “a distinct roughly rhomboidal red-coloured nuchal spot/blotch which is absent from all other species” of the genus Rhabdophis, which has 27 species found across south, east and south-east Asia, scientists said.“The species is named due to its unique red marking on the back of the neck reminiscent of the ‘red beauty spot’ adorning foreheads of Indian women called ‘bindi’,” said Abhijit Das of WII, a herpetologist and faculty member of the endangered species management department, who is associated with the discovery.It was Das who first found a specimen of the species during a 2007 snake survey in and around Barail Hill Range in Cachar district of Assam. In subsequent years, 10 other individuals of the species, found at low elevations of below 100m from sea level, were collected and studied.“It took 14 years from the time it was first seen till it was classified as a new species because we had to compare the new one with all other closely related species found in different countries and had to study many specimens from across the world. It also took time to do genetic analysis of the species,” said Das.Morphologically, the new species is generally around 60cm to 80cm in length, resembles the Himalayan red-necked keelback distributed widely in the North-east. However, the new species appears to reside in lowland evergreen forest. Himalayan red-necked keelback, on the other hand, has been found only in elevations above 600m.“Although majority of zoological discoveries are from northeastern states of Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, the discovery of ‘Rhabdophis bindi’ from Assam shows that more such undiscovered species may exist even in the well-explored parts of the region,” said Das.The previous snake species discovered in Assam was a red striped one called ‘Oligodon erythrorhachis’ found in Jeypore area of Upper Assam in 1910 by British herpetologist Frank Wall, according to Das.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-species-of-snake-with-bindi-on-body-discovered-in-assam-101629051741569.html
15-08-2021||India||Kerala BJP chief booked for hoisting flag upside down on I-Day||The Kerala police on Sunday booked the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Kerala unit chief K Surendran for allegedly hoisting the tricolour upside down during the flag hoisting ceremony in the party office in the state capital of Thiruvananthapuram. But BJP leaders said the move was “a politically motivated” one and the snag was noticed halfway during flag hoisting and it was corrected immediately. But many Left workers took it to social media in a big way alleging that it was noticed only after the hoisting of the flag. The police later filed a case after examining the video footage. The ruling CPI(M), which hoisted the tricolour in its party offices for the first time, also landed in a controversy. Congress leader K S Sabarinathan said at the party headquarters AKG Centre the tricolour was fluttering at the same level of the party flag. He said it was a violation of the National Flag Code which specifically says “no other flag or bunting should be placed higher than or side by side of the national flag.” The BJP also criticised it. “A case should be registered against the acting secretary who hoisted the flag with much fanfare. It shows the party can get away with any crime,” said party leader V V Rajesh. But the CPI(M) denied the charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-bjp-chief-booked-for-hoisting-flag-upside-down-on-iday-101629051623990.html
15-08-2021||India||Hyderabad, city NCB jointly bust drug unit, 5 arrested||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) said on Sunday that it has busted a clandestine laboratory that was manufacturing alprazolam, a psychotropic substance, in Hyderabad for over two months. “A total of 3.25 kg of alprazolam, ₹12,75,000 accrued from the sale of the drug, a clandestine lab, two cars and a variety of chemicals were seized,” the NCB Bengaluru zonal unit said in a statement.The Bengaluru and Hyderabad NCB units carried out operations based on intelligence inputs. Five people have been arrested in the joint operations, the statement said.Alprazolam is a psychotropic substance belonging to the benzodiazepines class of anti-depressants, the NCB said. “However, the same is largely trafficked illegally for recreational use worldwide. In the states of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, alprazolam is widely used as a cutting agent for illicit toddy. Alprazolam-laced toddy is very dangerous and it causes serious health complications, including death.”The bust comes at a time when law enforcement agencies across states, especially in Karnataka, have been cracking down on drugs.During his Independence Day speech, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said that preventing all kinds of crime is a priority for the state government. “Our war against drugs is intensified in all districts. There will be no compromise on taking stern action against anti-social elements that disturb the peace of the society,” Bommai said.The laboratory was found operating in the house of a man, Y Sudhakar, in a residential area at Balanagar in Hyderabad.“In the lab, raw alprazolam at various stages of manufacturing was found in lab apparatus like flask, reactor, drier, etc. Some quantity of alprazolam and a large quantity of raw material were seized from this clandestine lab,” the NCB said.The bureau also discovered another laboratory in an adjoining flat in which many instruments and chemicals were found.The NCB said a person, R Pamarthi, who was operating the laboratory, had got a licence for manufacturing genuine medical formulations, but misused the facility for clandestine manufacturing of alprazolam. “The culprits were operating for more than five years,” the NCB said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-city-ncb-jointly-bust-drug-unit-5-arrested-101629051441240.html
15-08-2021||India||Will protect our land and water: Karnataka CM||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said that his government wants cordial relations with the neighbouring states but added that this would not be done at the cost of its own interests. During the Independence Day address in Bengaluru on Sunday, Bommai said, “We are committed to have cordial relationship with the neighbouring states under the federal system based on the aspirations of the Constitution. However, there will be no compromise in the matters of border, language, land and water of the state.” “Our commitment to the protection of land, water, language and culture of our state is unquestionable. We will take all possible measures under law of the land to avail our rightful share of water,” Bommai said. His statements come at the peak of the stand-off between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka over the proposed Mekedatu balancing reservoir-cum-drinking water project. Karnataka has proposed to go ahead with the project and has sought necessary clearances from the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led union government. Bommai, who replaced BS Yediyurappa as the chief minister on July 28, has refused to backdown from this proposed project that has, to some effect, deflected the narrative from the simmering dissent within the cabinet, non-performance of the erstwhile administration and the imminent third wave of Covid-19 infections in the state. River Cauvery is a sensitive issue in both Tamil Nadu and Karnataka that has defined relations between the two very industrious states for generations. The opposition parties in Karnataka have also backed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government to take up the project and assured full support. The chief minister also announced 11 new projects in Karnataka in his speech on Sunday. This includes the development of 750 select Grama Panchayats, including installing street lights, drinking water, 100% waste segregation and safe disposal, installing solar power and a host of other amenities. Bommai said that another programme (Amrith Rural Housing Scheme) will identify and provide housing for all homeless people in 750 gram panchayats. He added that around 750 farmer producer organisations would be set up in the state to promote 36 production and marketing units of agriculture, fisheries and weavers’ products. “Each organisation would be given ₹30 lakh each for three years, amounting to ₹225 crore,” Bommai said. The new schemes come ahead of the yet-be-announced elections in gram and taluka panchayats in the state which the BJP hopes to use to consolidate support ahead of the 2023 assembly elections. Bommai also announced the Amirth Nirmala Nagara, a programme to beautify urban spaces in limits of 75 urban local bodies with funds of ₹1 crore each. “ ₹75 crore will be spent on basic infrastructure such as building, lab, library, toilets at 750 schools, with ₹10 lakh each,” Bommai said. The theme of most of the schemes and programmes announced on Sunday was around the 75th year of Indian independence which included the upgrading of infrastructure of anganwadis, schools, self-help groups and primary health care centres. Bommai reiterated that Karnataka aspires to train and encourage around 75 talented sports persons from the state who have the potential to win medal at the 2023 Paris Olympics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-protect-our-land-and-water-karnataka-cm-101629051261277.html
15-08-2021||India||Meghalaya home minister quits amid stir over top militant’s death||Meghalaya home minister Lahkmen Rymbui on Sunday resigned from his post amid vandalism and arson over the police encounter of a top militant last week, even as the state government announced a curfew in Shillong and suspended internet services in at least four districts to contain the situation.In his letter to chief minister Conrad Sangma, Rymbui expressed shock over the protests and proposed for a judicial enquiry into the death of banned Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC) general secretary, Cherish Starfield Thangkhiew, who was killed in a police encounter on August 13. “I hereby express shock at the incident where (L) Chesterfield Thangkhiew was killed following the raid of police at his residence exceeding the lawful tenets of the law. Considering the gravity of the situation, I would request you to relieve the Home (Police) Department from me with immediate effect,” the letter read.Thangkhiew, who surrendered in 2018, was suspected to be the mastermind of a spate of IED attacks, police said. According to director general of police R Chandranathan, he allegedly attacked police with a knife when his home was being raided, provoking a retaliatory shot in which he was killed.Earlier in the day, hundreds of his supporters carried black flags as the militant’s body was taken to the cemetery. Government vehicles were vandalised and a police vehicle was set on fire in the Jaiaw area of Shillong allegedly by his supporters, police said.A curfew in Shillong Agglomeration area of the state capital was imposed from 8 pm on Sunday till 5 am on August 17. Internet services were suspended from 6 pm on Sunday for 48 hours in the districts of East Khasi Hills, West Khasi Hills, South West Khasi Hillis and Ri-Bhoi.“We have been closely monitoring the situation on the ground since the last couple of days and we are prepared to ensure that the law and order is not breached. Additional companies of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) have been requisitioned to ensure compliance to the ‘total curfew’ order,” a top official in the secretariat familiar with the development told HT on condition of anonymity.No public movement will be allowed and offices, shops and establishments and all educational institutions will remain closed during the curfew, as per the order. “No kind of gathering, public meeting or rally may be held. Exemptions only for medical emergencies, Covid-19 and hospital duty are applicable as per existing orders,” deputy commissioner Kumari Isawanda Laloo said. On Saturday, chief minister Conrad K Sangma said there was ample evidence against Thangkhiew for his role in the recent blast incidents. The Meghalaya Human Right Commission has also taken suo motu cognisance of the encounter, noting, “The instant case appears to have resulted in gross human rights violation which according to Article 21 of the Constitution mandates for protection of life and personal liberty for every person within the territory of India.”The commission has directed the chief secretary to submit a detailed report on the incident within 15 days, failing which the commission has said it will conduct its own investigation into the matter. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-home-minister-quits-amid-stir-over-top-militant-s-death-101629050241209.html
15-08-2021||India||CBI declares ₹5L reward for info on Dhanbad judge’s death||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has announced a reward of ₹5 lakh for anyone sharing “information of importance” on the death of Dhanbad additional sessions judge Uttam Anand, who was fatally knocked down by a three-wheeler on July 28, people familiar with the development said on Sunday. “If anyone has any information of importance, it can be shared with the special crime team of the CBI housed at the CSIR Satkar guest house in Dhanbad through phone numbers 7827728856, 011-24368640 and 24368641. Cash reward of ₹5 lakh will be given to the person who will furnish worthwhile information relating to the crime,” a notice issued by the central agency’s Special Investigation Team (SIT), which is probing the case, read. “The name of the informant will be kept secret,” it added. The Supreme Court as well as the Jharkhand high court had taken suo motu cognizance of the hit-and-run incident after CCTV footage showed the three-wheeler deliberately swerving on an empty road to knock down the judge. The auto-rickshaw, which was allegedly stolen from Dhanbad, was later recovered from the neighbouring Giridih district that night.Two persons who were driving the three-wheeler, identified as driver Lakhan Verma and his associate Rahul Verma, were arrested by Jharkhand police the next morning.The apex court had directed the central agency to file a status report on the matter every week with the high court.On Thursday, the CBI submitted its first report with the Jharkhand high court, sharing details of the investigation carried out so far, including recreation of the scene of crime and the interrogation of the two accused. The CBI had taken over the probe after the Supreme Court said the incident had larger ramifications for the independence of the judiciary. The state government had also recommended an investigation by the central agency into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-declares-5l-reward-for-info-on-dhanbad-judge-s-death-101629049641043.html
15-08-2021||India||Lack of debate in House causing gaps in laws: CJI||Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on Sunday rued the “sorry state of affairs” in Parliament, where, he said, laws are being passed without constructive debates, leading to legislation with “a lot of ambiguities”. Speaking at the Independence Day ceremony organised by the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), the CJI recounted the well-constructed debates that used to take place during the initial years after the independence. “Different laws used to be debated and deliberated upon. So, the burden of the courts in interpreting or implementing the laws used to be less. We had a clear picture (of) what the legislature wanted to tell...why they were making such a legislation. Now (there is a) sorry state of affairs...” remarked justice Ramana. He added: “(Now) we see legislation with a lot of gaps, a lot of ambiguities in making laws. There is no clarity in laws. We don’t know for what purpose the law is made...which is creating lots of litigation, inconvenience, loss to the government and inconvenience to the public.”The Chief Justice’s comments come even as the National Democratic Alliance government has been accused of pushing bills through Parliament without having them vetted and reviewed by committees of lawmakers. In the first term of this government, only 27% of the bills introduced were sent to committees; thus far in the second term, only 12% of the bills have been sent to committees. Under UPA-I, 60% of the bills while 71% under UPA-II were sent to committees. The CJI also said that one of the chief reasons for the falling standards of parliamentary debates was the absence of intellectuals and professionals like lawyers in the Parliament. “We have seen how India’s independence struggle was led by lawyers like Gandhi, Sardar Patel, Nehru, Babu Rajendra Prasad...Unfortunately over a period of time, you know what has been happening in the parliament...This is what happens if intellectuals and professionals like lawyers are not there in the Houses,” regretted justice Ramana.He urged the lawyers to participate actively in social life and public life. “Don’t confine yourself to your profession, earning money and living comfortably. I hope and expect good days will come to the country and you will contribute your knowledge, wisdom and experience,” said the CJI. On Wednesday, a bench, headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, too highlighted how the Union government was not assessing the working of a law, its societal impact, manpower and infrastructure required before notifying a new legislation. While dealing with massive vacancies in consumer courts across the country, Justice Kaul had pulled up the Centre for not conducting a legislative impact study before it notified a new consumer protection law in July 2020 and rehauled the entire legal regime, ranging from a wider definition of “consumer,” to enhancing the monetary jurisdiction of the consumer courts at all levels.“Once the legislative committee made these changes, what impact will it have on litigation is the study that should have been carried out. This is the irony of all legislation -- you never do legislative impact study,” the judge had commented.Meanwhile, in his brief address, the CJI also commended the role played by the Supreme Court in protecting rights of people. “The Supreme Court has given more than what the Constitution thought of. Not only by interpreting the Constitution but also by expanding the scope and providing rights to the people taking into consideration problems of the citizenry. The Supreme Court has taken an active role and I hope and expect we will contribute more,” he said.Justice Ramana, who is patron-in-chief of the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA), further hailed the law on legal services, asserting India is the only country in the world that has 75 percent of its population getting free legal aid. Justices AM Khanwilkar and V Ramasubramanian were also present at the event, besides solicitor general Tushar Mehta and SCBA office-bearers Vikas Singh, Ardhendumauli K Prasad, Pradeep Rai, Rahul Kaushik and Meenesh K Dubey.“An interpretation of laws require an understanding of why these laws were made and how they were planning to plug the gaps in our legal system. Deliberations in Parliament and scrutiny of laws in its committees contributes to this understanding. The debate clarifies the government’s intent and the ministers respond to the debate and clarify questions about the law that MPs may have. These deliberations in Parliament are the only means for judiciary to interpret the intent behind laws,” Chakshu Roy, head of outreach, PRS Legislative Research, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lack-of-debate-in-house-causing-gaps-in-laws-cji-101629048981228.html
15-08-2021||India||Afghan students at JNU fear to go back, seek visa extension||About 22 students from Afghanistan studying at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) are not willing to go back to their country and want to extend their visas through academic courses. Afghan students are worried about their stay in India as their visa tenure is about to expire within months.The visa limit for most of these foreign students is getting over by the month of December this year, however, with the situation in Afghanistan turning volatile, no one wants to go back and they want to extend their visa through academic courses such as a PhD, sources said."For a war-torn country like Afghanistan, most of the people are extensively unemployed and trying to escape from either death or captivity. Arranging a 'hefty fee' seems impossible." said Afghan students in JNU while talking to ANI.Terminal students have to leave the hostel by September 23, which is making them unsure of accommodation with narrow financial capacity.Jalaluddin, a JNU student told, "Situation is extremely critical there. I am hoping that the administration will understand our situation and extend my visa permit. Also, PhD in JNU is highly expensive for foreign nationals, and for poor families that are certainly not the possible way out. However, at present, I really don't know what to do."If a student visa expires, one cannot work or study until a new permit is given. Also while extending a visa, one must be sure that his/her passport does not expire at the same time. The study permit cannot be extended beyond the passport's expiry date, said sources.Shafiq Sultan, a student of International Relations and Area studies in JNU told, "My visa will get over by December 31. I was a government employee before I came here to study. I am sure if I go back they will capture me. My family is staying in the area captured by the Taliban and I am unable to contact them for the last one and a half weeks. The tension is scaling up, we definitely need help."Ali Asghar, an Afghan student at JNU, said that his visa tenure will expire within three months. He stated, "I spoke with my father a week ago, he told me my family is escaping to another area because the Taliban may take control over our city. They do not want me to come back but the fee structure for foreign students is extremely high which we cannot bear without family's support. However, my family is completely unemployed."JNU administration released a press note on August 14 stating "Some Afghan students of JNU have requested the JNU administration to facilitate their return to the Campus. As the University has remained closed as per the latest Circular issued by the DDMA, Govt. of NCT, Delhi, this matter is currently being looked into." (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-students-at-jnu-fear-to-go-back-seek-visa-extension-101629048322055.html
15-08-2021||India||India preps to evacuate envoys, citizens still in Afghanistan as Taliban enter Kabul||As Taliban fighters began entering Kabul on Sunday following the collapse of President Ashraf Ghani’s government, Indian authorities scrambled to pull out hundreds of diplomats and citizens still in Afghanistan. The speed of the Taliban’s advance into the capital again took most countries by surprise, though people familiar with developments said the Indian side was well prepared for all contingencies. The Indian Air Force’s heavy lift aircraft, especially the C-17 Globemasters, have been on round-the-clock standby for several days and could be pressed into service at short notice for an evacuation. The Indian side had been anticipating the Taliban advance into Kabul would take a few more days, and reports about the entry of fighters into the city on Sunday as Ghani and his close aides reportedly fled to Tajikistan triggered hectic consultations, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. The government is closely monitoring the rapidly evolving situation in Afghanistan to decide on the evacuation of diplomatic personnel from Kabul, the people said. Specific plans for all contingencies are already in place and all steps will be taken to ensure that the staff of the Indian embassy in Kabul and Indian nationals are not at any risk, the people added. Plans are also in place for the destruction and retrieval of documents and computers at the Indian embassy, which is the only functional mission in Afghanistan following the withdrawal of staff from the consulates in Herat, Jalalabad, Mazar-e-Sharif and Kandahar over the past year. There was no official word from the external affairs ministry on the latest developments in Afghanistan. New Delhi has consistently said it is opposed to any attempt to forcibly capture power in Kabul. Taliban fighters began entering Kabul from all sides without facing any resistance by late Sunday afternoon. The move came hours after the Taliban captured Jalalabad, the last major city in the north that was under government control, without a struggle. The Afghan government’s chief peace negotiator, Abdullah Abdullah, said in a video message posted on Facebook that Ghani had left the country. Former president Hamid Karzai tweeted that a coordination council comprising himself, Abdullah Abdullah and Hezb-e-Islami chief Gulbuddin Hekmatyar had been formed following Ghani’s departure to manage the transfer of power. Taliban spokesmen said some fighters were entering Kabul to prevent chaos and looting. Earlier, in a statement in Pashto, the Taliban claimed “all parts of the country have come under the control of the Islamic Emirate” and said the group’s fighters do not intend to enter Kabul, which is densely populated, “by force or war, but rather to enter peacefully”. The statement added negotiations were underway to “ensure the transition process is completed safely and securely, without compromising the lives, property and honour of anyone”. The Taliban asked its fighters “to stand at the gates of Kabul” and not to try to enter the city, and to also ensure the security of the capital until the transition process is completed. “We reiterate that the Islamic Emirate does not intend to take revenge on anyone, all those who have served in the military and civilian sectors in the Kabul administration are forgiven and safe, no one will be retaliated against,” the statement said. The people cited above said the Taliban’s assurances couldn’t be taken for granted, given the ample evidence that the group’s political leadership isn’t fully in control of fighters on the ground, and the reports of summary executions of security forces and people who backed the government as well as violation of the rights of women and civil society activists. There were also reports of people making a run for banks to withdraw money and to foreign embassies to seek visas to leave Afghanistan. The Indian embassy too has been swamped with requests for visas over the past few days. Kabul airport is currently the only way out of the country, with all land border crossings currently under the control of the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-preps-to-evacuate-envoys-citizens-still-in-afghanistan-as-taliban-enters-kabul-101629048201232.html
15-08-2021||India||Ministers meet Venkaiah Naidu, seek action against opposition MPs||A delegation of seven ministers on Sunday called on Rajya Sabha chairman, M. Venkaiah Naidu and demanded action against some opposition members for what they called “unprecedented, extreme and violent acts” in the House on August 11. The delegation also submitted a memorandum seeking action. On August 11, while protesting in the House some opposition MPs damaged house property and were seen jostling with the marshals who were called in to restrain them. While two Congress MPs, Chaya Varma and Phulo Devi Netam alleged they were manhandled by the marshals, a complaint has been submitted to the Rajya Sabha secretariat by two Marshals claiming they were injured in the melee. The ministers, who had earlier sought action against the opposition MPs, reiterated their demand. During the meeting with Naidu, they referred to the marshals being prevented from discharging their duties. According to an official, Naidu said he will examine the matter for deciding on an appropriate course of action. The delegation consisted of Union ministers Piyush Goyal, Pralhad Joshi, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Dharmendra Pradhan, Bhupender Yadav, Arjun Ram Meghwal and V Muraleedharan. Deputy Chairman Harivansh was also present. Naidu also held a meeting with Panel Vice Chairman Sasmit Patra, who was in the Chair when the incidents took place in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministers-meet-venkaiah-naidu-seek-action-against-opposition-mps-101629044180754.html
15-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Air India says scheduled flights to Kabul to continue as of now and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Monitoring situation in Kabul; flights to continue as of now, says Air IndiaNational carrier Air India is monitoring the situation in Kabul and will continue scheduled flights to the region for the time being, Air India officials said on Sunday. Read moreTMC MP Dola Sen alleges attack on convoy on way to hoist Tricolour in TripuraTrinamool Congress MP Dola Sena said on Sunday her convoy was attacked in South Tripura when she was on her way to hoist the National Flag on the occasion of Independence Day. Read morePM Modi draws criticism in Bengal for error in Red Fort addressPolitical parties in West Bengal on Sunday targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi for saying in his Independence Day address from Red Fort that freedom fighter Matangini Hazra was from Assam. Read moreBurhan Wani's father hoists Tricolour, no internet snag: I-day firsts for J&KOn its 75th year, Independence Day in Jammu and Kashmir was marked by many firsts as the Valley celebrated the day with fervour. The father of slain terrorist Burhan Wani unfurled the National Flag at a school in Pulwama. Read more'He looked like picking a wicket every ball': Gavaskar hails India pacer who 'did not allow England batsmen to rest'Despite England going wicketless in the first session of Day 3 of the second Test of the series at Lord’s, India staged a late comeback in the day to pick up five wickets for 51 runs. Read moreAfter Raj Kundra’s arrest, Shilpa Shetty makes first appearance, talks about how to control ‘negative thoughts’. WatchShilpa Shetty made an appearance at a Covid-19 fundraiser, We For India, on Sunday. This is her first appearance after her husband Raj Kundra’s arrest last month. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-air-india-says-scheduled-flights-to-kabul-to-continue-as-of-now-and-all-the-latest-news-101629040529477.html
15-08-2021||India||Burhan Wani's father hoists Tricolour, no internet snag: I-day firsts for J&K||On its 75th year, Independence Day in Jammu and Kashmir was marked by many firsts as the Valley celebrated the day with fervour. The father of slain terrorist Burhan Wani unfurled the National Flag at a school in Pulwama. Muzaffar Wani, a teacher by profession, unfurled the National Flag on the premises of the Government Girls Higher Secondary School in the Tral area of Pulwama district on Sunday.For the first time in three years, internet services remained unaffected in Jammu and Kashmir on Independence Day. "There is neither internet shutdown nor restrictions on the eve of Independence Day. Counter drone technology deployed at all sensitive places," the Kashmir Zone Police wrote on Twitter. The Clock Tower in Srinagar's Lal Chowk was also illuminated in colours of the Indian flag on the eve of Independence Day. Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC) Mayor Junaid Azim Mattu hoisted the National Flag at the Corporation office on Sunday morning and congratulated the Jammu and Kashmir Police for getting 257 Gallantry Medals this year, its highest-ever tally. Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha hoisted the Tricolour on the highest mast of 100 feet in Jammu & Kashmir at the historic Hari Parbat fort in Srinagar.For the first time in Jammu and Kashmir, every government school hoisted the tricolour on Independence Day as directed by the administration. The schools also uploaded videos and photos of the events. Some 23,000 schools unfurled the Tricolour on the occasion of Independence Day. All principals were asked to lead the singing of the national anthem and upload a clipping of the same on a national website.As a part of its celebration of 75 years of India’s independence, the Army unfurled the National Flag atop a 100-feet tall pole in Gulmarg on August 10.The government had relaxed a number of coronavirus-induced restrictions, including the cap on gatherings, for Independence Day celebrations in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/burhan-wani-s-father-hoists-tricolour-no-internet-snag-i-day-firsts-for-jk-101629038221818.html
15-08-2021||India||Monitoring situation in Kabul; flights to continue as of now, says Air India||National carrier Air India is monitoring the situation in Kabul and will continue scheduled flights to the region for the time being, Air India officials said on Sunday.An Air India flight 244 took off at 18:06 hours from Kabul for Delhi with 129 passengers.“We are monitoring the situation and as of now continuing with our scheduled flights to Kabul,” an Air India spokesperson said. The airline has a scheduled flight for Kabul from Delhi tomorrow morning at 8 am.On Sunday afternoon, Air India flight 243 from Delhi to Kabul scheduled to land at 13:45 hours held off on landing for nearly two hours while hovering in the air near the capital as reports of the Taliban entering the gates of capital city Kabul emerged. The flight finally landed around 15:30 hours.Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani is expected to abdicate within the next few hours, Sputnik reported on Sunday. Earlier today, the Taliban entered the Afghan capital Kabul from all sides faced with little or no resistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monitoring-situation-in-kabul-flights-to-continue-as-of-now-says-air-india-101629038000304.html
15-08-2021||India||Air India says scheduled flights to Kabul not cancelled as of now||Air India on Sunday said it has not cancelled its scheduled flights to Kabul as of now. "We are monitoring the situation and as of now continuing with our scheduled flights to Kabul," a spokesperson of the carrier said on Sunday, refuting reports that it has cancelled all flights in the wake of the crisis in Kabul. As Afghanistan is on the brink of surrendering to the Taliban after the insurgent group entered Kabul on Sunday, an Air India flight landed on Kabul in the afternoon. Then it took off carrying 129 passengers for Delhi.The flight had to hover for an hour in the skies before it could land and then after refuelling it took off at around 6.06pm. But this is not the last flight to Kabul, as Air India has not yet cancelled its scheduled flights, the spokesperson said.On Sunday, Dubai's budget carrier Flydubai temporarily suspended its operations in Kabul. “We will continue to monitor the situation and revise our plans in line with the directives from the authorities - we will be in touch with the passengers regarding their refund and rebooking options,” said flydubai.An Emirates flight from Dubai returned to Dubai instead of landing on Sunday as Taliban militants encircled the city. “Due to the unforeseen temporary closure of the runway at the time of Emirates’ approach at Hamid Karzai International Airport, Emirates flight EK 640 to Kabul operating on 15 August has returned back to Dubai,” the state-owned airline said.The Taliban on Sunday said they won't take Kabul over by force as they are aiming at a peaceful transfer of power. Operations in Kabul airport was also not disrupted on Sunday. NATO said it is helping to maintain operations at Kabul airport to keep Afghanistan connected with the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-says-scheduled-flights-to-kabul-not-cancelled-as-of-now-101629033749626.html
15-08-2021||India||India’s eventful Independence Week||India’s Independence week is going to be pretty eventful, politically speaking. After stormy Parliament sessions last week, the next five days will possibly be dominated by a conversation around the August 20 meeting convened by Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi with opposition party leaders, including chief ministers Uddhav Thackeray of Maharashtra, Mamata Banerjee of West Bengal, MK Stalin of Tamil Nadu, and Hemant Soren of Jharkhand. Banerjee has been talking about a united non-BJP front for the 2024 elections. Will this be discussed in Friday’s virtual meeting? The BJP government’s new ministers, meanwhile, will start their Jan Ashirwad Yatra (People’s Blessings March) this week. In Madhya Pradesh, civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and social justice and empowerment minister Virendra Khatik will hold a Jan Ashirwad Yatra from August 16 to 24. The government faces a pushback on inflation, and this week is going to make things worse. The wholesale price index (WPI) for July is expected to grow in double digits again, underlining the threat of inflation getting entrenched in the economy. The silver lining could be the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI). It is expected to cross 100 for the first time since the pandemic (it was at 99.4 in the week ending August 8), breaching a psychological post-pandemic barrier. The pandemic, to be sure, is showing no sign of tapering towards an end. Kerala, currently the worst-affected state in the country with consistently 19000-plus daily cases, will see a visit by Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya this week. The minister is expected to review Kerala’s fight against the virus and chalk out fresh plans to contain the numbers. He will visit north-eastern states – another region of concern – after his Kerala review. There is no doubt about what the region of focus will be this week for international affairs observers. Afghanistan has been on the brink this past week, and with government forces offering little or no resistance anywhere, it is only a matter of time before the Taliban wrest Kabul as well. The US, perhaps after immense international pressure, has decided to send 1000 troops to safeguard the capital, but in all likelihood, it is too little too late. India will take a call on withdrawing its diplomats and citizens, believed now to be a few hundreds, from Kabul, and also decide on the status of its embassy. Around 8000km west is where India’s playing one of its most difficult cricket tours in recent times. The two big takeaways so far? The celebrated Indian middle order of Cheteshwar Pujara, Virat Kohli and Ajinkya Rahane are all in trouble; their averages started falling in 2018 and have kept falling. Second, the Indian pace attack has just got better, if that was possible, with the addition of Mohammed Siraj. In football, the video of Lionel Messi’s mural being taken down from Barcelona was one of the most poignant images from sport last week, but European football season resumed this weekend and suddenly there is more interest than ever in the fortunes of PSG because of Messi joining the high-profile French club. Back in India, the country’s two most important cities – Delhi and Mumbai – began a crucial phase of their reopening process. Mumbai’s suburban railways are now open to fully-vaccinated people and in Delhi, students from Classes 10 and 12 resume school from today. The big question in everyone’s mind: will the reopening possibly lead to a third wave?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-eventful-independence-week-101629033440144.html
15-08-2021||India||Narcotics worth ₹55 crore seized by Kolkata Police STF||Heroin and Amphetamine tablets worth ₹55 crore in the international market have been seized by the special task force of the Kolkata Police in back-to-back raids held in Bengal’s Malda district since August 12, police said on Sunday afternoon. Four drug peddlers, two of whom are from Manipur and Bihar, have been arrested. According to STF officers, two men were detained in Malda on August 12. Amphetamine tablets (commonly referred to as Yaba) worth ₹5 crore in the international market, were seized from their possession. The arrested men were identified as Md Ismail Sheikh from Kaliachak in Malda and Abhishek Salam, a resident of Manipur. A court in Kolkata remanded them in police custody for 14 days. After interrogating the duo, the STF raided a hideout at Gazole in Malda and seized more than 10 kg of heroin worth around ₹50 crore. Lalit Sahani from Samastipur in Bihar and Sumit Ali Patra from Raghunathgunj in Murshidabad district were arrested in the second raid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narcotics-worth-rs-55-crore-seized-by-kolkata-police-stf-101629030199839.html
15-08-2021||India||Instead of floods, Assam witnesses less rainfall this monsoon||Floods are a common feature in Assam every monsoon with overflowing waters of Brahmaputra and its tributaries affecting millions across most parts of the northeastern state. However, the state is yet to witness any major flooding this monsoon and several districts of the state have recorded less than normal rainfall leading to concerns among farmers as well as tea growers. “From June 1, when monsoon season officially started, till August 13, the Assam-Meghalaya region has witnessed 21% less rainfall this season than normal monsoon periods,” said Sumit Das, senior scientist at the regional meteorological office in Guwahati. He said the rainfall deficiency in Assam and other parts of northeast was predicted by Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) and it was not abnormal as it happens due to monsoon variability. The Assam-Meghalaya region has witnessed such variability in past years with deficit rainfall recorded in 2010, 2011, 2013, 2016 and 2018, normal rainfall in 2012, 2014, 2015, 2017 and 2019 and excess precipitation in 2020. Between June 1 and August 13, Assam-Meghalaya region (both states are clubbed together for calculation of rainfall data) received 959.9 mm of rainfall against the normal of 1217 mm, recorded during that period. “In northeast, maximum rainfall is witnessed during break-monsoon condition when the monsoon trough lies close to Himalayan foothills as witnessed between last week of June and the first week of July. There was good rainfall during that period but after that the amount of rainfall has decreased,” said Das. Deficient rainfall is a cause of worry for farmers, especially in districts of Upper Assam, where paddy cultivation, which requires a lot of water, starts later than in the districts of Lower Assam. “Water, especially from rainfall, is very important during transplantation of rice. In Lower Assam, we did transplanting in May-June when there was sufficient rainfall. So the impact of less rainfall after that period on rice cultivation hasn’t been much in our areas,” said Puspadhar Das, an award winning farmer from Baksa district. “But there have been reports of areas in Upper Assam getting affected due to less rainfall this season. The only worry is about this deficient rainfall becoming a regular pattern. Then the long term effect is going to be disastrous for farmers,” he added. According to the state government, some districts are experiencing around 20% less rainfall while the deficiency is around 30% in others. Two revenue circles in Golaghat district have been declared drought hit and large parts of Udalguri and Tinsukia districts are stated to be severely affected. “We have sought reports from all districts on the situation and expect to get them by next week. We’ve also asked for details from weather agencies on the average annual rainfall in the past five years especially around the monsoon season. We will need to study those reports to arrive at a conclusion,” said Vinod Seshan, director, agriculture. “The measures to be taken to help farmers will be decided after all details are received. As a first step to aid farmers cope with the issue, we have decided on cultivation of pulses in the next cropping season instead of paddy as it requires less water,” he added. Deficient rainfall has also cast a spell of gloom on Assam’s tea industry, which was hoping to recover this year after suffering last year due to lockdown and other restrictions imposed due to Covid-19. “Tea gardens across Assam will see a big impact due to the drought-like conditions witnessed from March to May, when the first plucking season of tea leaves takes place. It is unlike anything the industry, which is heavily dependent on rainfall, has witnessed in the past 30 years,” said Bidyananda Barkakoty, adviser, North East Tea Association (NETA). “Though there has been some rainfall since June, tea gardens are still experiencing less production due to the impact of deficient rainfall in the first few months of the plucking season. Last year, tea production in Assam came down by nearly 100 million kg due to Covid-19 and this year we could have around 80 million kg less production due to deficient rainfall,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/instead-of-floods-assam-witnesses-less-rainfall-this-monsoon-101629030139880.html
15-08-2021||India||Manali-Leh highway blocked after boulders tumble down mountainside in Himachal||The Manali-Leh National highway 3 in the Lahaul-Spiti district of Himachal Pradesh was blocked on Sunday after boulders tumbled down the mountainside, according to the state disaster department.Due to the incident, which occurred near Killing Sarai, the Shilla Nullah Bridge (Rangrik-Kibber route) in Spiti valley was damaged. The district administration has deployed a team of the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) for clearing the blocked road and the operation is expected to be completed by Sunday evening.The state has been observing incessant rainfall over the past few days, which caused a massive landslide on August 11 in Kinnaur district. A 30-seater Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus, a truck, and four cars toppled down and came under rubble. The death toll due to the landslide rose to 23 on Saturday following the recovery of six more bodies from the debris, deputy commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq said.He said that the additional bodies were discovered scattered within a 50-100 feet radius from the wreckage of the bus, which was pushed down 70 metres from the highway in the landslide near Negulsari. “The rescue operation is being repeatedly hampered due to shooting stones in the area,” Sadiq added.The rescue operation is being conducted by respective teams of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, National Disaster Response Force, the Indian Army, and the state police. The district administration has informed of putting one more fork line machine into service for facilitating more bodies feared trapped under the rubble. On Friday, a list of as many as 13 people on the HRTC bus was revealed by the administration.Meanwhile, the flow of the Chandrabhagha tributary of Chenab River, which was blocked on Friday, has returned to normal. The blockage resulted in the formation of a lake that posed a risk to the agricultural fields and human habitations near Jasrath village in Lahaul-Spiti district.Also Read | Kinnaur landslide toll climbs to 23, flow of Chandrabagha river normalDeputy commissioner (Lahaul-Spiti) Neeraj Kumar said that the district administration “as a precautionary measure” has asked the villages downstream to “remain alert.”(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manalileh-highway-blocked-after-boulders-tumble-down-mountainside-in-himachal-101629028096521.html
15-08-2021||India||TMC MP Dola Sen alleges attack on convoy on way to hoist Tricolour in Tripura||Trinamool Congress MP Dola Sena said on Sunday her convoy was attacked in South Tripura when she was on her way to hoist the National Flag on the occasion of Independence Day. Stating that she got no help from law enforcers, Sen said police stood as silent spectators during the incident.Sen’s party colleague in Parliament, Aparupa Poddar, was also reportedly targeted, leaving the latter’s aide injured."Some TMC leaders and I were attacked in Sabroom and Belonia in Southern Tripura where we had gone to hoist Tricolour on the occasion of #IndependenceDay. Police were a silent spectator," says TMC MP Dola Sen. pic.twitter.com/9DmqB8zQgX"Some TMC leaders and I were attacked in Sabroom and Belonia in southern Tripura where we had gone to hoist the Tricolour on the occasion of Independence Day. Police were a silent spectator," the MP was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.A day, Poddar, an MP from Arambagh in Bengal, had written on Twitter that Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb’s days in the chair were numbered. She had held a press conference in capital Agartala earlier in the day.Also read | TMC says posters torn in Tripura ahead of Abhishek Banerjee's visit, attacks BJPClashes between leaders and workers of the TMC and the ruling BJP have been reported on several occasions from the hill state over the past few weeks. The Mamata Banerjee-led party has set its eyes on the northeastern state where the Assembly election is due in 2023, even as the BJP has dismissed it as a non-factor in Tripura politics.Several Trinamool leaders, including its national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, have visited the state in recent days and claimed to have come under attack from BJP supporters.On Thursday, two TMC workers were arrested for their alleged involvement in a clash between the party and the BJP in Dhalai district. Fourteen other TMC leaders and workers were arrested and later released on bail earlier in connection with the clash that took place at Ambassa on August 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mp-dola-sen-alleges-attack-on-convoy-on-way-to-hoist-tricolour-in-tripura-101629028641213.html
15-08-2021||India||PM Modi draws criticism in Bengal for error in Red Fort address||Political parties in West Bengal on Sunday targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi for saying in his Independence Day address from Red Fort that freedom fighter Matangini Hazra was from Assam. Modi, while talking of women who left a mark on India’s freedom movement, mentioned Queen Lakshmi Bai of Jhansi, Queen Chennamma of Kittur and Rani Gaidinliu of Nagaland. In the same breath, he said, “Assam’s Matangini Hazra.” Hazra (1869-1942), an ardent follower of Mahatma Gandhi, was a resident of Tamluk, now in East Midnapore district in West Bengal. She died when the police opened fire on a procession she was leading as part of the Quit India movement. In Kolkata, there are many statues of Hazra and a road is also named after her. In 2002, the government of India paid tribute to Hazra by issuing a postage stamp. The ruling Trinamool Congress said the error amounted to an “insult” of Bengal. “Matangini Hazra is a freedom fighter from Bengal, Mr @narendramodi! With such scant regard for our glorious history, you have insulted all of #Bengal once again. Is @BJP4India committed to erasing our history? Mocking it as they please? SHAME,” the TMC tweeted. The party’s state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said, “Blunders like these are bound to happen when someone depends on written speech for dramatic effect. The Prime Minister must apologise right now.” In a bid to defend the Prime Minister, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh said, “He made a small mistake. There are thousands of great people who laid their lives for India’s freedom. People should not make an issue out of this.” Ghosh’s statement triggered stronger reactions with the Congress and the Left sharpening their attack. “The Prime Minister should depend less on the teachings of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and people in his secretariat should educate themselves before preparing his speech,” said Left Front chairman Biman Bose, a veteran Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader. Congress Rajya Sabha member Pradip Bhattacharya said, “This is very unfortunate. Matangini Hazra is an icon.” Many academicians, writers and supporters of political parties took to social media and targeted Modi. Some of them said the faux pas showed why BJP national leaders were called ‘bahiragato’ (outsiders) by the TMC during the recent assembly polls. The incident happened a day after the Bengal BJP’s women’s front, the Mahila Morcha, paid tribute to Hazra. “Remembering Bharat Mata’s valiant daughter Matangini Hazra from West Bengal on the 75th Year of Indian Independence,” the Mahila Morcha tweeted on Saturday with images of Hazra, Modi and BJP national president J P Nadda. Incidentally, BJP legislator Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, also hails from East Midnapore district and mentions Hazra in most of his political speeches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-draws-criticism-in-bengal-for-error-in-red-fort-address-101629026783519.html
15-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: India safeguards diplomats, citizens in Afghanistan as Taliban enter Kabul and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Taliban fighters enter Kabul, India moves to safeguard diplomats, citizensAs Taliban fighters began entering Kabul on Sunday afternoon as part of their lightning blitz against the government-controlled areas, Indian authorities scrambled to ensure the safety of hundreds of diplomats and citizens still in Afghanistan. Read More‘40% of armed Maoists in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra region are women’The representation of women among Maoist cadres in Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra has risen to around 40% and several of them are commanders of various units of the banned ultras and are often involved in clashes with security personnel, said a senior Chhattisgarh police officer. Read More2 arrested for posting facebook video threatening violence in JNU on I-DayDelhi Police said it had apprehended two people accused of threatening to cause violence in Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Independence Day, following a complaint by JNU students’ union on Sunday morning. Read MoreStuart Broad takes a dig at India after Bumrah peppers Anderson with barrage of bouncers on Day 3 of Lord's TestThe duel between Jasprit Bumrah and James Anderson on Day 4 of the second Test between India and England on Saturday proved to be an exciting contest. Read MoreAlia Bhatt lauds Sidharth Malhotra for his performance in Shershaah: 'You were too special'Alia Bhatt showered her ex-boyfriend Sidharth Malhotra with praises for his performance in Shershaah. Read MoreIranian girl uses santoor to play beautiful rendition of Jana Gana Mana. WatchThere are certain videos on the Internet that are so amazing that they can give you goosebumps. Read MoreOla Electric scooter S1 launched at ₹1 lakh: Range, features, specs revealedOla Electric scooter S1 has been officially launched in the country at a starting and introductory price of ₹99,999 (ex-showroom). Read MorePUBG Mobile Lite: How to quickly progress and rank up in the game on BGMIPUBG Mobile Lite is a popular battle royale game that is well known for allowing players who do not have the latest high-level specs to play PUBG Mobile. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-safeguards-diplomats-citizens-in-afghanistan-as-taliban-enter-kabul-and-all-the-latest-news-101629025170449.html
15-08-2021||India||Delhi-Kabul Air India flight lands 1 hour later amid tense moments in high skies||A scheduled Delhi-Kabul Air India flight took off on time from the Capital’s Indira Gandhi National airport a little after noon but the reality on the ground in Afghanistan changed dramatically before it could commence its landing. The two hour twenty minute flight had to hold in the air for nearly an hour. The Taliban army, which has swept the war-torn country, reached the outskirts of Kabul and officials in Kabul’s air traffic control were not available to help Air India Flight 243 land.The commercial, passenger flight finally landed an hour later, amid tense moments and drama in the high skies. The flight is also bringing back diplomats and security officials posted at the Indian embassy in Kabul. Indian consulates in Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif – two of Afghanistan’s largest cities – were handed over to local staff over the last four weeks and all Indians evacuated via special flights. Only two days ago, the Ministry of External Affairs had said it was not closing the embassy in Kabul but the speed with which the gun-toting Talibs conquered province after province and raced to Kabul, stunned many, including the United States. The United States sent helicopters to evacuate its staff from its mission in Kabul and asked its staff to delete all sensitive information. AI 243, currently at Kabul airport, is waiting to refuel and take-off for Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhikabul-air-india-flight-lands-1-hour-later-amid-tense-moments-in-high-skies-101629025580170.html
15-08-2021||India||‘40% of armed Maoists in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra region are women’||The representation of women among Maoist cadres in Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra has risen to around 40% and several of them are commanders of various units of the banned ultras and are often involved in clashes with security personnel, said a senior Chhattisgarh police officer. However, women representation in the decision making process of the Maoist is still very low, he added.Sujata (65), in charge of South Bastar division of Maoists’ Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC) was one among the key planners in almost all ambushes in South Bastar, which is the core area of Maoists in the country. Even at 65, she carries an AK-47 and speaks six languages including local Halbi and Gondi, the police officer quoted above said.Sujata, the wife of senior leader Mallojula Koteswara Rao alias Kishenji who was killed in 2011 in an operation, is in-charge of logistics and other support in the Teklaguda attack this April, in which 22 security personnel were killed.“Sujata is very active, sharp and important for Maoists in South Bastar. In the April 4 incident, she was continuously talking to Mandvi Hidma during the ambush. Hidma, the head of battalion number 1 of Maoists, led the attack in Teklaguda on security forces. Sujata and his team were rescuing the injured Maoists and also collecting the arms and ammunition of slain security personnel. Mainly, she has been among the key planners of any big attack in South Bastar,” said a senior police officer posted in Bastar.Another prominent woman commander is Sujatakka, who is in charge of the Maad division of CPI (Maoist). The ultras are said to have recruited the maximum number of people from this area in the past two years.“Sujatakka is a powerful woman commander, a member of DKSZC, and she also carries an AK-47. She has been instrumental in hiring many women cadres in Bastar,” the police officer quoted above said. In South Bastar, of the total 653 Maoist cadres, 310 are women and in West Bastar, 169 out of 420 are women. North Bastar division has 106 women among 226 members and the Maad division has 134 women out of the 322 armed cadres in the area, according to police records.Police officials said Sujatakka was instrumental in recruiting women in South and West Bastar divisions, both headed by women and this was the reason that the presence of women cadre was the highest in the core Maoist area.According to figures collected by HT from Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra police, the total estimated strength of armed Maoists in the region is 2,498, of which 1,391 are men and 1,107 women. “So, approximately 40% are women, which used to be less than 20% till a decade ago,” a senior Chhattisgarh police officer said.The cadre is from nine divisions of CPI (Maoist) Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC), central committee members of CPI (Maoist), the newly formed Maharashtra – Madhya Pradesh Chhattisgarh (MMC) zone and two other divisions (Mainpuri-Nuapada joint division and Bargarh-Balangir and Mahasamund ( BBM) division which falls in Chhattisgarh and Odisha respectively.However, decision making is still dominated by men. Of the 21 members in the central committee of the Communist Party of India (Maoist), there is only one woman, Sheela Marandi. In the 14 member Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC) there are only two women, officials said.Abhishek Pallava, Dantewada’s police chief gave three reasons for Maoists recruiting more women.“Firstly, women are more dedicated and loyal. Secondly, low surrender rates of women cadres and the fact that they are difficult to arrest as they can easily get mixed with villagers. And thirdly, women are traditionally dominant in tribal societies, so involvement of women cadres gives legitimacy to Maoists in this area,” he said.Sunderaj P, inspector general of police, Bastar, pointed out that women have not been able to rise in the hierarchy of CPI (Maoists). “This is evident from the fact that till date not even one women cadre has been inducted into the Politburo of CPI Maoist,” he said, and added that there was no female in their apex military wing, the Central Military Commission (CMC)/State Military Commission (SMC), showing there was no gender equality at the top level in the Maoist organisational structure.An intelligence officer monitoring the Bastar area said representation of women in the People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA) of CPI (Maoist) gained momentum after the start of Salwa-Judum (from 2006 onwards) and reached the 40% mark, considered very high. He said that during Salwa Judum, women were targeted by special police officers (SPOs) resulting in the women inculcating deep hatred against security forces and a sense of vengeance.“Prior to the Salwa Judum, most female Maoist leaders were members of frontal wings such as Chetna Natya Manch (CNM), cultural wing and Dandakaranya Krantikari Adivasi Mahila Sangh (DKAMS). Very few were in organizational work,” he said.Another senior police officer, who was not willing to be named, said higher representation of women was helping Maoists in establishing better connections with tribals and also in hiring more young people.Shubhranshu Chaudhary, a peace activist working in Bastar, claimed that Maoists strategically used sentiments against “patriarchy” in tribal regions for inducting more women.“As there was very little class conflict in Bastar, Maoists chose to focus on patriarchy in adivasi societies from the beginning as a strategy. They claim Krantikari Adivasi Mahila Sangh, a banned organization, is the world’s biggest women’s organization. They always celebrated 8th March as women’s day in a big way. The high number of women in Maoist outfits is not an accident and it did not increase after Salwa Judum but it is an outcome of a thoughtful strategy implemented in the last 40 years,” said Chaudhary.But an author, who has interviewed many armed women cadres, believes that patriarchy is not the only reason behind women’s participation.“All human societies have elements of patriarchy, but Gond adivasis of Bastar offer far more political and cultural rights to its women than many others. If we say that many Gond adivasi women joined the Maoists ranks to escape patriarchy in their society, we must also acknowledge that these women could leave their families and easily take up arms because their families had given them enough space to exercise their political choices. Urban women face strong opposition when they leave their families, but we have barely seen any resistance in the adivasi community,” said Ashutosh Bhardwaj, who has written extensively on Bastar’s Maoist movement.Sunderaj disagreed with both arguments and said young boys and girls are forcefully and coercively recruited by Maoists. “Those who challenge the Maoist leadership are targeted and punished. Due to this fear factor, parents of young boys and girls cannot stop their children from being taken away,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-of-armed-maoists-in-chhattisgarh-maharashtra-region-are-women-101629024620196.html
15-08-2021||India||Burhan Wani's father hoists Tricolour at Pulwama school on Independence Day||The father of slain Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist Burhan Wani hoisted the Tricolour at a school in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on the occasion of the country’s 75th Independence Day on Sunday. Muzaffar Wani, a teacher by profession, unfurled the National Flag on the premises of the Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Tral, Pulwama, according to news reports.The Jammu and Kashmir administration had directed all departments in the Union Territory, including the education department, to hold a flag-hoisting ceremony on their office premises during the day as part of the Central government’s ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations.Burhan Wani was a self-styled commander of the militant group Hizbul Mujahideen. He and two other militants were killed during an encounter by the security forces in Anantnag district in July 2016.The 22-year-old’s death had triggered widespread protests across Kashmir that lasted for nearly five months leading to loss of many lives, while several others were injured. A resident of Dadsara village in the Tral area, Wani had fast risen through the ranks of the militant group and became the district commander and figured in the list of the agencies’ most-wanted militants.Meanwhile, coronavirus-induced restrictions were relaxed in the Union territory on the occasion of Independence Day. The administration’s cap of not allowing a gathering of more than 25 people was temporarily eased on August 8 for Independence Day celebrations. Further, the department said the celebrations would be held subject to Covid-appropriate behaviour and all district magistrates would have to ensure the same.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/burhan-wani-s-father-hoists-tricolour-at-pulwama-school-on-independence-day-101629023792290.html
15-08-2021||India||2 arrested for posting facebook video threatening violence in JNU on I-Day||Delhi Police said it had apprehended two people accused of threatening to cause violence in Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Independence Day, following a complaint by JNU students’ union on Sunday morning. The complainant alleged that the threat was doled out in a video posted on the facebook page of ‘Mahakal Youth Brigade’, police said.Delhi police officials said they also received several PCR calls in the matter. “After receiving the PCR call, police personnel were deployed in plain clothes at all gates. The caller came to police station and filed the complaint, also JNUSU office bearers wrote similar complaint, in which they alleged that the video promotes disharmony and enmity between religions, using inflammatory language and also openly issuing threats to [cause] physical hurt,” said DCP (Southwest Delhi) Ingit Pratap Singh.A case has been registered under Section 153A (promoting enmity), 295A (insulting religious beliefs), 505 and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code and an investigation is underway. The police have arrested Uttam Nagar resident Vikas Sehrawat, who was identified as the person giving the call to violence in the video and Raja Kumar, 19, owner of the phone which was used to upload the video. Bringing attention to the two videos posted on the facebook page on August 9 and 14, JNUSU said it gave “an open call to gather and march” into JNU campus on August 15 between 2-6 pm to hoist a saffron flag. “Additionally, in both videos, there is an open call to violence against any students they encounter during their... hate speech towards Muslims,” JNUSU wrote in their police complaint.In the purported videos, the speaker calls for people to gather and enter JNU campus to hoist saffron flags in presence of “anti-national” teachers and students.“This man just threatened JNU students. After the January 5 incident we should be aware of such videos and we need to report to the authorities as soon as possible,” said JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh.On January 5 last year, a group of masked assailants entered JNU campus and attacked 36 teachers and students including Ghosh who received head injuries in the incident. Earlier this month, the Centre informed Parliament that the Delhi Police have not arrested anyone in connection with the violence.On Sunday, JNUSU office-bearers have requested the security branch of the varsity to take “immediate action to resist and stop any untoward incident which can disrupt the harmony within the campus and can pose a threat to JNU community.” Despite repeated attempts, vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar did not respond on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-arrested-for-posting-facebook-video-threatening-violence-in-jnu-on-iday-101629022939372.html
15-08-2021||India||Taliban fighters enter Kabul, India moves to safeguard diplomats, citizens||As Taliban fighters began entering Kabul on Sunday afternoon as part of their lightning blitz against the government-controlled areas, Indian authorities scrambled to ensure the safety of hundreds of diplomats and citizens still in Afghanistan.The speed of the Taliban’s advance into the capital again took most countries by surprise, though people familiar with developments said the Indian side was well prepared for all contingencies. The Indian Air Force’s heavy lift aircraft, especially the C-17 Globemasters, have been on round-the-clock standby for several days and can be pressed into service at short notice for evacuation.The Indian side had been anticipating the Taliban advance into Kabul would take a few more days and media reports about the entry of fighters into the city on Sunday triggered hectic consultations, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.Also Read | Delhi-Kabul Air India flight lands 1 hour later amid tense moments in high skiesPlans are also in place for the destruction and retrieval of documents and computers at the Indian embassy, which is the only functional mission in Afghanistan following the withdrawal of staff from the consulates in Herat, Jalalabad, Mazar-e-Sharif and Kandahar over the past year.Taliban fighters began entering Kabul from all sides without facing any resistance, BBC reported. The move came hours after the Taliban captured Jalalabad, the last major city in the north that was under government control, without a struggle.The Afghan presidential palace said in a message in Pashto posted on its Twitter handle that the situation was “under control” and Kabul had not been attacked, though there were instances of sporadic shooting. It said Afghan security forces were working with international partners to ensure the security of Kabul.The Taliban, in a statement in Pashto, claimed “all parts of the country have come under the control of the Islamic Emirate”. It said the group’s fighters do not intend to enter Kabul, which is densely populated, “by force or war, but rather to enter peacefully”.The statement added negotiations were underway to “ensure the transition process is completed safely and securely, without compromising the lives, property and honour of anyone”. The Taliban instructed its fighters “to stand at the gates of Kabul” and not to try to enter the city, and to also ensure the security of the capital until the transition process is completed.“We reiterate that the Islamic Emirate does not intend to take revenge on anyone, all those who have served in the military and civilian sectors in the Kabul administration are forgiven and safe, no one will be retaliated against,” the statement said.The people cited above said the Taliban’s assurances couldn’t be taken for granted, given the ample evidence that the group’s political leadership isn’t fully in control of fighters on the ground, and the reports of summary executions of security forces and people who backed the government as well as violation of the rights of women and civil society activists.There were also reports of people making a run for banks to withdraw money and to foreign embassies to seek visas to leave Afghanistan. The Indian embassy too has been swamped with requests for visas over the past few days. Kabul airport is currently the only way out of the country, with all land border crossings currently under the control of the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-fighters-enter-kabul-india-moves-to-safeguard-diplomats-citizens-101629021319378.html
15-08-2021||India||CJI Ramana says ‘sorry state of affairs’ in Parliament, lack of clarity on laws||Chief Justice of India NV Ramana said on Sunday Parliament was witnessing a sorry state of affairs and there was no clarity of laws leading to a lot of inconvenience for all.Speaking at a flag-hoisting ceremony, the chief justice said earlier debates in the two Houses of Parliament used to be very wise and constructive, but now there was lack of quality in the discussions being held while enacting laws, adding that such a situation usually arose when intellectuals and professionals like lawyers were not present in the House.The CJI’s statement came amid widespread criticism of the recently concluded monsoon session of Parliament that came to an abrupt end, two days ahead of its schedule, due to repeated disruptions and ruckus in both Houses."If you see debates which used to take place in Houses in those days, they used to be very wise, constructive… Now, (it is) a sorry state of affairs...There is no clarity in laws. It is creating a lot of litigation and loss to the government as well as inconvenience to the public," the CJI was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“There is no clarity in laws. We don't know for what purpose the laws are made. In the absence of quality debate, we are unable to fathom the intent and object behind the new law: This is what happens if intellectuals and professionals like lawyers are not there in the Houses,” the CJI said.Also read | Mr PM, a straight Q for you: Here's what Derek O'Brien wants to know from ModiThe recent session of Parliament was characterised by strident protests by the Opposition demanding discussions on issues like the Pegasus snooping controversy, farm laws and inflation, a focused and accelerated push of key laws by the government, and plain acrimony. Frequent dins became the order of the day as both the government and Opposition refused to budge from their stand. While the government successfully managed to introduce 15 bills and get Parliament’s approval for 20, some were passed in minutes with no one other than the minister in charge speaking on the same, a norm that has been severely criticised by Opposition leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cji-ramana-says-sorry-state-of-affairs-in-parliament-lack-of-clarity-on-laws-101629019620222.html
15-08-2021||India||PM Modi addresses nation on India's 75th Independence Day. Here's what he said||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort on the occasion of India's 75th Independence Day. India is celebrating 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' ', marking the 75th year of Independence. A series of events are being organised across the nation to mark the occasion. PM Modi said 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' will infuse new energy and new consciousness among the countrymen.Here is the full text of PM Modi's address on India's 75th Independence DayToday, on the pious festival of the Amrit Mahotsav of freedom, the country is bowing to all its freedom fighters and brave heroes who continue to sacrifice themselves day and night in the defense of the nation. The country is remembering every personality, including the revered Bapu, who made freedom a mass movement, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, who sacrificed everything for the freedom, or great revolutionaries like Bhagat Singh, Chandrasekhar Azad, Bismil and Ashfaqulla Khan; Rani of Jhansi Lakshmibai, Queen Chennamma of Kittur or Rani Gaidinliu or the valour of MatanginiHazra; the country's first Prime Minister Pandit Nehru ji, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, who integrated the country into a united nation, and Baba Saheb Ambedkar, who determined and paved the way for the future direction of India. The country is indebted to all these great personalities.While we celebrate our freedom today, we cannot forget the pain of partition that still pierces through the heart of all Indians. This has been one of the biggest tragedies of the last century. After attaining freedom, these people were forgotten too soon. Just yesterday India has taken an emotional decision, we will henceforth commemorate August 14 as “Partition Horrors Remembrance Day” in the memory of the victims of partition. Those who were subjected to inhuman circumstances, suffered torturous treatment, they could not even receive a dignified cremation. They must all remain alive and never get erased from our memories. The decision of celebrating “Partition Horrors Remembrance Day” on the 75th Independence Day is a befitting tribute from every Indian to them.Along with modern infrastructure, there is a great need for adopting a holistic and integrated approach in infrastructure construction. In the near future, we are going to launch the National Master Plan of Prime Minister ‘Gati Shakti’ which will be a huge scheme and fulfil the dreams of crores of countrymen. This scheme of more than 100 lakh crores rupees will result in new employment opportunities for lakhs of youth.It is a moment of pride for us that because of our scientists, we were able to develop two Make in India COVID Vaccines and carry out the world's Largest Vaccine Drive.It was extremely difficult to get vaccines during such a major crisis, with pandemic plaguing the entire world. India might or might not have received it and even if it had received the vaccine there was no certainty of getting that in time. But today we can proudly say that the world's largest vaccination programme is being run in our country. More than 54 crore people have received the vaccine dose. Online systems like Cowin and digital certificates are attracting the world today.Our doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, sanitation staff, scientists engaged in developing vaccines, millions of countrymen engaged with the spirit of service during this Corona global pandemic also deserve praise from all of us.India’s young generation has made our country proud at the Tokyo Olympics. All such athletes are amongst us today. They have not only won our hearts but also inspired our young generation.The way India has kept the stoves burning for the poor's house by providing free food grains to 80 crore countrymen continuously for months during the pandemic is not only astonishing to the world but also a matter of discussion.It is true that fewer people have been infected in India as compared to other countries; it is also true that in comparison to the population of other countries of the world, we managed to save more citizens in India but it is not something to be proud of! We cannot rest on these laurels. To say that there was no challenge, will become a restrictive thought in the path of our own development.Our goal is to develop a nation where we not only have world-class infrastructure but also move ahead with the mantra of 'Minimum government, maximum governance'.We should not limit the occasion of 75 years of Indian independence to just one ceremony. We must lay the groundwork for new resolutions and move forward with new resolutions. Starting from here, the entire journey of the next 25 years, when we celebrate the centenary of Indian independence, marks the Amrit period of creation of a new India. The fulfilment of our resolutions in this Amrit period will take us to the hundredth anniversary of Indian independence with pride.The goal of 'Amrit Kaal' is to ascend to new heights of prosperity for India and the citizens of India. The goal of 'Amrit Kaal' is to create an India where the level of facilities is not dividing the village and the city. The goal of 'Amrit Kaal' is to build an India where the government does not interfere unnecessarily in the lives of citizens. The goal of 'Amrit Kaal' is to build an India where there is world’s every modern infrastructure.Amrit Kaal is of 25 years. But we don't have to wait for long to achieve our goals. We have to start now. We don't have a moment to lose. This is the right time. Our country also has to change and we as citizens have to change ourselves too. We also have to adapt ourselves to the changing era. We have started with the spirit of ‘SabkaSaath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas’. Today I am requesting from the ramparts of the Red Fort that ‘SabkaSaath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas’ and now SakkaPrayas are very important for the achievement of our goals.In this Bharat ki Vikas Yatra, we have to ensure that we meet our goal of building an AatmaNirbhar Bharat when we celebrate 100 years of India's Independence.Just as we have made electricity accessible to 100% households, and have made authentic efforts to construct toilets in 100% households, similarly, we now have to move ahead with the goal of achieving saturation of schemes, and, for this, we do not have to keep a distant deadline. We have to make our resolutions come true within a few years.Now, we have to move even further. 100% villages should have roads, 100% households should have a bank account, 100% beneficiaries should have Ayushman Bharat card, 100% eligible persons should have gas connection under Ujjwala scheme and 100% beneficiaries should have Aawas.We have to move ahead with a mindset of cent percent achievement. Till now, no thought was given for our street vendors, who sell their goods on tracks, footpaths and carts. All these colleagues are now being linked to the banking system through the SVANidhi scheme.We have to move forward with the goal of ensuring that every citizen is connected with government's transformative schemes.In the last few years, our government has provided roads and electricity to the villages. Now these villages have been strengthened with optical fibre network data and the Internet.I am happy that just within 2 years of Jal Jeevan Mission, over 4.5 Crore families have started receiving Nal Se Jal; this is our main achievement when the benefit reaches the last mile citizen.Poshanis one of the key focus of our government. The government has also been working on preventive healthcare, and building health and wellness infrastructure.We need to provide hand holding to the backward categories and sectors. With the concern of fulfilling the basic needs, reservation is being ensured for the Dalits, Backward classes, Adivasis and the poor people from general category. More recently, in the field of medical education, reservation has also been ensured for the OBC category in the All India Quota. By formulating a law in Parliament, the right to make their own list of OBC has been given to the states.Be it rice available at ration shop, rice available in mid-day meal, rice available through every scheme will be fortified by the year 2024.The delimitation commission has been constituted in Jammu and Kashmir itself and preparations are also going on for the assembly elections.Ladakh is witnessing a new transformative phase where the government is focusing on building world-class infrastructure.On one hand, Ladakh is witnessing the creation of modern infrastructure, while on the other, ‘Sindhu Central University’ is going to make Ladakh a centre of higher education.There is a huge potential in the fields of tourism, adventure sports, organic farming, herbal medicine, and oil pump in the North East. We have to fully harness this potential and make it a part of the development journey of the country. And we have to complete this work within a few decades of the ‘Amrit Kaal’. Giving a fair opportunity to the capabilities of all is the true spirit of democracy. Be it Jammu or Kashmir, the balance of development is now visible on the ground.Whether East, North East, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, the entire Himalayan region, our coastal belt or tribal region, these will become a big base for India's development in the future.Today a new history of connectivity is being written in the North-East. This is a connectivity of both the hearts and the infrastructure. Very soon the work of connecting all the state capitals of the North-East with rail service is going to be completed.Under the Act-East Policy, today North-East, Bangladesh, Myanmar and South-East Asia are also being connected. Due to the efforts made in the past years, now the enthusiasm for the creation of Shreshtha Bharat and long-lasting peace in the North-East has increased manifold.We are witnessing a new phase in the developmental journey of our villages. It not only has electricity and water but also nurturing Digital Entrepreneurs.Priority is being given to schemes related to education, health, nutrition, roads, employment, in over 110 aspirational districts of the country. Many of these districts are in tribal areas.We have to focus on helping our small farmers. We have to give maximum benefits of the government's schemes to them; be it through DBT or Krishi Rail.Kisan Rail can help small farmers with this modern facility to reach far flung areas on a low cost of produce and transportation. Several products like Kamalam, Shahi litchi, BhutJolokiachillis, black rice or turmeric are being exported to different countries of the world.The government is now focusing on welfare of small farmers. 10 Crore farmer families have directly received over ₹1.5 lakh crore in their bank accounts.SVAMITVA Yojna is transforming the lives in rural India. Drone is helping our rural citizens to map their land and apply for various schemes/loans online.Co-operatives are not just a system with a network of laws and rules, but co-operative is a spirit, culture, and a mindset of collective growth. We have taken steps to empower them by forming a separate ministry. We have taken this step to empower the cooperative sector in the states.In the coming years, we will have to increase the collective power of the small farmers of the country. They have to be given new facilities. We are trying to empower these farmers through SVAMITVA Yojana.We have decided to celebrate this Amrit Mahotsav of independence for 75 weeks. It started from 12th March and will continue till 15th August, 2023. We have to move forward with new enthusiasm and, therefore, the country has made a very important decision.During these 75 weeks of the Amrit Mahotsav of Independence, 75 Vande Bharat trains will connect every corner of the country. The pace at which new airports are being built in the country and the UDAN scheme connecting remote areas is unprecedented.We will have to work together for manufacturing world class products, using cutting-edge innovation and new age technology.Under the Jan Aushadhi Yojana, the poor and needy are now getting affordable medicines. Over 75,000 Health & Wellness Centres have been built and we are working on a network of hospitals at the block level.To further increase our developmental progress, we have to focus on our manufacturing and export.The country has also announced Production Linked Incentive to consolidate our Make in India campaign in the wake of the new economic conditions that have emerged due to Corona. The electronic manufacturing sector stands as an example of the change that is enforced through this scheme. Seven years ago, we used to import mobile phones worth about eight billion dollars. However, now the import has reduced considerably, and today we are also exporting mobile phones worth three billion dollars.Treading ahead on the path of development, India will have to augment both its manufacturing and exports. You have witnessed, just a few days ago, India launched its first indigenous Aircraft Carrier INS Vikrant for trial in the sea. Today India is making its own indigenous fighter aircraft, its own submarine. Gaganyaan is also slated to hoist India's flag in space. This itself is evidential of our immense capabilities in indigenous manufacturing.I want to tell the manufacturers - Every product you make is a brand ambassador for India. As long as that product is in use, the buyer will say - yes this isMade in India.We have to stop the over involvement of government in the form of complex policies. Today, we have abolished over 15,000 unnecessary compliances.We have introduced tax reforms that will give impetus to Ease of Living and Ease of Doing Business.Good and smart governance is required to implement the reforms. Today, the world is also witnessing how India is writing a new chapter of governance.To introduce people centric approach in Bureaucracy, we have started Mission Karmayogiand Capacity Building programme.Today the country also has a new National Education Policy to meet the needs of the 21st century. Now our children will neither stop due to lack of skills nor will they be bound by language barriers.This new National Education Policy is also going to be a great tool to fight against poverty in a way. The basis of winning the war against poverty is also the education, prestige and importance of the vernacular language.In a move towards strengthening BetiBachao, BetiPadhaoinitiative, our daughters will now be able to study in Sainik schools too.Today, be it education or Olympics our daughters are performing tremendously. We have to ensure that they get equal opportunities and they feel safe and respected.More than eight crore sisters in the villages are associated with Self-Help Groups and they design top-end products. Now the government will also prepare an e-commerce platform to ensure a huge market in the country and abroad for their products. When the country is moving forward with the mantra of being vocal for local, this digital platform will connect the products of women self-help groups with people in far flung areas of the country as well as abroad and it will have far-reaching consequences.India is not Energy independent. It spends over Rs. 12 lakh crores on importing energy. As we celebrate 75 years of Independence, we have to ensure that India becomes AatmaNirbharin energy production too.We are giving equal emphasis to Environmental Security as to National Security. Be it biodiversity or land neutrality, climate change or waste recycling, organic farming, India is progressing in all these sectors.In this decade of the 21st century, India will further accelerate its efforts towards the Blue Economy.The Deep Ocean Mission is the result of our ambition to explore the unlimited possibilities of the ocean. The mineral wealth which is hidden in the sea, the thermal energy which is in the sea water, can give new heights to the development of the country.Green Hydrogen is the future of the world. Today, I announce the setting up of the National Hydrogen Mission.We have to make India a Global Hub for Green Hydrogen Production and Export in the 'Amrit Kaal'. This will not only help India to make a new progress in the field of energy self-reliance but will also become a new inspiration for Clean Energy Transition all over the world. New opportunities from Green Growth to Green Job are opening up today for our start-ups & youth.India has also made a move towards Electric Mobility and the work on 100% electrification of Railways is also progressing at a fast pace. Indian Railways has set a target of becoming Net Zero Carbon Emitter by 2030.The country is also emphasizing on Mission Circular Economy. Our Vehicle Scrap Policy is a great example of the same. Today, India is the only country in the group of G-20 countries, which is moving fast towards achieving its climate goals.India has set a target of 450 GW of renewable energy by the end of this decade - 450 GW by 2030. Of this, the target of 100 GW has been achieved by India ahead of schedule.Today India is also solving those subject areas, which were hanging fires for decades and centuries. Be it a historic decision to abrogate Article 370, introduction of GST, a system that frees the country from the web of taxes, a decision regarding 'One Rank-One Pension' for our military friends, a peaceful solution to the Ram Janmabhoomi issue, we have seen it come true in a few years.India’s willpower is realizing all the resolutions whether it is the Bru-Reang agreement in Tripura after decades, constitutional status to the OBC commission or the BDC and DDC elections in Jammu and Kashmir for the first time since independence.The nature of global relations has changed after the Second World War. There is a possibility of a new world order post Corona. The world has seen and appreciated India's efforts during Corona. Today the world is looking at India from a new perspective. There are two important aspects of this perception -- one is terrorism and the other is expansionism. India is fighting both these challenges and is also responding strongly in a restrained manner. Our defense preparedness has to be equally strong if India has to fulfill its obligations properly.Our youth is the 'Can Do' Generation, and they can achieve everything they set their mind to.Our actions today will determine our future. Our today will set the theme of our 100 years of India's Independence.I am not a fortune teller, I believe in the fruits of action. I have faith in the youth of my country, I trust the sisters of the country, the daughters of the country, the farmers of the country, or the professionals of the country. This ‘CAN DO’ generation can achieve every unimaginable goal.In the 21st century, no obstacle can stop us from fulfilling the dreams and aspirations of India. Our strength is our vitality, our strength is our solidarity, our vitality is the spirit of nation first - always first. This is the time for shared dreams, this is the time for shared resolve, this is the time for shared efforts... and this is the time to move towards victory.Today is also the birth anniversary of the great thinker of the country, Sri Aurobindo. His 150th birth anniversary will be celebrated in 2022. Sri Aurobindo was a visionary of India's bright future. He used to say that we have to be as powerful as we were never before. We have to change our habits. We have to re-awaken ourselves.When Swami Vivekananda used to talk about the future of India, when he used to see the magnificence of Mother Bharati in front of his eyes, he used to say – Try to look into the past as far as possible. Drink the water of the ever-new spring flowing back there, and after that, look ahead. Go ahead and make India brighter, greater & better than ever. In this 75th year of independence, it is our duty to move forward believing in the immense potential of the country. We have to work together for new generation infrastructure; we have to work together for world class manufacturing; we have to work together for cutting edge innovations; we have to work together for new age technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-addresses-nation-on-india-s-75th-independence-day-here-s-what-he-said-101629018075981.html
15-08-2021||India||India to meet climate goals, be green hydrogen hub: Modi on Independence Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on the occasion of India's 75th Independence Day on Sunday that it is the only country among the G-20 nations that is on the path of meeting its climate goals. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the historic Red Fort in Delhi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also announced his government's decision to set up the National Hydrogen Mission, with an aim for India to become the new global hub and the exporter of green hydrogen. “Not only will green hydrogen be the basis of green growth through green jobs but it will also set an example for the world towards clean energy transition,” he said.The Prime Minister also set the country a target of 2047 — when India would celebrate its 100th Independence day — to achieve self-reliance in energy production through a mix of electric mobility, gas-based economy, doping ethanol in petrol to make the country a hub for hydrogen production.“India is not energy independent. It spends over ₹12 lakh crore every year on importing energy. As we celebrate 75 years of Independence, we have to ensure that India becomes self reliant in energy production, too,” PM Modi said.The roadmap for that is to increase usage of natural gas in the economy, setting up a network of CNG and piped natural gas networks across India, blending 20% ethanol in petrol and electric mobility, the Prime Minister said.ALSO READ |  Now is the time to change the world and transform ourselves as citizens: PM ModiHighlighting that the country has achieved a milestone of 100 gigawatts of renewable energy capacity ahead of the target of 450 gigawatts by 2030, the Prime Minister said, “The world believes in India's leadership in environmental issues and International Solar Alliance is an example of that.”Modi said India gives equal emphasis to environmental security as to national security. “Be it biodiversity or land neutrality, climate change or waste recycling, organic farming, India is progressing in all these sectors,” the Prime Minister told the nation from the Red Fort. He also said the country aims to become a net-zero carbon emitter by 2030 and highlighted that work was underway for 100% electrification of Indian Railways.“Our actions today will determine our future. Our today will set the theme of our 100 years of India's Independence,” said the Prime Minister to conclude his speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-2021-hydrogen-energy-hub-solar-energy-india-climate-goals-modi-101629012924744.html
15-08-2021||India||‘You've inspired our future generations': PM Modi hails India's Olympic stars in Independence Day address||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hailed India’s Olympic contingent from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort as he addressed the nation on 75th Independence Day. The athletes, PM Modi said, have not only won the nation’s hearts, but they have also inspired future generations.“Today, we have with us our Olympic athletes who made India proud. I request the citizens, those who are present at this ceremony and those watching from different corners of the country, to applaud our athletes by clapping for them. Let’s show our respect to Indian sports, to our young generation, and to our athletes who brought laurels to the country,” urged the Prime Minister, as he led the audience in applauding the athletes. He added, “We can be proud of the fact that our athletes have not only the nation’s hearts, but they have also done something that will inspire generations to come.”On August 3, PM Modi sent an invitation to the athletes to be a part of Independence Day celebrations at the Red Fort. In the recently concluded Games in Tokyo, the Indian contingent won a record seven medals, which included one gold medal, two silver and four bronze medals. Neeraj Chopra, the javelin thrower, brought home India’s first Olympic gold in 13 years, after Abhinav Bindra shot his way to gold at Beijing in 2008; Chopra is also India’s second individual gold medallist in the Olympics, after Bindra.On Saturday, they were hosted by President Ram Nath Kovind over high tea. Entire country is proud of the athletes, Kovind said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youve-inspired-our-future-generations-pm-modi-hails-india-s-olympic-stars-in-independence-day-address-101629013731119.html
15-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: On I-Day, Kejriwal says Delhi preparing to host Olympics after 2047 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi preparing to host Olympics after 2047, says Kejriwal on Independence DayKejriwal said that his government has set up Delhi Sports University, which is not only for athletes from the national capital but for the entire country. Read moreMeghalaya hands over erstwhile royal estate in heart of Shillong to ManipurNo one from the Meghalaya government was willing to comment on the seemingly low premium and land revenue charged for the property. Read moreChina's Huawei spied, installed data ‘back door’ in Pakistan: ReportChina’s Huawei Technologies Co stole trade secrets and spied on Pakistan, a small US-based contractor has alleged. Read moreIndependence Day 2021: Viral post remembers Independent India's first Olympic goldThe post is complete with a picture of the winning team as Kishan Lal, the captain of the team is seen standing on the winner’s podium. Read moreFirst Ola Electric S1 scooter rolls out from Ola Future factoryThe Ola S1 e-scooter is expected to be priced at around ₹one lakh and this can further reduce with the state-level subsidies. Read moreJacqueline Fernandez stuns in ultra-glamorous white sareeJacqueline Fernandez gets us excited for a summer destination wedding as she cuts a delicate and sexy silhouette in a sheer white saree. Read moreInside Rhea Kapoor-Karan Boolani's wedding: Sonam Kapoor, Anshula Kapoor are all smilesAfter being in a relationship for over a decade, Rhea Kapoor and Karan Boolani tied the knot in an intimate ceremony on Saturday. Read moreNew Xiaomi Mi Notebook to have Windows Hello, Backlit Keyboard, webcam and moreThe upcoming Xiaomi Mi Notebook has been teased by Raghu Reddy, Chief Business Officer, Xiaomi India. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-on-independence-day-kejriwal-says-delhi-preparing-to-host-olympics-and-all-the-latest-news-101629011441850.html
15-08-2021||India||Meghalaya hands over erstwhile royal estate in heart of Shillong to Manipur||Meghalaya has handed over Manipur a magnificent heritage estate known as Manipur Rajbari (home of Manipur royal family) permanently to amicably settle an old dispute. The development comes at a time when border rows between states in the region have led to deaths and tensions with no immediate resolution in sight.The heritage property which is still inhabited by descendents and agents of the erstwhile Manipur Maharaj (king) will now be converted into Manipur State Bhawan, Manipur chief minister Biren Singh posted on Twitter on Friday.“The historic Manipur Rajbari at Shillong belonged to the Maharaja of Manipur & it was here that Maharaja Bodhachandra stayed during the signing (of) the Manipur Merger Agreement to Dominion of India in Sept 1949. Sadly, the plot no longer belonged to the Royal family of Manipur,” Singh’s post referring to the signing of the agreement to merge Manipur with the Union of India with effect from October 15, 1949 said.He pointed out that the plot measuring 1.93 acres at Redlands in Shillong’s prime and cosmopolitan Laitumkhrah area was handed over after several rounds of talks over a long period of time between successive governments of the two states.“I thank the Govt. of Meghalaya for their cooperation,” Biren Singh added.Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma couldn’t be contacted for his comments.HT managed to see a copy of the legal document certifying the transfer of the royal property, signed on August 12, 2021 by the under secretary to the revenue & disaster management department and addressed to the East Khasi Hills deputy commissioner.Titled “Patta/Possession Certificate for Manipur Bhawan/Rajbari Shillong bearing Holding No. 67 (earlier 6-72) under Ward No. 3 of the Shillong Municipal Corporation,” the official communiqué read, “I am directed to refer to the letter on the subject quoted above and to convey Government’s approval to Settle the land measuring 1.93 acres at Redlands, Laitumkhrah Shillong, in favour of the Government of Manipur, on payment of premium of ₹91,04,784/- including land revenue with effect from 2008 amounting to ₹24,271/-.” The under secretary stated, “This has the Order of the Competent Authority.”No one from the Meghalaya government was willing to comment on the seemingly low premium and land revenue charged for the property, believed to be several times costlier as per market rates. There was also no explanation on how the area of the estate, earlier recorded to be 1.88 acres (according to a survey reportedly conducted by Nanigopal Das, surveyor of directorate of survey, Assam), rose to 1.93 acres in the formal handover, an increase of 2,182.8 sq. ft.It is said that in 1988, Manipur CM R K Joychandra Singh had offered to buy the property for ₹11 lakhs but the deal fell through due to the sudden fall of the Congress government.Once majestic and resplendent abode of the Manipur royals now lies in an utterly dilapidated and unkempt state, unbecoming of its glorious past. Manipur is likely to restore the heritage property to its former glory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-hands-over-erstwhile-royal-estate-in-heart-of-shillong-to-manipur-101629010278290.html
15-08-2021||India||PM Modi ends Independence Day speech with a poem, calls for action||Prime Minister Narendra Modi ended his speech on the country’s 75th Independence Day on Sunday with a poem as he said nothing can stop India's dreams and aspirations from being fulfilled in the 21st century. PM Modi said today is the right time to start a new chapter in India's development journey by tapping into the unused potential. PM Modi stressed he has full faith in the country’s youth and said that this is a "can-do generation" and can achieve every goal. "Our strength is our vitality, our strength is our solidarity. Our life force is the spirit of the nation first,” PM Modi, who was wearing a traditional saffron safa or a headgear with red patterns and a long tail, also said.Also watch | PM Modi recites poem to end Red Fort speech: 'Yahi samay hai...'Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the 17th-century Mughal era Red Fort on the occasion of 75th Independence Day, PM Modi said he is not a soothsayer but believes in action. The Prime Minister said every person will have to join hands to fulfil the resolutions the country has taken.Also read | In veiled reference to Pak, China, PM Modi lists 2 challenges facing IndiaPM Modi recited a poem at the end of his nearly 90-minute speech on Independence Day. He recited a few lines during his Independence Day speech and the poem was also shared by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) on its Twitter account.यही समय है, सही समय है, भारत का अनमोल समय है।कुछ ऐसा नहीं जो कर ना सको,कुछ ऐसा नहीं जो पा ना सको,तुम उठ जाओ, तुम जुट जाओ,सामर्थ्य को अपने पहचानो,कर्तव्य को अपने सब जानो,भारत का ये अनमोल समय है,यही समय है, सही समय है: PM @narendramodiRoughly translated the poem recited by PM Modi reads:"This is the time, the right timePrecious time of India,There's a power of innumerable arms,There is patriotism everywhere,Get up and wave the tricolour,Hoist India's fate,This is the time, the right timePrecious time of India,There's nothing that you can't achieve,Get up and start working,Know your potential,Know your duty to all,This is the precious time of India,It's time, right time”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-ends-independence-day-speech-with-a-poem-calls-for-action-101629008187738.html
15-08-2021||India||Sainik Schools now open for girls as well: All you need to know||A key announcement made by prime minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation on 75th Independence Day was that Sainik Schools, which traditionally admit only boys, will now be open for girls as well. “I got messages from lakhs of girls from across the country expressing their desire to study in Sainik Schools. Hence, the government has decided that all such schools across the country will now be open for girls as well,” PM Modi said.Here’s all you need to know about Sainik Schools:(1.) These schools are the brainchild of VK Krishna Menon, who was the Union defence minister from April 1957 to October 1962. Menon conceived this idea in 1961. (2.) An All India Sainik School Entrance Examination (AISSEE) is conducted for admission to Sainik Schools, which follow the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) curriculum. For classes 6 and 9, students are granted admission on the basis of their performance in the entrance exam. For class 11, the basis of admission is marks scored in class 10 board exams.Also Read | Mission Karmyayogi to fuel efficiency in bureucracy: Modi at Red Fort(3.) However, it is to be noted that 67% seats are reserved for students who are from the home state of a Sainik School. The remaining 33% students are admitted from outside the home state. There is reservation also on the basis of Scheduled Castes (15%), Scheduled Tribes (7.5%), Other Backward Classes (27%) and for wards of current and former servicemen (25%).(4.) At present, there are 33 such schools in the country. Uttar Pradesh has three Sainik Schools, while Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Odisha and Rajasthan have two schools each.Also Read | In veiled reference to Pak, China, PM Modi lists 2 challenges facing India(5.) These schools are run by the Sainik Schools Society under the Union ministry of defence (MoD). As the name suggests, Sainik Schools prepare students for a career in the armed forces. Hence students here are called “cadets” and have to follow strict rules, which are on the lines of those in military academies.Click here for all live updates of Independence Day 2021 celebrations(6.) As a pilot project, Sainik School in Mizoram’s Chhingchhip began admitting girls from October 2019. PM Modi mentioned the school while making the announcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sainik-schools-now-open-for-girls-as-well-all-you-need-to-know-101629007850805.html
15-08-2021||India||Mission Karmyayogi to fuel efficiency in bureaucracy: Modi at Red Fort||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the Centre started Mission Karmayogi and set up a capacity building commission to introduce a people-centric approach and efficiency in bureaucracy. The Prime Minister was addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort in Delhi on India's 75th Independence Day. Modi said these initiatives would help prepare the youth of the country driven by entrepreneurial skills and capacity to fuel the growth of India. The National Programme for Civil Services Capacity Building, known as 'Mission Karmayogi, was launched last year to enhance governance through civil service capacity building.ALSO READ: PM Modi coins new mantra, adds Sabka Prayas to Sabka Saath, Sabka VikasThe programme was aimed at training civil servants at various academies by including optimum use of the government's digital learning platform.The Prime Minister said the state-of-the-art training infrastructure under the programme would improve the government's human resources management practices and develop the capacity of the bureaucrats.ALSO READ: Now is the time to change the world and transform us as citizens: PM ModiSpeaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister also stressed the importance of fully utilising the capabilities of India to take it to new heights in the 21st century. He gave a call for ‘Sabka Prayas’ along with ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas’ for the growth of the country.The Prime Minister highlighted that for the overall development of the nation, it is essential to end the unnecessary interference of government and government procedures in the lives of people.In his 88-minute-long speech, Modi called the new National Education Policy a tool to “fight poverty” as it facilitates teaching in mother tongue in tune with the need of the 21st century.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-2021-pm-modi-mission-karmayogi-capacity-building-commission-101629005801815.html
15-08-2021||India||In veiled reference to Pak, China, PM Modi lists 2 challenges facing India||In his 88-minute Independence Day speech from the Red Fort on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke about the dual challenges of terrorism and expansionism--a veiled reference to Pakistan-sponsored terrorism and China‘s expansionist policy in Ladakh—and India’s resolve to strengthen the armed forces, its growing prowess in defence manufacturing and the government’s full commitment to boost self-reliance in the defence sector.He said that the 2016 surgical strikes and the 2019 air strikes against terror pads in Pakistan sent a strong message to the country’s enemies about the emergence of a ‘new India’ and its resolve to take tough decisions.While the 2016 strikes against terror pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir were India’s first direct military response to the suicide attack on an army camp in Uri, the air strikes against a Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terror facility in Pakistan’s Balakot followed the Pulwama attack.The PM said India was fighting terrorism and expansionism with courage, and the government would take all steps to strengthen the capabilities of the armed forces.The comments came a day after the government announced the country’s highest and second-highest peacetime gallantry awards --- the Ashok Chakra and Kirti Chakra --- for two Jammu and Kashmir personnel killed in encounters with terrorists.The reference to the fight against expansionism assumes significance in the backdrop of the border row with China in eastern Ladakh where the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) are in talks to disengage their front-line troops from flashpoints on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC).India and China have been locked in a border row for more than 15 months, a phase that witnessed a deadly skirmish in the Galwan Valley and saw tensions spiral between the rival armies on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso last year.The PM made a mention of aircraft carrier Vikrant, locally made light combat aircraft and submarines in his speech, underlining that the projects highlighted India’s indigenous manufacturing capability. India’s first indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) Vikrant, the largest warship to be built in the country, kicked off critical sea trials on August 3 ahead of its planned induction into the Indian Navy in less than a year.Vikrant has put India in a select league --- only the US, the UK, Russia, France and China have the capability to build aircraft carriers. The PM said the government was committed to supporting Atmanirbharta (self-reliance) in the defence sector.He said Sainik Schools across the country would open their doors to girl students. Currently, there are 33 Sainik Schools in the country that account for a large number of candidates who join the armed forces. The decision was taken after a pilot project for inducting girls, launched at Sainik School Chhingchhip in Mizoram three years ago, resulted in success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-veiled-reference-to-pak-china-pm-modi-lists-2-challenges-facing-india-101629006317875.html
15-08-2021||India||75th Independence Day: Top quotes from PM Modi's address to nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation from the Red Fort as the country celebrated its 75th Independence Day. The speech, which lasted for more than 90 minutes, saw PM Modi make several key announcements. He also listed achievements of his government and laid out plans for the future. Here are some top quotes from PM Modi's speech:(1.) “India indebted to all its freedom fighters”: PM Modi said that today, as the country celebrates its 75th Independence Day, it is remembering every personality who played a part in the freedom movement, and is indebted to them.
15-08-2021||India||PM Modi announces establishment of e-commerce platforms for products by SHGs||The government will establish e-commerce platforms to provide a market for the products made by self help groups (SHGs), said Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday.Delivering his customary address to the nation on the occasion of 75th Independence Day on Sunday, the Prime Minister said, "There are more than 8 crore women in the village who are associated with self-help groups, who make products. The government will prepare an e-commerce platform for their products to get a big market in the country and abroad."He further said that the country is moving forward with the slogan of 'Vocal for Local'."India has started the 'Local for Vocal' initiative and it is our responsibility to buy indigenous products. Our vision of plastic-free India can only be made true if we stop the use of single-use plastic completely," noted the Prime Minister.Talking about development in rural areas, he said, "Today we see our villages changing rapidly. In past few years, facilities like road, electricity have reached villages. Today the optical fiber network is providing the power of data to villages."As a part of the celebrations Prime Minister Narendra Modi also hoisted the national flag at the Red Fort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-announces-establishment-of-e-commerce-platforms-for-products-by-shgs-101629003299253.html
15-08-2021||India||In 75 weeks of ‘Amrit Mahotsav’, 75 Vande Bharat trains to connect India: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that in the 75 weeks of ‘Amrit Mahotsav’, which the country is celebrating to mark the journey of 75 years of Independence, the Indian Railways will launch 75 Vande Bharat trains to connect India's far-flung areas. “During the 75 weeks of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’, 75 new Vande Bharat express trains will be launched and will connect every corner of the country,” the Prime Minister said in his August 15 address as he compared the Vande Bharat initiative to the UDAN scheme for flights.Also Read | PM Modi coins new mantra, adds Sabka Prayas to Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas“We have to bridge the gap between people who live in villages and those who reside in cities,” the Prime Minister said while elaborating on his vision for a ‘New India’.During the 75 weeks of Azadi Ka #AmritMahotsav, new 75 Vande Bharat Express trains will be launched and will connect every corner of the Country: PM @narendramodi #indiaIndependenceday #IndiaAt75 pic.twitter.com/hjF5U6JJHN‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ is the central government's initiative to mark 75 years of Independence from British rule. It is a tribute to the freedom fighters and the struggle that led to the nation as it is today. The government is also organising a number of events across the country throughout this period.Also Read | National Education Policy a means to fight poverty: PM Narendra ModiPM Modi also pitched for a 100 per cent India and said it is essential to fully utilise the country’s capabilities to take it to new heights in the 21st century as he addressed the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort in Delhi marking the 75th year of Independence. The Prime Minister added, “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas, and Sabka Prayaas are very important for the achievement of all our goals."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-75-weeks-of-amrit-mahotsav-75-vande-bharat-trains-to-connect-india-modi-101629000799330.html
15-08-2021||NA||Breaking: British Airways has ordered pilots to avoid Afghan airspace||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:British Airways has ordered pilots to avoid Afghan airspaceA British Airways spokesperson told news agency ANI that pilots have been asked to avoid Afghan airspace due to the rapidly deteriorating security situation there.Meghalaya home minister Lahkmen Rymbui resigns following militant leader’s deathMeghalaya home minister Lahkmen Rymbui tendered his resignation on Sunday, citing the encounter of former militant Chesterfield Thangkhiew last Friday. In his letter to chief minister Conrad Sangma, Rymbui expressed his shock and proposed a judicial enquiry should be conducted into the death of the former militant.Taliban say they have taken control of Afghan presidential palaceTaliban commanders say they have taken control of Afghan presidential palace pic.twitter.com/3dGG0GH9J8Death toll from massive Haiti earthquake rises to 724, says govt#BREAKING Toll from massive Haiti earthquake jumps to 724 people dead: govt pic.twitter.com/sTMfJmnQbVAfghanistan President Ashraf Ghani has left the countryAfghanistan President Ashraf Ghani has left that country, reports TOLOnews quoting sources (File photo) pic.twitter.com/yOvHUyfjO4Maharashtra records 4,797 new cases of Covid-19, 130 deathsMaharashtra recorded 4,797 cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the state's total tally of cases to 6,392,660. In the last 24 hours 130 deaths have also been reported, which pushed the death toll to 135,039, according to the state health bulletin.Delhi-bound Air India flight AI 244 departed from Kabul at 6.06pmAn Air India spokesperson said on Sunday that the carrier is continuing with its scheduled flights from Kabul as of now. "We are monitoring the situation and as of now continuing with our scheduled flights to Kabul,", the spokesperson stated. Taliban want peaceful transfer of power in the ‘next few days’Taliban want a peaceful transition of power from the present Afghan government in the next few days, a spokesperson of the militant group told news agency AFP. Afghan President urges govt forces to maintain law and order in Kabul#BREAKING Afghan President Ghani urges government forces to maintain Kabul law and order pic.twitter.com/iqX8y1t2ORDelhi logs 53 cases of Covid-19, no new deaths recordedDelhi recorded 53 cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the tally of cases to 1,437,091. No new deaths have been recorded in the last 24 hour. CBI announces ₹5 lakh reward for any information in the murder of Dhanbad judgeThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) announced a reward of Rs.5 lakhs for any information on the murder of Additional Session judge Uttam Anand in Dhanbad. CBI assured that the name of the informant will be kept a secret.Russia does not plan to evacuate its Kabul embassy, says official#BREAKING Russia does not plan to evacuate its Kabul embassy: official to agencies pic.twitter.com/ZBbrku4rcCAfghan Interior Minister says transition will be peacefulAfghan acting Interior Minister Abdul Sattar Mirzakwal told TOLO News that Kabul will not be attacked and that the transition will happen peacefully. He assured Kabul residents that security forces will ensure the security of the city.Taliban say in a statement they don't plan to take Kabul 'by force'Taliban say in a statement they don't plan to take Kabul 'by force' as sporadic gunfire echoes in Afghan capital.Taliban Fighters Enter Outskirts of Kabul, Gunfire in CapitalTaliban forces in Afghanistan entered the outskirts of the capital Kabul, the Associated Press reported, as the U.S. and other nations rushed to evacuate the city.Afghan officials say Taliban enter capital, KabulThree Afghan officials tell The Associated Press that the Taliban have entered the outskirts of the capital, Kabul.Afghan official and Taliban say militants seize provincial capital of KhostAfghan official and Taliban say militants seize provincial capital of Khost as insurgents tighten grip around Kabul, reports AP.Taliban now holds all of Afghanistan's border crossings, leaving Kabul airport as only exitTaliban now holds all of Afghanistan's border crossings, leaving Kabul airport as only exit.The success achieved by India in economic, social and other spheres is widely acknowledged: Vladimir PutinThe success achieved by India in economic, social and other spheres is widely acknowledged. Your country rightfully enjoys high prestige in global arena and plays an important role in solving topical issues of international agenda: Russian President Vladimir Putin.Mizoram reports 467 new Covid-19 cases, 3 more fatalitiesMizoram reported 467 new Covid-19 cases and three more fatalities in the last 24 hours, pushing the state’s tally to 48,462 and death toll to 180, a health department official said on Sunday.Afghan lawmaker, Taliban say insurgents seize provincial capital of Maidan WardakAfghan lawmaker, Taliban say insurgents seize provincial capital of Maidan Wardak, just west of Kabul, reports AP.Eight people killed, dozens injured in Hungary bus crashEight people were killed and dozens injured when a passenger bus crashed on the M7 motorway en route to Budapest in the early hours of Sunday, police said in a statement.2 dead in Delhi hotel fireTwo persons died after a fire broke out Sunday at a hotel here, officials said.5 dead, 3 injured as car crashes into truck in AlwarFive people were killed and three others sustained serious injuries when the car in which they were travelling in crashed into a stationary cement carrying truck in the early hours on Sunday, police said.Salute doctors and paramedical staff who laid down their lives during Covid pandemic: Arvind KejriwalSalute doctors and paramedical staff who laid down their lives during Covid pandemic, immensely thankful to them: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.13 killed, several injured in Karachi grenade attackA total of 13 people were killed and several others got suffered injuries in a grenade attack in Karachi, Pakistan on Saturday.Fuel tanker explodes in Lebanon, killing 20, wounding dozensA fuel tanker truck exploded early Sunday in northern Lebanon, killing 20 people and wounding dozens more, the Lebanese Red Cross said. It was not immediately clear what caused the blast.South Korea sets up checkpoints, 'bus walls' to block protests amid Covid-19 concernsSouth Korean police mobilised hundreds of buses and set up dozens of checkpoints on Sunday to fend off political rallies in the capital Seoul, as some groups pushed ahead with annual protests in defiance of warnings over the novel coronavirus.K Chandrasekhar Rao hoists the National Flag at Golconda FortTelangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao hoists the National Flag at Golconda Fort in Hyderabad.Internet, mobile services unaffected as J-K celebrates Independence DayFor the first time in three years, Internet and mobile services remained unaffected in Jammu and Kashmir on Independence Day which is being celebrated in the Valley in a relaxed atmosphere, officials said Sunday.Torrential rain lashes Japan, three feared dead after landslideTorrential rain lashed much of Japan on Sunday, submerging roads and buildings in the western part of the country, while three people were feared dead after a landslide in central Nagano prefecture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-15-2021-101629002533818.html
15-08-2021||India||National Education Policy a means to fight poverty: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that the new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 is a means to “fight poverty” as it encourages teaching in mother tongue and meets the needs of the 21st century. The NEP, which was approved by the Union cabinet in July last year, recommends imparting early education in regional languages or mother tongue. While addressing the country on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day, the Prime Minister said, “When our poor daughters and sons will become professionals after studying in their mother tongue then only justice will be done to their abilities. I consider NEP a means to fight against poverty.”He said the NEP has a special feature under which sports have been made a part of mainstream education instead of extracurricular. “Sports are also one of the most effective means to move forward in life,” Modi said.Earlier in April, the Prime Minister had said that the NEP frees and empowers students to participate in national development and is futuristic as per global standards.On August 12, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan said that the government was working to create synergy between education and skills as envisioned in the NEP 2020, for making a future-ready workforce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-education-policy-a-means-to-fight-poverty-pm-narendra-modi-101629002478031.html
15-08-2021||India||PM Modi announces Gatishakti plan, says will help in holistic infra growth||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday announced a ₹100 lakh crore Pradhan Mantri Gatishakti National Master Plan, which he said will create employment opportunities for the country's youth and help in a holistic infrastructure growth while addressing the nation on its 75th Independence Day. "In the coming days, we will launch the PM Gatishakti Plan, a 100 lakh crore national infrastructure master plan, which will make a foundation for holistic infrastructure and give an integrated pathway to our economy," PM Modi announced from the Red Fort.It will create jobs and new opportunities and bring in employment opportunities for the youth, he added. "Gatishakti will help local manufacturers turn globally competitive and also develop possibilities of new future economic zones. The ₹100 lakh crore Gatishakti initiative will bring employment opportunities for youth and help in holistic infrastructure growth," PM Modi said.PM Modi said that along with modern infrastructure, India needs to adopt a holistic approach to infrastructure construction. "We will have to work together for manufacturing world-class products, using cutting-edge innovation and new-age technology," the Prime Minister said in his Independence Day speech.Also watch: PM Modi hoists national flag at Red Fort on India’s 75th Independence day
15-08-2021||India||Now is the time to change the world and transform ourselves as citizens: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation on the 75th Independence Day on Sunday from the ramparts of the Red Fort recounted the struggles of India’s freedom fighters.He remembered the contributions of icons such as Mahatma Gandhi, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Laxmi Bai, Jawaharlal Nehru and Vallabhbhai Patel in attaining India freedom from British rule.Lauding the youth of the nation, PM Modi then made a special mention to the medallist of the Tokyo Olympics who were present at the courtyard of the Red Fort. “Not only have the athletes won our hearts but have sown the seeds to inspire the generations to come," he said.PM Modi then said August 14 would from now onward be observed as the ‘Bhibhajan Bibhishikha Divas’ (Partition Horrors Remembrance Day) in memory of the pain and sufferings faced by the people of India during the Partition in 1947.The Prime Minister spoke on India’s efforts to vaccinate its people against the coronavirus disease and lauded the scientists for their contribution.“We are proud of the fact that we didn’t have to depend on any other country for Covid-19 vaccines. Imagine what would have happened if India didn’t have its own vaccine,” PM Modi asked as he highlighted that India has the largest vaccination programme in the world.“CoWin portal has been an example for the world. We have already vaccinated more than 54 crore people against Covid-19, and this was possible because our scientists made sure that we don't rely on anyone," PM Modi said from the Red Fort, even as he lamented the deaths of people who succumbed to the viral disease.PM said that in the journey for India’s development, we don't have to limit our celebrations to 'Amrit Mahotsav' but the country needs to ensure that we meet our goals when we celebrate 100 years of India's Independence. “Our goal is to develop a nation where we not only have the world-class infrastructure but also move ahead with the idea of 'minimum government, maximum governance," PM Modi stressed.“The mission of the Amrit Kal is that no matter what the challenge is we should be ahead of the others,” PM Modi said, stressing that hard work and determination of the citizens that fuel India towards achieving its objective.“We don’t have to wait for so long. We can start now, without wasting time. Now is the time, to change the world and transform us as a citizen,” PM Modi said.Modi gave a call for ‘Sabka Prayas’ along with ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas’ for thee growth of the country. "A time comes in the development journey of every country when that nation defines itself from a new end when it takes itself forward with new resolutions. Today, that time has come in India's development journey. 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas'. Now, 'Sabka Prayas' is important for the achievement of all our goals," Modi added.Modi outlined the development schemes running in India, PM Modi said the Centre’s aim is to reach every section of the society."Benefits of many schemes that started in the last 7 years have reached the doorsteps of crores of poor. From Ujjwala to Ayushman Bharat, the poor of the nation knows the strength of their scheme. Today, the central schemes have picked up the pace and are reaching their goals,” the Prime Minister said, highlighting that India gave free ration to 80 crore people amid the Covid-19 pandemic.PM Modi stressed the need to bridge the gap between lives in villages and cities. He added that as many as 4.5 crore people have access to piped drinking water within two years of India launching its ‘Har Ghar Jal’ mission as he said, “It is important to utilise the capabilities of India to its maximum potential to take it to new heights, in the 21st century. In order for us to achieve this, we have to hold hands of the section that is lagging behind and the area that needs attention. We have to bridge the gap between lives in villages and cities.”Saying that development should be inclusive, the Prime Minister said from eastern India, the northeast to the Himalayan region and the coastal belt or the tribal region would become a ‘big base for India’s development' in the future.Laying stress on the connectivity of heart and infrastructure, Modi said that the work on connecting all the state capitals of the northeast with rail links to Bangladesh, Myanmar and parts of southeast Asia was underway.The Prime Minister also said that medicine underwent a massive transformation and that the Centre's Ayushman Bharat made it possible for the people from the economically weaker section to gain access to quality and affordable healthcare.Modi called for the citizens to utilise India's full capabilities to take it to new heights as he outlined the government's move to give reservations for people from Dalit, backward classes, tribal communities as well as economically weak sections of the general category. He also highlighted that reservation has been granted to the OBCs in medical education recently.Shifting his focus on Jammu and Kashmir next, the Prime Minister said a delimitation commission was set for the northern Union territory and preparation were on hold assembly elections there soon. He said Indus Central University would make Ladakh a seat of higher education.On the occasion of India's 75th Independence Day, the Prime Minister said villages too would churn out digital entrepreneurs soon as they take a leap of development. “Until a few years ago, many villages did not have facilities like road and electricity. Today the optical fibre network is powering internet to villages,” he said.Modi also announced the Centre's proposal to launch Pradhan Mantri Gatishakati Master Plan, a ₹100 crore initiative to facilitate employment opportunities for the youth and aid local manufacturers. He also laid stress on fortifying digital platforms to connect rural women self-help groups to the world.The Prime Minister also announced that girl students would be able to take admissions in Sainik schools across the country. “Our daughters are performing exceptionally well today, whether in areas of education or sports and achieving stellar results in board exams and Olympics. It is a matter of pride for the country,” he said.He encouraged the students to take up sports from their childhood. "There was a time when sports wasn't considered a part of the mainstream. Parents used to tell children that they would spoil their life if they kept playing. Now, awareness regarding sports and fitness is growing. We have seen the results at the Tokyo Olympics this time," Modi said during his address to the nation from the Red Fort.Acknowledging that malnutrition and lack of micronutrients are affecting the growth of children from an impoverished background, the Prime Minister said his government would fortify the rice distributed to the poor through different schemes such as midday meals or public distribution shops with an aim to address the problem of malnutrition by 2024.PM Modi said India needs good and smart governance to implement reforms. "Political will is required to bring in big changes and reforms. The world now knows that there is no lack of political will in India for reforms," he said, adding, “Today the world is also a witness to how India is writing a new chapter of governance.”The Prime Minister said for India to progress, “energy independence is the need of the hour”, as he took the pledge to make the country energy independent by 2047 — when India celebrates its 100th year of freedom — through a mix of electric mobility, gas-based economy, doping ethanol in petrol to make the country a hub for hydrogen production.He also said the country aims to become a net-zero carbon emitter by 2030 and highlighted that work was underway for 100% electrification of Indian Railways.The Prime Minister concluded his speech by saying India was fighting the  challenges of terrorism and expansionism and dealing with them with great courage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-2021-red-fort-prime-minister-narendra-modi-speech-highlights-101628989907977.html
15-08-2021||India||75th Independence Day: From dais of Red Fort, PM Modi makes several key announcements||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday made several major announcements as he addressed the nation from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort on the occasion of 75th Independence Day. Also Read | PM Modi pitches for a 100 per cent India, reiterates ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’Here's a look at some key announcements made by PM Modi in his I-day address, his eighth consecutive national address on August 15:
15-08-2021||India||PM Modi coins new mantra, adds Sabka Prayas to Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday pitched for a 100 per cent India and said it is essential to fully utilise the country’s capabilities to take it to new heights in the 21st century as he addressed the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort in Delhi marking the 75th year of Independence. The Prime Minister added, “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas and Sabka Prayaas is very important for the achievement of all our goals." “Now we have to move towards making 100 per cent efforts. We have to make sure that 100 per cent of villages have roads, 100 per cent of households have a bank account, 100 per cent of beneficiaries should have Ayushman Bharat cards and 100 per cent of eligible people should have a gas connection under the Ujjwala scheme,” PM Modi said as he delivered his customary address to the nation.“A time comes in the development journey of every country when that nation defines itself from a new end when it takes itself forward with new resolutions. Today, that time has come in India's development journey,” PM Modi said in his address to the nation. “For this, we have to hold hands of the section that is lagging behind, the area that is lagging behind,” he added.'Pride in Made in India'India will have to increase both its manufacturing and exports moving forward on the path of development, PM Modi said as he talked about the launch of the country’s first indigenous aircraft carrier INS Vikrant for trials at sea. “That's why I tell the manufacturers that your every product is the brand ambassador of India. As long as that product is in use, the buyer will say - yes it is made in India,” he said."All the manufacturers of the country also have to understand that the product you send out is not just a product made in your company. India's identity is associated with it, prestige is attached, trust of many people of India is attached,” he added.Small farmers, villagesIn the coming years, we will have to increase the collective power of the small farmers of the country. “We have to give them new facilities. They must become the country's pride,” he said.“More than 80 per cent of the country’s farmers have less than 2 hectares of land. In the earlier policies that were made in the country, the focus on these small farmers was left. Now decisions are being taken keeping these small farmers in mind,” he said.Also watch | PM Modi hoists national flag at Red Fort on India’s 75th Independence dayPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday pitched for a 100 per cent India and said it is essential to fully utilise the country’s capabilities to take it to new heights in the 21st century as he addressed the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort in Delhi marking the 75th year of Independence. “Now we have to move towards making 100 per cent efforts. We have to make sure that 100 per cent of villages have roads, 100 per cent of households have a bank account, 100 per cent of beneficiaries should have Ayushman Bharat cards and 100 per cent of eligible people should have a gas connection under the Ujjwala scheme,” PM Modi said as he delivered his customary address to the nation.“A time comes in the development journey of every country when that nation defines itself from a new end when it takes itself forward with new resolutions. Today, that time has come in India's development journey,” PM Modi said in his address to the nation. “For this, we have to hold hands of the section that is lagging behind, the area that is lagging behind,” he added.Small farmers, villagesIn the coming years, we will have to increase the collective power of the small farmers of the country. “We have to give them new facilities. They must become the country's pride,” he said.“More than 80 per cent of the country’s farmers have less than 2 hectares of land. In the earlier policies that were made in the country, the focus on these small farmers was left. Now decisions are being taken keeping these small farmers in mind,” he said.Also watch | PM Modi hoists national flag at Red Fort on India’s 75th Independence day|#+|He said the country’s villages are changing rapidly. “In past few years, facilities like road and electricity have reached villages. Today, the optical fibre network is providing the power of data to villages, the internet is reaching there. Digital entrepreneurs are getting ready in villages as well, “ he added.There are more than 80 million in the village who are associated with self-help groups and they make more than one product, the Prime Minister pointed out. “Now the government will prepare an e-commerce platform for their products to get a big market in the country and abroad,” he announced.Olympians, freedom fightersPM Modi began his speech by praising India’s athletes who took part in the Tokyo Olympics, freedom fighters and all those who helped the country in its fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after he unfurled the national flag. “I would like to begin by conveying greetings on this special occasion of Independence Day. This is a day to remember our great freedom fighters,” PM Modi said. “The athletes who have made us proud at Tokyo Olympics are here amongst us today. I urge the nation to applaud their achievement today. They have not only won our hearts but also inspired future generations,” PM Modi said.Watch Live: PM Modi addresses the nation on 75th Independence DayThe Prime Minister paid tribute to all the leaders who fought for India's Independence. "Be it Nehru ji, the first prime minister of India, Sardar Patel, who turned the country into a united nation, or Babasaheb Ambedkar, who showed India the way to the future, the country is remembering every such personality, the country is indebted to all of them".'New energy and new consciousness'In the morning, PM Modi extended his greetings on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day. "Greetings to you all on Independence Day. May this year of the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' infuse new energy and new consciousness among the countrymen. Jai Hind!" PM Modi tweeted.Lieutenant Commander P Priyambada Sahoo assisted PM Modi as he hosted the tricolour as the ceremony was synchronised with a 21-gun salute fired by gunners of the 2233 Field Battery (Ceremonial).Also read | Happy Independence Day: Joe Biden lauds India on its 75th year of freedomIndian Air Force (IAF) Mi-17 V5 helicopters showered petals on the venue as PM Modi hoisted the tricolour. They made an appearance at the Independence Day celebrations after a gap of 24 years. IAF’s Su-30s, Mi-8s and the Surya Kiran Aerobatic Team took part in the 1997 celebrations to mark the 50th Independence Day.Also read | ‘Happy Independence Day, India!’: Google honours dance forms with unique doodleJavelin star Subedar Neeraj Chopra, who won India’s first gold medal in track and field at the Tokyo Olympics, was among the around 240 Olympians, support staff and SAI and sports federation officials were present on the Gyan Path in front of the Red Fort. In Tokyo Olympics 2020, India recorded its best-ever medal haul by winning seven medals - one gold, two silver and four bronze. PM Modi inspected the customary guard of honour at the Red Fort before hoisting the flag. He was then greeted by defence minister Rajnath Singh, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, army chief General MM Naravane, navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh and IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-75th-independence-day-pm-modi-coins-new-mantra-adds-sabka-prayas-to-sabka-saath-sabka-vikas-101628991997543.html
15-08-2021||India||Happy Independence Day: Joe Biden lauds India on its 75th year of freedom||US President Joe Biden congratulated India on Sunday as it celebrated the 75th year of its Independence and lauded the biggest democracy in the world.“On this day, August 15, 1947, India achieved its long journey toward independence, guided by Mahatma Gandhi’s message of truth and non-violence. Today, that foundational commitment to respecting the will of the people through democracy continues to inspire the world and is the basis of the special bond between our two nations,” Joe Biden said in a statement.Biden said that over the decades, the ties between US citizens, including a vibrant community of more than four million Indian-Americans, have sustained and strengthened the partnership with India.Highlighting the India-US ties, President Biden said, “This past year, our nations have come together in new ways as we tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, including working in partnership with Japan and Australia—through the Quad—to expand global manufacturing of safe and effective Covid-19 vaccines and to strengthen our last-mile coordination to reach people throughout the Indo-Pacific.”Joe Biden stressed that the partnership between India and the United States is more important than ever.“Together, we must show the world that our two great and diverse democracies can deliver for people everywhere. And as we do, the friendship between our nations will continue to flourish and grow. I wish all those celebrating today, in India, in the United States, and throughout the world, a safe and happy Indian Independence Day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75th-independence-day-2021-joe-biden-india-us-ties-101628991760322.html
15-08-2021||India||‘Continues to inspire the world…’: Joe Biden's message to India on 75th Independence Day||US president Joe Biden issued a statement, congratulating India on its 75th Independence Day, stating that the country achieved its freedom, guided by Mahatma Gandhi's message of truth and non-violence. The statement, issued on Saturday on the eve of the Independence Day, further stated that this foundational commitment to respect the will of the people continues to inspire the world, and is the “basis of the special bond between our two nations.”Also Read | PM wishes India on I-Day, says ‘may this year bring new energy, consciousness’“Over the years, the ties between our people, including a vibrant community of more than four million Indian-Americans, have sustained and strengthened our partnership,” the statement read.Also Read | ‘Happy Independence Day, India!’: Google honours cultural traditions with unique doodlePresident Biden further mentioned that the United States and India have come together in new ways while tackling the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. “This includes working in Quad in partnership with Japan and Australia to expand global manufacturing of safe and effective Covid-19 vaccines and strengthen our last-mile coordination to reach the people throughout the Indo-Pacific,” the statement noted, adding that the partnership between the US and India is “more important than ever in this moment of great challenges and opportunities.”Also Read | Independence Day 2021: Here's the list of 144 gallantry awards announcedThe US president further called upon both the countries to show the world that these two great and diverse democracies can deliver for people everywhere.  “the friendship between our nations will continue to flourish and grow. I wish all those celebrating in India, in the US, and throughout the world, a safe and happy Indian Independence Day,” the statement concluded quoting president Biden as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/continues-to-inspire-world-joe-biden-congratulates-india-on-75th-independence-day-101628990841073.html
15-08-2021||India||75th Independence Day 2021: Watch live telecast of PM Modi's August 15 speech||India is celebrating the 75th Independence Day on Sunday to mark the country's freedom from nearly two centuries of British colonial rule. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be addressing the nation from the historic Red Fort in New Delhi, where he will also unfurl the national flag. The event will be accompanied by a series of programmes organised by the armed forces and the security officials to salute the tricolour with a guard of honour.Also Read | 75th Independence Day: History, significance and rare factsPrime Minister Modi's speech is expected to start around 7:30am. While there are many attending the event, others can watch the programmes from the comfort of their own homes, especially given the coronavirus pandemic.The Independence Day ceremony on August 15 will be broadcast live on the national channels of the All India Radio (AIR) in Hindi and in English, with patriotic and cultural programmes airing throughout the day. According to reports, the event will be covered by three multi-camera OB fans which provide a 360-degree panorama for the Red Fort broadcast.Also Read | Full text of President Ram Nath Kovind's Independence Day eve addressHere's how to watch the live telecast of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Red Fort speech on 15th August:TelevisionThe Independence Day speech by PM Modi will be telecast live on Doordarshan's DD National or DD News television channels. The speech will also be telecast simultaneously on other private news channels in a variety of languages.DigitalIf you do not have access to a television network, fret not. The Prime Minister's Independence Day address, live from the Red Fort, will also be telecast on the official YouTube channels of Doordarshan and the Press Information Bureau (PIB). It can also be watched live on the PIB India Twitter account.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, extending his greetings to the citizens of India, said, "Greetings to you all on Independence Day. Wishing you all a very Happy 75th Independence Day. May this year of 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' infuse new energy and consciousness among the countrymen. Jai Hind!"||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75th-independence-day-2021-how-to-watch-live-telecast-of-pm-modi-s-red-fort-speech-101628986907676.html
15-08-2021||India||PM wishes India on I-Day, says ‘may this year bring new energy, consciousness’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday extended his greetings to the citizens of India as the country is observing the 75th Independence Day this year. "Greetings to you all on Independence Day. Wishing you all a very Happy 75th Independence Day. May this year of 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' infuse new energy and consciousness among the countrymen. Jai Hind!" PM Modi tweeted.PM Modi will lead the Independence Day celebrations from Red Fort in New Delhi as he will hoist the national flag and deliver the customary address to the nation from the ramparts of the 17th-century monument.Greetings to you all on Independence Day. आप सभी को 75वें स्वतंत्रता दिवस की बहुत-बहुत बधाई। आजादी के अमृत महोत्सव का यह वर्ष देशवासियों में नई ऊर्जा और नवचेतना का संचार करे। जय हिंद! #IndiaIndependenceDayAlso read | ‘Happy Independence Day, India!’: Google honours dance forms with unique doodleIndia is marking its 75th Independence Day as ''Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav'' and the government is organising a series of events across the country.Security has been tightened in the national capital for the 75th Independence Day celebrations with counter-drone technology deployed in sensitive areas. Delhi Traffic Police have issued an advisory for the Independence Day function at Red Fort to ensure the safe and smooth flow of vehicles across the city.Also read | Independence Day 2021: Here's the list of 144 gallantry awards announcedMeanwhile, farmers have proposed a tractor parade in the Capital on Independence Day against the three farm laws. "Around 5,000 vehicles and 20,000 farmers will take part in the parade on Sunday. We are ready for the protest. Our protest is against the three farm laws. Women are leading this protest. We want to show the government that we are not broken. The protest is on," a farmer told ANI.Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana said that they have sealed Delhi's borders and have been talking to farmers' leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-wishes-india-on-i-day-says-may-this-year-bring-new-energy-consciousness-101628988128425.html
15-08-2021||NA||Independence Day 2021 Highlights: Tricolour unfurled at INS Tabar which is deployed to Portsmouth in UK||75th Independence Day 2021: India is celebrating ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ on Sunday, marking the completion of a quarter to a century of freedom from British colonial rule. Prime Minister Narendra Modi unfurled the national flag at the Red Fort in New Delhi this morning and addressed the nation. It was followed by a series of events organised by the armed forces and security personnel saluting the tricolour with a guard of honour.Follow all the updates here:Rashtrapati Bhavan, Parliament buildings in Delhi illuminated on occasion of Independence DayDelhi: Rashtrapati Bhavan, North Block, South Block, and Parliament buildings illuminated on the occasion of 75th #IndependenceDay pic.twitter.com/fko95G9j1qOn the occasion of the 75th Independence Day, the Rashtrapati Bhavan, North Block, South Block and the Parliament building in Delhi were illuminated, reports ANI. Watch: Beating retreat ceremony at Attari-Wagah border#WATCH | 75th Independence Day: Beating retreat takes place at Attari-Wagah border in Punjab pic.twitter.com/ULNfeDEHLrThe beating retreat ceremony took place at the Attari-Wagah border on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day.India's High Commissioner to Sri Lanka, Gopal Baglay hoisted the national flag at India House in ColomboIndia's High Commissioner to Sri Lanka, Gopal Baglay hoisted the national flag at India House in Colombo to celebrate 75th Independence Day.Ex-servicemen hold march at Singhu border on 75th Independence DayOn the occasion of 75th Independence Day, ex-servicemen on Sunday held a march at the Singhu border where protesting farmers are celebrating 'Kisan Mazdoor Azadi Sangram Diwas'.DRDO's Counter Drone Technology installed to monitor Red Fort on Independence DayAdding to the security measures taken as part of India's Independence Day Celebrations on Sunday, a Counter Drone Technology developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) was installed to monitor the Red Fort and its surrounding area.Tricolour unfurled at INS TabarTricolour unfurled at INS Tabar which is deployed to Portsmouth in the UK on the occasion of 75th IndependenceDayCorporators in Srinagar hoist national flag at Zero BridgeCorporators in Kashmir on Sunday hoisted the national flag at Zero Bridge in the city on the 75th Independence Day.Team India hoist flag ahead of Day 4 of Lord's TestBefore the start of Day 4 of the ongoing Lord's Test against England, Team India hoisted the tri-colour as the country celebrates its 75th Independence Day.Nitish Kumar hoists Tricolour for 15th time, creates history in BiharHoisting the Tricolour for the 15th time on the occasion of Independence Day, Nitish Kumar on Sunday became the only chief minister of Bihar to have achieved the feat.BRO hoists the national flag at the world’s highest motorable pass Umling LaBorder Roads Organisation (BRO) hoists the national flag at the world’s highest motorable pass Umling La in Ladakh.Mumbai: AAP celebrates I-Day with march and 'cap of honesty'The Aam Aadmi Party's Mumbai unit took out a march from suburban Bandra to Juhu on the country's 75th Independence Day on Sunday with the party workers carrying a huge national flag and wearing the "cap of honesty".We aim to install 500 such National flags till Republic Day across the Capital: Arvind KejriwalWe aim to install 500 such National flags till Republic Day across the Capital, this will inculcate the feeling of patriotism among people: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.Members of Parliament's Public Accounts Committee celebrated 75th Independence Day with Army personnel in SrinagarMembers of Parliament's Public Accounts Committee, who are on a 4-day visit to Kashmir and Ladakh to review facilities being provided to Indian troops in mountainous areas, celebrated 75th Independence Day with Army personnel in Srinagar.Bengal Governor urges people to take oath to uphold human rightsWest Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday hoisted the national flag on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day and urged people to take an oath to uphold human rights.BSF exchanges sweets with Bangladesh forces on 75th Independence DayBorder Securiy Forces exchanges sweets with Bangladesh forces on 75th Independence Day.Russia's president Vladimir Putin greets India on 75th Independence DayThe success achieved by India in economic, social & other spheres is widely acknowledged. Your country rightfully enjoys high prestige in global arena and plays an important role in solving topical issues of international agenda: Russian President Vladimir Putin#IndependenceDay pic.twitter.com/Bxk5cZxa7OPresident Kovind pays tribute at National War MemorialPresident Ram Nath Kovind visited the National War Memorial and paid homage to the martyrs who made supreme sacrifice in the line of duty. On the occasion of 75th Independence Day, a grateful nation salutes its brave soldiers. pic.twitter.com/eGqE61QGRiPresident Ram Nath Kovind paid tribute at the National War Memorial on Independence Day. The defence minister, the three service chiefs, and the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) were also present.DRDO's anti-drone system deployed near Red Fort for protectionDelhi | DRDO’s anti-drone system deployed today near the Red Fort on Independence Day to provide protection against any drone activity there pic.twitter.com/unoDVAQDmfNeed to prepare for 70 Olympic medals: KejriwalCongratulations to Olympic medal winners, need to prepare for 70 medals now: KejriwalOther governments are following Delhi model of governance: Kejriwal“Delhi has given a model of governance to the country with kind of innovations and ideas being brought to the table,” Kejriwal said. As an example, the Delhi chief minister highlighted that Goa has made 16,000 litres of water free to every family. “Now other governments are thinking of providing free electricity, like the model we have in Delhi,” he said.Arvind Kejriwal announces ‘Deshbhakt Curriculum’ in Delhi govt schools  from September 27Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal hoisted the national flag at the Secretariat Building on Independence Day and announced 'Deshbhakti Curriculum' in Delhi government schools from September 27 as a tribute to freedom fighter Bhagat Singh. “Our curriculum teaches physics, chemistry but not patriotism,” he said. “This 'Deshbhakti Curriculum' will instil patriotic values in our children.”West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee hoists national flag at Red Road in KolkataWest Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee hoists the National Flag at Red Road in Kolkata on 75th Independence Day pic.twitter.com/IhOpHgwJ9mCongress chief Sonia Gandhi hoists national flag in New DelhiCongress president Sonia Gandhi hoists the national flag at party headquarters in Delhi; Rahul Gandhi also present. pic.twitter.com/ClldZCpseCLok Sabha speaker Om Birla hoists national flag in New DelhiLok Sabha Speaker Om Birla hoists the National Flag on Independence Day, says, “We attained Independence after a long struggle, now we are working towards becoming a 'New India' as we celebrate 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' this year.”BJP chief JP Nadda hoists national flag in DelhiDelhi: BJP national president JP Nadda hoists the national flag at party headquarters.#IndependenceDay2021 pic.twitter.com/uIGEOixDxlI wish all citizens of the country on behalf of my party. I pray to the Almighty for the happiness of the society, that there be happiness everywhere in the country and the world, and India leaps forward towards development: BJP national president JP NaddaChhattisgarh CM announces 4 new districts, 29 new tehsilsAt the public address on Independence Day, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel announced four new districts - Mohla Manpur, Sarangarh-Bilaigarh, Shakti, Manendragarh, and 29 new tehsils in the state.Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb hoists national flag to mark Independence DayTripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb hoists the national flag to mark #IndependenceDay pic.twitter.com/MaaDVnW2G7Watch: How PM Modi honoured Olympians at Red Fort on 75th Independence Day festPrime Minister Narendra Modi lauded India’s athletes who took part in the Tokyo Olympics. “The athletes who have made us proud at Tokyo Olympics are here amongst us today. I urge the nation to applaud their achievement today. They have not only won our hearts but also inspired future generations,” PM Modi said.Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray hoists national flag at the state Secretariat in MumbaiMaharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray hoists the National Flag at the state Secretariat in Mumbai pic.twitter.com/ZOONjWyIzcChhattisgarh CM hoists national flag at police parade ground in Raipur Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel hoists the National Flag at Police Parade Ground in Raipur, extends his wishes on 75 years of India's Independence. pic.twitter.com/qKjrAIHtEuNavy warships commence Independence Day celebrationsMission Deployed warships of the Indian Navy in the far East, INS Ranvijay & INS Kora mark the commencement of the celebrations of 75th Independence Day pic.twitter.com/JMBPWPhM9mMission Deployed warships of the Indian Navy in the far East, INS Ranvijay & INS Kora mark the commencement of the celebrations of 75th Independence DayPrime Minister Narendra Modi greets Olympic athletesDelhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi greets the Indian contingent that participated in #TokyoOlympics and NCC cadets, who participated in #IndependenceDay2021 celebrations at the Red Fort. pic.twitter.com/cCE4e5PQjEPrime Minister Narendra Modi greeted Olympic athletes after concluding his Independence Day speech at the Red Fort in New Delhi. This was India's best showing at the multi-sports event yet, with seven medals including a gold from javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra.PM Modi concludes Independence Speech at Red Fort, says ‘now is the time for change’Delhi | Prime Minister Narendra Modi concludes his address to the nation on the 75th Independence Day at Red Fort pic.twitter.com/J7yX7x8DvtPrime Minister Narendra Modi concluded his 15th August speech at Red Fort in New Delhi. He said, “Our youth is the 'Can Do' Generation, and they can achieve everything they set their mind to.”“Our actions today will determine our future. Our today will set the theme of our 100 years of India's Independence,” he said.'Won't leave any stone unturned to strengthen the country's armed forces': PMIndia is not only dealing with terrorism but also expansionism. I want to assure our citizens that we will leave no stone unturned in supporting our armed forces: PMPM Modi announces National Hydrogen Mission in view of climate changeToday, I am announcing the National Hydrogen Mission in view of climate change. We have to make India a hub for production and export of Green Hydrogen: Prime Minister Narendra Modi pic.twitter.com/jWcaSdEW3GGreen Hydrogen is the future of the world. Today, I announce the setting up of the National Hydrogen Mission with the aim of becoming the new global hub of Green Hydrogen, and also its largest exporter: PMIndia is the only nation that is on the path to meeting its climate goals: ModiIndia is the only nation that is on the path to meeting its climate goals. It is not energy independent. It spends over Rs. 12 lakh crore on importing energy. As we celebrate 75 years of Independence, we have to ensure that India becomes #aatmanirbhar in energy production too. The world believes in India's leadership in environmental issues and International Solar Alliance is an example of that: PM Modi‘Every Sainik school in India will now be open to women’: PM ModiIn a move towards strengthening Beti Bachao Beti Padhao initiative, our daughters will now be able to study in Sainik schools too. Today, be it education or Olympics our daughters are performing tremendously. We have to ensure that they get equal opportunities and they feel safe and respected: PM ModiNEP to focus on teaching in regional languages: PM ModiNational Education Policy will also focus on encouraging teaching in regional languages. When students will learn their lessons in a language that is close to their hearts, it will surely give them new founded confidence: PM‘People-centric approach’ in bureaucracy: PM ModiTo introduce people-centric approach in Bureaucracy, we have started Mission Karmayogi & Capacity Building programme: PM ModiIndia writing new chapter in governance: PM ModiWe have to stop the over-involvement of government in the form of complex policies. Today, we have destroyed over 15,000 unnecessary compliances. Political will is required to bring in big changes, big reforms. Today, the world can see that there is no dearth of political will in India. Good and smart governance is needed to bring reforms. The world is a witness to how India is writing a new chapter of governance: PM ModiWe will launch ₹100 lakh crore PM Gati Shakti Plan soon: ModiIn the coming days, we will launch PM Gati Shakti Plan, a 100 lakh crore national infrastructure master plan which will make a foundation for holistic infrastructure and give an integrated pathway to our economy: PM Modi at Red FortIndia must focus on manufacturing and export: PM ModiTo further increase our developmental progress, we have to focus on our manufacturing and export. I call upon manufacturers and say that each and every one of your product is India's ‘brand ambassador’: PMOver 75,000 Health & Wellness Centres have been built at block level: PM ModiUnder the Jan Ausadhi Yojana, the poor and needy are now getting affordable medicines. Over 75,000 Health & Wellness Centres have been built and we are working on a network of hospitals at the block level: PM75 weeks of ‘Amrit Mahotsav'We have pledged to celebrate 75 weeks of ‘Amrit Mahotsav’, starting 12 March 2021, till 15 August 2023. Indian Railways is also being transformed rapidly as the nation progresses towards ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’. The country has resolved that 75 Vande Bharat trains will be connecting every corner of the country in 75 weeks of Amrit Mahotsav of Independence: PM ModiDrones helping rural citizens map their land: PM ModiSVAMITVA Yojna is transforming the lives in rural India. Drone is helping our rural citizens map their land and apply for various schemes/loans online: PMPM Modi calls for welfare of ‘small farmers’, says they must become India's prideWe have to deal with the fact that our farmers now have less land to cultivate on. More than 80% of our farmers have less than 2 hectares of land. We have to focus on helping our small farmers. We have to give maximum benefits of the government's schemes to them; be it through DBT or Krishi Rail: PM Modi“The government is now focusing on thewelfare of small farmers,” he said. “10 Crore farmer families have directly received over ₹1.5 lakh crore in their bank accounts.”We have awakened the aspirations of districts left behind earlier: PM ModiPriority is being given to schemes related to education, health, nutrition, roads, employment, in over 110 aspirational districts of the country. Many of these districts are in tribal areas: PM ModiIndia to launch e-commerce platform to connect village artisans with the world: PM ModiThe government will be launching an e-commerce platform to connect village artisans with the world, said PM Modi. “We are witnessing a new phase in the developmental journey of our villages. It not only has electricity and water but also nurturing digital entrepreneurs,” he said.Development should be inclusive: PM ModiDevelopment should be inclusive. The Northeast region, the Himalayan region including Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, the coastal belt, and tribal regions will make a foundation for India's development in the future. Ladakh is witnessing a new transformative phase where the government is focusing on building world-class infrastructure. PM calls for bringing out the potential in northeast IndiaWe have to bring out the potential of our North East and give them equal opportunities in this developmental journey of our nation: PM ModiRice available through every scheme will be fortified by 2024: PM ModiBe it rice available at ration shop, rice available in mid-day meal, rice available through every scheme will be fortified by the year 2024: PMOBC bill will provide reservation to the backward classes of our country: PMIt is essential to fully utilise the capabilities of India to take it to new heights, in the 21st century. For this, we have to hold hands of the section that is lagging behind, the area that is lagging behind. To take India to newer heights, our government has passed the OBC bill. It will provide reservation to the backward classes of our country: PMPM Modi pitches for ‘100 per cent’ IndiaNow, we have to move even further. 100% villages should have roads, 100% households should have a bank account, 100% beneficiaries should have Ayushman Bharat card, 100% eligible persons should have gas connection under Ujjwala scheme: PM ModiToday marks a milestone in India's development journey: PM ModiA time comes in the development journey of every country when that nation defines itself from a new end, when it takes itself forward with new resolutions. Today, that time has come in India's development journey: PM Narendra Modi‘Minimum government, maximum governance’, says PM ModiOur goal is to develop a nation where we not only have the world-class infrastructure but also move ahead with the mantra of ‘Minimum government, maximum governance’. In this Bharat ki Vikas Yatra, we don't have to limit our celebrations to Amrit Mahotsav but ensure that we meet our goals when we celebrate 100 years of India's Independence: PM ModiPM lauds India's Covid-19 effortsIndians have fought this battle (Covid-19) with a lot of patience. We had many challenges but we worked with extraordinary pace in every area. It's a result of strength of our industrialists & scientists, that today India doesn't need to depend on any other nation for vaccinesOn Covid-19, PM says 'unbearable pain will remain with us'After all our efforts we also lost many in this fight against Covid-19. This unbearable pain will always remain with us: PMPartition's pains can never be forgottenPartition’s pains can never be forgotten. Yesterday we took an emotional decision of marking 14th August as ‘Partition Horrors Remembrance Day’: PM ModiPM Modi begins his address, recalls freedom fightersI convey my greetings on this special occasion of Independence Day. This is a day to remember our great freedom fighters: PM Modi at Red FortPM Modi hoists national flag from Red FortPrime Minister Narendra Modi hoists the National Flag from the ramparts of Red Fort to celebrate the 75th Independence Day pic.twitter.com/0c3tZ6HQ3XPM Modi at Red Fort, inspects guard of honourThe Prime Minister arrived at the Red Fort in New Delhi and inspected the guard of honour organised by the armed forces.PM Modi's motorcade arrives at Red FortPrime Minister Narendra Modi's motorcade arrived at the historic Red Fort in New Delhi.  PM Modi pays tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat, making his way to Red Fort for flag hoistingDelhi | PM Narendra Modi pays tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat on the 75th Independence Day(Photo source: DD News) pic.twitter.com/n9sybFSV1fPrime Minister Narendra Modi paid his tribute to Mahatma Gandhi, the Father of the Nation, at Rajghat on 75th Independence Day. He is making his way to the Red Fort for the national flag hosting in a matter of minutes. The live telecast can be watched here.This is PM Modi's 8th speech from the Red Fort: Every I-Day address from 2014-2020 was longer than one hourOn the occasion of Independence Day last year, Prime Minister Modi addressed the nation for 86 minutes. It was his third-longest speech. He spoke for 93 minutes in 2019 and In 2016, the Prime Minister addressed the nation for 96 minutes, his longest speech ever.Prime Minister Modi has spoken for a total of 9 hours and 24 minutes from the Red Fort in his seven years from 2014 to 2020.Rajnath Singh hoists national flag at his Delhi residenceDefence Minister Rajnath Singh hoists the national flag on the 75th #IndependenceDay at his residence in Delhi pic.twitter.com/Uql4S1r3gDOn the occasion of 75th Independence Day 2021, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh hoisted the national flag from residence in New Delhi Independence Day programme begins at Red Fort, National Flag Guard arrivesThe National Flag Guard, with five officers and 130 men from the Indian Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and also the Delhi Police, has arrived.Mi-17 choppers, Neeraj Chopra to be highlight of I-Day celebrationsIndian Air Force (IAF) helicopters are set to make an appearance at the Independence Day celebrations on Sunday after a gap of 24 years. Two Mi-17 V5 helicopters will shower petals on the venue as Prime Minister Narendra Modi hoists the national flag. Read MoreUS greets India on 75th Independence DayExtending wishes on the occasion of India's Independence Day, US President Joe Biden said that New Delhi and Washington must show the world that the "two great and diverse democracies" can deliver for people everywhere.In a statement, Biden said: "I wish all those celebrating today, in India, in the United States, and throughout the world, a safe and happy Indian Independence Day". Read More75th Independence Day 2021: Watch live telecast of PM Modi's August 15 speechIndia is celebrating ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ on Sunday, a day that marks the 75th Independence Day 2021 for the country from nearly two centuries of British colonial rule. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be addressing the nation from the historic Red Fort in New Delhi. The event begins at 6:30am.Here's how to watch the live telecast of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Red Fort speech on 15th August.Prime Minister Narendra Modi greets India on Independence DayGreetings to you all on Independence Day. आप सभी को 75वें स्वतंत्रता दिवस की बहुत-बहुत बधाई। आजादी के अमृत महोत्सव का यह वर्ष देशवासियों में नई ऊर्जा और नवचेतना का संचार करे। जय हिंद! #IndiaIndependenceDayPrime Minister Narendra Modi said: “Wishing you all a very happy 75th Independence Day! May this year of 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' bring new energy and consciousness among the citizens of the country.” Read MoreIndia felt proud because of me, it's a good feeling: Olympic gold medallist Neeraj ChopraNeeraj Chopra, India's gold-winner at the Olympics, says: “Earlier, we used to watch it (the flag hoisting ceremony) on TV, and now we are personally going there. It is a new experience. We hadn't won a gold medal in individual sports for so long. I felt good that the country felt proud because of me.”Olympic athletes leave for flag hoisting event at Red FortDelhi | Indian Olympic athletes leave from Ashoka Hotel for the national flag hoisting ceremony at Red Fort on India's 75th #IndependenceDay pic.twitter.com/skfNwWtB54||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-2021-live-updates-prime-minister-narendra-modi-speech-red-fort-15th-august-2021-101628985533983.html
15-08-2021||India||More than 15 million Indians upload anthem videos to mark I-Day: Centre||More than 15 million Indians from the country and across the world have recorded and uploaded their videos of singing the national anthem, ahead of the 75th Independence Day on Sunday, the Union ministry of culture said in a statement.As India is celebrating “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav”, the culture ministry launched a unique programme to invite the people to sing the national anthem and upload the video on a government website.Also Read| 20 ITBP troopers get medals for bravery during Galwan clash“Eminent artists, well-known scholars, top leaders, senior officers, brave soldiers, famous sportsmen to farmers, labourers, people with special needs, everyone came together and sang the National Anthem in one voice. From Kashmir to Kanyakumari, from Arunachal Pradesh to Kutch, the voices singing Jana Gana Mana were reverberating from all directions. Our countrymen living outside India also participated with passion and fervour and proved once again that that their heart is always settled in this land of India,” the ministry said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-15-million-indians-upload-anthem-videos-to-mark-i-day-centre-101628983833552.html
15-08-2021||India||A day after Goa protest, Navy hoists flag||The Indian Navy on Saturday unfurled the national flag at South Goa’s Sao Jacinto island, a day after a “slight misunderstanding” with local residents prompted it to cancel the event.The flag hoisting was done as part of the ministry of defence’s initiative under the “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav” to commemorate 75 years of Independence. On Friday, the spokesperson of the Navy’s INS Hansa base near Dabolim said a team from the Goa Naval Area had visited the islands of the state, including Sao Jacinto. “However, the plan had to be cancelled due to the objection by local residents.”It prompted CM Pramod Sawant issue a warning to them that “anti-India activities” would be dealt with an “iron fist”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aday-after-goa-protest-navy-hoists-flag-101628976791952.html
15-08-2021||India||Odisha CID to probe mysterious death of forest official||A month after the mysterious death of a young forest official of Odisha in his residential quarters in the presence of his wife, the state CID on Saturday formally took over the probe with a 3-member team starting its investigation.Additional DG of CID, Sanjeeb Panda said the agency has already started its probe under the leadership of a Dy SP and is being assisted by a technical team.On July 12, assistant conservator of forests of Paralakhemundi in Gajapati district, Soumya Ranjan Mohapatra had sustained 95 per cent burns at his official quarters while he was reportedly burning old newspapers and some papers. His wife Bidya Bharati, who was present in the next room, has been named as one of the accused with the divisional forest officer Sangram Behera. Mohapatra, an Odisha Forest Service officer of 2020 batch, was rushed to MKCG Medical College and hospital in Berhampur town from where he was shifted to SCB Medical College and Hospital of Cuttack. He succumbed to his burn injuries on July 13.Mohapatra’s father Abhiram has accused DFO Sangram Behera and his daughter-in-law Bidya Bharati Panda of having hatched a conspiracy that led to the death of his son. He also alleged that his daughter-in-law and the DFO were in a relationship.Though the autopsy report of Mohapatra said his death was due to 95% burn injuries, it was not conclusive. The lawyer for Mohapatra’s father alleged that the doctor who conducted the autopsy committed several procedural irregularities and should be brought under probe by CID.“In cases of alleged homicide, the usual practice is to preserve the viscera for further chemical analysis at the state forensic laboratory. This was not done in the case of Soumya Ranjan’s death. Besides, the forensic doctor in his autopsy report has not indicated the parts of the body that were burnt through a diagram as is the standard practice. This is going to be a major medico-legal hurdle during trial of the case,” said Partha Sarathi Nayak, Mohapatra’s lawyer.The lawyer said the local police team that probed the case insisted that the ACF’s residence was the crime spot, while there was no trace of fire when his family members visited the house following the incident. It is possible that he was drugged and then burnt to death elsewhere, he alleged.Earlier, the father of the deceased had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home affairs minister Amit Shah complaining against the tardy pace of investigation by local police. “Paralakhemundi police have been beating around the bush for so many days. An unfair and biased probe which is underway has made the incident murkier. Moreover, the DFO who is also a suspect in the case has not been transferred elsewhere, thereby influencing the probe,” he had complained.Last month, an NGO had petitioned the Orissa High Court seeking a CBI probe into the death of Mohapatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cid-to-probe-mysterious-death-of-forest-official-101628969165541.html
15-08-2021||India||If CPM can’t protest against BJP, then let workers join TMC: Bratya Basu in Tripura||Criticizing the Tripura CPM for not protesting against the BJP, Trinamool Congress on Saturday urged the political party that they should allow their workers to join the latter if they cannot take their protest to the streets. “As per my experience, BJP is resorting to violence in both West Bengal and Tripura. People need shelter from the terror. When we came here, we were harassed and booked. But CPM is not seen protesting against the BJP. If you can’t come to the streets then let your activists join us,” West Bengal minister Bratya Basu told the media in Agartala. Along with Basu, parliamentarians including Kakali Ghosh Dastidar, Arpita Ghosh, Dr. Santanu Sen and others were also present. Basu claimed that many leaders from the Congress and BJP are in regular touch with them and expected that many more people from different parties would join them soon. “We are focusing on strengthening our organization rather than choosing the face of our unit here. Our party general secretary Abhishek Banerjee will take the final call,” said Basu. A day earlier, 30 activists from different political parties including the Tripura Youth Congress working president joined the party headed by Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The Trinamool Congress started its journey in Tripura in 1999 with former chief minister Sudhir Majumder. Reacting to Basu’s statement, CPM secretary Goutam Das said that the TMC should not forget that their six legislators, who later switched over to BJP few months before the last Assembly polls, had engineered the poll results in 2018.“We are very much in the field and that’s why our party activists and leaders are facing the heat of violence triggered by BJP. The Trinamool Congress is making baseless comments to get support in the state,” said Das. The Left Front earlier said that they were sufficient to uproot BJP from the state. Abhishek Banerjee, during his visit to the state earlier this month, said that Tripura is their bird’s eye and they would form their government in the state in 2023 assembly polls. TMC bagged 0.30 per cent vote share in the state assembly polls in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-cpm-can-t-protest-against-bjp-then-let-workers-join-tmc-bratya-basu-in-tripura-101628968213303.html
15-08-2021||India||How Tulu cinema came out of shadows to script identity||Y V Rao’s film Sati Sulochana in 1934 marked the emergence of the Kannada film industry, and what followed was discoveries of big stars like Dr Raj Kumar over the next few decades. However, for a relatively less-spoken Tulu, the wait for a movie in their language was long. While local folk art and theatre kept them entertained, Kannada movies were their only option on the theatre screen. Until in 1971, when the first Tulu movie ‘Enna Thangadi’ (my sister) was released at Mangaluru’s iconic Jyothi Talkies. This year, even though muted by the pandemic, the Tulu industry celebrates 50 years of existence. Spoken by over 1.8 million people, Tulu is prevalent in the Tulunadu region consisting of coastal Karnataka and some parts of Kerala. According to the Atlas of the World’s Languages in Danger, published by Unesco, Tulu is now considered a vulnerable language. In the fight for language recognition, the cinema has been a pillar of strength. The idea of making Tulu cinema was the result of government policy to promote regional movies. The government announced a subsidy of ₹50,000 for those interested in making movies in the late 60s. Producer and director SR Rajan,, who had made Kannada movies in the past, saw this as an opportunity and made the Enna Thangadi. Veteran artist VG Pal said that even though Enna Thangadi was the first movie to be released in Tulu, another movie – Dareda Budedi -- was made before it but was released a month later. According to Pal, even though colour films were being made in the 1970s since the processing technology was not easily available, initial Tulu movies were made in black and white. “In those days, Madras (Chennai) was the hub of film processing and development. For most of the filmmakers travelling to Madras was a costly affair,” he recollected. Kariyani Kattandi Kandani, the first Tulu colour film was released in 1985. Within a year of making the first Tulu movie, recognition came along. In 1972, Bisatti Babu became the first movie to receive a state government award. In the years that followed, several Tulu movies were recognised, not only within the state but nationally as well. Bangar Patler, Koti Chennaya, Gaggara, Madipu and Paddayi have won National Awards. “Also, Amitabh Bachchan had done voice over for the credit title of 1973 movie Kasdaye Kandane,” Pal added. Over the years, the Tulu movie got its commercial success, and more films were produced in the language. Devadas Kapikad, one of the prominent Tulu theatre artists and filmmakers, said that the industry has been making more than 10 movies every year. “In Tulu speaking regions, there is an increasing demand for good Tulu movies. There are issues with getting theatres whenever a big Kannada movie releases, but people’s response gives us teeth to demand more screens. Many youngsters are now coming with fresh ideas to make good Tulu movies, and it is inspiring,” Kapikad said. An example of the commercial success of the Tulu movie was Chali Polilu, which is one of the longest-running regional films in PVR Cinemas. It even surpassed the Kannada movies by running for over 500 days in PVR. The Covid-19 pandemic caused a big problem to the industry as it resulted in the closure of theatres. However, they soon branched out to the OTT platforms. With a large Tulu speaking population living abroad, the Talkies app, one of the OTT platforms, has gained viewership. By June 2020, the platform uploaded over 100 series and movies. “For those living abroad, especially an average worker from Karnataka in Dubai, going to the movies is very expensive. Since they don’t get content in their language at lower cost, many are signing up.” said Ganesh Kamath, CEO of Talkies App. He added that they have begun producing original movies and web series for the Tulu audiences. Kapikad added that on the 50th anniversary, the industry is struggling to find a way back. “With the theatres closed for two years, most of the artists are suffering. We don’t have big production houses like Kannada or other industries. We are very small operations; we need to keep working. We hope the industry will rise for ashes in the coming days,” he said. The irony remains that the end credit of Tulu movies always rolls out in the Kannada script. Although the script of Tulu is available, it is not very popular, and people continue to write it in the Kannada script. “Movies for us is not just about entertainment. For us, it is about persevering our culture. So, we will continue making movies and spreading our word until our language gets the recognition it deserves,” Kapikad added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-tulu-cinema-came-out-of-shadows-to-script-identity-101628967185909.html
15-08-2021||India||Three fire brigade employees die after hydraulic crane collapses||Three firemen died after a hydraulic crane collapsed on them when they were putting up the national flag at the post office building in Maharaja Bada area in Gwalior, the district collector said. The victims were identified as Pradeep Rajoriya, 32, Kuldeep Dandotiya, 35 and Vinod Sharma, 55. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan sent condolences to the bereaved families. He also announced an ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh each.Gwalior collector Kaushlendra Vikram Singh said, “The trolley of the hydraulic crane of the municipal corporation broke down and the employees, who were sitting on the trolley, fell down. A watchman was also injured in the incident.”After the accident, the family members and other employees of the fire brigade held a protest at Maharaj Bada. They want a high level inquiry into the matter as the crane was purchased a few years ago and never used to douse a fire at any highrise building.“The accident raised questions over the quality of the crane. A detailed inquiry should be conducted. My brother died not because of crane but because of corruption,” said Rameshwar Dandotiya, a relative of one of the victims.An inquiry has been ordered. The additional collector will probe the matter, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-fire-brigade-employees-die-after-hydraulic-crane-collapses-101628967006029.html
15-08-2021||India||Kerala starts mass vaccination drive amid Covid spike||The Kerala government Saturday started a mass Covid-19 vaccination programme in a bid to reduce caseload in the state, following a meeting chaired by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, ahead of Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya’s visit on Monday to review the situation in the state.After the state’s containment measures failed to yield desired results, the government decided that maximum inoculations are the only way to reduce caseload and has approached the Centre for uninterrupted supply, according to a senior health ministry official.The district collectors have been asked to supervise the special drive, and at least 500k vaccines will be administered a day. The state has a stock of 1.5 million doses as of now, and expects another million in a couple of days, the official said. Recipients can avail themselves through spot registration or online booking. The government has also made permission mandatory for all public activities during the ongoing Onam season -- Thiru Onam falls next Sunday (Aug 21). Many experts have warned the state that there can be a surge of Covid cases after Onam, so the government has tightened restrictions. In the prevailing situation, the festival will be subdued as the government banned mass gatherings and feasts. The union health minister will reach the state capital on Monday and scheduled a meeting with the CM and health minister Veena George later in the day. He will be accompanied by union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, National Centre for Disease Control director Sujit Singh and other experts. Meanwhile, the state reported 19,451 positive cases with a test positivity rate of 13.91 per cent after 1,39, 223 samples were tested on Saturday, according to the state health ministry. It also reported 105 deaths taking total fatalities to 18,499. Malappuram remained on top with 2,953 cases followed by Thrissur district at 2,459. Four districts reported more than 2,000 new cases. The active case also rose to 180,240. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 38,677 new cases and 478 deaths. The current caseload is 383,673.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-starts-mass-vaccination-drive-amid-covid-spike-101628966705766.html
15-08-2021||India||Independence Day 2021: Here's the list of 144 gallantry awards announced||President Shri Ram Nath Kovind approved 144 Gallantry awards to armed forces, police and paramilitary personnel on the eve of Independence Day. The awards include one Ashok Chakra, one Kirti Chakra, 15 Shaurya Chakras, four Bar to Sena Medals (Gallantry), 116 Sena Medals (Gallantry), five Nao Sena Medals (Gallantry) and two Vayu Sena Medals (Gallantry).The President also approved 28 Mention-in-Despatches to the army personnel for their significant contributions in different military operations which include three posthumous for ‘Operation Rakshak’ and ‘Operation Rakshak’.Babu Ram, ASI, J&K Police will be awarded posthumously Ashok Chakra - the highest peacetime military decoration. For the first time in J&K police history, Ashok, Kirti and Shaurya chakras have been awarded to the force together. On the announcement of service and gallantry medals, Director General of Police J&K Shri Dilbag Singh stated that due recognition of valour and sacrifices of Jammu and Kashmir Police officers and personnel’.Also Read | Independence Day 2021: 1380 police personnel awarded medals, announces MHAHere’s the list of personnel being conferred with gallantry awards on the occasion of Independence Day:Ashok ChakraShaurya ChakraBar To Sena Medal (Gallantry)Sena Medal (Gallantry)Nao Sena Medal (Gallantry)Vayu Sena Medal (Gallantry)Mention-in-despatchesOperation RakshakOperation Snow LeopardOperation Rhino||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independence-day-2021-here-s-the-list-of-144-gallantry-awards-announced-101628953443936.html
15-08-2021||India||Grenade attack on Assam school near Mizoram border stokes row||On the eve of the 75th Independence Day, tension along Assam-Mizoram border escalated once again on Saturday after a primary school in Hailakandi district of Assam was bombed by unknown miscreants, a senior police officer said.Parts of the lower primary Sahebmara LP School were damaged in the incident that took place around 11.30 pm on Friday at Kachurthal area, Hailakandi superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Upadhyay said, adding that no person was injured.“The bombing was done by miscreants from Mizoram side between 11 and 11.30 pm. The area comes under Ghutghuti police outpost, and we have raised the security immediately after the incident. We are trying to ensure that this incident does not create fear among the residents in the locality. We are also investigating the matter and once it is completed, we’ll be able to give a clearer picture,” he said.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said he will write to his Mizoram counterpart and request for a probe into the blast.As the incident occurred within “our territory, the Assam police will conduct an inquiry into it,” Sarma added.He said that intelligence reports had suggested sporadic incidents may occur along the border and “I had mentioned about it in the assembly on Friday”.This is the second such instance in the area after Muliwala Lower Primary School was bombed in February this year by unknown miscreants, police added.Sahebmara LP School, located within 2 km of the Assam-Mizoram Border, demarcated by Survey of India map, was attacked by grenades while it was closed due to the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic.In February, unknown miscreants used grenades to damage Muliwala Lower Primary School, resulting in hundreds of families moving out of the area in fear. “There has been a series of attempts to terrorise locals by unknown miscreants from Mizoram side throughout the year. They mostly target the government buildings to create panic among the civilians,” said a local from Hailakandi.Mizoram’s chief secretary Lalnunmawia Chuaungo said, “This allegation needs to be verified and thoroughly investigated. Those responsible for such cowardly act do not deserve any sympathy.”Superintendent of police of kolasib district, Mizoram Vanlalfaka Ralte said, “The place of bomb blasts is not a disuted area. It is Assam area with clear boundary (Tlawng river), these days as Assam Police are on patrolling duty in the area no Mizo from Bairabi town have entered to the area of Bomb blast. This is the handiwork of some miscreant from Assam who try to defame Mizoram and disrupt the ongoing peace process between Assam and Mizoram.”“Even Bairabi OC talk to the leaders of Sahebmara and they are saying that they do not suspect Mizos,” Ralte added.The border dispute between the two states resulted in an exchange of fire between the policemen from both sides on July 26, causing the death of six Assam policemen and one resident. More than 60 people from Assam, including superintendent of police of Cachar district, sustained severe injuries. Few persons from Mizoram side were also injured.Following the clashes, a 10-day-long economic blockade in Assam prevented transport of goods to Mizoram, resulting in a price rise of essential goods in the state. Under the instruction of the Union government, both Assam and Mizoram have agreed to resolve the border dispute peacefully.It will take time for complete peace to return to Assam’s border with Mizoram, Sarma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grenade-attack-on-assam-school-near-mizoram-border-stokes-row-101628965747078.html
15-08-2021||India||Jaish terror module busted in J&K, UP man among 4 held||On the eve of 75th Independence Day, Jammu and Kashmir Police on Saturday averted a major tragedy by busting a module of Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) tasked to trigger violence by planting a vehicle-based IED, police said, adding that they have arrested four terrorists, including a resident of Uttar Pradesh, affiliated to the outfit.“They were planning to disrupt I-Day celebrations by planting a vehicle-based IED in Jammu before August 15,” said additional director general of police (ADGP), Jammu zone, Mukesh Singh.“Four Jaish terrorists and their associates have been arrested by Jammu police in a drive to root out presence of terrorists in Jammu. They were planning collection of arms dropped by drones and supply them to active terrorists of Jaish-e-Mohammed in Kashmir Valley; planting a vehicle laden with IED in Jammu before August 15 and conducting a reconnaissance of important targets in other parts of the country,” Singh added.Police have identified the four Jaish terrorists as Muntazir Manzoor alias Saifulla, son of Manzoor Ahmed Bhat of Prichoo in Pulwama; Ijahar Khan alias Sonu Khan, son of Intejar Khan of Shamli in Uttar Pradesh; Touseef Ahmed Shah alias Showket alias Adnan, son of Ghulam Mohammad Shah of Jeff in Shopian district; and Jahangir Ahmed Bhat, son of Musthaq Ahmed Bhat of Bandzoo in Pulwama district.Singh said while three Jaish terrorists were arrested from different parts of Jammu, Ijahar Khan was arrested from Shamli in Uttar Pradesh.“Muntazir Manzoor, a member of JeM, was the first to be arrested in this chain. A pistol, one magazine, eight live rounds and two Chinese hand grenades were recovered from him. His truck which was used for transporting weapons to Kashmir Valley was also seized,” said Singh.“Ijahar Khan disclosed that Jaish commander in Pakistan by the name of Munazir alias Shahid had asked him to collect weapons from near Amritsar, which would be dropped by a drone. He was also asked by Jaish to do reconnaissance of Panipat oil refinery, which he did and sent videos to Pakistan,” said the ADGP.“He was also tasked to do the reconnaissance of Ayodhya Ram Janmabhoomi, but was arrested before he could complete this task,” said Singh.The third terrorist Touseef Ahmed Shah was tasked by Jaish commander Shahid and another Jaish terrorist named Abrar in Pakistan to take up an accommodation in Jammu, which he did, Singh added.“He was then asked to procure a second-hand motorcycle to carry out an IED blast at Jammu. The IED for this purpose was to be dropped by a drone. Touseef was arrested before he could complete this task,” he said.The ADGP also informed that the fourth terrorist, Jahangir Ahmed Bhat, was involved in recruitment from across the country.“He worked as a fruit merchant in Kashmir and was constantly in touch with Shahid and had introduced Ijahgar Khan to him. He was doing recruitment for Jaish in Kashmir Valley and from rest of the country,” said Singh.Further work on the remaining module is in progress, Singh added.Meanwhile, security forces have recovered an IED near Koriya village in Kishtwar district. The IED was diffused by the bomb disposal squad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaish-terror-module-busted-in-j-k-up-man-among-4-held-101628965563774.html
15-08-2021||India||India rose to challenges posed by Covid-19: President Kovind||The Indian leadership “rose to the challenge” posed by the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, President Ram Nath Kovind told the nation on the eve of the landmark 75th Independence Day, as he underlined that “no infrastructure, even of advanced economies, could withstand a crisis of such enormous proportions”. Amid an exceptionally disruptive monsoon session over Pegasus spyware, President also reminded that Parliament is the “temple of the country’s democracy”  and provides the “highest forum to discuss, debate and decide issues for the well-being of our people”. “We have adopted the system of parliamentary democracy,” Kovind said, days after the monsoon session saw the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha utilize only 22 and 28% of its time. “Therefore, our Parliament is the temple of our democracy which provides us highest forum where we discuss, debate and decide issues for the well-being of our people,” the President said, adding that “it is a matter of great pride” for Indians that Parliament will soon be housed in a new building. But invoking the concepts of justice, liberty, equality and fraternity, the president said that India must strive “for more equality in an unequal world and more justice in unjust circumstances.” He added that the road ahead for India is not easy and it will have to “negotiate many twists and turns” but it should be steadfast on the spirit of “unity in diversity”. During the address, Kovind noted that the world desperately needs “a course correction” to protect the environment and hailed India’s Olympics performance, especially the women athletes. The President also said that Jammu and Kashmir are set to witness new dawn, referring to the preparations for an election in the region and said the government has initiated the process of consultation with all democratic stakeholders in the region, urging the locals to work on realising their aspirations through democratic institutions. Talking about the Centre’s efforts to bolster the “Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (self-reliant India movement), he said that the government has opened up the defence, health, civil aviation, power and other sectors and has also improved the ease of doing business in India. “In addition to these, special emphasis is being given to public welfare. For example, the dream of having a home of one’s own is realised (through)… 70,000 crore credit-linked subsidy scheme. The series of agricultural marketing reforms will empower our ‘annadata’ farmers and help them get a better price for their produce,” he said. In his speech, Kovind frequently highlighted government schemes—something which is usually seen in the President’s speech to the joint sitting of both Houses in Parliament. The President, however, advised extra care and caution even as “the nation breathes a sigh of relief” and said, “If we have learned our lessons well, we know that this is the time of extra care and caution. We shall not let our guard down. Vaccines are the best possible protection science offers to us. I urge all eligible citizens who are yet to get vaccinated to do so at the earliest,” he said. In a 25-point speech, President spoke over a variety of subjects ranging from India’s upcoming manned space mission Gaganyaan to the country’s success in the recently held Tokyo Olympics. He also spoke on the economic and health impact of the pandemic and praised the vaccination programme and efforts of health workers during the Covid crisis. “This day has a special significance as it marks the beginning of the 75th year of India’s independence for which ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ is being celebrated,” the president said while praising the government for distributing food grains to the poor amid the Covid crisis and for announcing a package worth ₹628,000 crores to boost the “selected Covid-affected sectors.” “In particular, it is heartening to note that an amount of ₹23,220 crores are being spent over one year for the expansion of medical facilities,” the president said. President also lauded the performance of India in the recent Tokyo Olympics. He especially praised women and said that India, this year, won the highest medals in its 121 years of Olympic participation. “Our daughters have achieved world-class excellence in playgrounds overcoming many adversities... From higher educational institutions to armed forces, from laboratories to playgrounds, our daughters are making their mark” he said urging all the parents to learn from families of such women and let their daughters also take part in sports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rose-to-challenges-posed-by-covid-19-kovind-101628965444948.html
15-08-2021||India||India likely to grant refuge to Afghans||New Delhi The Indian government may grant refuge to Afghan citizens, especially those facing threats or fearing persecution from the Taliban, against the backdrop of the rapid deterioration of the security situation in Afghanistan. Afghans have begun leaving key cities following the rapid advances by the Taliban into urban centres over the past week. As many as 18 out of 34 provincial capital across Afghanistan are now under the control of the Taliban, including some of the largest cities such as Herat and Kandahar. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that there was no immediate update on the issue of granting visas to Afghan nationals fleeing their country though discussions on the matter were underway. Among those who are likely to be granted refuge are political leaders or activists, human rights workers, media personnel, members of minorities and people who have worked with the Indian government, the people said. There has been a sharp increase in requests for Indian visas in Kabul over the past few weeks. Images shared on social media on Saturday showed the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul packed with people waiting for flights out of the country. The airport is currently one of the few ways out of the country and there were reports of people waiting as long as three hours to get into the terminal after buying tickets at counters set up in the parking lot outside. Air India, Emirates, FlyDubai, Pakistan International Airlines and Turkish Airlines are among the airlines currently operating flights to Kabul. With the fall of several provincial capitals surrounding Kabul and the capture of Logar province, located just 11 km south of the city, fears have grown that the Taliban could be knocking at the doors of the capital within a week, if not days. India has provided refuge to several Afghan leaders and their families amid the turmoil of the past four decades. Afghan chief negotiator Abdullah Abdullah’s family currently lives in India and others such as former president Hamid Karzai have lived and studied in the country. Asked about the possibility of India offering refuge to Afghanistan’s Hindu and Sikh minorities at last week’s media briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the government is keeping a close eye on all developments related to the two communities. “Last year, our mission in Kabul had facilitated the return of 383 members of the Sikh and Hindu communities in Afghanistan. Our mission continues to remain in touch with the Afghan Hindu and Sikh community members and we will ensure the provision of all necessary assistance to them,” he said. Several countries have announced plans to give refuge to Afghans facing threats, especially those who have worked with Western countries or foreign troops over the years. The US has plans to help thousands of Afghans under its special immigrant visa programme or as refugees, while Canada has announced it will take in up to 20,000 Afghan refugees, including women leaders, government workers and people facing threats from the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-likely-to-grant-refuge-to-afghans-101628965443774.html
15-08-2021||India||Four new Ramsar wetland sites recognised in India||Four more wetlands from India – two from Haryana and two from Gujarat – have been recognised as Ramsar site of international importance, taking the number of such sites in the country to 46, covering a total area of 1,083,322 hectares. The Ramsar list aims to conserve an international network of wetlands that are important for sustaining biological diversity.The wetlands that received the tag are Bhindawas Wildlife Sanctuary and Sultanpur National Park from Haryana; and Thol Lake Wildlife Sanctuary and Wadhvana Wetland from Gujarat. While these are the first two wetlands in Haryana to be recognised under the Ramsar Convention, Nalsarovar Bird Sanctuary from Gujarat was given the tag in 2012. With eight wetlands, Uttar Pradesh has the highest number of sites that have received the tag. The convention is an intergovernmental treaty that provides the framework for national action and international cooperation for the conservation and wise use of wetlands and their resources.“It is a matter of pride for us that four Indian sites get Ramsar recognition. This once again manifests India’s centuries old ethos of preserving natural habitats, working towards flora and fauna protection, and building a greener planet,” said Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The development comes at a time when India is heading the UN body on conservation of migratory species of wild animals (CMS), with the government spearheading trans-boundary cooperation on securing the Central Asian Flyway.The Bhindawas Wildlife Sanctuary is a human-made freshwater wetland and the largest one in Haryana. Over 250 bird species use the sanctuary throughout the year as a resting and roosting site. The site supports more than 10 globally threatened species including the endangered Egyptian Vulture, Steppe Eagle, Pallas’s Fish Eagle, and Black-bellied Tern.The Sultanpur National Park also from the state supports more than 220 species of resident, winter migratory and local migratory waterbirds, supporting more than 10 globally threatened and critically endangered birds.The Thol Lake Wildlife Sanctuary from Gujarat lies on the Central Asian Flyway and supports more than 320 bird species, including more than 30 threatened waterbird species such as the critically endangered White-rumped Vulture and Sociable Lapwing; and the vulnerable Sarus Crane, Common Pochard and Lesser White-fronted Goose.The Wadhvana Wetland is important as it provides wintering ground to migratory waterbirds, including over 80 species that migrate on the Central Asian Flyway. They include some threatened or near-threatened species such as the endangered Pallas’s fish-eagle, the vulnerable Common Pochard, and the near-threatened Dalmatian Pelican, Grey-headed Fish-eagle and Ferruginous Duck.“PM Shri @narendramodi ji’s concern for the environment has led to overall improvement in how India cares for its wetlands. Happy to inform that four more Indian wetlands have got Ramsar recognition as wetlands of international importance,” said Bhupender Yadav, Union environment minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-new-ramsar-wetland-sites-recognised-in-india-101628965266784.html
15-08-2021||India||2 J&K cops among 144 to bag top gallantry awards||Two Jammu & Kashmir Police personnel, one an assistant sub inspector and another a constable, are among the 144 defence and security personnel whose names have been approved for top gallantry awards by President Ram Nath Kovind on the eve of Independence Day, according to defence ministry release issued on Saturday.Assistant Sub-Inspector Babu Ram and Constable Altaf Hussain Bhat of the J&K Police were posthumously conferred with the country’s top two gallantry awards -- the Ashoka Chakra and the Kirti Chakra -- for demonstrating outstanding courage during counterterrorism operations in the Union TerritoryThe other awards approved by the President are 15 Shaurya Chakras, four Bar to Sena Medals (Gallantry), 116 Sena Medals (Gallantry), five Nao Sena Medals (Gallantry), two Vayu Sena Medals (Gallantry) and four medals for the Indian Coast Guard personnel. Babu Ram, who was from the Special Operations Group of J&K Police, was killed during a fierce encounter with terrorists at Pantha-Chokh area of Srinagar in August 2020. Altaf Hussain sacrificed his life while saving his protected person who was attacked by terrorists in Ganderbal. Shahbaz Ahmed, a special police officer in J&K Police, was posthumously awarded the Shaurya Chakra -- the country’s third-highest peacetime gallantry award.“DGP Dilbag Singh salutes fallen heroes, ASI Babu Ram, Const Altaf and SPO Shahbaz of JKP who bring honour and glory to the force in their sacrifice and service to the nation,” the J&K Police said in a Twitter post.The Shaurya Chakra awardees include six army personnel, two Indian Air Force officers, a navy officer, four CRPF personnel and two police personnel. They are Majors Arun Kumar Pandey, Ravi Kumar Chaudhary, Captains Ashutosh Kumar (Posthumous), Vikas Khatri, Rifleman Mukesh Kumar, Sepoy Neeraj Ahlawat, Group Captain Perminder Antil, Wing Commander Varun Singh, Captain Sachin Reuben Sequeira (navy), Deputy Commandant Chitesh Kumar (CRPF), Sub Inspector Manjinder Singh (CRPF), Constable Sunil Choudhary (CRPF), Commandos Debasis Sethy (Odisha Police, Posthumous), Sudhir Kumar Tudu (Odisha Police, Posthumous) and SPO Shahbaz Ahmad (JKP, Posthumous).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-j-k-cops-among-144-to-bag-top-gallantry-awards-101628965263738.html
15-08-2021||India||Consider uniform rule on early release of convicts, SC asks NALSA||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) to consider a uniform policy to be put in place to secure premature release for life convicts who have completed 14 years in jail.A bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah said, “NALSA is requested to consider issuing a uniform country-wide standard operating practice (SOP) for protecting the rights of similarly placed convicts to secure premature release in accordance with the provisions of law.”The Court was dealing with an appeal of a murder convict lodged in Central Jail, Agra in Uttar Pradesh, who had already spent close to 16 years in prison but was not aware of his right to apply for premature release or remission of his sentence after completion of 14 years sentence.This power to grant remission is provided under Section 433A of the Code of Criminal Procedure which states, “Where a sentence of imprisonment for life is imposed on conviction of a person for an offence for which death is one of the punishments provided by law, or where a sentence of death imposed on a person has been commuted under Section 433 into one of imprisonment for life, such person shall not be released from prison unless he had served at least fourteen years of imprisonment.”As no lawyer was appearing for the convict, the Court appointed advocate Rajiv Nanda as amicus curiae (friend of the Court) to prepare his defence. The Court was convinced that the conviction was rightly awarded by the trial court and Allahabad High Court under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the petitioner Kadir. While parting with the case, Nanda pointed out that as per the custody certificate issued by the Senior Jail Superintendent at Agra Central Jail, the convict had spent an actual sentence of 15 years, 11 months and 22 days as of 26 June 2021.Nanda pointed out that a deeper malaise prevailed in the system as the jail authorities were indifferent towards helping the convict in applying for premature release. The bench directed the jail authorities to inform the convict of his legal right under Section 433A and directed the District Legal Services Authority to provide the requisite legal assistance to the prisoner. Upon such an application being made for premature release, the Court directed the concerned Sentence Review Board to decide within three months under the relevant rules and regulations.The Court went on to pass another general direction by asking the Uttar Pradesh State Legal Services Authority’s panel lawyers to visit every jail within the state and, after due scrutiny of the nature of the conviction, the term of sentence and the sentence undergone, advise the convicts and assist them in drafting appropriate representations to enable them to pursue their remedies for premature release under the CrPC. In all such cases too, the bench held that applications for premature release will be decided by the competent authority within three months.The Court directed the order to be sent to NALSA, the UP State Legal Services Authority, and all State Legal Services Authorities.Last month, the issue of prisoners languishing in prison without availing remedy for premature release was considered by another bench of the Supreme Court, which directed the states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Chhattisgarh to decide within eight months of all applications for premature release of life convicts who have undergone 14 years behind bars.This was under a scheme prepared by NALSA which involved a three-step process – three months for prison authorities to identify and collect data about eligible prisoners, three months for the Sentence Review Board to give its decision, and two months for the state government to pass final orders.According to NALSA, over 1,649 prisoners are languishing in prisons awaiting a decision on their premature release requests. Besides, 431 prisoners were eligible to file a request for a premature release but had not applied to date. Since remission policies varied from state to state, the Court directed NALSA to study the various state policies and come out with a uniform scheme to deal with premature release applications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/consider-uniform-rule-on-early-release-of-convicts-sc-asks-nalsa-101628965144451.html
15-08-2021||India||20 ITBP troopers get medals for bravery during Galwan clash||Twenty Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel, who fought shoulder-to-shoulder with the Army in keeping the Chinese troops at bay in Eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley and Gogra Hot Springs during clashes along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) last year, have been awarded gallantry medals ahead of the 75th Independence Day on Sunday.In all, 630 security personnel, including 257 from the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Police, have been awarded medals for their bravery, the Union home ministry said on Saturday. The gallantry medals to J&K Police personnel have been awarded for counterterrorism, security, and law and order-related operations. As many as 152 medals have been awarded to Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel involved in counterinsurgency and anti-Naxal operations across the country.Overall, 1,320 police personnel across the country have been awarded gallantry, distinguished services, and meritorious services medals.Also Read| ‘Dimensions of security are constantly changing’: Rajnath Singh to armed forcesITBP spokesperson Vivek Pandey said ITBP has got 23 gallantry medals, of which 20 have been awarded for bravery during Eastern Ladakh skirmishes in May-June 2020.“This is the highest number of gallantry medals for ITBP for the bravery of its men in border face-off/skirmishes/border guarding duties,” Pandey said.The Galwan Valley clash of June 15, 2020 was the deadliest between Indian and Chinese troops along the LAC in more than five decades and pushed the bilateral relationship to a breakpoint. It left 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops dead.Pandey said out of the 20 ITBP jawans/officers awarded for gallantry in Eastern Ladakh, eight have been decorated for their gallant acts, meticulous planning, and tactical insightfulness and for defending the country in Galwan on June 15, 2020. “Six personnel have been awarded police medal for gallantry for their bravery during violent face off on May 18, 2020, in Finger IV area while six personnel have awarded for their gallant action near Hot Springs in Ladakh on May 18, 2020.”The decorated officers of ITBP include Kishor Singh Bisht (Commandant), Rinku Thapa (2nd In Command), Sarat Kumar Tripathi (Deputy Commandant) and Arbind Kumar Mahato, Akshay Ahuja, Pankaj Srivastava, and Dharmendra Kumar Vishwakarma (Assistant Commandants).“In eastern Ladakh, the ITBP troops not only effectively used shields to protect themselves but also responded fiercely to PLA (People’s Liberation Army)’s advancing troops and brought the situation under control during fierce face-offs and skirmishes. With the highest order of professional skills, ITBP troops fought shoulder to shoulder and also brought the injured troops to the rear,” Pandey said.“Even when the ITBP troops fought the whole night, they received minimum casualties by giving befitting reply to the stone pelters of the PLA. At places, they gave determined responses for about 17 to 20 hours throughout the intervening night in extremely challenging conditions.”Pandey said due to the high-altitude training and survival experience of the force in the Himalayan deployments at the icy heights, the ITBP troops kept the PLA troops at bay. He added due to the befitting response of ITBP troops at several fronts, many areas were safeguarded.“The ITBP troops showed the highest level of devotion, courage, determination, utter disregard to personal safety even in injured condition and exhibited great professional skills in the face of the violent physical scuffle with the PLA,” Pandey said.In September last year, 300 ITBP personnel were awarded Director General’s Commendation Roll and insignias for bravery by SS Deswal, the head of the force, in Eastern Ladakh.Also Read| August 14 will now mark horrors of Partition: PMCentral Bureau of Investigation (CBI) joint director Manoj Shashidhar, who heads the agency’s key Anti-Corruption Headquarters unit, has been awarded President’s Police Medal for distinguished service.A 1994-batch Gujarat cadre Indian Police Service officer, Shashidhar has been posted with the agency since January last year. Shashidhar is supervising probes into the AgustaWestland scam, Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death as well as corruption case against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. He is among six CBI personnel who have been awarded medals for distinguished service. Twenty-four other CBI officers have been decorated for meritorious service.Inspector Neeraj Sharma of the National Investigation Agency’s Jammu branch, who was part of the team that cracked the 2019 Pulwama attack, has also been awarded the medal for meritorious service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-itbp-troopers-get-medals-for-bravery-during-galwan-clash-101628965024528.html
15-08-2021||India||Centre seeks nominations from FICCI to form panel on oversight mechanism||The ministry of information and broadcasting has written to industry bodies to nominate members for the oversight mechanism under the new social media and intermediary guidelines, people familiar with the matter said. The inter-departmental committee, which will form the apex of the three-tier redressal mechanism, will for the first time include members from industry bodies, documents reviewed by HT show.“This is a confidence-building move and will silence the critics of the Oversight Mechanism that assumed that the committee will only comprise of bureaucrats,” a person familiar with the matter said. “The rules already provide for domain experts in committee. Now it has been specified as to from where the domain experts would be drawn from.”The new oversight mechanism will include one member each from the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry and Confederation of Indian Industry, one member from the Bar Council of India and a member from the Press Council of India. The first two shall be experts from the media and entertainment sector, the third a legal expert and the fourth an expert from the field of journalism.Aside from these, the committee will also have members from ministries such as the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Ministry of Law and Justice, Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Ministry of External Affairs, and Ministry of Defence. The ministry has given the industry bodies 10 days to nominate the members.This committee will take a call on whether content posted on over the top platforms such as Netflix and Hotstar, and digital news media websites violates section 69(A) of the IT Act. The oversight mechanism faced pushback from several stakeholders who argued that it would lead to government censorship of content and has been challenged by a number of digital news platforms in court. At present, the government has an inter-departmental committee under the Information Technology Act which is headed by a designated officer from the central government. The order to block a post/account on social media is passed by this designated officer who chairs an inter-ministerial committee comprising officials from the Ministries of Law and Justice, Home Affairs, Information and Broadcasting and the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In). The committee vets requests from several different stakeholders, including states and central agencies, and also gives the intermediary a hearing. The designated officer at present is Pronab Mohanty. The orders are passed under section 69(A) of the IT Act. Under the new guidelines, the ministry of information and broadcasting gets to appoint a separate designated officer. Joint secretary Vikram Sahay will head this oversight mechanism from the ministry of information and broadcasting.The new committee shall meet “periodically and hear the following complaints regarding violation or contravention of the Code of Ethics by the digital media publishers entities referred to under Rule 8, that is, arising out of the grievances in respect of the decisions taken at the level I or level II or for cases where no such decision is taken within the time specified in the grievance redressal mechanism”. Grievances referred to the committee by the I&B ministry will also be taken. Level I of the mechanism refers to the grievance redressal by the platform itself, while level II is the oversight body chosen by the platforms. The new intermediary and digital media guidelines require platforms to appoint officers, grievance redressal officers in case of OTT and digital news media platforms, institute a three-tier mechanism for grievance redressal with an inter-ministerial committee at its apex and give the I&B ministry takedown powers over the content circulated online. The rules, which were notified in February, have been challenged in the court by several digital news media outfits, including LiveLaw and TheWire.HT on July 30 reported that information and broadcasting secretary Amit Khare said that the government has not received a single serious complaint where it had to intervene regarding content on over the top (OTT) platforms, such as Netflix and Hotstar, and digital news media outlets since the new intermediary and digital media rules came into effect on February 25. “In the last five months, there has not been a single occasion when the oversight mechanism of the government was used to resolve any complaints,” Khare said then. “This was the purpose of creating a self regulating mechanism; it was always any enabling pro||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-seeks-nominations-from-ficci-to-form-panel-on-oversight-mechanism-101628964845782.html
15-08-2021||India||Bombay HC stays 2 clauses of IT Rules on code of ethics||The Bombay high court on Saturday stayed two clauses of the Information Technology (Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 that required publishers of online news portals, online news aggregators, etc to observe the code of ethics and provided a three-tier mechanism for ensuring compliance.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni declared that Rule 9(1) and Rule 9(3) were prima face an intrusion on the freedom of speech and expression and also went beyond the scope of substantial law -- the Information Technology Act, 2000 -- under which the rules were made by the ministry of electronics and information technology.Rule 9(1) required the publishers to observe the code of ethics laid down under the rules, and Rule 9(3) provided for a three-tier mechanism -- self-regulation by the publishers, self-regulation by self-regulating bodies of the publishers and oversight mechanism by the central government -- for ensuring observance of the code and addressing grievances made in relation to the publishers.The order came on public interest litigation filed by journalist Nikhil Wagle and a writ petition filed by digital news portal The Leaflet, challenging the validity of the rules contending that they were arbitrary and infringed the constitutional right to freedom of speech and expression of the petitioners.Senior advocate Darius Khambata and advocate Abhay Nevagi argued on behalf of the petitioners that since the IT Act of 2009 had sufficient provisions to make publishers, news portals and intermediaries accountable for posting any objectionable content and liable for penal action, the new rules tried to supersede the Act and hence were not legally tenable.The central government however defended the rules. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, for the Centre, had submitted that the new rules were introduced to bring under control the spread of fake news and illegal content. He had further stated that the concerns of the petitioners regarding Rule 14 and 16 were unfounded as the ministry level committee was yet to be formed.The court accepted the arguments advanced on behalf of the petitioners and stayed two clauses of Rule 9. It, however, did not pass orders with regard to Rule 14 and 16, which deal with the formation of a ministry-level committee and blocking of content in case of an emergency as the same was not yet formed. The court allowed the petitioners to approach the court as and when the same were constituted and asked the Centre to file a detailed reply to the petition within three weeks.The court also did not stay the operation of Rule 7 which stipulates that when an intermediary fails to observe the new rules, the provisions of Section 79(1) of the IT Act shall not be applicable to such intermediary and the intermediary shall be liable for punishment under any law for the time being in force, including the provisions of the Act and the Indian Penal Code. Section 79(1) stipulates that “an intermediary shall not be liable for any third party information, data, or communication link made available or hosted by him.”This implies that an intermediary can be held liable for action under the new rules for processing, storing, hosting or transmitting any third party information, data or communication that is objectionable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-stays-2-clauses-of-it-rules-on-code-of-ethics-101628964845204.html
15-08-2021||India||Mi-17 choppers, Neeraj Chopra to be highlight of I-Day celebrations||Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopters are set to make an appearance at the Independence Day celebrations on Sunday after a gap of 24 years. Two Mi-17 V5 helicopters will shower petals on the venue as Prime Minister Narendra Modi hoists the national flag, the defence ministry said in a statement on Saturday.The IAF’s Su-30s, Mi-8s and the Surya Kiran Aerobatic Team took part in the 1997 celebrations to mark the 50th Independence Day. The country is now celebrating “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav”, marking the 75th year of Independence.Another highlight of the celebrations will be javelin star Subedar Neeraj Chopra, who won India’s first gold medal in track and field at the Tokyo Olympics and is among the invitees.Also Read| More than 15 million Indians upload anthem videos to mark I-Day: Centre“Around 240 Olympians, support staff and SAI and sports federation officials have also been invited to grace the Gyan Path in front of the Red Fort. In Tokyo, India recorded its best-ever medal haul in the Olympics by bagging a total of seven medals — one gold, two silver and four bronze,” the ministry said in a preview of the celebrations.The PM will hoist the national flag and deliver his customary address to the nation on Sunday. Lt Commander P Priyambada Sahoo will assist the PM in hoisting the flag. The ceremony will be synchronised with a 21-gun salute fired by gunners of the 2233 Field Battery (Ceremonial).Modi launched “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” from the Sabarmati Ashram at Ahmedabad in March 2021 to celebrate 75 years of India’s Independence. The celebrations will continue till August 15, 2023.Before hoisting the flag, the PM will inspect the customary guard of honour at the Red Fort. “The guard of honour contingent for the PM will consist of one officer and 20 men each from the army, navy, air force and Delhi Police,” the statement said.Also Read| August 14 will now mark horrors of Partition: PMAfter inspecting the guard of honour, the PM will proceed to the ramparts of the Red Fort, where he will be greeted by defence minister Rajnath Singh, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, army chief General MM Naravane, navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh and IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria.The General Officer Commanding, HQs Delhi Area, will conduct the PM to the dais to hoist the flag. The National Flag Guard consisting of five officers and 130 men from the army, navy, air force and Delhi Police will present the ‘Rashtriya Salute’ when the PM hoists the flag.Covid-19 warriors will also attend the celebrations. “To honour the Corona warriors who played a vital role in fighting the invisible enemy, Covid-19, a separate block on the south side of the ramparts has been created,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mi17-choppers-neeraj-chopra-to-be-highlight-of-i-day-celebrations-101628964665689.html
15-08-2021||India||Twitter unlocks accounts of Rahul Gandhi, several others||Twitter on Saturday restored the official accounts of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and several others, a week after nearly 5,000 handles associated with the party were temporarily suspended for sharing a photograph of the parents of a nine-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and murdered in the national capital.The accounts were restored after the former Congress chief submitted a consent letter by the parents of the alleged victim, authorising him to use the image, a Twitter spokesperson who did not wish to be named said.“Satyameva Jayate (truth alone triumphs),” the Congress tweeted in its first reaction after its official handle was unlocked.Confirming the development, Vipin Yadav, national coordinator of Congress’ social media department, said almost all the handles belonging to the party and its leaders were unlocked by Twitter on Saturday.On Friday, the victim’s mother told journalists that they have no objection to Gandhi tweeting their image as what he did was in good faith.As part of the appeal process, according to the Twitter spokesperson cited above, Gandhi submitted a copy of the formal consent/authorisation letter to use the referenced image via its India Grievance Channel. “… and based on the written consent provided by the people depicted in the image, our teams initiated the necessary due diligence... the process to review… We have updated our enforcement action based on the consent provided by the people depicted in the image… and the account access has been restored,” the official said.The spokesperson added that the tweet in which Gandhi shared pictures of the family shall be “withheld in India” and will be invisible to users in the country.“As explained in our Country Withheld Policy, it may be necessary to withhold access to certain content in accordance with valid legal provisions under the Indian law(s). The withholding actions are limited to the specific jurisdiction/country where the content is determined to be unlawful and remains available elsewhere,” the spokesperson said.Gandhi’s account was locked by the micro-blogging site on August 7 after he tweeted a photograph of his meeting with the alleged rape victim’s family on August 4. On August 9, Twitter informed the Delhi High Court that the Congress leader’s tweet was in violation of the platform’s policy.Twitter admitted that it was alerted by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) about Gandhi’s tweet which revealed the victim’s identity. It added that it reviewed the tweet against Twitter rules and policies, as well as the concerns expressed as a matter of Indian law.Accounts of senior leaders such as Randeep Singh Surjewala, Ajay Maken, Sushmita Dev and Manickam Tagore were also among those temporarily locked.On Friday, Gandhi accused Twitter of being “a biased platform” that “listens to what the government says”. He called the restrictions on his and his party colleagues’ accounts an interference with India’s political process.The NCPCR has moved the Delhi High Court over the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-unlocks-accounts-of-rahul-several-others-101628964484211.html
15-08-2021||India||3 Oppn MPs said they won’t chair Rajya Sabha proceedings||As Opposition lawmakers trooped daily into the Well of the House during Parliament’s monsoon session, shouted slogans, and carried placards in the Rajya Sabha over the Pegasus snooping controversy, farm laws, and fuel price rise, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) lawmaker Vandana Chavan and two of her colleagues chose to protest in their own way. They refused to chair the House proceedings and stood by their colleagues in the Opposition.Both Houses of Parliament have 12 presiding officers to run them in the absence of the Rajya Sabha chairman or deputy chairman and the Lok Sabha Speaker.Congress lawmaker L Hanumanthaiah and Trinamool Congress (TMC)’s Sukhendu Sekhar Ray also refused to be presiding officers — a role that would have entailed asking Opposition lawmakers to stop protests and return to their seats.“It was not morally the right thing to do. I cannot protest and also go and officiate,” said Chavan.Hanumanthaiah and Chavan met deputy chairman Harivansh to explain their position. “Harivansh understood and said he hoped things would function normally soon and we could resume duties,” said Chavan.The monsoon session of Parliament came to a premature end on Wednesday when it was adjourned ahead of schedule. Protests by a united Opposition and repeated disruptions marred the session even as the government pushed key laws.The TMC’s floor leader, Derek O’Brien, maintained that his party colleague Ray showed “outstanding commitment to the Opposition’s cause.”“Being a senior member, he was one of the obvious choices to run the House. But he refused,” said O’Brien.The Biju Janata Dal’s Bhartruhari Mahtab, one of the 12 presiding officers in the Lok Sabha, maintained that one cannot find fault in the decision of the three leaders. “It is the prerogative of a member to decide whether he or she wants to sit in the chair and run the House in the chairman’s absence. They cannot be forced to preside,” said Mahtab.After a new government comes in, both Houses ask different parties if they want to nominate a member as presiding officer. “Usually, the presiding officers inform beforehand when they are available to sit in the chair. If anyone is not interested, he or she can simply inform that they are not available,” said Mahtab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-oppn-mps-said-they-won-t-chair-rs-proceedings-101628963523336.html
15-08-2021||India||August 14 will now mark horrors of Partition: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced that August 14 will now be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day in memory of the struggles and sacrifices people have made, and said that the pain of Partition was something that could never be forgotten.“Millions of our sisters and brothers were displaced and many lost their lives due to mindless hate and violence. In memory of the struggles and sacrifices of our people, 14th August will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day,” PM Modi tweeted.In a subsequent tweet, he said lessons should be drawn from the violence that erupted during Partition to further enhance harmony and human empowerment. “May the #PartitionHorrorsRemembranceDay keep reminding us of the need to remove the poison of social divisions, disharmony and further strengthen the spirit of oneness, social harmony and human empowerment,” he said.Pakistan was carved out as a country after the division of India by the British colonial rule in 1947, and millions of people were displaced and many lost their lives as large-scale rioting broke out. India will celebrate its 75th Independence Day on Sunday.Hours after the PM’s announcement, the Union home ministry issued a notification declaring that August 14 will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day to salute those who sacrificed their lives during Partition.“...the Government of India has decided to declare 14th August as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day in remembrance of the people who lost their lives during the partition.“Therefore, the Government of India declares 14th August as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day to remind the present and future generations of Indians of the pain and suffering faced by the people of India during the partition,” the notification said.Welcoming the PM’s decision, Union home minister Amit Shah said: “The wound of the partition of the country and the grief of losing loved ones cannot be described in words. I am sure that Partition Horrors Remembrance Day will strengthen peace, love and unity by eliminating the ill-will of discrimination and malice from society.”Thanking the PM, defence minister Rajnath Singh said this decision to remember the sacrifice of the people during the Partition is a “testament to his sensitivity”.August 14 is also the day that Pakistan celebrates as its Independence Day.Commenting on the decision to observe August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, Vijay Chauthaiwale, incharge, foreign affairs department of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said it was time to acknowledge the horrors of Partition and the violence that ensued after India and Pakistan were carved out as two countries in 1947.“This is a long overdue recognition that Partition had resulted in violence, displacement of millions of people, incidents of killing and rape of those who came from the present-day Pakistan. The stories are still vivid and observing this day is a recognition of their sacrifices. Partition was a tragic part of history and the violence that followed it as well. PM Modi has shown tremendous courage by acknowledging the same,” Chauthaiwale said.The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological mentor of the BJP, has been observing August 14 as the Akhand Bharat Divas to commemorate the Unified India.BJP leader and Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan said the Partition remains a “gaping hole” in the soul of India.“Announcing August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day is a rightful tribute to the struggles and sacrifices of our people who were a casualty of the Congress’ ambition and tunnel vision,” he said.The Congress, however, accused the Prime Minister of playing “divisive and diversionary politics”.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that while on one side the Prime Minister congratulates Pakistan on their Independence Day, on the other side he indulges in targeting Pakistan the moment elections are near. “The divisive duplicity of the Prime Minister stands exposed,” he said in a statement.“When there are no elections, the Prime Minister exhibits his love for Pakistan and congratulates the neighbouring country on March 22, the day Muslim League passed the ‘Partition Resolution’ in 1940, and congratulates it on every August 14. But when elections near, he starts diversionary politics at home,” Surjewala said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/august-14-will-now-mark-horrors-of-partition-pm-101628963463338.html
15-08-2021||India||SG declines consent for contempt against former-SC judge Markandeya Katju||The move to initiate contempt of court proceedings against former Supreme Court judge, Justice (Retd) Markandeya Katju for his anti-judiciary comments in a London court failed on Friday as Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta refused to grant consent for the same stating that it was his personal view made as part of his deposition before a court of law.The former top court judge had appeared as an expert witness in defence of Nirav Modi before the Westminster Magistrate’s court in London in September last year. In his deposition, Justice (Retd) Katju stated that Modi will not get fair trial if extradited to India as the Supreme Court of India had become “subservient to the Indian government” and was doing its bidding.The scathing criticism against Indian judiciary formed part of the Westminster court’s judgment of February 25, 2021 ordering Modi’s extradition and rejecting Justice Katju’s statement as being “unreliable” and bearing “hallmarks of an outspoken critic with his own personal agenda”.The damning criticism made by the former judge, however, did not go unnoticed as a Supreme Court lawyer Alakh Alok Srivastava wrote to the Attorney General KK Venugopal in March this year seeking contempt of court action under Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act 1971 against the former judge. For filing a contempt plea, consent of Attorney General or Solicitor General is a prerequisite under Rule 3(c) of the Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of Supreme Court, 1975.Citing his 16-year association with Justice Katju, AG Venugopal decided on March 30 not to deal with the complaint against the judge and directed Srivastava to approach the Solicitor General. The lawyer wrote to SG Mehta on April 3 and received a response to it on Friday.SG said, “It cannot be denied that the expressions (were) used by Justice (Retd) Katju while voicing his personal views in his evidence regarding the legal system of our nation in general and that of our highest constitutional court - Supreme Court of India.” In the peculiar facts of the case, SG Mehta added, “I deem it inappropriate and inexpedient to dwell much into the issues arising from the expressions used and perception projected by Justice (Retd) Katju as he did so while giving his deposition as a witness before a court of law.”However, not to be seen as supporting the statements made by the former judge, Mehta said, “Our (judicial) system is constitutionally and functionally independent from the executive and guarantees free, fair, neutral, transparent, and effective judicial proceedings, strictly in accordance with the law and the Constitution.”Mehta arrived at this conclusion after carefully going through the judgment passed by the Westminster Magistrate’s court and the deposition given by the former judge and noted that the same was held to be “not reliable” by the London court.The Solicitor General regretted the four-month delay in responding to Srivastava’s petition and said, “As you are aware, the country was passing through one of the most unprecedented human crises during the second wave of Covid-19 requiring my appearance in various courts which led to delay in responding to your letter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sg-declines-consent-for-contempt-against-former-sc-judge-markandeya-katju-101628961424094.html
15-08-2021||NA||Breaking news: Afghan provincial capital Mazar-e-Sharif falls to the Taliban||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get the latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.In the last 24 hours, India logged 38,667 new Covid-19 cases and 478 related fatalities, the Union ministry of health and family welfare's (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Saturday. Later in the day, President Ram Nath Kovind will address the nation on the eve of the 75th Independence Day.Follow all the updates here:Maharashtra records highest one-day Covid vaccinations with over 9L jabs administeredA day before the Mumbai suburban train services open for fully-vaccinated people, the Maharashtra health department said on Saturday that the state registered the highest number of single-day vaccinations against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till 7pm with 936,000 beneficiaries getting inoculated with the jabs. Read moreAfghan provincial capital Mazar-e-Sharif falls to the TalibanAn Afghan lawmaker told the Associated Press that the city of Mazar-e-Sharif, the capital of Balkh province, has fallen to the Taliban after the insurgents launched a major assault there early on Saturday.At least 29 killed in 7.2 magnitude earthquake in Haiti#BREAKING At least 29 killed in powerful Haiti earthquake: authorities pic.twitter.com/k0HOqR4n1YArvind Kejriwal to inaugurate 5 flag masts across Delhi on I-DayOn the occasion of India's 75th Independence Day, Hon'ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal will inaugurate 5 flag masts across Delhi while honouring the bravery of our Corona Warriors.These 5 flag masts are amongst the 500 flags which will be installed by Republic Day.Maharashtra reports 5,787 Covid-19 cases, 134 deathMaharashtra recorded 5,787 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 6,387,863. In the last 24 hours 134 deaths have also been recorded, the death toll now stands at 134,909, according to state health bulletin.Tushar Mehta refuses to grant consent for contempt proceedings against former SC judge Markandey KatjuSolicitor general of India, Tushar Mehta, refused to grant his permission to initiate contempt proceedings against former Supreme Court judge Markandey Katju for his alleged remarks made in the fugitive, Nirav Modi extradition case, reported ANI.Russia says no survivors in the plane crash in Turkey#BREAKING Water-dropping plane crashes in Turkey with seven on board: media pic.twitter.com/CtKSy0y3A7Parliament is the temple of democracy, says President KovindPresident Ram Nath Kovind during his address to the nation on the eve of Independence Day said that Parliament is the temple of democracy. 7.2 magnitude earthquake strikes Haiti#BREAKING Strong 7.2 magnitude earthquake strikes Haiti: USGS pic.twitter.com/eVo6EE0cbXPresident Kovind hosts Tokyo Olympics contingentDelhi | President Ram Nath Kovind hosts the Olympics 2020 contingent over a 'High Tea' at the Rashtrapati Bhawan"The entire country is proud of our Olympians for bringing glory to the nation," he says.(Source: DD News) pic.twitter.com/7gbnC9ISyNSecurity heightened in Udhampur ahead of Independence DayMK Khan, Commandant, 137 Bn CRPF, told news agency ANI that security has been heightened in Udhampur, Jammu, ahead of tomorrow's Independence Day celebrations. “Security forces are securing the national highway to prevent terrorist activities or incidents ensuring safe movement,” Khan said. J&K Police arrests 4 JeM terroristsJ&K Police arrests 4 JeM terrorists Arrested terrorist, Ijahar Khan was asked by a Pak-based commander to do reconnaissance of Panipat Oil Refinery which he did&sent videos to Pak.He was tasked to do reconnaissance of Ram Temple in Ayodhya but was arrested before it: IGP, Jammu pic.twitter.com/VRDmgpW0IXRemobilisation of armed forces top priority, says Afghanistan's President Ashraf GhaniDeath toll in Himachal landslide accident rises to 23Death toll in Kinnaur landslide accident rises to 23, says ITBP.  Search and rescue operations still underway.Negative RT-PCR report mandatory to enter Punjab from MondayPunjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh has directed that from Monday, those who wish to enter the state will have to show a negative RT-PCR test report or full Covid-19 vaccination certificate.Taliban captures Logar province, just south of KabulAdvancing further towards Kabul, Taliban captures Logar province, just south of the Afghan capital, reports AP.Taliban launches assault on Mazar-e-Sharif: ReportsTaliban have launched a ‘multi-pronged’ assault on Mazar-e-Sharif, a major city in northern Afghanistan, reports AP quoting an Afghan official.Twitter restores accounts of Rahul Gandhi, Congress leadersTwitter unlocks accounts of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other Congress leaders. Controversial tweet posted by Gandhi, which led to the account being locked, withheld, and account restored.‘Aug 14 to be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day’: PM ModiPartition’s pains can never be forgotten. Millions of our sisters and brothers were displaced and many lost their lives due to mindless hate and violence. In memory of the struggles and sacrifices of our people, 14th August will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day.Partition’s pains can never be forgotten. Millions of our sisters and brothers were displaced and many lost their lives due to mindless hate and violence. In memory of the struggles and sacrifices of our people, 14th August will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day: PM Modi on Twitter‘Should plant more trees to combat climate change’: Om BirlaWe should plant more trees to combat climate change and global warming. There should be more fruit-bearing trees in Delhi. India has always worshiped trees: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla during an event organized at Bharat-ASEAN Maitri Park in DelhiHaryana farmers hold ‘dress rehearsal’ ahead of I-DayHaryana: Farmers conducted a rehearsal in Uchana Kalan, Jind a day before their proposed #IndependenceDay 'Tractor Parade', which will be led by women farmers "Around 5000 vehicles and 20,000 farmers will take part in the parade tomorrow," a farmer says pic.twitter.com/x4zrpMyFFbFarmers in Jind in Haryana's Uchana Kalan hold ‘dress rehearsal’ a day before their proposed Independence Day 'tractor parade', which will be led by women farmers.Himachal landslide: 2 more bodies found; toll rises to 19Two more bodies recovered at the landslide site at Nigulsari in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur on the fourth day of search and rescue operation today, taking the death to 19India's daily Covid-19 caseload falls to 38,667; 478 new deathsIndia adds 38,667 new Covid-19 cases, 478 fatalities and 35,743 recoveries in last 24 hours. Recoveries and active cases currently at 31,338,088, 430,732 and 387,673 respectively: Health ministryNCPCR summons Facebook India head on August 17NCPCR directs Facebook India (trust and safety) head Satya Yadav to appear before it at 5 pm on August 17 via video conference along with details of action taken against Congress MP Rahul Gandhi's Instagram profile for posting a video revealing identify of a 'minor girl victim's family' in Delhi.India must not play any military role in Afghanistan: TalibanIf India comes to Afghanistan militarily and have their presence, I think that will not be good for them. They've seen the fate of military presence in Afghanistan of other countries, so it is an open book for them: Taliban spokespersonNo danger from our side to embassies, says TalibanThere is no danger from our side to embassies and diplomats. We won't target any embassy or diplomat. We've said that in our statements many times. It is our commitment: Taliban spokesperson Muhammed Suhail Shaheen to ANIUS issues new terrorism warning ahead of 9/11 anniversaryThe US Department of Homeland Security, in a new terrorism warning bulletin, has said violent extremists could view the reimposition of Covid-19-related restrictions following the spread of coronavirus variants as a rationale to conduct attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-august-14-2021-101628904877375.html
15-08-2021||India||75th Independence Day: History, significance and rare facts||India on Sunday celebrated its 75th Independence Day on August 15, 2021, with the usual pride to mark its freedom from British rule. The Indian Independence movement began during World War I and was led by Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi. On August 15, 1947, India got its freedom, ending an almost 200-year British rule.Know the history of India's IndependenceThe Indian Independence Bill was introduced in the British House of Commons on July 4, 1947, and passed within a fortnight. It provided for the end of British rule in India on August 15, 1947. After that, India became a free country with the bifurcation of India and Pakistan.Also read | A manifesto for India at 75Some of the great freedom fighters who helped in India's freedom struggle include Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Bhagat Singh, Chandra Shekhar Azad, Subhas Chandra Bose and many more.Significance of India's Independence DayIndia's Independence Day is significant as it stands as a reminder of the sacrifices that many freedom fighters made to get independence from British rule. It is a national holiday and it is usually observed throughout the nation with the hoisting of the tricolour, parades and cultural events. India's first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru raised the Indian national flag above the Lahori Gate of Red Fort in Delhi on August 15, 1947. It is a tradition that has since been followed by the incumbent Prime Minister, followed by an address to the country.Rare facts about India's Independence Day1. The song ‘Bharoto Bhagyo Bidhata’ composed in 1911 by Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore was renamed as ‘Jana Gana Mana’ and adopted by the Constituent Assembly of India as the national anthem on January 24, 1950.2. The Indian national flag with three horizontal stripes of red, yellow and green was hoisted on August 7, 1906, at Parsee Bagan Square in Kolkata. The first variant of India's current national flag was designed by freedom fighter Pingali Venkayya in 1921. The current flag with saffron, white and green colours and the Ashok Chakra in the middle was officially adopted on July 22, 1947, and hoisted on August 15, 1947.Also read | India gets official website for Independence Day, features 360-degree VR view3. Five other countries celebrate their independence on August 15 along with India. They are Bahrain, North Korea, South Korea and Liechtenstein.4. The Indian flag is manufactured and supplied from only one place in the nation. The Karnataka Khadi Gramodyoga Samyukta Sangha (KKGSS), located in Dharwad in Karnataka, has the authority to manufacture and supply the Indian national flag. According to the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), the flag is manufactured only with hand-spun and handwoven cotton khadi wafting.Also read | On Independence Day, these US buildings will be lit in colours of Indian flag5. Even after India's independence, Goa was still a Portuguese colony. It was annexed to India by the Indian Army only in 1961. Thus, Goa was the last state to join the Indian territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75th-independence-day-history-significance-and-rare-facts-101628825261627.html
