16-08-2021||India||Taliban must ensure soil not used by terror groups: India||India said on Monday that Afghanistan’s neighbours and the region would feel safer if Afghan soil isn’t used by terror groups to attack any other country as the UN Security Council debated the situation in the war-torn country following a Taliban takeover. Most of the 15 permanent and non-permanent members of the Security Council said the Taliban must ensure the territory of Afghanistan is not used by groups such as al-Qaeda and Islamic State. They called on the Taliban to ensure the security of foreign missions and humanitarian organisations during the second meeting on Afghanistan within 10 days under the Indian presidency of the UN body. However, remarks by the representatives of Russia and China hinted at a greater willingness to engage with the Taliban, who entered Kabul on Sunday after the civilian government collapsed as President Ashraf Ghani fled the country. Russia’s envoy to the UN, Vassily Nebenzia, singled out Iran as an important regional player that could work with the “extended troika”, which includes Pakistan. India’s ambassador to the UN, TS Tirumurti, noted the situation in Afghanistan had dramatically changed since the last Security Council meeting 10 days ago, and was of “great concern” to New Delhi. He reiterated India’s call for respecting the rights of Afghan women, children and minorities, and added that a “broader representation would help the arrangement gain more acceptability and legitimacy”. “The current situation in Afghanistan has numerous challenges. However, there are a few opportunities. If there is a zero tolerance for terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, and it is ensured that the territory of Afghanistan is not used by terrorist groups to threaten or attack any other country, then Afghanistan’s neighbours and the region would feel safer,” he said. Tirumurti noted that Afghan men, women and children are living in a constant state of fear amid increasing violations of their fundamental rights, and said: “We hope that the situation stabilises soon, and the parties concerned address the humanitarian and security issues. We also hope that there is an inclusive dispensation which represents all sections of Afghan society.” The world community and the Security Council should ensure an immediate cessation of violence and contain any possible crisis, and countries should rise above partisan interests to support Afghans to achieve peace, stability and security, he said. Recalling India’s contributions to the development of Afghanistan, Tirumurti said the country had ongoing development projects in all of the 34 Afghan provinces in critical areas such as power, water supply, road connectivity and healthcare. Russian envoy Nebenzia said Kabul had been “quickly abandoned by the country’s leader” and widespread bloodshed had been avoided as the Taliban entered the Afghan capital on Sunday. “Currently, we believe there is no point in panicking... Russia will interact with the Taliban irrespective of the evolving situation and their specific actions,” he added. Referring to Russia’s “extended troika” group that includes the US, China and Pakistan, Nebenzia said: “We believe that an important role could be played by Iran as well here.” Chinese deputy permanent representative Geng Shuang noted that some Security Council members desired a greater role to be played by Afghanistan’s neighbours, and, in an apparent reference to Pakistan, said: “We learnt that some regional countries and Afghanistan’s neighbours had made a request to participate in today’s meeting. It is regrettable that their requests were not granted.” Pakistan’s efforts to join both the Security Council meetings did not meet with success, with the body’s members turning down the country’s request. Geng further noted that the Taliban had said the war in Afghanistan has ended and that the group will negotiate to establish “an open and inclusive Islamic government” and take “responsible actions” for the safety of Afghans and foreign missions. He hoped the Taliban will unite with all parties and ethnic groups to establish a broad and inclusive political structure for lasting peace. Both Geng and Nebenzia also referred to threats posed to their countries by terror groups based in Afghanistan, such as Islamic State, al-Qaeda and ETIM, but made no mention of organisations such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed that pose concerns for India. US permanent representative Linda Thomas-Greenfield called on all parties to prevent terrorism and to ensure Afghanistan “cannot ever, ever again be a base for terrorism”, while the UK representative noted that the Taliban had pledged at Doha to engage in talks in good faith but “their actions on the ground have betrayed that promise”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-must-ensure-soil-not-used-by-terror-groups-india-101629138387324.html
16-08-2021||India||Karnataka forms district-level expert panels to beat imminent third Covid-19 wav||Apprehending a third wave of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease that might strike the state later this year, the Karnataka government on Monday ordered the setting up of expert committees at the district level that would provide technical guidance to local administrations.Issuing a notification, the government said the district-level Covid-19 Technical Expert Committees (TEC) were being formed on the recommendation of the state Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) based on experience from the first two waves of the pandemic. As anticipated by experts, the third wave may hit the country in October and November this year.The notification was issued by additional chief secretary of the health and family welfare department, Jawaid Akhtar. The district-level panels will pursue the guidelines issued by central and state governments, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), AllMS-New Delhi, WHO and other organisations on a regular basis, and will regularly interact with the state TAC and function under its overall guidance.Each committee will have senior specialists in public health and medicine, district surveillance officer (DSO), senior pulmonologists, physicians/intensivists, pediatricians, obstetricians, microbiologists, medical officer-WHO, and a senior Ayush physician as its members. The committee will also have a district health and family welfare officer and district surgeon as special invitees.According to the notification, the Committee shall meet on a regular basis, at least fortnightly, and based on the need may meet more frequently, and a copy of the proceedings shall be sent to commissioner, health and family welfare services, Bengaluru, through the deputy commissioner.It will review the data at the district level and compare it with other districts, state, and national level on a continual basis, and shall help the district administration by using the information obtained locally and facilitate public health actions and containment measures. The TEC shall guide the district administration to make decisions that are in consonance with guidelines of the state and the country, it added.The TAC constituted at the state level will lay down the activities to be taken up and will handhold the District TECs in their functioning.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-forms-district-level-expert-panels-to-beat-imminent-third-covid-19-wav-101629136538260.html
16-08-2021||India||Paswan’s former bungalow allotted to Railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw||Union Railways and IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw who is also the BJP Rajya Sabha MP from Odisha has been allotted 12 Janpath-- the bungalow that was previously occupied by Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) president Chirag Paswan and his family, according to officials aware of the development.“12 Janpath has been allotted to the railway minister and LJP MP and Union minister of Food Processing Industries Pashupati Kumar Paras has been allotted 7 Tughlaq Road,” an urban housing ministry official said.Last week, the Centre had issued an eviction notice to Lok Sabha MP Chirag Paswan and other occupants of the 12 Janpath bungalow asking them to vacate the accommodation that had been allotted to his late father and former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan.The bungalow had been the official address of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) which regularly held its organisational meetings and other related events there.Ram Vilas Paswan, who was the Lok Janshakti Party patron, stayed at the bungalow for nearly three decades till his demise in October last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paswans-former-bungalow-allotted-to-railway-minister-ashwini-vaishnaw-101629136107336.html
16-08-2021||India||Asking father's details for IVF-born child harms women's 'privacy': Kerala court||The Kerala high court observed that the requirement to furnish a father’s name to register the birth or death of children conceived through the Assisted Reproductive Technologies (ART), like IVF, affects the dignity of the single mother as well as the child.The court also directed the state to make necessary changes in forms designed for registration of births and deaths of children born through artificial procedures."The right of a single parent/ unwed mother to conceive by ART having been recognised, prescriptions of forms requiring mentioning of name of father, the details of which is to be kept anonymous, is violative of their fundamental rights of privacy, liberty and dignity," the Kerala HC ruled.The landmark ruling by the high court came on a plea by a woman, who conceived a child using In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) procedure. Challenging the norm under the Kerala Registration of Births and Deaths Rules, 1970, which makes it mandatory to mention the father's details, the woman said in her petition that she cannot disclose the father's name on grounds that the identity of the sperm donor is kept anonymous and the information has not been disclosed even to her. The woman also appealed to the court that the requirement violates her right of privacy, liberty and dignity.Upon hearing the plea of the woman, the court observed that rights of a single woman to conceive through ART procedure was recognised and accepted in the country and contended that in such procedures, the identity of the sperm donor cannot be disclosed except in circumstances as may be compelled for, under law."It falls within the realm of the 'right of privacy'. The said right has also been recognised in the guidelines for ART clinics, with very little exceptions. Under the circumstances, there is no rhyme or reason in requiring the petitioner to provide the name of the father in the form prescribed for registration of birth and death,” the court said, according to news agency PTI.The Kerala high court also agreed with the petitioner in her argument that leaving the column regarding the details of father as blank — and issuing certificates of birth or death by leaving the space provided therein regarding the details of the father as blank — affects the right of dignity of the mother as well as the child.The court said while the concept of conceiving through ART was alien to India a few decades back till the first 'test tube baby' was born, "by the passage of time, evolution of techniques, change in lifestyle and personal choices recognised by the Rule of Law, appropriate modifications, additions and alterations need to be made in statutes, rules and the forms prescribed thereunder”, as it directed the government to provide appropriate forms for registration of births and deaths of children born through such procedures.However, the court said applicants can be asked to furnish an affidavit they are single parent who conceived through the ART procedure and produce copies of medical record, to prevent misuse of such forms for settling scores in 'family feuds'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asking-father-s-details-for-ivf-born-child-harms-women-s-privacy-kerala-court-101629133514808.html
16-08-2021||India||Odisha, Andhra in fresh face-off over disputed border village||The ongoing border dispute between Andhra Pradesh and Odisha over the contentious Kotia Gram Panchayat in Koraput district resulted in a fresh conflict on Monday, after the local administration foiled an attempt by Andhra Pradesh MLAs to host a series of political events in a village under the panchayat.Officials in Koraput said MLA of Salur assembly constituency Rajan Dora was due to host several political and cultural events at Phatusineri village under Kotia Gram Panchayat on Monday. The Project Director of Integrated Tribal Development Agency at Parvatipuram was supposed to join the programme. But before the MLA could start his programme, local politicians as well district administration and police personnel were deployed at the spot. The political leaders led by former Koraput MP Jayram Pangi as well as Congress leader Taraprasad Bahinipati and BJD MLA Pritam Padhi opposed the events.BJP leader Jayram Pangi who helped the police and district administration to keep the intruders away said, Kotia is an integral part of Odisha. “I want to send a strong warning to the Andhra Pradesh government that they will never be successful in taking over Kotia panchayat,” he said. It is an integral part of Odisha and nobody can deny it.”Congress MLA Taraprasad Bahinipati said all the political parties in Koraput are supporting the state government burying their political differences. “We are one for the cause of our motherland. We have decided that all MLAs will donate ₹1 lakh for the development of the panchayat,” he said. Bahinipati also who joined BJD and BJP leaders in sloganeering against Andhra Pradesh.Koraput district collector Abdaal M Akhtar said the district administration received information that some political people from Andhra Pradesh are trying to organise cultural programmes at Kotia.“We deployed police personnel at the spot to ward off any potential law and order situation. We are in touch with the Vizianagaram district administration. Since the issue concerning Kotia is already sub-judice, we asked them to resolve the dispute in a peaceful manner. Any unilateral action on the ground will never be acceptable for Odisha,” he said.It was in Phatusineri village under Kotia Gram Panchayat where the AP government in February this year had conducted panchayat polls despite Odisha and Andhra being locked in a legal battle over territorial control of the area since early 60s. The Kotia Gram Panchayat has 28 revenue villages; Odisha mistakenly did not survey 21 villages during its formation in 1936. At the time of creation of Andhra Pradesh in the year 1955, those 21 villages were also not surveyed by Andhra resulting in perpetual dispute over these bordering villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-andhra-in-fresh-face-off-over-disputed-border-village-101629132386900.html
16-08-2021||India||Neighbours would feel safer if Afghan land isn't used for terror: India at UNSC||India said on Monday if there was zero tolerance for terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and it was ensured that Afghan territory would not be used by any terrorist group to threaten or attack any other nation, Afghanistan’s neighbours and the entire region would feel safer. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN TS Tirumurti made the statement while addressing an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council being held under India’s current presidency on the prevailing crisis in Afghanistan following the Taliban’s return to power.Also read | India rushes to secure citizens in Afghanistan“We have seen very unfortunate scenes at Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul that (have caused) widespread panic among the people. Women and children are in distress. Incidents of firing have been reported from the city, including the airport,” said India’s ambassador to the UN said at the meeting. This was the second meeting held over the issue in a week.#WATCH | As a neighbour of #Afghanistan, as a friend of its people, the current situation prevailing in the country is of great concern to us in India. Afghan men, women, & children are living under a constant state of fear: India's Ambassador to UN, TS Tirumurti at UNSC meeting pic.twitter.com/jl2MJeQDXm"As a neighbour of Afghanistan, as a friend of its people, the current situation prevailing in the country is of great concern to us in India. Afghan men, women, and children are living under a constant state of fear. They are uncertain of their future... Afghans are worried about whether their right to live with dignity will be respected," he further said.Stating that India had been engaged in development projects in each of Afghanistan's 34 provinces before the current crisis unfolded, Tirumurti further urged all stakeholders to maintain law and order and ensure safety of all. "We call upon parties concerned to maintain law and order, ensure safety and security of all concerned, including UN diplomatic and consular personnel," he added.Also read | ‘Sent distress signal’: Planes carrying over 100 Afghan soldiers land in TajikistanIn his speech, UN Secretary-General António Guterres spoke about "chilling reports of severe restrictions on human rights", adding that he was particularly concerned about mounting violations against women and girls in Afghanistan.The Taliban’s takeover of the war-ravaged nation was completed after the Islamic militant group made an easy entry to capital Kabul and took over the presidential palace, forcing embattled President Ashraf Ghani to join fellow citizens and foreigners to rush out of the country.Also read | Why Ashraf Ghani, Afghanistan's best academic, failedThe UNSC meeting on Afghanistan came as talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban in Doha were stalled and just days before the extended Troika meeting scheduled to be held in Qatar on August 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neighbours-would-feel-safer-if-afghan-land-isn-t-used-for-terror-india-at-unsc-101629128730160.html
16-08-2021||India||ITBP to guard Indian diplomatic staff in Afghanistan till required: Officials||An armed contingent of paramilitary force Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) is "actively" securing the diplomatic staff of the Indian embassy in Afghanistan's capital Kabul and will be there "till required", officials said on Monday as the Taliban took over the country.The officials said the force personnel are among the last of the diplomatic staff of the embassy who are present in the country.The security unit of the ITBP is actively securing the embassy staffers. They will carry out their duties till it is required, the officials said.They refused to divulge the strength of the people and the armed security personnel owing to the sensitivity of the fast-changing situation in Afghanistan.The ITBP was first deployed to secure the premises of the India embassy in Kabul, diplomats and staffers in November, 2002.It later sent additional detachments to guard the Indian consulates located in Jalalabad, Kandahar, Mazar-e-Sharif and Herat.The contingents from the consulates have already been withdrawn after the consulates were shut recently due to the current crisis in the war-ravaged country and also due to a negligible footfall as the coronavirus pandemic gripped the globe.Also Read | Air India can’t operate Kabul flight as airspace shuts downIn its first reaction to the developments in Afghanistan, India on Monday said it is constantly monitoring the situation and will take all steps to ensure the safety and security of its nationals as well as its interests in that country."The situation in Afghanistan is being monitored on a constant basis at high levels. The government will take all steps to ensure the safety and security of Indian nationals and our interests in Afghanistan," Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said.Also Read | Closure of Kabul airport puts pause on repatriation of IndiansCapping its month-long rapid advances, the Taliban took positions in Kabul on Sunday evening, hours after Afghan President Ashraf Ghani left for an unknown destination, paving the way for the takeover of the capital as well as the country."The security situation in Kabul has deteriorated significantly in the last few days. It is changing rapidly even as we speak," Bagchi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbp-to-guard-indian-diplomatic-staff-in-afghanistan-till-required-officials-101629127557585.html
16-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: India's efforts to repatriate officials paused as Kabul airport closes and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Closure of Kabul airport puts pause on repatriation of IndiansIndia on Monday pledged to stand by its Afghan partners but said the suspension of operations at Kabul airport has “forced a pause” in the government’s efforts to repatriate its officials and nationals following the takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban. Read moreMansukh Mandaviya announces special package for Kerala to fight Covid-19 pandemicUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday announced a special package of ₹267.35 crore for Kerala to strengthen its health infrastructure to fight the Covid-19 pandemic effectively. Read moreCovid-19: Those below 18 yrs can now visit malls in Maha with age proofAs Maharashtra eases further restrictions that were reimposed earlier this year to contain the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in its second wave, the government has allowed those below the age of 18 years to visit malls with age proofs. Read moreBumrah, Buttler involved in heated exchange; unimpressed Virat Kohli shows his displeasure from Lord’s balcony - WatchAfter tempers flared between Virat Kohli and James Anderson on Sunday, Day 5 of the second Test between India and England witnessed Jasprit Bumrah and Jos Buttler getting engaged in a verbal duel. Read moreDharmendra calls himself only bad actor among 'talented' Sholay team: 'To me it was just a picnic'Actor Dharmendra reacted to a tweet by director Ramesh Sippy after their film Sholay completed 46 years on Sunday. Sholay released in 1975 to a dull start but, with time, became a cult classic. Read moreTragedy at Kabul Airport: People fall off plane mid-air amid jostle to fleeDesperate Afghans ran on the tarmac of Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul as a US military aircraft attempted to take off. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-s-efforts-to-repatriate-officials-paused-as-kabul-airport-closes-and-all-the-latest-news-101629127503294.html
16-08-2021||India||COP26 chief Alok Sharma begins 3-day visit, India’s role at climate summit on radar||UN Climate Change Conference or COP26 President Alok Sharma on Monday began a three-day visit to India for discussions with ministers and leaders from industry and civil society on collaboration on climate action. Sharma’s meetings in New Delhi will focus on India’s role in helping to ensure the success of the climate change summit to be hosted by the UK in Glasgow in November. With fewer than 100 days to go until the summit, Sharma’s in-person visit represents the UK’s commitment to raise global ambition on climate action for a balanced and inclusive outcome at COP26, the UK high commission said in a statement. Sharma said: “India has a vital role to play as the world comes together in Glasgow to demonstrate renewed action under the Paris Agreement. India’s leadership, including through the International Solar Alliance (ISA) and Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI), is hugely important as we look to build global resilience ahead of COP26 and beyond.” All countries, including the UK and India, have an opportunity to build back greener from the Covid-19 pandemic, and providing climate resilient jobs that also promote economic growth and will lead to a “green industrial revolution that also makes financial sense”, he added. During his meetings with key stakeholders, Sharma is expected to point to the role India can play at the summit “through profiling its ambitious domestic plans and by joining the growing number of countries who have updated their 2030 emissions targets under the Paris Agreement”, the statement added. The UK has called on all G20 countries to sign up to net zero, set out clear plans to cut emissions by 2030, and commit to ending coal power, transitioning to electric vehicles, and restoring nature, with the richest nations providing financial support to the rest of the planet to go green. The UK and India currently work closely together on issues such as research and innovation for a clean energy transition and to improve global resilience through bodies such as ISA, CDRI and Green Growth Equity Fund. Sharma holds the post of minister of state at the UK Cabinet Office and this is his second visit to India in 2021. He is expected to meet environment and climate change minister Bhupender Yadav and power and new and renewable energy minister RK Singh. UK high commissioner Alex Ellis described the COP26 summit as “our last best chance to set the world on the path towards a global warming limit of 1.5 degrees”. He added, “India is already taking impressive action, for example on renewables. With most of the infrastructure that India will need by 2040 yet to be built, it can lead the way in new clean technology and infrastructure.” The UK will host the UN climate change conference in partnership with Italy. The UK is already setting an example on climate action with a legally binding target to cut emissions to net zero by 2050, and it has committed to doubling its international climate finance to at least £11.6 billion over the next five years to help developing countries to take action. Climate is one of the pillars of the India-UK 2030 roadmap, and the two countries co-chair CDRI and promote disaster resilient infrastructure planning, development, policy and financing across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop26-chief-alok-sharma-begins-3-day-visit-india-s-role-at-climate-summit-on-radar-101629128066282.html
16-08-2021||India||Mansukh Mandaviya announces special package for Kerala to fight Covid-19 pandemic||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday announced a special package of ₹267.35 crore for Kerala to strengthen its health infrastructure to fight the Covid-19 pandemic effectively. Sent to the state in the wake of a heavy virus caseload, the Union minister met chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and health minister Veena George and officials in the state capital. “We will provide all possible help to the state. Besides this amount, ₹one crore will be made available to each district to create a medicine pool. The Centre will also ensure creation of a centre of excellence that caters to telemedicine facilities in every district,” the minister tweeted after his marathon talks with the CM and others. He also said the state will be given top priority in allocation of vaccine. “Had an intensive meeting with the CM and health minister and officials. The Centre is committed to help the state. For prioritising health of children, a paediatric ICU will be established in each district hospital with 10 kilo-litre liquid oxygen tank facility,” he tweeted. Later a senior health official, who did not want to be named, said talks were fruitful and the central minister was studious and aware of problems being faced by the state. He said the CM’s office will release details of the conversation later. Kerala also raised its long- pending demand for an AIMS in the state. For more than a month now, the state has been reporting half of the total caseload of the country and its test positivity rate is four times higher than the national average. With three per cent of the nation’s population, the state has been contributing more than half of the total cases and its case trajectory has baffled medical experts and others. Worried, the Union government had rushed an experts’ team to the state in the first week of August and it visited eight districts during their week-long tour. Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan, also from Kerala, said two days back that the Centre was worried about the pandemic situation in the state. Kerala on Monday added 12,294 cases with a TPR of 14.03% after 87,578 samples were tested, according to the state health ministry. Test numbers dropped drastically since Sunday was closed--still the TPR shows high prevalence of the infection in the state. It also reported 142 deaths and the toll rose to 18,743. Malappuram remained on top of the Covid-19 chart with 1693 cases. The active caseload is 1,72, 239. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 32,937 cases with a TPR of less than 3 per cent. The state government is keeping a strict vigil during the ongoing Onam festivities and many experts have warned of another surge after the festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mansukh-mandaviya-announces-special-package-for-kerala-to-fight-covid-19-pandemic-101629126626235.html
16-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Those below 18 yrs can now visit malls in Maha with age proof||As Maharashtra eases further restrictions that were reimposed earlier this year to contain the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in its second wave, the government has allowed those below the age of 18 years to visit malls with age proofs. An earlier notification had said malls would remain open till 10 in the night every day and only individuals, including staff, with vaccination certificates of both doses against the virus and a valid identity card would be allowed in.Now, those below 18 years of age for whom the vaccination drive has not yet been started can visit the malls with age proofs to be shown at entry points, according to the new government order issued under "break the chain" guidelines."Since vaccination for the population below l8 years has not yet started, all children below 18 years of age need to show documents for their age proof at entry points of malls," the letter reads.In Mumbai, the civic body had announced earlier in the day that all playgrounds, gardens, beaches and seafronts will remain open for the public from 6am to 10pm.The new relaxations came a day after the Maharashtra government allowed fully vaccinated citizens to travel by Mumbai local trains after a gap of four months. This was one of the key demands of the people of Maharashtra as only government employees and those engaged in essential services were granted permission to travel in local trains.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had said on August 8 to keep the economic cycle moving, the government is imposing certain criteria and restrictions to allow ordinary passengers to travel locally.The pandemic situation has been slowly improving in the state, one of the worst affected in the country. At its peak, Maharashtra was registering more than 60,000 daily cases. On Monday, the figure was 4,145, while the capital city of Mumbai saw 195 new infections during the day. Fatalities from the viral disease have also fallen massively with 100 patients losing their lives to the infection on Monday in the state.The authorities have, so far, inoculated a large number of beneficiaries in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-those-below-18-yrs-can-now-visit-malls-in-maha-with-age-proof-101629125103967.html
16-08-2021||India||Mansukh Mandaviya assures Centre's aid in boosting Kerala's health infrastructure, availability of Covid-19 vaccines||Union minister of health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday announced that the Centre allocated ₹267.35 crore to Kerala to improve the state’s health infrastructure and effectively manage Covid-19. The minister further said that an additional sum of ₹1 crore will also be provided to each district in the state for creating a medicine pool.The announcements came after Mandaviya met with Kerala’s chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, state health minister Veena George and other state officials in Thiruvananthapuram. The central minister is currently in the state to discuss the Covid-19 situation.Also read | This district in Kerala has vaccinated all aged above 18 against Covid-19“Central Govt allocates ₹267.35 crore to Kerala under Emergency COVID Response Package- II. It will strengthen state’s health infrastructure & effectively manage #COVID19. Additionally, ₹1 crore will be made available to each district of Kerala for creating medicine pool,” Mandaviya tweeted following the meeting.Central Govt allocates ₹267.35 crore to Kerala under Emergency COVID Response Package- II. It will strengthen state’s health infrastructure & effectively manage #COVID19. Additionally, ₹1 crore will be made available to each district of Kerala for creating medicine pool. (2/4)Mandaviya said that a centre of excellence that caters to telemedicine facilities in every district would be created. Also, a paediatric intensive care unit would be established in district hospitals to prioritise the health of children, he added.“Central Govt will ensure creation of a Centre of Excellence that caters to Telemedicine Facilities in every district in Kerala. For prioritising health of children, paediatric ICU to be established in district hospitals with 10 kilo-litre liquid oxygen storage tank facility,” he said in a subsequent tweet. Further, the Union government has also assured all possible assistance to Kerala, including providing Covid-19 vaccines, he added.Central Govt will ensure creation of a Center of Excellence that caters to Telemedicine Facilities in every district in Kerala.For prioritising health of children, paediatric ICU to be established in district hospitals with 10 kilo-litre liquid oxygen storage tank facility (3/4)Meanwhile, Kerala continued to report a high number of daily new infections of Covid-19. On Sunday, 18,582 people tested positive for the disease with a high test positivity rate (TPR) of 15.11%, which accounted for more than half of the national tally of 32,937 cases. On Monday, the single-day infection tally fell to 12,294 cases while 142 people had lost their lives. The death toll climbed to 18,743 while the active caseload was recorded at 172,239, according to a bulletin from the state government.Following the meeting, the Union minister had lauded the steps taken by the state government in preventing the disease, news agency PTI reported citing a press release from the Kerala public relations department. Mandaviya had also praised the lack of vaccine wastage in the state and also assured availability of vaccines to the state. The central ministry’s data showed that 24,271,938 doses of the vaccine have been administered in Kerala as of 7am on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-allocates-rs-267-crore-to-improve-kerala-s-health-infrastructure-says-mansukh-mandaviya-101629121892864.html
16-08-2021||India||Will make all arrangements to evacuate Indians from Afghanistan: HS Puri||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Monday said that the ministry of external affairs and all central government departments, responsible for bringing back stranded Indian nationals from Afghanistan, will make necessary arrangements for their evacuation.“Ministry of external affairs (MEA) and others who are responsible for it will make all the arrangements,” Puri said.His statements came hours after Congress leader and Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh appealed to the Centre to arrange for the “immediate evacuation of all Indians, including around 200 Sikhs,” trapped at a Gurdwara in the war-torn nation following the rapid takeover by the Islamist extremist group Taliban on Sunday.“My government is willing to extend any help needed to ensure their safe evacuation,” Singh tweeted, tagging foreign minister S Jaishankar and the external affairs ministry.
16-08-2021||India||Centre gets 4-week extension on framing ex-gratia for Covid-19 deaths||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed a month’s extension to the Centre for framing ex-gratia compensation for Covid-19 deaths but asked the Government to indicate within two weeks steps taken to issue death certificate guidelines in Covid-19 cases and a national insurance scheme for disaster-related deaths, that formed part of the Court’s order passed on June 30.A bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah said, “The time for framing of guidelines for ex-gratia compensation under Section 12(iii) of the Disaster Management Act 2005 is extended by four weeks. However, the Centre shall place on record its response setting out compliance effected of other guidelines.” The bench posted the matter after two weeks.By its June 30 order, the Court had held that the government was required to pay ex-gratia compensation for Covid-19 deaths since Covid-19 was declared a notified disaster under the 2005 Act. The order came on two PILs filed by advocates Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal who said that in case of death on account of a notified disaster, a sum of ₹4 lakh had been fixed as ex-gratia payment by the Ministry of Home Affairs by a letter of April 8, 2015. However, the Court did not fix the quantum of compensation but left it to the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to fix the amount while framing the guidelines within six weeks.As the period of six weeks expired by mid-August, the Centre moved an application for extension of time saying, “The exercise to frame appropriate guidelines for payment of ex-gratia payment to the victims of Covid-19 disaster under Section 12(iii) of the DMA is in active consideration of the NDMA and going on. This exercise, though at an active advance stage requires a little more in-depth examination before the same is finalized and implemented.” The Centre was of the view that any “accelerated formulation may result into undesirable results” and if four additional weeks are available, NDMA can come out with a “comprehensive and robust formulation” on ex-gratia compensation.Having gone through the application, the bench observed, “We have no difficulty to extend time. But a number of directions had been issued by us. There is no mention about those orders in your application.”Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati appearing for the Centre informed the Court that a suitable affidavit shall be filed bringing on record the steps taken pursuant to the Court’s judgment.The June 30 judgment came as a landmark decision where the Court extended a helping hand to more than four lakh people who died due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Apart from compensation, two other directions were passed by the Court, which included issuance of simplified guidelines for issuance of death certificate stating the exact cause of death as “Death due to COVID-19”. Such guidelines, according to the Court, were to consider a person who has died within two to three months after he was found COVID-positive, to be also included as having “died due to COVID-19”. In the event, persons who have already received death certificates wished to make amends to their death document, the Court directed the Centre to provide a suitable remedy for family members of the deceased to get the same corrected.In addition, the judgment asked the Centre to take appropriate steps in line with the recommendations of the Fifteenth Finance Commission providing for a National Insurance Scheme for disaster-related deaths. As per the Finance Commission, this could work as a Social Protection Scheme without increasing the administrative burden on the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-gets-4-week-extension-on-framing-ex-gratia-for-covid-19-deaths-101629119545503.html
16-08-2021||India||Sushmita Dev’s resignation hasn’t come as surprise to Assam Congress||Former member of parliament from Silchar, Assam, Sushmita Dev officially resigned from the Congress on Sunday and sought good wishes from party chief Sonia Gandhi for her “new chapter of public service”. She also resigned from the post of All India Mahila Congress President on August 15. But this did not happen overnight, she had hinted at this on July 26 during a press conference in Silchar. Recently when her Twitter account was blocked for a while, she unofficially said, “Wait for 2-3 days, something big is coming.” The move to quit Congress started during the Assam assembly election this year when Dev and then APCC president Ripun Bora disagreed on seat distribution for Barak Valley region of the state. According to Dev, out of 15 seats in Barak Valley, APCC president wanted to give 8 seats to Congress, allowing alliance partner All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) to contest from the rest. Later, Congress contested from 11 seats winning in four of them. “If six to seven seats were given away in Barak Valley, why should grassroots level workers remain in Congress in tough times? I raised this question on behalf of each and every party worker in Barak Valley,” she said in March. She also hinted at her resignation just before the Assam-Mizoram conflict when she said, “I have already talked to Sonia ji regarding my decision to quit some big responsibilities in Congress party. My decision will be in public soon.”Also Read | Sushmita Dev joins TMC a day after quitting CongressShe pointed out that APCC did not give her proper respect during the state assembly elections. She said, “I am the kingmaker in Barak Valley and we have performed much better than the Brahmaputra Valley. In alliance with the AIUDF, we won 9 out of 15 seats in Barak Valley. Sonia Gandhi ji is happy with our performance, but APCC did not give our hard-fought win proper respect. Some APCC leaders treat us as if we are nobody. My family has contributed towards the party...We cannot continue serving like second class workers in the party.”She also said that some senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders were suggesting her to join their party before assembly election this year. “Some ministers tried to influence me to join the BJP before the election. Politics is a part of my life and I need to feel comfortable while taking decisions. I turned down their requests.”Congress leaders in Barak Valley are not surprised by Dev’s decision. Her childhood friend and former president of Silchar District Congress Committee, Tamal Kanti Banik, said, “We are not shocked...She chose her own career over her father’s legacy and the Congress itself...We are bit sad that a family (Santosh Mohan Dev’s family) which has almost five decade-long relationship with the Congress is no longer a part it.” APCC working president Kamalakhya Dey Purkayastha said, “Sushmita Dev was upset since disagreement on ticket distribution before the assembly election. I cannot support her decision of quitting. The Congress has given everything to her family -- from making her father a Union minister to selecting her as the president of All India Mahila Congress. I am yet to talk to her but I feel that she has preferred her career over the party.”He also said Dev’s absence won’t be a big factor. “During the Emergency in 1970s, the Congress was almost finished, but we came back stronger...We are going through another tough phase and this will also end. Sushmita Dev should have realised that a person’s absence doesn’t make [much of a] change because thousands of dedicated people are working for the party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushmita-dev-s-resignation-hasn-t-come-as-surprise-to-assam-congress-101629118106462.html
16-08-2021||India||Weren’t sure will be able to bring back stranded Indians: AI Kabul flight crew||The last commercial flight to Kabul had a dramatic landing and take-off just as fighters belonging to the Taliban were capturing Afghanistan’s capital, taking over the Palace and securing the perimeter of the city’s Hamid Karzai International Airport. Air India flight number 243 took off on time, a little after noon, Sunday, but the ground reality changed in just the two hours that the plane took to reach Afghanistan airspace. Just as the crew prepared for landing and the pilots tried to coordinate with Air Traffic Control, it got no reply. “Zero reply. We were just met with silence,’’ said one of the crew members who did not wish to be named. According to another, there was no other aircraft in the vicinity and the pilots had no choice but hold their descent into Kabul. In the meantime, other airlines were directing their pilots to turn around and not land in Kabul. Several airlines, including United Airlines and British Airways, stopped using Afghanistan on Sunday. Lufthansa, KLM and Air India stopped operations Monday, after the war-torn country’s civil aviation authority issued NOTAMs or notices to airmen, closing its airspace to all civilian flights. Also Read | In Afghanistan, the limits of Indian powerAI 243 stayed in the hold position for over an hour. It could do so for another few minutes. As one official, interviewed for this story said, “The flight had holding fuel for 10 to 12 minutes.” Unknown to the pilots, the Taliban had reached the gates of Kabul and were preparing to take over the Palace. That was also the time Afghan President Ashraf Ganai was preparing to flee. Would AI 243 be able to land and bring back Indians stranded in Kabul? The pilots were not sure. They could not have asked to land at a nearby airport. Their standard operating procedure required them to return to Delhi. An hour’s silence from the ATC is excruciatingly long. In that hour, American troops were operating their helicopters to evacuate their staff out of their embassy in Kabul. They were also helping President Ghani flee. The Taliban had made it clear: they were not willing to settle for an interim government. They had reached the outskirts of Kabul and were waiting to enter the Palace. After a long, one hour, the Americans took over the air traffic control and IA 243 finally got a reply: they could land but after the Americans had airlifted their envoys out of their embassy. The drama did not end after Air India finally managed to touch down on Kabul’s runway. The airport neither had ground handling staff nor security personnel. The flight needed to refuel for its journey back to Delhi. The fuel bowser driver was nowhere to be found. The turn-around flight took three hours to depart the Taliban-controlled country; but only after the Americans helped find a driver for the bowser and the Air India crew doubled up to safety check the passengers and their baggage. The last civilian flight finally landed in Delhi and the crew relaxed after a harrowing day but only after being grilled by senior management officers and officials from the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security. Their main worry: did anyone other than a passenger make it back on the last flight out of Kabul?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/werent-sure-will-be-able-to-bring-back-stranded-indians-ai-kabul-flight-crew-101629117205232.html
16-08-2021||India||Covid-19: 10 new cases of Delta Plus found in Maharashtra, tally reaches 76||The Maharashtra health department said on Monday that 10 new cases of the Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus have been detected in the state. This took the statewide tally to 76, it added.Out of the 10 new cases, six have been found in Kolhapur, three in Ratnagiri and one in Sindhudurg, the health department said.Five of those infected with the Delta Plus variant have died in Maharashtra, according to the health department. While two of these fatalities have been reported from Ratnagiri, one each has been recorded from Mumbai, Beed, and Raigad.Also Read: Uddhav Thackeray urges people to be careful to avoid another lockdownLast week, five new cases of the highly transmissible variant were recorded in Maharashtra.An 80-year-old woman from Ratnagiri was the first person in the state to succumb to the Delta Plus variant, followed by a 63-year-old fully-vaccinated woman from Mumbai. The woman from Mumbai succumbed to the infection in the last week of July, the first death due to the Delta Plus variant in the city.A resident of suburban Ghatkopar, the woman had taken both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine but still tested positive.The Maharashtra government said that genomic sequencing of coronaviruses is being carried out on a regular basis as an integral part of the state's corona prevention and control measures. Genetic sequencing is a very important component of laboratory surveys, it added.The state government has entered into an agreement with the Institute of Genomics and Integrated Biology, a laboratory under the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, to expedite the genetic sequencing survey.Also Read: Maharashtra administers close to a million Covid-19 vaccine doses in a dayThe Union health ministry, meanwhile, said earlier this month that more than 80 cases of the Delta Plus variant have been detected across the country. It added that Delta Plus has not led to any exponential surge in Covid-19 cases.According to the health ministry, four types of variants are categorised as Delta Plus - AY1 (B.1.617.2.1), AY2, AY3 and one more sub-lineage - in which one more gene has been detected and its only sample was found in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-10-new-cases-of-delta-plus-found-in-maharashtra-tally-reaches-76-101629116065054.html
16-08-2021||India||‘Has excellent future vision…’: Sushmita Dev, now in TMC, hails Mamata Banerjee||Sushmita Dev, who on Monday joined Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC), hailed the West Bengal chief minister, who, she said, has an “excellent future vision for the party.”Also Read | Sushmita Dev joins TMC a day after quitting Congress“I arrived at Kolkata this morning accompanied by honourable Member of Parliament Derek O’Brien. I had the opportunity to meet Abhishek Banerjee, the TMC general secretary. We had a very good discussion. After that, all three of us, we went to meet the chief minister at her office. We had an excellent decision. Clearly, she has an excellent future vision for the party, and I hope to be helpful in that regard,” Dev says in a video clip shared by her new party on its Twitter handle. “I will address a press meet tomorrow in Delhi and answer questions on any details anyone may want,” she added. Listen to @sushmitadevinc share her experience after meeting our National General Secretary @abhishekaitc & the Hon'ble Chief Minister of WB @MamataOfficial along with Parliamentary Party Leader RS @derekobrienmp.She will address the Media in Delhi, tomorrow. Stay tuned! pic.twitter.com/LOUPyF7Ez7“Will give it all I have got. @MamataOfficial #KhelaHobe,” the now-former Congress leader said in an earlier tweet, thanking the TMC for welcoming her.  Will give it all I have got…. @MamataOfficial thank you🙏🏻#KhelaHobe https://t.co/aa0ijNrhOkDev, a former Lok Sabha MP from Assam’s Silchar, resigned from the Congress on Sunday, writing to interim Congress president Sonia Gandhi, and informing her of the decision. “I cherish my three decade long association with the Indian National Congress. I thank you personally for the guidance and opportunities you gave me,” the former MP wrote.Also Read | Congress women’s wing chief Sushmita Dev resignsDev is the second major name to have jumped from the Congress to the TMC in recent days. In July, Abhijit Mukherjee, the son of former president Pranab Mukherjee, jumped ship to West Bengal’s ruling party which, following its victory in the recently held assembly elections, is reportedly eyeing bigger role in national politics. In June, the party welcomed back Mukul Roy from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). More recently, it sent former Prasar Bharat CEO Jawahar Sircar to the Rajya Sabha and also recruited RTI activist Saket Gokhale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/has-excellent-future-vision-sushmita-dev-now-in-tmc-hails-mamata-banerjee-101629113688869.html
16-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Afghans broke ‘shackles of slavery,’ says Imran Khan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Imran Khan says Afghans ‘broke shackles of slavery’ as Taliban seize powerPakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Monday Afghans had “broken the shackles of slavery” while describing the Taliban’s seizure of power in the neighbouring country. Read more‘Very important announcement tomorrow’: Arvind Kejriwal to visit UttarakhandDelhi CM and national convenor of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that his party would make “a very important announcement” on Tuesday regarding the “development of Uttarakhand.” Read more'Needs to get back into alignment': Vaughan speaks on Kohli's struggles, says India captain is 'better player than that'With Kohli missing out on a big score yet again, former England captain Michael Vaughan commented on his struggles in England and said that he is a better player than this. Read moreRhea Kapoor shares first pic with husband Karan Boolani from wedding, says she was nervous despite dating 12 yearsRhea has finally shared a peak from inside her secret wedding with Karan Boolani. The two tied the knot on Saturday at her father Anil Kapoor's house. Read moreEsha Gupta’s peaceful Sukhasana will make you roll out your Yoga mats alreadyEsha Gupta flaunts ‘cool new yoga mat’ as she meditates under the shade of a tree and here’s why you should perform Sukhasana too. Read moreSmartphone becomes the virtual key for these electric bikes. Know more hereRevolt Motors on Monday has announced that all of its electric bikes can be locked and unlocked using the riders' smartphones as virtual keys. Read morePanic at Kabul airport; US army fires in air as Afghans try to fleeChaos erupted at Kabul’s Hamid Karzai International Airport as thousands of Afghans tried to board flights out of the country. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-afghans-broke-shackles-of-slavery-says-imran-khan-as-taliban-seize-power-and-all-the-latest-news-101629109961513.html
16-08-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal to visit Uttarakhand tomorrow, announce poll sops||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convenor Arvind Kejriwal, on Monday, said that he would visit Uttarakhand tomorrow and make an important announcement which will turn out to be a milestone in the state’s development. On July 11 this year, when Kejriwal had visited the state, he had announced 300 units of free electricity to the people in the state if AAP was elected to power in the hill state. Talking about replicating AAP’s Delhi model of governance in Uttarakhand, Kejriwal had said if the party comes to power, it will bring in major change in schools and health infrastructure. “Our leaders here are talking to youth, within a month or so, we will make a big announcement about employment for the state’s youth”, he had said. “Going to Uttarakhand tomorrow. Aam Aadmi Party will make an important announcement. It will prove to be a milestone in Uttarakhand’s progress and development,” he wrote in a post on Twitter. AAP state unit president SS Kaler said Kejriwal would arrive in Dehradun around 10.30 am on Tuesday and return to Delhi in the evening. “He will address party workers and leaders and also hold a roadshow in the city. He will make an important announcement with regard to people in the state. He will make another guarantee to people if AAP comes to power. Every month, the AAP will make announcements on important issues be it water, education, health or other basic amenities for the public which are necessary for any state,” he said. With less than a year left for the next assembly polls in Uttarakhand, the Aam Aadmi Party is gearing up aggressively for the election in 2022. Over the last eight to nine months or so, it has been attacking the ruling BJP on various issues including corruption, unemployment and health through various political events and on social media. Earlier in July, the AAP state unit launched “Kejriwal Muft Bijli Guarantee Card” under which 10,000 workers of the party would visit households in all the 70 assembly seats and urge people to register for the free electricity service in lieu of which they would be given this card as a symbol of “guarantee that if the party comes to power, it would fulfil the promise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-to-visit-uttarakhand-tomorrow-announce-poll-sops-101629112585233.html
16-08-2021||India||Uttarakhand extends Covid-19 curfew for 7 days. Check details||The Uttarakhand government has decided to extend the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) restrictions for another seven days. The curfew will remain in force in the state from 6am on August 17 to 6am on August 24, a state government order said.The Uttarakhand government also said that vaccination drive will continue during the curfew.The state government order also capped the number of people who can attend the weddings at 50. In case of funerals too, the number of people allowed is 50. All gatherings and congregation are banned till further orders.The government has allowed National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) centres to remain open during the curfew duration to prepare a workforce of healthcare professionals by giving them training for emergency medical technicians, general duty assistant, home health aide etc.The state government had on August 2 reopened schools for students of Classes 9-12. The schools for classes 6-8, which have been allowed to reopen later this month, have been asked to follow the set of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for Covid-19 issued by the Uttarkhand government.People who have taken both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine and a period of 15 days has elapsed since the second dose are allowed to enter Uttarakhand from other states, according to government order.Last week, the state re-imposed a seven-day long curfew, till 17 August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-extends-covid-19-curfew-for-7-days-check-details-101629106044601.html
16-08-2021||India||Figuring out a way to prevent ‘incidents’ like Kinnaur landslide in future: Himachal CM||As the search and rescue operations for those missing in the August 11 Kinnaur Nigulsari landslide incident resumed, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur said on Monday that he met with the injured and their families, even as he expressed concerns that some people are still feared trapped inside the rubble.Addressing reporters on Monday, chief minister Thakur said a team has been sent to assess the situation and study as to why these mountains were breaking. Thakur said the state government is figuring out a way to prevent such incidents in future.“We are trying to figure out a way to prevent it (landslides) through scientific study in the coming days. The government is making efforts in this direction,” the chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Last week, Thakur had announced an ex-gratia of ₹500,000 for the next of kin of the deceased.The death toll in the landslide in Kinnaur touched 25, after bodies of two more people were recovered on Monday morning. The search and rescue operations are being jointly conducted by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and members of local police and home guards.कोशिश कर रहे हैं कि आने वाले दिनों में साइंटिफिक स्टडी के माध्यम से इसे कैसे रोका जा सकता है इसका कोई तरीका निकले। सरकार इस दिशा में प्रयत्न कर रही है। उम्मीद है कि स्टडी के माध्यम से रास्ते निकलेंगे ताकि आने वाले समय में हम इस प्रकार की घटनाओं को रोक सकें: हिमाचल प्रदेश के CM https://t.co/x46W3wx1tcState disaster management director, Sudesh Kumar Mokhta, said that as per details provided by the Bhawanagar SHO, the two bodies were recovered from the rubble at Chaura village on National Highway 5 in Nichar tehsil on Monday.Mokhta said an SUV with passengers inside, feared to be buried under the rubble, could not be traced till now, adding it might be possible that the car rolled down along with the debris.A majority of the bodies were recovered from the wreckage of a Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus, which slid down National Highway 5 after being hit by boulders during the landslide on August 11. The bus was carrying 22 passengers.On the same day, eight bodies were found in a taxi and two cars were found in a damaged condition, even though there was no one inside. On Thursday, four bodies were found from the spot of the landslide, while three were taken out on Friday and six were retrieved on Saturday.The state administration, meanwhile, restricted movement of all types of vehicles on the stretch from 9pm to 9am citing safety.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/figuring-out-a-way-to-prevent-incidents-like-kinnaur-landslide-in-future-cm-101629100693738.html
16-08-2021||India||Sushmita Dev, former Congress MP, joins Trinamool as Mamata expands base||Sushmita Dev, who resigned from the Congress earlier in the day, joined the Trinamool Congress in the presence of party leaders Abhishek Banerjee and Derek O'Brien in Kolkata.In her resignation letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, the former Assam MP is said to have written that she was beginning a "new chapter in my life of public service". Dev had sent her resignation letter to Gandhi on Sunday, though senior Congress functionaries refuted the same even as they wished her well.Dev was currently serving as a national spokesperson of the Congress and chief of the All-India Mahila Congress chief. Dev had offered no reason for her quitting the party.Also read | 'Congress moves on with eyes wide shut', says Sibal after Sushmita Dev resignsWelcoming Dev, the Trinamool Congress wrote on Twitter, the former senior Congress functionary was inspired by party supremo Mamata Banerjee.We warmly welcome the former President of All India Mahila Congress @sushmitadevinc to our Trinamool family!Inspired by @MamataOfficial, she joins us today in the presence of our National General Secretary @abhishekaitc & Parliamentary Party Leader, Rajya Sabha, @derekobrienmp. pic.twitter.com/JXyMJLIf52Riding high on the success of the bitterly fought West Bengal Assembly election, the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC is looking to expand its footprint beyond the state and has been scouting for talent nationwide, besides making all attempts to its presence felt in states like Tripura and elsewhere. Activist and anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protestor Akhil Gogoi recently said the Bengal ruling camp had approached him to merge his Raijor Dal with TMC and lead the party in Assam.  RTI activist Saket Gokhale, a staunch critic of the Narendra Modi government, also joined the Trinamool Congress last week.The Bengal CM has also been busy stitching a united opposition alliance as aspires a national role to counter the BJP and it remains to be seen how the likely allies like the Congress accepts some of her latest moves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushmita-dev-former-congress-mp-joins-trinamool-as-mamata-expands-base-101629105024017.html
16-08-2021||India||‘Sonia Gandhi hasn’t got any letter from Sushmita Dev’: Randeep Surjewala||Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said on Monday that party president Sonia Gandhi has not received the resignation letter of Sushmita Dev, the former president of the Congress’ women’s wing. Calling Dev as a dedicated Congress worker, Surjewala said he tried calling her but her phone was switched off. “Congress president Sonia Gandhi has not received any letter from her. She’s mature enough to take her decisions, can’t comment until I speak with her,” Surjewala was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Dev, the daughter of late veteran Congress leader Santosh Mohan Dev, stepped down from the party and wrote to Sonia Gandhi saying she “cherished” her three decade -long association. “Madam, I thank you, personally, for the guidance and the opportunities you gave me. I value the enriching experience,” she said in her letter to Gandhi on Sunday but didn’t specify any reasons for her resignation.Sushmita Dev’s resignation intensifies the internal crisis in the Congress and it is very likely expected that several leaders or G-23 members will reiterate their demand for a major organisational revamp in the party. Senior leader and former Union minister Kapil Sibal, who is one of the G-23 members, reacted sharply to Dev’s exit and said the Congress was moving on with its eyes wide shut. “Sushmita Dev resigns from primary membership of our Party. While young leaders leave we ‘oldies’ are blamed for our efforts to strengthen it,” Sibal wrote on Twitter.On the other hand, Congress leader Manish Tewari said that Dev has to give a better explanation for her exit considering her long association with the party and its leaders.Though it has not been clear where Sushmita Dev will go from here on, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times on Monday that she might join Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-hasn-t-got-any-letter-from-sushmita-dev-randeep-surjewala-101629096330942.html
16-08-2021||India||Ahead of 2022 assembly polls, BJP ministers embark on Jan Ashirwad Yatras in UP||Ahead of the 2022 assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Union ministers from the state kicked off seven ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatras’ on Monday with the aim to spread awareness about achievements of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led governments at the Centre and the state while touring about 120 assembly segments and covering nearly 3500 kms. The mass connect drive comes about seven months before the crucial UP assembly elections.“We are working to ensure that all those who don’t have a roof on their heads get them by August 15, 2022. We will tell the people about it, update them on various initiatives and naturally would seek people’s blessings too as the yatra itself is named ‘Jan Ashirwad’,” said Kaushal Kishore, the Mohanlalganj MP, who is the Union minister of state for housing and urban affairs. He was referring to PM Awas Yojana (PMAY) which aims to construct 21.4 million houses in rural areas and 11.2 million units in urban areas by 2022. A Dalit by caste, Kishore started his yatra from Unnao and his yatra will culminate at Sitapur on August 18 after touching various assembly segments in Unnao, Rae Bareli and Barabanki. During the welcome function for Kishore, Ajay Mishra, the Lok Sabha MP from Lakhimpur Kheri and Union minister of state for home and Pankaj Choudhary, the Lok Sabha MP from Maharajganja and Union minister of state for finance, social distancing protocols were thrown to the winds and majority of the part workers were seen without face masks.“Abhi tak lagaye thhey, bas abhi hataye (I had it on all through, have just removed it),” said one of the cadres when asked about violation of the Covid containment protocols. Ajay Mishra, before embarking on his yatra from Sandila, Hardoi, said, “We will meet the masses and seek their blessings. Sensing people’s mood, we are confident that based on the various initiatives of our government and pro-people measures, we will form our own majority government [in the state].”Mishra’s yatra will pass through Hardoi, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Gonda, Ayodhya before culminating at Ambedkar Nagar on August 19.Pankaj Choudhary said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has always described himself as the pradhan sevak (chief servant) setting the template for us. Naturally, the yatra is aimed at connecting with the masses and seeking their blessings.”Choudhary’s yatra will move from Basti via Barabanki, Siddharthnagar and Ayodhya. It will conclude at Choudhary’s Lok Sabha constituency of Maharajganj in eastern Uttar Pradesh on August 18.Party leaders said these yatras were thought of after Prime Minister Narendra Modi was prevented by the Opposition from introducing the new ministers inducted into his cabinet on July 8 in the Lok Sabha.UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev said the party’s state general secretary and member of legislative council (MLC) Govind Narayan Shukla has been made in-charge of these yatras covering several religious cities, including Ayodhya, Mathura, Kashi (Varanasi) and Chitrakoot. BL Verma, minister of state for development of northeastern region and cooperation, will lead one of the seven yatras from Vrindavan, Mathura. Verma is the protégé of former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh. After covering Mathura and various assembly constituencies in Agra, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar and Bulandshahr, Verma’s yatra will conclude at Budaun on August 19.Union minister of state for law and justice SP Singh Baghel will start his yatra from Firozabad and conclude it in Mathura. On August 17, Union minister of state for micro, small and medium enterprises, Bhanu Pratap Verma will start his yatra from Lalitpur and reach Fatehpur on August 19 via Jhansi, Mahoba, Banda before it ends in Chitrakoot.BJP ally and Apna Dal (S) leader Anupriya Patel, the Union minister of state for commerce and industry, will start her yatra from Prayagraj on August 18 and it will end on August 19 in Mirzapur, her Lok Sabha constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-2022-polls-bjp-ministers-embark-on-jan-ashirwad-yatras-in-up-101629099324353.html
16-08-2021||India||Protect Indian citizens, interest in Afghanistan: Congress to Centre||The Congress on Monday called on the government to protect Indian citizens and interests in Afghanistan after the collapse of the democratically elected government in the neighbouring country following the Taliban takeover.“Prime Minister and external affairs minister need to come out and clearly spell out a policy for the safe return of our citizens, our embassy personnel and also our future relationship. Unexplained silence at this extreme juncture gives right to a reasonable apprehension that the Modi govt is hiding something from the country,” said Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala in a press briefing. He also said that Congress expects a “mature political and diplomatic” response from the government.Also Read | As Taliban take control of Afghanistan, a look at who’s who of the leadershipThe Congress spokesperson condemned the Modi government’s silence on this issue, calling it “deeply disturbing and highly intriguing”. “Modi government’s refusal to set in motion a well thought out plan to evacuate our citizens is a gross abdication of its duty and completely unacceptable,” he added.While addressing the weekly media interactions last Thursday, ministry of external affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said India will take all the necessary steps to ensure the safety of Hindu and Sikh minority community members in Afghanistan.The Taliban entered Kabul on Sunday without any resistance from the government. The militant group is now effectively in control of most of Afghanistan. Afghanistan president Ashraf Ghani left the country to avoid “bloodshed” when the Taliban took over Kabul after nearly two decades of being ousted from power by a US-led invasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protect-indian-citizens-interest-in-afghanistan-congress-to-centre-101629098124651.html
16-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: TMC celebrating ‘Khela Hobe divas’, BJP counters with save Bengal day and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.TMC celebrating ‘Khela Hobe divas’, BJP counters with save Bengal dayThe Trinamool Congress is celebrating Khela Hobe Divas (Game on day) on Monday across West Bengal and a few other states including Tripura, following a call on July 21 by party chief and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s to mark August 16 as Khela Hobe Divas to promote sports. Read MoreUS forces fire in air to stop jostling Afghans at Kabul airportUS troops fired shots into the air at Kabul airport on Monday as thousands of Afghans crowded onto the tarmac desperate to leave the country a day after the Taliban takeover of the country. Read MoreKinnaur landslide: 2 more bodies recovered, death toll reaches 25Two more bodies were recovered from the site of a landslide in Negulsari in Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur district on Monday, taking the death toll to 25 on the sixth day of search and rescue operations, officials said. Read MoreBorussia Dortmund midfielder Giovanni Reyna speaks on importance of chemistry in dressing roomIn the past few months, there has been a major shift in the Borussia Dortmund dressing room. Read MoreVideo of an up-close encounter with humpback whale in Australia wows peopleIn today’s edition of incredible videos that may make you gasp in wonder, here is a clip of an encounter of a cruise team with a humpback whale in Australia. Shared on Instagram, the videos is an absolutely delight to watch. Read MoreAuto companies aiming to import vehicles into India should invest here: Ola CEOJust a few days ago, Tesla CEO Elon Musk demanded the customs duty on imported electric cars in India be reduced. Read MoreKareena Kapoor shares first full family picture with Jeh from Maldives, wishes Saif Ali Khan on birthdayActor Kareena Kapoor Khan shared the first full family picture along with her newborn son Jeh Ali Khan on Monday. Taking to Instagram, Kareena dropped a post also featuring her husband, actor Saif Ali Khan and their other son Taimur. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-tmc-celebrating-khela-hobe-divas-bjp-counters-with-save-bengal-day-and-all-the-latest-news-101629094100976.html
16-08-2021||India||Sudden closure of Kabul airport throws schedules of remaining flights into disarray||The sudden closure of Kabul’s Hamid Karzai International Airport on Monday threw schedules for the few remaining airlines operating flights to Afghanistan into disarray, including Air India which had a flight scheduled for 12.30pm. Two NOTAMs or notices to airmen – official notices containing essential information on flight operations – issued on Monday morning by the Afghanistan Civil Aviation Authority said the civilian side of Hamid Karzai International Airport or Kabul airport was “closed until further notice” and that Kabul’s airspace “has been released to the military”.The second NOTAM advised all “transit aircraft to reroute” and cautioned that “any transit through Kabul airspace will be uncontrolled”. Also Read | As Taliban take control of Afghanistan, a look at who’s who of the leadershipAn Air India spokesperson said the airspace over Afghanistan had been declared closed and no commercial aircraft could operate there. “Our scheduled flight to Kabul also cannot go,” the spokesperson added. The development came after thousands of US troops took over Kabul airport to ensure the evacuation of American diplomats, officials and citizens. There were reports of US troops firing in the air at the airport after thousands of Afghans seeking to flee the country walked on to the tarmac and began gathering in large numbers. There were reports of three people being killed by gunfire at the passenger terminal of Kabul airport, raising questions about the security of the facility despite the presence of US troopsKabul airport is currently the only way to leave the country as the Taliban have taken over all the important land border crossings with neighbouring countries such as Pakistan, Iran, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. Air India, Emirates, FlyDubai, Pakistan International Airlines and Turkish Airlines are among the few airlines currently operating flights to Kabul. On Sunday, the scheduled Air India flight from New Delhi to Kabul had to hover over the Afghan capital for almost an hour as the sudden advance of the Taliban to the city created chaos for flight operations and there was no clearance from air traffic control for the aircraft to land. The flight returned late in the evening with 129 passengers, including officials and security personnel from the Indian embassy and Afghans fleeing their country. Indian officials had said the Air India flights will continue to operate, though there was no clarity when the restrictions on Kabul airport would be lifted. The Indian side has already put military and civilian aircraft on standby for special flights to evacuate all Indian nationals from Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sudden-closure-of-kabul-airport-throws-schedules-of-remaining-flights-into-disarray-101629096984056.html
16-08-2021||India||Air India can’t operate Kabul flight as airspace shuts down||National carrier’s scheduled Air India flight to Kabul will not be able to operate after airspace over Afghanistan was declared closed, an official said on Monday.“Airspace over Afghanistan is declared closed so no aircraft can operate there. Our scheduled flight to Kabul also cannot go,” an Air India spokesperson said.The airline had a scheduled flight for Kabul from Delhi at 8.50am in the morning on Monday but was rescheduled to 12.50pm and subsequently suspended following the closure of airspace at Kabul after a NOTAM, notice to airmen -- official notice containing information on flight operations -- was issued.Also Read | As Taliban take control of Afghanistan, a look at who’s who of the leadershipOn Sunday, the airline officials said the national carrier was monitoring the situation in Kabul and will continue scheduled flights to the region for the time being.
16-08-2021||India||Google doodle celebrates poet Subhadra Kumari Chauhan on her 117th birthday||Google on Monday honoured the famous Hindi poet Subhadra Kumari Chauhan, who is known to be India's first woman protester during the freedom movement of the country, with a doodle on her 117th birth anniversary. The doodle depicted Chauhan donning a white sari with a brown stripe at the edges. She is shown holding a pen and paper in the illustration in a contemplative pose. The doodle also shows young Jhansi ki Rani on her white horse in the background. On the right side, the illustrator also drew a huge crowd of satyagrahis carrying banners.Born in 1904, Chauhan hailed from the Allahabad district, now known as Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh. She initially studied in the Crosthwaite Girls' School in Allahabad and cleared the middle-school examination in 1919. In 1921, Chauhan joined the Non-Cooperation Movement led by Mahatma Gandhi. She was jailed twice for her involvement in the protests against the British in 1923 and 1942.Chauhan's writing highlighted the struggles and hardships of Indian women. She has also written about "gender and caste discrimination" in society. At the time of the independence movement, Chauhan wrote a lot of poetry to boost the morale of the countrymen. Subhadra Kumari Chauhan is widely known for her iconic poem on Rani Laxmibai, the queen of Jhansi. Besides Jhansi ki Rani, her notable works include 'Khilonewala', 'Tridhara', 'Mukul' and 'Yeh Kadamb Ka Ped'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/google-doodle-celebrates-poet-subhadra-kumari-chauhan-on-her-117th-birthday-101629094024679.html
16-08-2021||India||'Congress moves on with eyes wide shut', says Sibal after Sushmita Dev resigns||Shortly after Sushmita Dev resigned from the Congress, the party's senior leader Kapil Sibal accused the leadership of moving on with "eyes wide shut". Sibal is one of the 23 leaders (called G-23) who wrote an open letter to party president Sonia Gandhi last year demanding sweeping changes in the Congress."Sushmita Dev Resigns from primary membership of our Party. While young leaders leave we ‘oldies’ are blamed for our efforts to strengthen it. The Party moves on with:Eyes Wide Shut," the Rajya Sabha MP said on Twitter.Dev sent her resignation letter to Sonia Gandhi on Sunday saying she is resigning from the primary membership of the party, but did not give any specific reason.In her letter to Gandhi, Dev said she was beginning a "new chapter in my life of public service". Dev has also changed her Twitter bio to former member of the party and former head of Congress' women's wing.Dev is the daughter of late veteran Congressman Santosh Mohan Dev and came to Parliament for the first time in 2014 from the family seat of Silchar in Assam.With his comments, Sibal has once again highlighted the crisis brewing in the Congress party. It is facing troubles on multiple fronts.Congress has been functioning without a full-time president - Sonia Gandhi is the working president of the party. Sibal and the other 22 Congress leaders had demanded elections to appoint a new president. Rahul Gandhi, who took over as Congress president, resigned after the party's second consecutive loss to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2019 General Elections.Then there is the issue of defection. In June, two-term Lok Sabha MP and former Union minister Jitin Prasada joined the BJP, more than a year after Jyotiraditya Scindia switched sides. The Congress has also been facing trouble in states like Rajasthan, where former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot rebelled against the state leadership. The party's high command has been making several attempts to placate Pilot.It has, for the time being, handled the situation in Punjab where Navjot Sidhu revolted against chief minister Amarinder Singh. But the rumbling is a matter of concern for the party which is looking to retain power in Punjab in next year's assembly election. In 2017, the Congress, under Singh, won a comfortable majority, displacing the BJP-Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) government in the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-moves-on-with-eyes-wide-shut-says-sibal-after-sushmita-dev-resigns-101629089802709.html
16-08-2021||India||Congress women’s wing chief Sushmita Dev resigns||The head of Congress’s women’s wing, Sushmita Dev, resigned from the party on Sunday. In a brief letter to party president Sonia Gandhi, the former Member of Parliament said she was resigning from the party’s primary membership but didn’t give any specific reason.Also Read | Protect the India inside yourself: Rahul Gandhi to children“I cherish my three decade long association with the Indian National Congress...I thank you personally for the guidance and opportunities you gave me,’’ she said. Dev is the daughter of late veteran Congressman Santosh Mohan Dev and came to Parliament for the first time in 2014 from the family seat of Silchar in Assam.Sources said Dev may be moving to the Trinamool Congress but there is no confirmation of this. However, her unhappiness with the party was evident even during the Assam election campaign when she reportedly walked out of a party meeting at not being given a party post.HT tried to reach out to Dev but her phone was switched off. Congress leader Randeep Surjewala said, “She was a dedicated Congress worker and perhaps is, even today. Congress president Sonia Gandhi has not received any letter from her. She’s mature enough to take her decisions. I can’t comment until I speak with her.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-women-s-wing-chief-sushmita-dev-resigns-101629088163513.html
16-08-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with India’s Tokyo Paralympics contingent today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with India’s Tokyo Paralympics contingent on Monday. The virtual meeting is scheduled at 11am, Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said on Sunday.“.. Para-athletes from across nine sport disciplines will be heading to Tokyo to represent the nation. This is India’s biggest ever contingent to the Paralympic Games. Union Sports Minister will also be present during the interaction,” a statement from PMO said.The Indian Paralympic team has 54 members, including javelin player Devendra Jhajharia. He won gold in 2004 and 2016.Also Read | 54-member Indian team for Tokyo Paralympics accorded warm send-offAnother javelin champion Sandeep Choudhary and high jumper Mariyappan Thangavelu are also a part of the team. Thangavelu won gold at the 2016 Rio Paralympics. He will be holding the Indian flag at the opening ceremony on August 24.The global games, which will be held with just 5,000 spectators, are set to begin on September 5.In past Paralympics, India has won two gold, one silver, and one bronze medals.Badminton, which makes a debut in Paralympics this year, will see the participation of seven Indian players.DD Sports and Eurosports will broadcasting the games live in India.The team left for Tokyo on August 12. Sports minister Anurag Thakur had encouraged the team saying he hopes for a better performance.“The number of our para-athletes participating in the upcoming games is three times bigger than the last edition. I have full faith in your abilities… your performance too will be better than last time,” Thakur had told athletes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-india-s-tokyo-paralympics-contingent-today-101629087383622.html
16-08-2021||India||Patnaik relaunches flagship healthcare scheme with enhanced cover for women||Ahead of next year’s panchayat polls in Odisha, the Naveen Patnaik government on Sunday relaunched Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana, its flagship health scheme offering health cover up to ₹5 lakh annually to each family and ₹10 lakh cover, up from ₹7 lakh, to every woman in the family.Announcing the relaunch on the 75th Independence Day, Patnaik said 35 million people in the state’s 9.6 million families will be provided smart health cards under the scheme that aims to transform the health service delivery system.“People of Odisha are my family. The news of people selling land, jewellery or taking children out of school to manage [illness] treatment costs pains me. Therefore I decided that this type of distress must go. People should get hassle-free quality treatment at best available healthcare facilities. So, Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana was redesigned to provide Smart Health Cards that will double up as debit cards for withdrawal of a certain amount. The move will usher in a new era in the state’s health sector,” said Patnaik.9.6 million families in the state will get two chip-based cards carrying the beneficiary’s name and a 12-digit unique registration number. The cards will be distributed first in Malkangiri, Balangir, Sundargarh, Mayurbhanj and Gajapati districts before covering the remaining 26 districts by November.As per the first component of BSKY, the entire population of the state is being provided free treatment in government hospitals in the state. The second component will extend cashless health coverage to smartcard holders in more than 200 empanelled hospitals in the country. No document will be required for cashless healthcare services in government hospitals. However, the beneficiaries will have to produce the smartcard or food security card at the empanelled private hospitals for availing cashless care up to the limit.Odisha started the scheme in August 2018 to lessen the out of pocket (OOP) expenses which were very high as per the national health accounts estimate for 2016-17, released by the Union health ministry. It revealed that OOP expenditure made up 76% of the total health expenditure in Odisha and around 70% of OOP expenditure was on drugs and diagnostics services. The scheme allowed convergence of erstwhile Rastriya Swasthya Bima Yojana, Biju Krushak Kalyan Yojana and Odisha State Treatment Fund without anypremium contribution by the beneficiary or insurance intermediary.While all government hospitals provide free services under BSKY, the scheme has also empanelled 197 private hospitals across 30 districts, which were previously empanelled with various schemes like Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY), Biju Krushak Kalyan Yojana (BKKY) or Odisha State Treatment Fund (OSTF). The state government has also empanelled some top hospitals out of the state.An analysis of the scheme between February 2019 and February 2020, done by researchers Sudha Chandrashekar, Dhananjay, Sarit Kumar Rout, Upasona Ghosh, Vivek Panwar and N Devadasan revealed that the scheme received 17,010 pre-authorization requests, of which 97.7% were approved. Secondary level hospitalisations were a major part of the claims. The most sought after speciality treatment in private empanelled hospitals was in ophthalmology 35.58 % and general surgery 22.42% departments and the most common procedure within the specialties was cataract, haemodialysis, deliveries, hysterectomy and fissurectomy.The average number of claims made per month under the scheme is 3,425 and the average length of hospitalisation was 1.62 days with an average claim size of ₹7,396.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naveen-patnaik-relaunches-flagship-healthcare-scheme-with-enhanced-cover-for-women-101629087083345.html
16-08-2021||India||Congress leader Sushmita Dev quits party, submits letter to Sonia Gandhi||Congress leader Sushmita Dev has resigned from the party and on Monday changed her Twitter profile to say she was a former leader of the party. Dev wrote to party chief Sonia Gandhi offering her resignation, saying she was “beginning a new chapter of public service”. "I cherish my three-decade-long association with the National Congress. May I take this opportunity to thank the party, all its leaders, members and workers who have been my memorable journey. Madam, I thank you personally for your guidance and the opportunities you gave me. I value the enriching experience. I hope I have your good wishes as I begin a new chapter in my life of public service," she said in her letter.Dev is the daughter of late veteran Congress leader Santosh Mohan Dev. She was first elected to Parliament for the first time in 2014 from Silchar.Dev, the head of the Congress' women's wing, was among the party leaders whose Twitter handle was locked for sharing images of the parents of a nine-year-old girl, who was allegedly raped and murdered in Delhi.The images were posted by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi after he met with the parents, and many shared them. Twitter blocked Gandhi for posting the photograph. In defiance, Dev and several other Congress leaders changed their display picture to Gandhi’s and shared the same photograph.In March this year, the Congress party dismissed reports of Dev resigning from the party over the issue of seat-sharing in Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-sushmita-dev-quits-party-submits-letter-to-sonia-gandhi-101629086246193.html
16-08-2021||India||‘A towering statesman’: Tributes pour in for former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his death anniversary||Citizens and leaders across India’s political spectrum on Monday paid tributes to former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his death anniversary. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and BJP national president JP Nadda along with others paid floral tributes to Vajpayee at the ‘Sadaiv Atal’ Samadhi in New Delhi.Union ministers, BJP leaders and opposition leaders paid their tributes to the veteran politician on social media. “Respected Atal ji touched the life of every Indian by realising good governance and development in the country with his firm determination and foresight and also made the whole world aware of the courage and strength of Atal India,” Amit Shah tweeted in Hindi.भारत रत्न श्रद्धेय अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी के जीवन का क्षण-क्षण भारत को परम वैभव के शिखर पर ले जाने हेतु समर्पित रहा। अटल जी जैसे बहुआयामी व्यक्तित्व वाले जननेता को पाकर भारतीय राजनीति धन्य हुई है। उनका मूल्यों व आदर्शों आधारित जीवन हम करोड़ों कार्यकर्ताओं के लिए एक अनमोल धरोहर है। pic.twitter.com/n6yPJJZz26Defence minister Rajnath Singh said that Vajpayee laid the foundation stone for the creation of a new India, adding, his contribution in building a capable and strong India will always be remembered.“Tributes to former Prime Minister Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji on his death anniversary,” Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP’s) national convener Arvind Kejriwal tweeted.“A towering statesman, an erudite parliamentarian, a gifted poet and an orator par excellence, Swargiya Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji was one of India’s finest Prime Ministers who ushered in a new era of development. I bow in reverence to the ‘Ajatshatru’ on his death anniversary,” Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma wrote on the microblogging site.PM Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind, and Vice President Venkaiah Naidu pay tribute to former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his death anniversary, at 'Atal Samadhi Sthal' in Delhi pic.twitter.com/vgZ36XPOnsVajpayee, who served as the prime minister three times, was one of the founding members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). He died on August 16, 2018, at the age of 93 after a prolonged illness.Vajpayee’s career as a parliamentarian spanned over four decades and during his tenure as the Prime Minister, India conducted its second-ever nuclear bomb test in 1998 called Pokhran-II. His legacy as PM also included the astute and wise economic policies which paved the way for the foundation of the longest period of sustained growth in the history of independent India, a government statement said. He was awarded Bharat Ratna in 2014 and his birth anniversary, which falls on December 25, is celebrated as ‘Good Governance Day’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atal-bihari-vajpayee-death-anniversary-today-india-pays-tribute-to-former-pm-101629081550436.html
16-08-2021||India||Afghan embassy in India slams president Ashraf Ghani, official says Twitter account hacked||Several tweets on the handle of the Afghan embassy in India were deleted after they berated Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani for escaping the country as the Taliban took over the country. Abdulhaq Azad, the press secretary of the Afghan embassy in India, later said he does not have access to the account and that it has been hacked. "I have lost access to the Twitter handle of Afghan Embassy India, a friend sent a screenshot of this tweet, (this tweet is hidden from me.) I have tried to log in but can’t access it. Seems it is hacked," Azad tweeted on Monday morning.Screenshots of the now-deleted tweets are being widely shared by Twitter users.I have lost access to Twitter handle of @AfghanistanInIN, a friend sent screen shot of this tweet, (this tweet is hidden from me.) I have tried to log in but can’t access. Seems it is hacked. @FMamundzay @FFazly @hmohib pic.twitter.com/kcdlGMpCZ7Abdullah Abdullah, the head of the Afghan National Reconciliation Council, accused Ghani of "leaving the people to this situation". “The former president of Afghanistan left Afghanistan, leaving the country in this difficult situation," Abdullah said. "God should hold him accountable.”Also read | After Taliban take over Afghanistan, countries urge for protection of human lifeSocial media users called Ghani, who did not disclose his location, a “coward” for leaving his fellow country people in chaos. Tolo News suggested Ghani fled to Tajikistan.Ghani later posted on Facebook that he had chosen to leave the country to avert bloodshed in Kabul overtaken by the Taliban. Ghani said he had left the country to avoid clashes with the Taliban and that "countless patriots would be martyred and the city of Kabul would be destroyed" if he had stayed behind. "The Taliban have won with the judgement of their swords and guns, and are now responsible for the honour, property and self-preservation of their countrymen," he said in a statement posted to Facebook."They are now facing a new historical test. Either they will preserve the name and honour of Afghanistan or they will give priority to other places and networks," he added.Also read | Trump blames Joe Biden for Afghan crisis, seeks his resignationCountries, including the US and the UK, rushed to airlift diplomats, other personnel and citizens from Kabul as the Taliban seized Kabul in a stunningly swift offensive. The United States even sent thousands of fresh troops back into Afghanistan. On Monday, US state department spokesperson Ned Price announced the US had completed the evacuation of its embassy in Afghanistan and lowered the American flag.Thousands of Afghan families crowded the Kabul airport in a desperate bid to escape the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-embassy-in-india-slams-ghani-official-says-twitter-account-hacked-101629084038505.html
16-08-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9am: West Bengal to celebrate ‘Khela Hobe Divas’ today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.West Bengal to celebrate 'Khela Hobe Divas' todayWest Bengal will celebrate ‘Khela Hobe Divas’ on Monday, as announced by chief minister Mamata Banerjee last month. Read moreUnion health minister Mandaviya to visit Kerala today as state battles surge in Covid-19 casesUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will be visiting Kerala on Monday to review the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the state, which has been reporting a surge in infections. Read morePawandeep Rajan, Indian Idol 12 winner, says he 'was not feeling very great' after bagging the trophyPawandeep Rajan was declared the winner of Indian Idol 12 late on Sunday night. While his fans rejoiced, the singer, in an interview after his win, confessed he wasn't feeling great about winning since he felt everyone deserved to win. Read moreRoger Federer to have knee surgery, has 'glimmer of hope' for returnRoger Federer will miss the upcoming U.S. Open and be sidelined for many months because he needs more knee surgery, an operation that the Swiss great said on Sunday will give him a "glimmer of hope" that he can resume his glittering career. Read moreMan bags world record for ‘farthest backflip between horizontal bars’. WatchHave you seen those videos shared by Guinness World Records (GWR) on Instagram that make your jaw drop in wonder? This clip showcasing a man creating a record for ‘farthest backflip between horizontal bars’ is one such video. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-west-bengal-to-celebrate-khela-hobe-divas-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101629081563730.html
16-08-2021||India||States, UTs have got at least 567 million Covid vaccine doses till now||The Centre has provided at least 567 million Covid vaccine doses across the country by now, as per the health ministry records on Sunday, August 15. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 this year.As on Sunday morning, the Centre had provided 567,614,390 doses to the states and Union Territories. Of this, the total consumption, including wastages, is 540,253,875 doses. As many as 30,390,091 balance and unutilised vaccine doses are still available with the states/UTs and private hospitals. Another 500,240 doses are in the pipeline.According to the Delhi government data, the city had around 740,000 vaccine doses – 286,000 Covaxin and 457,000 Covishield – were left on Sunday morning. The bulletin said the stock can last up to six days.Also Read | Puri’s Jagannath Temple to reopen for devotees in 2nd phase from todayThe health department recently told the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) that it will take another year to fully vaccinate all eligible beneficiaries aged above 18 against the coronavirus at “the present rate of vaccine supply”.
16-08-2021||India||Navroz Mubarak: President Kovind says Parsis have 'made immense contribution to India's growth'||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday extended greetings on the occasion of the Parsi new year Navroz. "Navroz Mubarak! People of Parsi community have made immense contribution to several aspects of India's growth & development. May the Parsi New Year bring unity, prosperity & happiness in everyone’s life and further strengthen the spirit of harmony & fraternity among our citizens," President Kovind tweeted.
16-08-2021||India||Protect the India inside yourself: Rahul Gandhi to children||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi urged children to “protect the India inside” themselves in his message to the an orphanage in Malappuram, Kerala, on the 75th Independence Day.“India is not just outside us, India is also there inside each one of us. The India inside is how we behave. So if we want to build a strong India and if we want to protect what we love about our country, the best place to start is inside ourselves,” the Congress MP from Wayanad said.Rahul Gandhi was talking to the children of Markaz Darunnajath Banath Orphanage & Destitute Home. He posted a video of his message to the children on his YouTube channel on Sunday night.
16-08-2021||India||Meghalaya to reopen religious places from today: Check guidelines here||Meghalaya will reopen religious places from Monday as announced by deputy chief minister Prestone Tynsong. The decision was taken at a review meeting last week chaired by chief minister Conrad K Sangma.Tynsong said last week the decision was taken after receiving inputs from all the district administrations and requests made by concerned stakeholders. “The capacity of members who are allowed to attend religious places or places of worship should not be more than one-third,” Tynsong added.Tynsong said that the government wants normality to return as early as possible but is concerned over the prevailing Covid-19 situation. “Given the alarming increase in the positivity rate, we cannot take a decision in one go. We have to go step by step,” he said on August 9.He further urged people to abide by the Covid-19 protocols and requested all religious organisations to ensure that the SOPs are strictly followed.The Covid-19 restrictions have been in place in Meghalaya since May 1 this year. Unlike most of its neighbours, Meghalaya is reluctant to ease Covid-19 restrictions due to the high positivity rate.Meghalaya on Sunday recorded 420 new Covid-19 cases and 7 deaths, taking the total caseload to 71,388 and fatality count to 1,227, the state health bulletin said. The active cases in the state now stand at 4,066 and the total number of recoveries is 66,515.Here are the latest guidelines:1. There will be a limit on the number of people being allowed to attend religious places or places of worship, which should not be more than one-third.2. Solemnisation of marriages by different religious organisations will also be allowed from August 16. “However, the SOPs and notification (in this regard) will be issued by the chief secretary within a few days time from now,” Tynsong said.3. Tynsong said that marriage reception is still not allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-to-reopen-religious-places-from-today-check-guidelines-here-101629076339291.html
16-08-2021||India||Army chopper crash: Pilot’s body recovered, search on for co-pilot||Body of one of the two pilots of army’s Rudra helicopter that crashed into Ranjit Sagar Dam in Jammu on August 3 was recovered on Sunday evening after 12 days of intensive search operations, authorities said.“Body of the pilot, lieutenant colonel AS Baath, was retrieved from the Ranjit Sagar lake around 6.30 pm on Sunday. Searches for the co-pilot, (a captain) are on,” said Kathua district police chief (SSP) Ramesh Chander Kotwal.Defence spokesman lieutenant colonel Devender Anand said that mortal remains of the army officer were retrieved from a depth of 75.9 metres at 1819h (6.19 pm) and efforts were on to locate the remains of the co-pilot.On Saturday a defence spokesman said that the Indian Air Force (IAF) had brought heavy equipment from Visakhapatnam to Pathankot for speeding up the underwater search operation involving army, navy, air force, national disaster response force (NDRF), Ranjit Sagar Dam Authority, district authorities and locals.Earlier, the wreckage of the chopper was located at a depth of nearly 80 metres in the vast lake on August 11, nine days after the helicopter crashed into the dam in Basohli area of Kathua district while on a routine training sortie. The Ranjit Sagar dam is 25km long, 8km wide and more than 500 feet deep.The families of the two pilots have been camping at Mamun cantonment on Pathankot.The Rudra helicopter crashed into the dam lake near Pathankot on August 3 around 10.43 am. Built at Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), the chopper was carrying out a training sortie that involved low-level flying over the lake.The helicopter belonged to Army’s Pathankot-based 254 ALH-WSI squadron, which also lost a Rudra chopper in January 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chopper-crash-pilot-s-body-recovered-search-on-for-co-pilot-s-remains-101629079163044.html
16-08-2021||India||Puri’s Jagannath Temple to reopen for devotees in 2nd phase from today. Check guidelines||Jagannath Temple in Puri will be opened gradually for the general public from Monday in second phase in adherence to the Covid-19 guidelines, Covid appropriate behaviour, and physical distancing rules, said Shree Jagannatha Temple Administration (SJTA). However, all devotees will be allowed entry for the darshan from August 23. The temple had reopened on August 12 in the first phase after remaining shut for over three months amid the Covid-19 restrictions. Only family members of the servitors were allowed to enter the temple in the first phase, reports PTI.The SJTA said that the residents of the Puri Municipality area will be allowed entry for darshan from August 16 to August 20 and the darshan timings will be from 7am to 7pm on all days when the temple is open, reports news agency ANI.The general public will be allowed entry from August 23, an official said, according to news agency PTI.“A meeting was held on August 4 with Chhatisa Nijog members and all other stakeholders under the chairmanship of Dr. Krishan Kumar, the Chief Administrator of SJTA to discuss the matter. After detailed discussions and considering all the connected matters, it was decided to open the Temple on August 16, 2021 under strict guidelines,” an official notification released by the SJTA on August 11 stated, reports PTI.The temple was shut on April 24 this year amid the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic and remained closed during the Ratha Yatra.Here's the latest guidelines of temple reopening1. The temple would remain closed on all weekends and major festivals, further added STJA.2. The temple will remain closed for public darshan on all Saturdays and Sundays as a measure to contain the spread of coronavirus and in order to sanitize the temple premises.3. The temple will also remain closed on major festive occasions in order to avoid any surge in the transmission of Covid-19 on account of huge gatherings that are expected on such festive occasions.4. Devotees from outside Puri will have to produce the final Covid-vaccination certificate or Covid-negative RT-PCR report of testing done within 96 hours. They will also have to carry a government-issued identity card such as Aadhaar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puris-jagannath-temple-to-reopen-for-devotees-in-2nd-phase-from-today-check-guidelines-101629072430479.html
16-08-2021||India||Schools to reopen in Andhra Pradesh from today||Schools in Andhra Pradesh will reopen for the current academic year on Monday after they were closed since March this year as the state witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases. Following the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic, authorities reopened schools in a phased manner. In November last year, Classes 9 and 10 began and a few months later in January and February, students for the other classes were also allowed.The decision to reopen schools was taken after a meeting with chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on July 23. Education minister Adimoolapu Suresh has said that the day of reopening of Andhra Pradesh schools on Monday would be celebrated like a festival and several events will be held, reports news agency PTI.Andhra Pradesh on Sunday recorded 1,506 fresh Covid-19 cases and 16 more deaths, the state health bulletin showed. The state's cumulative Covid-19 tally now stands 19,93,697, the total recoveries rose to 19,62,185 and the death toll to 13,647, the bulletin added.Here are the guidelines for the reopening of schools in Andhra Pradesh:1. According to a statement from the chief minister's office, with the resumption of physical classes, online classes will also continue. Strict SOPs need to be followed to prevent the spread of Covid-19, reports PTI.2. Educational institutions also need to adhere to guidelines such as maintaining social distance, sanitising classrooms regularly for the safety and well-being of the students.3. Students who will be resuming physical classes are expected to follow guidelines such as wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing, using hand sanitiser, and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-to-reopen-in-andhra-pradesh-from-today-101629070426837.html
16-08-2021||India||Union health minister Mandaviya to visit Kerala today as state battles surge in Covid-19 cases||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will be visiting Kerala on Monday to review the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the state, which has been reporting a surge in infections. Mandaviya’s visit to Kerala comes nearly two weeks after he spoke to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan over rising cases of the coronavirus disease in the state. Seeking the state government’s cooperation in managing the pandemic, the Union health minister also wrote to Vijayan, urging him to take more proactive measures to control the spread of the virus.Kerala has so far recorded nearly 3.67 million cases and 18,601 deaths due to Covid-19. On Sunday, the state saw another high of 18,582 new cases, while 102 patients succumbed to Covid-19. Nearly 21,000 patients were discharged on Sunday, which took the cumulative count of recoveries to 3,492,367 while the active cases stood at 178,630, according to the health department’s bulletin. As many as 122,970 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Sunday and the test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 15.11 per cent.As of Sunday's infection count, four districts - Malappuram, Thrissur, Kozhikode and Ernakulam - recorded more than 2,000 cases. Over 499,000 patients are under surveillance across several districts of Kerala and of which 27,636 are in hospitals and the remaining 471,395 patients are either in home or institutional quarantine, the bulletin showed.Even though Kerala accounts for over 50 per cent of the fresh cases in India, state health minister Veena George said on Saturday that the pandemic situation is not in panic mode and the government is taking all possible measures to control the spread of Covid-19. “We have requested more vaccines. Even though cases are higher than last week, hospitals and ICU occupancy are comparatively less in the count,” Veena was quoted as saying by ANI.According to the visit plan shared by the Union health ministry, Mansukh Mandaviya will meet Vijayan and George. He will also be accompanied by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and other officials of the health ministry, people familiar with the matter told news agency ANI on Saturday.Union health minister Mandaviya is also likely to visit Assam on Tuesday to review the pandemic situation and will hold a review meeting in Guwahati.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-health-minister-mandaviya-to-visit-kerala-today-as-state-battles-surge-in-101629074535589.html
16-08-2021||India||Meghalaya home minister quits amid stir||Meghalaya home minister Lahkmen Rymbui on Sunday resigned from his post amid vandalism and arson over the police encounter of a top militant last week, even as the state government announced a curfew in Shillong and suspended internet services in at least four districts to contain the situation.In his letter to chief minister Conrad Sangma, Rymbui expressed shock over the protests and proposed a judicial enquiry into the death of banned Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council general secretary, Cherish Starfield Thangkhiew, who was killed in a police encounter on August 13.“I hereby express shock at the incident where (L) Chesterfield Thangkhiew was killed following the raid of police at his residence exceeding the lawful tenets of the law. Considering the gravity of the situation, I would request you to relieve the Home (Police) Department from me with immediate effect,” he said.Thangkhiew, who surrendered in 2018, was suspected to be the mastermind behind a spate of IED attacks, police said.According to the director-general of police R Chandranathan, he allegedly attacked police with a knife when his home was being raided, provoking a retaliatory shot in which he was killed.Earlier in the day, hundreds of Thangkhiew’s supporters carried black flags as the militant’s body was being taken to the cemetery. Police said the protesters vandalised government vehicles and set a police vehicle afire in Shillong’s Jaiaw area.A curfew in the Shillong Agglomeration area of the state capital was imposed from 8 pm on Sunday till 5 am on August 17. Internet services were suspended from 6 pm on Sunday for 48 hours in the districts of East Khasi Hills, West Khasi Hills, South West Khasi Hillis and Ri-Bhoi. “No kind of gathering, public meeting or rally may be held. Exemptions only for medical emergencies, Covid-19 and hospital duty are applicable,” deputy commissioner Kumari Isawanda Laloo said.“Additional companies of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) have been requisitioned to ensure compliance to the ‘total curfew’ order,” a top official in the secretariat familiar with the development said. On Saturday, Sangma said there was ample evidence against Thangkhiew for his role in recent blast incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-minister-quits-amid-stir-in-meghalaya-101629063496749.html
16-08-2021||India||Bolster collective power of small farmers: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Independence Day speech said his government’s agriculture policies were pivoted to meet the needs of small farmers, who must be turned into “pride of the nation”.Modi said that it was high time the country needed to apply “scientific research and suggestions” to the agriculture sector to provide food security to the nation and to increase food production. He also said that the country must increase the collective power of small farmers.“Our mantra is ‘Chhota kisan bane desh ki shaan’ (small farmers must become the pride of the nation) . It’s our dream. In years to come, we’ve to further increase the collective strength of small farmers of the country, we will have to provide them new facilities. ‘Kisan rail’ runs on more than 70 rail routes of the country today.”Small farmers have less than two hectares of land. Additionally, farm holdings are getting smaller and smaller in villages with rise in population and division in families, he said during his speech.“Now, keeping these farmers in mind, farm policies and reforms are being made,” the PM said, adding that schemes like PM-Kisan and Fasal Bima Yojana will strengthen these cultivators.Modi also announced that the government would fortify the rice distributed to the poor through different schemes such as midday meals to improve nutritional outcomes.“Malnutrition and lack of micro-nutrients are affecting the growth of poor children. Looking at this, it has been decided to fortify the rice given to the poor via different government schemes,” the PM said.The PM’s focus on small farmers during his I-Day speech comes amid a nearly year-long agitation by farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh etc, against three agricultural laws enacted last year in September. Talks between the central government and farmer unions have stalled since they last met on January 22; the two sides have held 11 meetings thus far. In the January 22 meeting, the unions rejected the government’s proposal to put the laws on hold for up to 18 months. The Centre has repeatedly stated it won’t take back the reforms.Modi also said his government would launch an e-commerce platform for trading of the products made by women self-help groups (SHGs) in villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bolster-collective-power-of-small-farmers-modi-101629062447093.html
16-08-2021||India||‘India fighting terror, expansionism’||In his 88-minute Independence Day address from the Red Fort on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi drew the nation’s attention to the challenges India faces from terrorism and expansionism, in a veiled reference to Pakistan-sponsored terrorism and China‘s expansionist policy in Ladakh and its resolve to strengthen the capabilities of the armed forces.The PM said India was fighting terrorism and expansionism with courage, and the government would take all steps to strengthen the capabilities of the armed forces. “Today, the world is looking at India from a new perspective and this vision has two important aspects...One terrorism and the other expansionism. India is fighting these two challenges and responding to them astutely and with great courage,” the PM said.He said that the 2016 surgical strikes and the 2019 air strikes against terror pads in Pakistan sent a strong message to the country’s enemies about the emergence of a ‘new India’ and its resolve to take tough decisions. “India has given a stern signal to its enemies by conducting surgical and air strikes. This tells us that India is changing and can take the most difficult decisions and isn’t reluctant to implement them,” he said.While the 2016 strikes against terror pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir were India’s first direct military response to the suicide attack on an army camp in Uri, the air strikes against a Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terror facility in Pakistan’s Balakot followed the Pulwama attack.The comments came a day after the government announced the country’s highest and second-highest peacetime gallantry awards — the Ashok Chakra and Kirti Chakra — for two Jammu and Kashmir personnel killed in encounters with terrorists.The reference to the fight against expansionism assumes significance in the backdrop of the border row with China in eastern Ladakh where the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army are in talks to disengage their front-line troops from flashpoints on the contested Line of Actual Control.The Army announced on August 6 that the two armies had pulled back their forward deployed troops from Gogra or Patrol Point-17A, which was one of the friction points on LAC, with the breakthrough coming after the 12th round of military talks held on July 31. Problems at Hot Springs and Depsang are yet to be resolved. India and China are locked in a border row for more than 15 months, a phase that witnessed a deadly skirmish in the Galwan Valley last year.The PM made a mention of aircraft carrier Vikrant, locally made light combat aircraft and submarines, underlining that the projects highlighted India’s indigenous manufacturing capability. India’s first indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) Vikrant, the largest warship to be built in the country, kicked off critical sea trials on August 3 ahead of its planned induction into the Navy in less than a year.The PM also underlined India’s growing prowess in defence manufacturing and the government’s full commitment to boost Atmanirbharta (self-reliance) in the defence sector.He also said Sainik Schools across the country would open their doors to girl students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-fighting-terror-expansionism-101629061069879.html
16-08-2021||India||Three research scholars discover new plant species in Western Ghats||Three research scholars, one from the United States among them, have discovered a new plant in Ponmudi hills in Kerala which is part of the Western Ghats, one of the eight hotspots of biological diversity in the world. They named the plant after Dr N Mohanan (Symplocos Mohananii), former principal scientist and now scientific adviser of M S Swaminathan Research Foundation in Wayanad, north Kerala. They said the tree was named after the scientist for his outstanding contribution spanning 37 years in the field of taxonomy (classification of plants) and conservation of biodiversity. He discovered more than 33 new species from the Western Ghats and also six species were re-discovered many years later (some of them were written off as extinct). Three researchers-- Stephan J, Akhil R, both from the Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research institute (JNTBGRI) in Palode (Thiruvananthapuram) and Peter W Fritsch (curator and scientist) from the Botanical Research Institute of Texas, USA formed part of the team. They have been doing research on ‘Symplocos Mohananii’ for more than four years. “The tree is very endemic in nature and we could spot only five of them during our research. Though it looks like other plants of the genus Symplocos, critical analysis of micro and macro characters of it later revealed the Symplocos Mohananii is a different species,” said one of the scholars R Akhil. The plant was spotted from a hill which was about 3000 feet above sea level and they spent days together in forests, said Fritsch. He said the plant carries white coloured flowers and they could not record opening of flowers so far. White- coloured flowers usually open at night. “Plants of this family are commonly known as sweet leaf plants locally and the bark of a few species were used to treat skin diseases by tribals and also for dye-making. ‘Symplocos Mohananii has also got some medicinal properties but detailed study is needed,” said another team member J Stephen. Since the number of plant is limited they said their next task is to find a large collection in deep forests. Rich in endemic flora and fauna, the Western Ghats, stretching from Gujarat to Kerala, also a UNESCO heritage site which plays an important role in climatic condition of the country, still remains a mystery for scientists. They periodically discover new plants, frogs, reptiles and other species there. Following grave concerns over the depletion of its green cover due to human interference, the Union government had set up an expert panel under eminent ecologist Madhav Gadgil. In 2011 he had submitted his report. When all six states (Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu) coming under the shadow of the Ghats opposed the Gadgil Panel recommendations, a working group was constituted under Dr Kasturirangan, former ISRO chief. A watered down version was done, it was also opposed. Now both expert reports are gathering dust in government cupboards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-research-scholars-discover-new-plant-species-in-western-ghats-101629059661807.html
16-08-2021||India||Local train services resume in Mumbai after four months||Local train services resumed for fully vaccinated citizens from Sunday after a gap of four month. Citizens, who are fully vaccinated for Covid-19 and have completed a gap of 14 days since their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine, are eligible to use local train services by obtaining universal passes.Fully vaccinated citizens can avail only monthly season pass for traveling in local trains. Nearly 1,20,000 monthly season railway passes have been issued to passengers by Central and Western Railway since it was allowed on August 11.Local train services were suspended for passengers for the second time from April 15, 2021 due to the spike in coronavirus cases in Mumbai and surrounding cities. Train services were resumed for the public with stipulated timings on February 1.There was no incident of crowding reported inside local trains and on suburban railway stations early on Sunday morning on both the Central and Western Railways.From August 11, the Maharashtra government started issuing universal passes to ensure only eligible commuters, who are fully vaccinated, can get monthly railway passes and crowding in local trains can also be avoided.Universal passes embedded with Quick Response (QR) code are being made available to the commuters through both the offline and online system. While the offline system of verification of vaccination certificates and issuing passes was started outside railway stations by municipal bodies, by an online system the passengers can also get their certificate verified and get an e-pass on http://epassmsdma.mahait.org/Railway authorities have stated that special squad teams consisting of ticket checking staff and Railway Protection Force (RPF) have been deployed for inspection of vaccination certificates and railway passes both by the Central and the Western Railway. Ticket checking inspectors have also been deployed inside local train compartments.For inspection, Maharashtra Police and Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel have been deployed at all the entry and exit points of the suburban railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-train-services-resume-in-mumbai-after-four-months-101629057021601.html
16-08-2021||India||CPI(M) hoists Indian flag for first time in 57 years||The Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), hoisted the national flag at its offices in Bengal and other states for the first since the party’s formation in 1964. In an apparent bid to come closer to the masses, the CPI(M) central committee, which virtually met recently, decided to celebrate the 75th Independence Day by hoisting the national flag at its state and district offices across India. During Independence, the undivided Communist Party of India (CPI) raised the slogan, ‘Yeh azaadi jhoota hai” (This is false independence). The CPI(M) was formed in 1964 after a split in the CPI. The national flag was never raised at CPI(M) offices in any state although some of the frontal organisations of the party observed the custom like most of the other partners of the Left Front. “The central committee decided that the party will observe the 75th anniversary highlighting the role of the Communists in the freedom struggle, the Communist party’s contributions to building modern India and consolidating the ‘Idea of India’…,” the central committee said in a statement on August 9. It, however, did not mention the decision to raise the national flag. Octogenarian Biman Bose, a member of the central committee and chairman of the Bengal Left Front on Sunday raised the flag on the roof of the state party office at Alimuddin Street in central Kolkata. “We decided to celebrate because this is the 75th anniversary of Independence,” said Bose without getting into the old controversy. The national flag was also raised at A K Gopalan Bhawan, the CPI(M) headquarters in Delhi, and party offices across the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpim-hoists-indian-flag-for-first-time-in-57-years-101629054501453.html
16-08-2021||India||Kerala logs another surge with 18,582 new Covid-19 cases, TPR crosses 15%||Kerala on Sunday reported 18,582 fresh Covid-19 cases with a high test positivity rate (TPR) of 15.11 per cent after 1,22, 970 samples were tested, said the state health ministry. The TPR once again crossed the 15 per cent mark after a short break. Amid the high volume of cases there is some positive news also-- in the last five days the recovery rate surpassed fresh cases. On Sunday, 20,089 people recovered. And experts said this is a good sign and it shows slow recovery. “Kerala should be very careful during the Onam festivities. Overloaded already, another spike will land the state in a difficult situation,” warned internal medicine expert Dr N M Arun, who has been following the case trajectory closely. Kerala also reported 102 deaths and with this the death toll has gone up to 18,601. Four districts reported more than 2000 cases-- Malappuram 2681, Thrissur 2423, Kozhikode 2368 and Ernakulam 2161 cases. The active caseload is 1,78, 630, statistics show. The ICU occupancy in the state (both private and public) is 2011 and the number of people on ventilators is 790. Total hospitalisation of those who are with moderate or severe infections stands more or less stabilized at 28,290. Among total hospitalization daily admission is between 10 and 15 per cent. Recovery is also steady and so many hospitals are not flooded, health ministry records show. Meanwhile the state administered around 5 lakh vaccines for the second consecutive day. So far it administered 2,39,22, 416 doses-- out of this 1,72,66,344 are first dose and 66,56,082 second doses (till Saturday). The state has launched a campaign on Saturday to cover all above 60 years with at least one doze of the vaccine. According to the last sero survey at least 45 per cent of the population is not exposed to antibodies and susceptible to infection. Union Health Minister M Mandaviya will visit Kerala on Monday to review the situation. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said the state’s high caseload is a serious concern for the Union government. “The state is paying the price for ignoring repeated warnings of the Union government. We have been insisting on institutional quarantine from the beginning itself. But the government opted for home quarantine but records show it flopped,” said the minister. Kerala is reporting more than 60 per cent of the daily cases of the country for almost a month. The central team which visited the eight worst-affected districts in the first week of August also flagged the state’s over lax home quarantine system. It found serious flaws in protocols in home isolation. In districts like Malappuram and Kozhikode, the size of the family is big and those infected easily pass the virus to other members. Home isolation calls for strict procedure like the infected person should have a separate washroom and nobody should be allowed to enter the quarantined room, but the team found that these measures were not followed. This led to increased transmission within homes and formation of small clusters. Fearing another spike the government has tightened restrictions during the ongoing Onam festivities-- mass gatherings, public meetings, community feasts and other functions have been banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-logs-another-surge-with-18-582-new-covid-19-cases-tpr-crosses-15-101629053541373.html
16-08-2021||India||New plant species discovered in Western Ghats||Three research scholars, one from the United States, have discovered a new plant in Kerala’s Ponmudi hills which is part of the Western Ghats, one of the eight hot spots of biological diversity in the world. They named the plant ‘Symplocos Mohananii’ after Dr N Mohanan, former principal scientist and now scientific adviser of MS Swaminathan Research Foundation in Wayanad, north Kerala. The scholars said the tree was named after the scientist for his outstanding contribution spanning 37 years in the field of taxonomy (classification of plants) and conservation of biodiversity. Mohanan discovered more than 33 new species from the Western Ghats. Stephan J, Akhil R, both from the Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research institute (JNTBGRI) in Palode (Thiruvananthapuram), and Peter W Fritsch, curator and scientist from the Botanical Research Institute of Texas, US, have been doing research on ‘Symplocos Mohananii’ for more than four years. “The tree is very endemic in nature and we could spot only five of them during our research. Though it looks like other plants of the genus Symplocos, a critical analysis of micro and macro characters of it later revealed that the Symplocos Mohananii is a different species,” said R Akhil. Fritsch said the plant was spotted from a hill which was about 3,000 feet above sea level. “The plant carries white flowers but we could not record opening of the flowers so far. The white flowers usually open in night.” J Stephen said, “Plants of this family are commonly known as sweet leaf plants locally and the bark of a few species were used to treat skin diseases by tribals and also for dye-making. Symplocos Mohananii has also got some medicinal properties, but a detailed study is needed.” Since the number of plants is limited, they said their next task is to find its large collection in deep forests. The researchers revealed their discovery last week, but the research, they said, was published in New Zealand-based Phytotoxa International magazine in March. Rich in endemic flora and fauna, the Unesco heritage site Western Ghats stretching from Gujarat to Kerala, which plays an important role in climatic condition of the country, still remains a mystery for scientists. They periodically discover new plants, frogs, reptiles and other species. Following concerns over the depletion of the Ghats’ green cover due to human interference, the union government had set up an experts’ panel under eminent ecologist Madhav Gadgil. In 2011 he had submitted his report. When all six states (Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu) coming under the shadow of the Ghats opposed the Gadgil panel recommendations, a working group was constituted under Dr Kasturirangan, former ISRO chief. The group submitted a watered-down report, but it was also opposed. Now both the expert reports are gathering dust.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-plant-species-discovered-in-western-ghats-101629053181215.html
16-08-2021||India||75 new Vande Bharat trains to connect all parts of India: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday announced that 75 new Vande Bharat Express trains will be launched to connect different parts of the country in 75 weeks to mark the ongoing ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav.’“...The country has resolved that 75 Vande Bharat trains will be connecting every corner of the country in 75 weeks of Amrit Mahotsav of Independence,” he told the crowd during his Independence Day speech from the ramparts of the Red Fort.The Indian Railways had floated a revised tender in September last year for procuring 44 semi-high speed Vande Bharat trains from companies registered only in India. The government had earlier scrapped three global tenders for the ambitious project.Hyderabad-based engineering firm Medha, which in February secured the contract to supply the electrical systems for the 44 trains, has now been told to advance its production plan so that at least two prototypes can be rolled out by next March following all trials.The indigenous semi-high speed train set, also known as Train 18, is being given a boost with the Railways gearing to roll out at least 10 of them, linking around 40 cities by August 2022, according to officials aware of the development.The maiden run of a Vande Bharat train was flagged off by Modi on the New Delhi-Varanasi route on February 15, 2019. The second such train service between New Delhi and Shri Mata Vaishnodevi Katra was flagged off by Union home minister Amit Shah on October 3 in the same year.Besides this, the Prime Minister also talked about boosting rail connectivity in the northeast region, saying it is significant for the entire country. “Today, we are in the process of writing a new history as far as connectivity to the northeast is concerned. This connectivity is both between hearts and infrastructure. Very soon the job of connecting the capital cities of the northeastern states by rail will be completed,” Modi said.As of today, except Sikkim, all northeastern states are connected to the rail network. The capital cities of Assam, Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh are already connected, while the work to link the capital cities of Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Meghalaya is underway.Referring to the regional connectivity scheme in the aviation sector, Modi said it is unprecedented the way UDAN scheme was connecting far-flung areas of the country and the speed at which new airports are being built.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75-new-vande-bharat-trains-to-connect-all-parts-of-india-pm-101629051980658.html
16-08-2021||India||Parliament session over: After break, fuel prices may begin rising once again||State-run fuel retailers have kept automobile fuel rates frozen for almost a month in a departure from the policy of aligning petrol and diesel rates daily by tactically using minor gains of falling international oil prices to offset the need for raising pump rates, three people aware of the development said.The strategy was to stop the surging streak of fuel prices to avoid the attention of the Opposition when Parliament was in session, a government official and two company executives said, asking not to be named. As the session is now over, the oil marketing companies may gradually resume the policy of daily price revision, they added.The monsoon session of Parliament started on July 19 and ended two days ahead of schedule on August 11. The companies, however, stopped the daily aligning of pump prices of petrol and diesel days ahead of the session. First, the retail price of diesel was frozen on July 15 at ₹89.87 per litre in Delhi and petrol followed suit after two days, at ₹101.84 a litre.Meanwhile, international oil prices saw wide fluctuations in the last one month. Benchmark Brent crude, which was at $73.47 per barrel on July 15, first fell to $68.62 on July 19 only to jump by over 10.8% at $76.05 on July 29. Oil prices slumped again in the international market and Brent fell to $69.04 a barrel, a drop of over 9.2% from July 29. It, however, bounced back to above $70 mark last week and closed the last trading session on Friday at $70.59 a barrel with a fall of about 1%.Despite international oil prices being highly volatile in the last one month, state-run retailers neither cut nor raised pump rates of petrol and diesel in the country, even as the government reiterated that they follow the daily pricing policy.In a written reply to the Rajya Sabha on August 4, minister of state for petroleum Rameswar Teli said: “Effective June 16, 2017, daily pricing of petrol and diesel has been implemented in the entire country... to bring more transparency and efficiency in pricing to benefit consumers.”Email queries on this matter sent to the three state-run retailers – Indian Oil Corporation (IOCL), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) – and the petroleum ministry did not elicit any response. The three companies enjoy a monopoly in the domestic fuel retail market with about 90% combined market share.Domestic petrol and diesel rates had been moving up since May 4, a day after the results of five assembly polls were declared. The price rally saw petrol becoming costlier by ₹11.44 a litre and diesel by ₹9.14 since May 4. Fuel rates jumped to a historic high and petrol crossed the ₹100 per litre mark in several places for the first time. While Indian Oil rates in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies.While international oil prices impact pump rates of automobile fuels because India imports more than 80% of the crude oil it processes, steep taxes are the other reason for high rates of petrol and diesel.In Delhi, central levies account for 32.3% of petrol’s price and state taxes 23.07%, according to official data of August 1. On diesel, central taxes are over 35.38% while state taxes are about 14.62%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the central government raised excise duty on fuel to shore up its finances. States, too, followed suit as revenues were hit on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to official data, the petroleum sector contributed ₹3,71,726 crore central excise revenue in 2020-21, and ₹2,02,937 crore state levies or value-added tax or VAT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-session-over-after-break-fuel-prices-may-begin-rising-once-again-101629051801245.html
16-08-2021||India||Can’t wait for years to take action: COP 26 president Alok Sharma on climate crisis||The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) last week warned in a key report that the planet has only a small window left to prevent worsening effects of the climate crisis.United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) president Alok Sharma, who will chair the crucial meeting in Glasgow later this year, spoke to HT’s Jayashree Nandi about the IPCC report, net-zero emission targets, and the possibility of still limiting global warming. Sharma, who is set to visit India this week, also said he expects world leaders to finalise a delivery plan for the $100 billion/year pledge for developing countries before the COP26 meeting. Excerpts:The IPCC report has indicated that it is possibly now inevitable that we will breach the 1.5 degrees C goal. Do you think the global community has done so little and so late that we have now reached a point of no return?The IPCC report is a real wake-up call for the whole world and what it does say, of course, is that the door is still ajar, if I can put it like that, but it is likely to close very fast unless we collectively take more ambitious action on cutting emissions. The next decade is going to be absolutely decisive in terms of taking action, so what we cannot do is to wait two years, five years, 10 years before every country comes forward and sets out ambitious plans and actions to deliver them. We need to take action right now.The IPCC report has spelled out that it is critical that parties move to net zero emissions by 2050 to even attempt keeping global warming under 1.5°C or 2°C. Are you expecting developing countries like India to also commit to the target?I was in India some months ago and I am coming again (this week). The message that I delivered to ministers in Delhi is entirely consistent with the message I deliver to every government — that we must do everything we can to keep (warming under) 1.5°C within reach. Part of that is to come up with ambitious commitments to cut emissions by 2030, (then) there are 2030 NDCs (nationally determined contributions), but also countries have to commit to net zero by the middle of the century. Now when we (UK) took on the COP 26 presidency, less than 30% of the global economy was covered by net-zero target, we are now at 70%. You have seen China set out its plan for net-zero by 2060; Brazil has come forward with 2050, so you are seeing countries moving forward. But we want every country to set out plans to go to net-zero by the middle of the century.India and other developing countries believe that the Paris agreement principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities are undermined because the promised finance of $100 billion per year hasn’t come through. How will you gain their trust now?I have been very clear since I took on the role of president for COP 26 that delivering the $100 billion a year from 2020 to 2025 is a matter of trust for developing countries and for me, this is a totemic figure... Now, the good news is that we saw new money coming forward from Germany, from Japan and from Canada at the end of the G7 leaders’ summit (in June) and also the UK... I also held a ministerial meeting where we had around 50 ministers coming together on July 25 and 26 in London and one of the issues that is being taken forward is a clear delivery plan on the $100 billion funding. I am working on that with ministerial colleagues from the German government and the Canadian government, and I hope that we can set out a delivery plan before COP 26, so it will inject confidence into the developing countries.In comparison to top emitters, India’s per capita emissions are far lower than that of the US, China and the EU. Do you think it’s fair to ask countries with extremely low per-capita emissions to switch to net zero?I think the key issue here is about clean growth. I have always been very clear that we cannot ask any developing country, which is growing its economy rapidly, to not grow. What I think we can do is to support a country to leapfrog the dirty power (fossil fuels) and move towards the clean energy revolution. I am incredibly impressed... from all the conversations I had with friends and ministers in India, there is this real desireto push forward on renewables and I think that is what we need to see across all countries.COP26 is a make-or-break conference. Do you have any worries that some countries may block progress?We have been working as a team. I have been very pleased with the overall feedback that I get from governments... that they want to see COP 26 be successful. But at the end of the day, this is going to require compromise on some of the outstanding matters that have to be resolved. I think there is still a lot of hard work to do between now and COP26. I believe this is our last best hope of ensuring that we keep the 1.5°C (target) within reach. The decisions that this set of leaders take will impact younger generations and future generations... This is about the future of humanity and we need to do everything we can to avoid the catastrophe that would otherwise engulf all of us if we don’t make progress at Glasgow.The Bloomberg NEF fact sheet released last month said some G20 countries provided $3.3 trillion support for coal, oil, gas and fossil-fuel power between 2015 and 2019. Eight countries -- Australia, Canada, the US, Brazil, France, Indonesia, Mexico and China -- increased their support to the fossil fuel industry. How will this be addressed when you are expecting developing countries to cut coal?I want COP26 to be the COP that consigns coal power to history and if you look at what the G7 countries have done... and one of the commitments made there was that G7 nations would from this year end the financing of international coal projects overseas. We have the same commitment from South Korea, which is very welcome, and I think more broadly... the private sector investors are increasingly reluctant to invest in coal because from their perspective they can see that in the next few years they may end up with stranded assets. If you look at the market itself, it is moving in the direction of renewables. For example, India has got a real ambitious plan to go to 450GW of renewables and I think you are seeing that across the world as well. The market is moving against coal and there is a desire among countries to move forward with renewables — one of the key issues in terms of financing is how do we will help and support the developing countries access to private finance when it comes to money coming into renewables and that is part of the work we are doing.Several countries, including the UK, have announced net-zero targets. But, when you look at data from Climate Action Tracker, several countries such as Russia, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Brazil, Canada, Australia and even UK are not 2 degree C compliant. This is mainly because the pathways to achieve their climate targets are not clear. How will you ensure countries achieve what they promise?For the UK, we now have an NDC which has reduction of emissions of at least 68% by 2030 on a 1990 base year and we have an independent committee on climate change, which says this is compatible with net-zero by 2050. At the G20, a climate and energy ministers’ meeting in Naples in July, there was commitment from all G20 states to submit ambitious NDCs before COP 26. And they will submit commitments on long-term strategies as well. What we want to see is that every country comes up with its long-term strategy and sets out a clear plan. The UK will be setting out its net-zero strategy before COP26 and then we need to see all countries follow through on actions. One of the areas that we want to try and resolve from the Paris Agreement rule book is transparency, and if we are able to do that, I hope that will also allow people to track what each of us as individual countries are doing to cut emissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-wait-for-years-to-take-action-cop-26-president-alok-sharma-on-climate-crisis-101629051560600.html
16-08-2021||India||PM spells out vision for Independent India@100||In a speech that began with an acknowledgment of the contribution of India’s freedom fighters including Jawaharlal Nehru, outlined recent steps India had taken to ensure the “ease of living” and “ease of doing business”, highlighted current governance challenges including the pandemic and the climate crisis, and laid out a future vision for India at 100 in 2047, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that no obstacle could stop the country from achieving its dreams in the 21st century and declared that India now has the political will to undertake major reforms. Importantly, he said everyone has to do their bit to achieve all this, adding “sabka prayas” (everyone’s effort) to his government’s slogan.Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on India’s 75th Independence Day, PM Modi unveiled a national blueprint with limited State interference in the everyday life of citizens; a focus on small farmers and rural economy; energy independence with the announcement of a National Hydrogen Mission; a boost to manufacturing, technology, infrastructure and start-ups; employment generation for the young with a ₹100 lakh crore PM Gati Shakti master plan; equity for women and vulnerable sections of society; and balanced regional development with a focus on Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and the Northeast.In a reference to national security challenges from Pakistan and China, without naming the two countries, the PM underlined India’s battle against “terrorism” and “expansionism” and said the country would do all it needed to strengthen the armed forces. He did not, however, mention the evolving situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban reached the gates of Kabul on Sunday, after a successful military offensive across the country.India’s Olympic contingent was present at the Red Fort, with PM Modi hailing the success of Indian athletes — with seven medals across six sports, India had its most successful run in Tokyo this year.The Opposition has criticised the speech, with the Congress accusing him of only making announcements about schemes in his Independence Day speeches and not implementing them. “He announces new schemes but these are never implemented or seen on the ground. He says a lot of things but never adheres to them,” senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge told reporters.The Congress also took a swipe at the PM for his announcement of ₹100 lakh crore for the infrastructure sector, saying he has been talking of it since 2019. “It has been two years since August 15, 2019. At least, the 100 lakh crore figure could have been changed,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said in a tweet.In his speech, the PM focused on the past, present and the future.Looking back, he hailed the contribution of a range of freedom fighters from across different strands (both non-violent and revolutionary) of the national movement, spoke of India’s struggle for the “motherland, culture and freedom”, and reiterated that August 14 would be henceforth marked as the Partition Horrors Remembrance Day. “It was one of the biggest tragedies of the last century and the memories of the pain persist… people went through inhuman times... and many didn’t even get a proper farewell. It is important for them to be alive in our memories.” The government’s announcement to this effect on Saturday triggered a mixed response, with many hailing it as a much-needed effort at acknowledging the past while others criticising it for reopening old wounds which may aggravate the politics of division.Turning to the present, the PM spoke of the Covid-19 pandemic as a huge challenge, hailed Corona warriors for their contribution, and highlighted India’s vaccination programme, the world’s largest such exercise. “India doesn’t need to be dependent on others for vaccines. Imagine what would have happened if India didn’t have its own vaccine? Where would we have got it?” While both Covishield and Covaxin are manufactured in India (the latter has also been developed in India), the government has come under criticism for not ensuring timely clearance to foreign-made vaccines which would have helped meet the supply deficit.But the PM also acknowledged the scale of the devastation without directly referring to the second wave this summer, which saw daily cases climb up to over 400,000 and deaths cross 4,000 — widely seen by experts as a conservative estimate. “It is true that fewer people in India have got infected, that we have succeeded in saving more people in terms of population ratio compared to other countries. But to say that we didn’t face challenges would be to close doors for development in the future. We have fewer resources, our population is higher, our lifestyle is different. Despite all our efforts, we couldn’t save many people and this intolerable pain will stay with us.”A large part of the PM’s speech was focused on welfare delivery, justice for vulnerable segments and steps undertaken for rural economy and farmers.While outlining the various welfare measures in the past seven years — for instance, provision of gas cylinders through the Ujjwala scheme, rural roads and housing, toilets, electrification, health insurance through Ayushman Bharat, and financial inclusion — the PM said it was now time to move towards saturation coverage. “The pace of government schemes has increased, they are meeting their targets, the poor are benefiting directly now. But we now need to move towards 100% coverage.”The PM made it clear — at a time when the debate on reservations, caste census, and categorisation of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) has made its way back in political discourse — that there had to be “handholding” of the marginalised. Beyond facilities, this meant continued reservations for Dalits, tribals, OBCs and poor of general categories.He also spoke of the need for development to be all-inclusive and all-encompassing, touching all regions. “India’s east, Northeast, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himalayan region states, coastal areas, the tribal belt will become the basis of India’s development in the future.” The PM said there has been balanced regional development in both Jammu and Kashmir after the effective abrogation of Article 370 and referred to the establishment of the delimitation commission and plans to hold assembly elections; spoke of Ladakh’s development potential; highlighted the enhanced connectivity in the Northeast and between the Northeast and India’s neighbours to the east; and focused on improved development indicators in 110 aspirational districts.In terms of the rural economy, the PM spoke of enhanced facilities and connectivity in villages giving rise to digital entrepreneurs, the value of cooperatives in the backdrop of the formation of a separate ministry of cooperation at the Centre (led by Amit Shah), and the role of self-help groups, announcing a new e-commerce platform to enable such groups to market and sell their products elsewhere.But the PM’s focus was on agriculture — in the context of prolonged opposition to the new farm laws pushed by the Centre last year. The PM spoke of the need to incorporate scientific feedback to enhance production, and why India must frame policies keeping in view the interests of small farmers, even coining a new slogan of how small farmers are the “pride of India”. “80% of India’s farmers own less than 2 hectares of land each; there is increased fragmentation of land. Past policies did not prioritise these farmers. Agricultural reforms are meant to benefit these farmers”. The PM highlighted the government’s insurance scheme, Kisan credit card, farmers producers organisation, construction of warehouses at the block level, the PM-Kisan scheme under which farmers get an income assistance of ₹6000 each annually, Kisan rail links, and steps to boost export potential of agriculture as evidence of a shift in policy.But along with this, with an eye on the future, the PM also flagged the role of sectors which are essential for India’s future development trajectory — “next generation infrastructure... world class manufacturing... cutting edge technology... new age technology”.In this context, he referred to Make in India (singling out electronics manufacturing and indigenous defence production as successes), the role of infrastructure (with a focus on the ₹100 lakh crore national infrastructure pipeline), the success of startups (with a reference to how they are the new “wealth creators”, with many have turned into unicorns of a valuation in excess of $1 billion), and exports (with an appeal to Indian exporters to focus on quality with an eye on global markets). “Major reforms and decisions need political will. And in India, there is no shortage of political will. The world knows we are writing a new chapter of governance”.Redefining the idea of next generation reforms, the PM focused on the need to make service delivery more accessible for citizens till the last mile. “Earlier, the government was in the driving seat. Now, times have changed. We must end the unnecessary interference of the government and government processes in the lives of citizens. We have liberated people from unnecessary laws... 15,000 compliance requirements were ended... Liberation from laws is good for both ease of living and ease of doing businesses.”The PM also spoke of the role of education, in light of the New Education Policy, with a focus on how education in one’s mother tongue is a weapon in the fight against poverty and need not be an obstacle. Taking off from the success of women athletes in the Tokyo Olympics, the PM highlighted how women were excelling in each field and ready to take their space and it was the duty of citizens, police, the criminal justice system and all stakeholders to ensure women were secure and had respect. He also announced that Sainik schools will now be open for girls too.With climate emerging as a key governance challenge — with new warnings about how the climate crisis is already straining environment and will have huge implications for India’s political economy and livelihoods — the PM said environmental security was now a part of national security.He said that India was an energy dependent nation, spending ₹12 lakh crore for its energy needs every year — and declared a goal of making India energy independent by the 100th year of Indian independence. The PM also announced the launch of a National Hydrogen Mission, a mission circular economy, and highlighted attempts in areas of recycling, organic farming, energy conservation, protection of wildlife and increase of forest cover, renewables.“India is changing... it can take difficult decisions and doesn’t hesitate,” said PM Modi, referring to the decisions on Article 370, the rollout of the Goods and Services Tax, implementation of one-rank-one-pension, peaceful resolution of the Ram Janmabhoomi dispute, constitutional status to the backwards commission, district elections in Kashmir, record foreign direct investment , and surgical and air strikes across the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-spells-out-vision-forindependent-india100-101629051500646.html
16-08-2021||India||Govt sought info from EIU over its Democracy Index ranking claiming 'democratic regression' in India||The Union government tried to engage with the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) headquartered in London, following the latter’s “Democracy Index” ranking of India that categorised India as a “flawed democracy”, according to documents accessed by HT and officials familiar with the development.This admission was made in a letter, reviewed by HT, written by the Union law ministry to the Rajya Sabha secretariat on July 15 seeking to disallow a question by an MP on “Indian Position in Democracy Index,” that was due for answer on July 22. The ministry said the question was sensitive in nature.“The Rajya Sabha Secretariat is requested to refer to the Provisionally Admitted Question... raised by Smt. Shanta Chhetri, M.P., due for answer on 22 Jul, 2021 on “Indian Position in Democracy Index... In this regard, it is to state that question raised by the Hon’ble Member is very sensitive in nature. As per the report of the Economic Intelligence Unit, United Kingdom (the publishing agency), the primary cause of the democratic regression, inter alia, was an erosion of civil liberties and the authorities handling the coronavirus pandemic in the country,” the letter said.
16-08-2021||India||Union ministers meet Naidu, seek action against oppn MPs over House ruckus||A delegation of seven ministers on Sunday called on Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and submitted a memorandum to demand action against some opposition members for their alleged “unprecedented, extreme and violent acts” in the Upper House, in the final hours of the disruption-hit monsoon session on August 11. The delegation, consisting of Union ministers Piyush Goyal, Pralhad Joshi, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Dharmendra Pradhan, Bhupender Yadav, Arjun Ram Meghwal and V Muraleedharan, alleged that the marshals in the House were prevented from discharging their duties after furious Opposition leaders stormed the Well and protested against the passage of the general insurance bill.The memorandum was handed over to Naidu in the presence of Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh. According to an official familiar with the matter, Naidu told the delegation that he will examine the matter for deciding on the appropriate course of action.As per a report by the Rajya Sabha secretariat on the pandemonium, opposition MPs tore papers, obstructed ministers from taking their seats, choked and suffocated one marshal, dragged and pushed another, took videos and even climbed on a LED TV stand during the session on August 11. The Opposition denied these contentions, and blamed the government for the unruly scenes in the House, which, they said, were sparked by “outsiders” acting as marshals. Fourteen Opposition leaders had also met Naidu on Thursday to condemn the government’s actions in the recently concluded monsoon session.Meanwhile, Naidu also held a meeting with panel vice chairman Sasmit Patra, who was in the Chair when the above incidents took place in the Upper House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-ministers-meet-naidu-seek-action-against-oppn-mps-over-house-ruckus-101629049461242.html
16-08-2021||India||India rushes to secure citizens in Afghanistan||As Taliban fighters began entering Kabul on Sunday following the collapse of President Ashraf Ghani’s government, Indian authorities scrambled to pull out hundreds of diplomats and citizens still in Afghanistan.The speed of the Taliban’s advance into the capital again took most countries by surprise, though people familiar with developments said the Indian side was well prepared for all contingencies. The Indian Air Force’s heavy lift aircraft, especially the C-17 Globemasters, have been on round-the-clock standby for several days and could be pressed into service at short notice for an evacuation.The Indian side had been anticipating the Taliban advance into Kabul would take a few more days, and reports about the entry of fighters into the city on Sunday as Ghani and his close aides reportedly fled to Tajikistan triggered hectic consultations, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.The government is closely monitoring the rapidly evolving situation in Afghanistan to decide on the evacuation of diplomatic personnel from Kabul, the people said.Specific plans for all contingencies are already in place and all steps will be taken to ensure that the staff of the Indian embassy in Kabul and Indian nationals are not at any risk, the people added.Plans are also in place for the destruction and retrieval of documents and computers at the Indian embassy, which is the only functional mission in Afghanistan following the withdrawal of staff from the consulates in Herat, Jalalabad, Mazar-e-Sharif and Kandahar over the past year. There was no official word from the external affairs ministry to the latest developments in Afghanistan. New Delhi has consistently said it is opposed to any attempt to forcibly capture power in Kabul.Taliban fighters began entering Kabul from all sides without facing any resistance by late on Sunday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rushes-to-secure-citizens-in-afghanistan-101629049222011.html
16-08-2021||India||In a first since 1979, Assam celebrates I-day sans bandh call: CM Sarma jubilant||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma expressed his gratitude on Sunday as Independence Day was celebrated in the state for the first time in decades without any rebel outfit calling for a shutdown of the day. He said it was significant and historic as it had happened for the first time since 1979. The chief minister also appealed to Paresh Barua, the chief of rebel outfit United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I), to come to the negotiating table. He had made a similar appeal after assuming power in May this year.Taking to Twitter, Sarma said the major milestone was a reflection of the “Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas” campaign of the Union government and relentless efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to bring peace and stability in the northeast. He further said the development marked a fitting tribute to the Centre’s government-led Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations that kicked off to commemorate 75 years of the country’s independence.This major milestone is a reflection of Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas through #SabkaPrayas and relentless efforts of Adarniya PM Shri @narendramodi ji to bring peace and stability in entire NE. 3/3“I salute the people of Assam for commemorating our 75th year of Independence truly on the principles of Jan Bhagidari. It is significant & historic that there was no bandh call by any organisation this Independence Day,” he wrote.The ULFA (I), which had been calling for Assam Bandh on Independence Day and Republic Day for several decades, refrained from the practice for the first time for Independence Day this year. The outfit had declared a unilateral ceasefire in May this year in view of the pandemic situation.Around the same time when Sarma took charge as CM, he had urged Barua to come for peace talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-since-1979-assam-celebrates-i-day-sans-bandh-call-cm-sarma-jubilant-101629041852209.html
