17-08-2021||India||Free Wi-Fi poles in 49 Chennai areas||Smartphone users in Chennai can now use free Wi-Fi for 30 minutes at 49 locations as the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has installed Smart Poles across the city. It is implemented under the Smart City Mission, urban renewal and retrofitting programme by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs. Any member of the public can access the Wi-Fi in these 49 locations for half an hour at the speed of 2 Mbps for free. “As of now, there is no provision to extend the timing even if people are willing to pay. We may provide that option in the future,” an official of GCC said, not wishing to be named. Some of the key locations where the smart poles have been fitted with wifi routers include railway stations, the Rajiv Gandhi Government General hospital, the judges’ entrance of the Madras high court, parks, and seven locations along the Marina beach stretch opposite which important government offices are also located. “The smart poles were installed in December, but there are barely any users, so we released the list of Wi-Fi locations today to bring this information to the public,” the official said. Users can register from their phones using their full name and mobile number and start using the Wi-Fi after receiving an OTP. The civic body and its technology partners can monitor the number of users at a particular location and the data that they are consuming. The multifunctional smart poles are connected to a Command Control Centre of the GCC, which the civic body modelled after similar integrated systems in Moscow and Singapore. The smart pole also has an emergency call button that will alert the local police station and GCC. They are fitted with CCTVs, rain gauges, and the poles monitor air pollution levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-wi-fi-poles-in-49-chennai-areas-101629224800932.html
17-08-2021||India||100 days of DMK: Activities of HR&CE are back to life||On the third death anniversary of his father M Karunanidhi on August 7, chief minister M K Stalin launched a drive to plant 100,000 saplings of Sthala Vruksham (sacred tree for every temple) on lands attached to temples under the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department. The move is being seen as Stalin’s bid to counter being typecast as anti-Hindu, which has been the Bharatiya Janata Party’s campaign against the ruling party in Tamil Nadu. After the DMK came back to power on May 2 after a gap of 10 years, a large portion of the new government’s first 100 days in office had been devoted to firefighting the devastating second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Yet, the activities of the HR&CE department, which was almost obscure, sprang to life under the new regime. DMK’s dogmatic rationalist beginnings have been used against it repeatedly, but the party has maintained it respects all religions. Most recently, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) attacked the DMK by labelling it as ‘anti-Hindu’ on the campaign trail for the assembly elections. However, the DMK managed to fend it off as mass politics led the party to be more accommodative. The electorate, too, which is a Hindu majority, has not seen a contradiction as several DMK leaders are practitioners of various religions and faiths. Besides, the women of DMK’s first family are often seen visiting temples. According to political analysts, Stalin is merely taking forward his father’s schemes with respect to temples, appointments of priests and initiatives for devotees, but with discernible display. Careful planning has gone into the public image makeover from the campaign trail to the election manifesto to now in office. Stalin picked a trusted aide and a believer PK Sekar Babu, whose phone rings to a devotional Sabarimala Ayyappa caller tune, as minister of the department. Babu, who sports a horizontal vermillion mark between his eyebrows and is always clad in a white shirt and dhoti, has been crisscrossing the state inspecting temples besides inspecting hospitals when Covid-19 cases were peaking. Babu is also the minister in-charge for Covid-19 control in Chennai and was often seen accompanying Stalin during most of his hospital visits and events. When the DMK was in the opposition, Babu often filled in for Stalin for social events like marriages, housewarming in latter’s Kolathur constituency even though he represented Harbour constituency. “He was the most hardworking person for Stalin in Kolathur,” said a DMK functionary.Given his proximity to Stalin and his own religious beliefs, Babu is both well aware of Stalin’s expectations and of the operations around temples. “He (Stalin) knows a cadre and a leader in the party alike. He analyses what each person is capable of. So, he handed over this ministry with that faith in me,” said Babu.The HR&CE manages 44,121 temples in Tamil Nadu. The government is in the process of a mammoth exercise of digitising papers of properties and assets owned by temples to make them available in the public domain. “The idea is to make everything transparent,” Babu said. It was also seen as an effort to blunt a growing campaign to free temples in Tamil Nadu by the BJP and spiritual guru Jaggi Vasudev. “Yes, we did focus on this department’s initiatives, and it has silenced that (free temples) campaign, but we didn’t expect the HR&CE to gain so much of popularity,” a DMK leader said on the condition of anonymity. The initiatives and announcements that steered this department to prominence include, Stalin appointing 24 non-Brahmin trained priests to temples on completion of 100 days in office. On the same day, a woman Odhuvar (one who chants hymns before the deity), 28-year-old Suhanjana Gopinath, was appointed to a Chennai temple. Stalin was implementing an order passed by Karunanidhi (during his tenure in 2006-2011) in entirety to allow priesthood at temples for people of all castes and births for those who are formally trained in the agamas and the other ritual texts. Babu had earlier announced that the DMK government will take steps to provide training to women who are interested in becoming priests. After the DMK took over the state administration in May, Babu and his team have taken a series of actions to protect the assets of temples. Encroachments have been evicted and 187.9 acres of land, 161.7 acres of vacant plots and more have been retrieved and restored to the control of temples. The revised budget this year allocated ₹100 crore for renovation work of temple this year. An additional corpus of ₹130 crore has been created in the recent state budget to provide assistance to perform one-time pooja in 12,959 temples. According to the budget, training schools will be revived to create a trained pool of Oduvar and Archakas. Master plans are also to be developed for 539 temples to conserve their heritage. After Stalin made 208 new appointments to various positions in the HR&CE department, including 24 priests from various castes, it was welcomed by all parties, including the BJP. However, there were accusations that several serving priests were asked to make way for new entrants. On Tuesday, Babu dismissed the accusations saying the party has no intention to remove anyone. “Hindus who take up Hindutva are left with no job now, so they are involved in these ill campaigns,” Babu said.R Kannan, author of books on DMK founder C N Annadurai and ADMK (later AIADMK founder) MG Ramachandran (MGR), recalls that the shift happened with Anna who famously said “ondre kulam oruvane devan”, meaning one religion, one God. And that Karunanidhi bettered him by allotting funds for temple renovation, enhancing temple cars and more in the 1970s. Despite that Karunanidhi had on several occasions made vocal remarks against believers. “But the assertion of a section of the Hindus in the presence of BJP is now compelling a change in narrative from the yesteryears. So the DMK is boxed into a corner where it’s become defensive and it has to constantly say that it’s not anti-Hindu,” said Kannan.Political analyst Raveendran Duraisamy said, “Stalin is undoing all the anti-Hindu projections made against him in a well-thought-out strategy.”“In doing so, he is also exposing the looters of temple lands who were spared by the previous government and curtailing the BJP’s growth. However, the BJP is taking a different form in Tamil Nadu, we can’t single them out as a Brahmincal party like in other states because they have supported archakas of all castes but they are campaigning for freeing temples,” Duraisamy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-days-of-dmk-activities-of-hr-ce-are-back-to-life-101629224799480.html
17-08-2021||India||Wife booked for torturing alcoholic husband in Rajasthan||A 25-year-old woman has been booked for an attempt to murder for allegedly drugging and torturing her husband, in Rajasthan’s Churu district, police said on Tuesday. The husband is currently undergoing treatment at a government hospital in Bikaner, officials said, adding that the woman accused him of abuse.According to the police, on August 12, when the man, 32, returned home from work, he fell unconscious after his wife served him dinner allegedly laced with sedatives. In his complaint, the victim said his wife covered his hands with polythene bags and tied electricity wires to his legs before subjecting him to electric shocks, said an official familiar with the matter.“The victim alleged that he fell unconscious after dinner and woke up late at night due to the electric shocks,” said sub-inspector Manak Lal. “Around 2 am, the woman called her in-laws and told them that her husband has been hospitalised after sustaining injuries due to the electric shocks,” the official added. Police said the victim has sustained burn injuries to his legs.Preliminary investigation has revealed that the victim is an alcoholic and allegedly subjected his wife to domestic abuse, said a police officer, adding that, “she decided to give him electric shocks to teach him a lesson”. “We have booked the woman under section 307 of the Indian Penal Code. A further probe is underway in the case,” a police official said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wife-booked-for-torturing-alcoholic-husband-in-rajasthan-101629223059147.html
17-08-2021||India||Firing stokes Assam-Mizoram tension||Gunshots rang out at the Assam-Mizoram border on Tuesday, ratcheting up interstate tensions mere weeks after both the governments announced a road map for peaceful negotiations following a violent showdown last month.Police officials from both states said the firing occurred around 2am on Tuesday in the reserve forests of the Darashing Hills area on the Assam side.One person from Mizoram sustained injuries, but not due to the firing, Mizoram Police said.Assam Police claimed that they tried to intercept some unidentified Mizoram residents trying to cross the border and retaliated after being fired on. Assam didn’t clarify whether local residents or Mizoram Police fired the first shots.Mizoram Police said some locals were going to their friends’ house on the Assam side when they were threatened by Assam’s force. Mizoram said it didn’t fire shots.On July 26, police forces of the two states fought a pitched gun battle at the disputed border, killing six Assam policemen and injuring about 40 others. Tuesday’s firing happened in a different section of the border.Assam districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164.6km-long border with Mizoram’s Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit districts. The decades-old border dispute stems primarily from a difference in perception. Mizoram goes by an 1875 border agreement but Assam follows a 1933 demarcation.Tensions abated in the first week of August after central intervention. The two states held a peace summit and agreed to withdraw state forces from the border, allow central inspection and initiate talks. But Tuesday’s violence showed that state police forces continued to patrol the border and indicated that decades-old tensions simmered despite the frenetic negotiation efforts.Superintendent of police of Assam’s Hailakandi district, Gaurav Upadhyay, said at around 2 am on Tuesday, police officials noticed some people trying to enter Assam and using “some sort of signal" with torch lights.He said Assam Police officials attempted to confront and question them but received gunfire from the upper side of the hill on the Mizoram side. In return, Assam Police fired 12 rounds of blank shots which forced the people to flee.“First of all, we did not start the firing; our officials were attacked with bullets from upper side of the hill which is under Mizoram. Ordinary civilians do not cross the border silently at 2am, so it appears these people were up to something fishy. Our officials did not fire on them first as we have been instructed not to do it. Some wrong messages are being given from the Mizoram’s side which should not be done,” Upadhyay said.He also said that the area where these three people were stopped came under Assam and was not a disputed part of the border. “If this was a disputed area, higher officials would have intervened by now,” he added.Superintendent of police of Mizoram’s Kolasib district, Vanlalfaka Ralte, said: “In bordering areas, people are friends with each other and they exchange things amongst them. This is unfortunate that Assam Police tried to use bullets on innocent civilians of Mizoram.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/firing-stokes-assam-mizoram-tension-101629222998977.html
17-08-2021||India||Willing to partner with India on its hydrogen goal: COP26 president Alok Sharma||President of the 26th United Nations climate change conference, Alok Sharma met Union power and renewable energy minister Raj Kumar Singh on Tuesday and expressed the willingness of the United Kingdom to collaborate with India on its ambitious green hydrogen project.Sharma is on a three-day India visit at the moment to deliberate on climate action with ministers, industry leaders and representatives of civil society organisations ahead of the 26th UN Climate Change Conference (COP 26) in Scotland’s Glasgow from October 31.The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) last week warned in a key report that the planet has only a small window left to prevent the worsening effects of the climate crisis.Sharma’s pitch for collaborating with India on green hydrogen came close on the heels of Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing during his Independence Day speech the government’s decision to the National Hydrogen Mission, with an aim for India to become the new global hub and an exporter.Taking to Twitter, Aloke Sharma posted about his meeting with the energy minister as well as industry minister Piyush Goyal and Prime Minister Modi's principal secretary PK Mishra.Constructive discussions with Power & New and Renewable Energy Minister @RajKSinghIndia, Mr PK Mishra @narendramodi’s Principal Secretary & Commerce & Industry Minister @PiyushGoyal Discussed range of issues incl 🇬🇧🇮🇳 collaboration on renewables, global energy transition & NDCs pic.twitter.com/ZO6nFqFk4MThe British-Indian lawmaker also raised the issue of phasing out of coal-fired power plants at Tuesday’s meeting, as he praised India for decommissioning 16,369 MW of thermal power units till March this year.India aims to become a net-zero carbon emitter by 2030 and has set an ambitious target of achieving 450 gigawatts of renewable energy by then.ALSO READ | Can’t wait for years to take action: COP 26 president Alok Sharma on climate crisisThe meeting between Sharma and Kumar saw discussions on the need for India to increase storage capacity to optimise the installed renewable energy when India achieves its milestone.Union minister Singh expressed India's interest in collaborating with the UK on offshore wind. He also stressed the need for the developed and developing countries to work together for bringing down the cost of storage.India is the only country among G-20 nations whose actions are at par with the nationally determined contributions (NDCs) set by them under the Paris Agreement in 2015.An official release, accessed by news agency ANI, said negotiators from both India and the UK expressed their willingness to explore the possibility of establishing a Green Climate Fund which could materialise the proposal for climate finance to the tune of $100 billion pledged by the developed countries under the Paris Agreement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop26-alok-sharma-hydrogen-energy-climate-change-green-climate-fund-101629213956153.html
17-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Taliban reveal position on Kashmir and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Internal, bilateral: Taliban 'clarify' position on KashmirIn an apparent clarification of their stance on Kashmir, days after taking over Kabul in a literal powershift of governance in Afghanistan, the Taliban called it a "bilateral and an internal matter", news agency ANI posted on Twitter quoting people familiar with the development. The Taliban is unlikely to focus on Kashmir, the news agency reported attributing it to the official. Read moreAfghanistan's first VP Amrullah Saleh declares himself caretaker presidentAfghanistan’s first vice president Amrullah Saleh on Tuesday added a new twist to the ongoing crisis, claiming he is now the caretaker president after Ashraf Ghani fled the war-torn country. Citing the provisions of the Constitution of Afghanistan, Saleh said that the first vice president automatically becomes the caretaker president in the event of the president’s absence, escape or resignation. Read morePM Modi chairs Cabinet meet on Afghanistan situation; Shah, NSA in attendancePrime Minister Narendra Modi is chairing a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security at his residence on the prevailing situation in Afghanistan following the swift takeover by the Taliban two days ago. Read moreIndia expresses concern over vandalisation of Ranjit Singh’s statue in PakistanIndia on Tuesday expressed concern at the vandalization of a statue of Maharaja Ranjit Singh in Lahore, saying incidents of violence against Pakistan’s minorities are increasing at an “alarming rate”. According to reports from Lahore, a member of the radical group, Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan, vandalised the statue located within the Lahore Fort complex. Read more'He doesn't only have a big heart but also has brains': Sachin praises BumrahIndia's stellar 151-run victory against England in the second Test at Lord's has gotten everybody to take notice and applaud. After all, it was a comeback of epic proportions and a display of sheer grit and fighting spirit. The latest person to heap massive praise on the team, especially Jasprit Bumrah and the rest of the bowlers, is batting legend Sachin Tendulkar. Read moreShershaah Vikram Batra's twin reveals Dimple Cheema's last words to himKiara Advani plays Dimple Cheema in the recently released movie Shershaah. Dimple was the girlfriend of Vikram Batra, the Param Vir Chakra awardee who died during the Kargil War of 1999. In a new interview, Vikram's brother Vishal Batra has spoken about Dimple's last words to him before Vikram's death. Read moreMilind Soman, Ankita Konwar go all mushy as they mark 160 kms run from MumbaiWhile cold weather and monsoons are enough to make us procrastinate workout and be cosy at home with our partner, Bollywood actor and supermodel Milind Soman has other romantic fitness plans with wife Ankita Konwar. If fitness passion had a face, it would look like Milind and Ankita who opted for a “Unity Run” this Independence Day and crossed into Gujarat from Mumbai “after two days of incessant rain”. Read moreWhatsApp rolls out this background feature in IndiaWhatsApp, back in November, introduced its UPI-based payments platform in India. At the time, the payments tile that the company had introduced featured the transferred amount being highlighted in green colour against a light green background, which is the same as regular text messages that are shared on the Facebook-owned messaging platform. Now, WhatsApp is rolling out an update to this feature that will make money transfers on WhatsApp a bit more personal and interesting. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-taliban-reveal-position-on-kashmir-and-all-the-latest-news-101629212548570.html
17-08-2021||India||India expresses concern over vandalisation of Ranjit Singh’s statue in Pakistan||India on Tuesday expressed concern at the vandalization of a statue of Maharaja Ranjit Singh in Lahore, saying incidents of violence against Pakistan’s minorities are increasing at an “alarming rate”.According to reports from Lahore, a member of the radical group, Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan, vandalised the statue located within the Lahore Fort complex. Police detained the man allegedly responsible for the act after he was held by people in the area.This was the third time the statue, located in a high-security area, was vandalised since it was unveiled in 2019.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi described the incident as “disturbing” and said, “Such attacks on the cultural heritage of minority communities in Pakistan highlight the growing intolerance and lack of respect for minority communities in Pakistani society.”He added, “Incidents of violence against minority communities, including attacks on their places of worship, their cultural heritage, as well as their private property, are increasing at an alarming rate.”Bagchi noted that just 12 days ago, a mob attacked and desecrated a Hindu temple at Rahim Yar Khan in Pakistan.“The Pakistani state has completely failed in its duty to prevent such attacks. This is creating a climate of fear for the minority communities to practice their faith,” he said.“We call upon the government of Pakistan to ensure the safety, security and well-being of its minority communities,” Bagchi added.The nine-foot bronze statue was unveiled in June 2019 to mark the 180th death anniversary of Ranjit Singh, the first Maharaja of the Sikh empire who ruled over Punjab for close to 40 years.The statue shows Ranjit Singh sitting on a horse in regal attire, sword in hand. Just two months after its unveiling, the statue was vandalised by two members of Tehreek-e-Labbaik. Both men were arrested by police.Video footage of Tuesday’s incident showed a man tearing an arm off the statue and then removing it from atop the horse and hurling it to the ground.The incident was condemned by several Pakistani leaders, including information minister Fawad Chaudhry.Meanwhile, Bibi Jagir Kaur, president of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), also strongly condemned the demolition of the statue on Tuesday.In a statement, she said that Maharaja Ranjit Singh was a Sikh king in whose kingdom all had equal rights and there was no discrimination against anyone. She said the rule of Maharaja Ranjit Singh was based on the principles of the Sikh Gurus which included social equality and religious freedom for all.“Apart from Sikhs, the officials of other religions were also appointed at Maharaja Ranjit Singh's court. He had great respect for other religions and got the work done as per their requirements,” she said.The SGPC president said Maharaja Ranjit Singh was one of the select rulers of the world who did great deeds for the welfare of mankind."Demolishing the statue of a world-renowned Sikh ruler and expressing hatred was an act against humanitarian concerns. I appeal to the government of Pakistan to take stern action against those responsible for desecrating the statue of Maharaja Ranjit Singh so that no such heinous act is committed again," she added.Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said in a social media post, "Pakistan’s radicals try once again to hurt Sikh sentiments by vandalising Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s statue. Earlier it was Khadim Hussain Rizvi who spoke ill about Maharaja Ranjit Singh and now his party people do such hateful things. I hope @ImranKhanPTI would take stern action against the culprits to ensure religious harmony in Pak"."I have apprised Jt Secretary, Min of External Affairs (PAI) Mr JP Singh about this incident who has assured me that he would take up this matter with Pak High Commission and ask them to take a strict action to curb such hateful vandalising events," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-expresses-concern-over-vandalisation-of-ranjit-singh-s-statue-in-pakistan-101629213098763.html
17-08-2021||India||PM Modi chairs Cabinet meet on Afghanistan situation; Shah, NSA in attendance||Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security at his residence on the prevailing situation in Afghanistan following the swift takeover by Taliban two days ago. The meeting was being attended by senior ministers and officials, including home minister Amit Shah, national security advisor Ajit Doval, defence minister Rajnath Singh and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla.Indian ambassador to Afghanistan Rudrendra Tandon, who came back from Kabul earlier in the day as part of India's emergency evacuation from the war-torn nation, briefed the CCS.According to senior govt sources, the CCS was briefed in detail about the current and evolving security and political situation in Afghanistan. The CCS was also informed about the recent evacuations of Indian Embassy officials and some members of Indian community, as well as some members of Indian media, according to a report in ANI.The PM has been constantly in touch with senior officials over the situation. “He was taking stock of the situation till late in the night on Monday and was updated when the flight (with staff of the Indian embassy in Kabul) took off. He has also instructed that adequate arrangements be made to ensure food for all those who returned at Jamnagar,” a source was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, who is on a four-day visit to the US to attend UN Security Council events, said the movement of the Indian ambassador and the Embassy staff from Afghanistan to India was a "difficult and complicated exercise" as he thanked those who cooperated and facilitated the efforts.Also read | This photo captures how desperate Afghans are to escape TalibanA C-17 Globemaster aircraft of the Indian Air Force carrying around 150 people, including diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians, landed at the Hindon airbase near the national capital around 5pm after a brief halt at Jamnagar in Gujarat, in the wake of escalating tension, fear and uncertainty gripping the Afghan capital following the seizure of power by the Islamic militant group, two decades after it was overthrown by the US military.It was the second evacuation flight as another C-17 aircraft brought back around 40 people from the Hamid Karzai International (HKI) Airport in Kabul on Monday as part of India's emergency evacuation mission that was carried out following coordination with relevant authorities, including US officials handling security at the airport in the Afghan capital.The government has been making all efforts for total evacuation of Indian citizens stuck in Afghanistan after the Taliban asserted control over the nation.India has also opened an e-visa facility for Afghans, irrespective of religion amid the crisis.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-chairs-cabinet-meet-on-afghanistan-situation-shah-nsa-in-attendance-101629207449977.html
17-08-2021||India||Taliban can’t be trusted: Abdul Ghaffar Khan’s granddaughter urges Modi, world leaders to help Afghanistan||As mayhem in the aftermath of Afghanistan falling in the hands of Taliban continues to evoke shock across the world, ‘Frontier Gandhi’ Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan’s granddaughter Yasmin Nigar Khan said that the Islamist extremist group “cannot be trusted” because “they might say something now and do something else the next day.”“We can just appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the rest of the world that the manner in which they cared for Syria, Palestine and other war-torn countries, they should look at Afghanistan too,” Yasmin told news agency ANI on Tuesday.Yasmin, who is the president of the Pakhtoon Jirga-e-Hind, and lives in Kolkata, said that Afghans who live in the city are “worried about their families” back home. “The Taliban took over without a fight,” she added, describing the group’s clean sweep over the Afghan Army that was for nearly two decades trained and provided with equipment by the US.Referring to the top leaders of Afghanistan escaping the chaos in the country, Yasmin further said, “The leaders left the country but the common people, the poor, the women, the children are making sacrifices. They should be looked after.”Her remarks come in the backdrop of Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and several of his close aides fleeing the country reportedly to take refuge in Tajikistan and other central Asian countries. Ghani, who has been called out for betraying his fellow country people, took to Facebook on Monday to defend his choice.“The Taliban have won with the judgement of their swords and guns, and are now responsible for the honour, property and self-preservation of their countrymen,” the former President’s Facebook post read.Also Read | Afghan president Ghani says left to prevent 'flood of bloodshed'“If left unchecked, countless patriots would be martyred and the city of Kabul would be devastated, resulting in a major humanitarian catastrophe in the six-million-strong city,” Ghani wrote, adding that he left Afghanistan to prevent a “flood of bloodshed.”Meanwhile, the Taliban on Tuesday declared an “amnesty” across Afghanistan and urged women to join its government – in what can be deemed as an attempt to help civilians calm themselves as the latter continue to look for ways to leave their homeland.The statements by Enamullah Samangani, a member of the Taliban's cultural commission, mark one of the first by the extremist group since they gained control over the country and captured the presidential palace as well on Sunday. Although they have projected a relatively moderate view this time around – shying away from the ultraconservative Islamic rule they had imposed the last time, Afghans still dwell in sheer fear and anxiety.Also Read | Taliban announces 'amnesty' across Afghanistan, urges women to join govt“The Islamic Emirate doesn't want women to be victims” Samangani said, adding that they should be in the government structure “according to Shariah law.” Samangani, however, said that the Taliban government’s structure is “not fully clear,” but based on “experience, there should be a fully Islamic leadership” and all sides should join.Meanwhile, India withdrew nearly 200 Indian officials and security personnel, including the Indian ambassador to Afghanistan Rudrendra Tandon, in two batches of C-17 Globemaster III military transport aircraft on Monday and Tuesday – with the planes being operated in secrecy, following the breakdown of the Ghani-led government in Afghanistan.Also Read | IAF's C-17 aircraft with over 120 Indian diplomats from Kabul lands in DelhiSpeaking to reporters during the aircraft’s brief halt at Gujarat’s Jamnagar base before reaching Delhi, Tandon said, “We’re continuously monitoring the situation because there are still some Indian citizens who are there.”He added that the national carrier Air India will continue to run its commercial services to Kabul “as long as the airport in Kabul functions.”(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abdul-ghaffar-khan-s-granddaughter-urges-modi-world-leaders-to-help-afghanistan-101629205868715.html
17-08-2021||India||Internal, bilateral: Taliban 'clarify' position on Kashmir||In an apparent clarification of their stance on Kashmir, days after taking over Kabul in a literal powershift of governance in Afghanistan, the Taliban called it a "bilateral and an internal matter", news agency ANI posted on Twitter quoting people familiar with the development.The Taliban is unlikely to focus on Kashmir, the news agency reported attributing it to the official.Amid concerns over increased militancy in Kashmir, the official said that security in the Valley have been increased and Pakistan-based groups in Afghanistan have little capacity to use the evolving situation in the war-torn nation."There are security concerns that #Afghanistan might become the first epicenter of Islamic terrorism which has a state, they have access to all the weapons which Americans have supplied and also the weapons of 3 lakh plus Afghan National Army personnel," ANI tweeted, quoting the official.Those familiar with the fast-changing situation in Afghanistan said Pakistan-based terror groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba and Lashkar-e-Jhangvi have a presence in Afghanistan and they are known to have built checkpoints in some villages and parts of Kabul, with the help of the Taliban."In the past, there were camps of Pakistani outfits in Afghanistan. So we have to be careful in Jammu & Kashmir," the official told the news agency.Concerns have been raised over the possibility of Pakistani spy agency ISI trying to influence the Taliban. However, the official said such a move by Pakistan is likely to have a very limited effect as the Taliban acquired power in a "position of strength"."The ISI can only influence weak Taliban but it looks unlikely in the present situation," the official said.Afghanistan's takeover by the Taliban, which security experts say would not have been possible without the direct help from Pakistan, complicates the security situation in India's northern and north-western borders.A former Indian foreign secretary said last week that the Taliban establishing its emirate in Afghanistan after the fall of Kabul would not only give "strategic space to Pakistan but also trained terrorist cadre to target their adversaries."Pakistan seldom shied away from expressing its support to the Taliban. On Monday, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said Afghans has "broken the shackles of slavery" in response to the Taliban takeover.In fact, a US Congressman urged President Joe Biden to impose sanctions on Pakistan amid accusations that Islamabad covertly assisted the Taliban and dictating the the insurgent group with its military strategy."At the least, Pakistan is complicit with the Taliban advance and is choosing not to coordinate with the ANSF (Afghan National Security Force). At worst, the Pakistani military and intelligence services may be directly aiding the Taliban offensive," Republican lawmaker Mike Waltz said as he urged the Biden Administration to cut off aid to Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-kashmir-pakistan-terror-groups-insurgency-afghanistan-security-situation-101629204421516.html
17-08-2021||India||Second monsoon ‘break’ leaves large rain deficiency in August||Monsoon in the first half of August has been subdued over most parts of the country, according to India Meteorological Department’s data. In August, there is 33% deficiency in rainfall over the country with 51% deficiency over central India; 22% deficiency over northwest India; 37.7% deficiency over peninsular India and 5% deficiency over east and northeast India.This has also brought down the cumulative rainfall received during the monsoon season so far with a 9% rainfall deficiency from June 1 to August 16 over the entire country. There is 8% deficiency over northwest India; 11% deficiency over east and northeast India; 13% shortage over central India and 5% excess over south peninsula.This was mainly due to “break” monsoon conditions in the last couple of weeks when the monsoon trough was mostly over the Himalayan foothills. There was a “break” in monsoon rain in July also from June 29 to July 11. Monsoon may pick up gradually from Wednesday. “We had break monsoon conditions in August as the monsoon trough remained near the foothills most of the time leading to scanty rain over the plains. The Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO) was also at an unfavourable location leading to scanty rains. There was a long break phase in July also. But now there is a new monsoon pulse over southern peninsula which will move upwards gradually. A low-pressure area which has formed over northwest Bay of Bengal will also bring rain in its path,” said DS Pai, senior scientist at IMD Pune.Also Read | Dry spell set to end, IMD predicts rain from August 20In August, rainfall was limited to east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh where flooding was reported due to excess rain. But there was a 56% deficiency over Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi region; 50% deficiency over west Rajasthan; 63% over Punjab; and 90% deficiency over Gujarat region.“The deficiency is mainly due to break monsoon conditions. But with the movement of the low pressure system we are expecting rains to commence over central India including Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh etc and then over parts of northwest India from August 19. Easterly winds at lower levels have started picking up over some parts of northwest India,” added RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre, IMD.On Tuesday, IMD said there is likely to be revival of monsoon activity over northwest India with enhanced rainfall activity over Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat region and Chhattisgarh till August 19 and over northeast India and Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim till August 18.There is a low-pressure area over coastal Odisha and adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal. It is likely to move west-northwestwards during the next 48 hours across interior Odisha, Chhattisgarh and northeast Madhya Pradesh. The western end of monsoon trough is north of its normal position and the eastern end is south of its normal position and passes through the centre of low-pressure area over coastal Odisha and adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal to eastcentral Bay of Bengal. The western end of monsoon trough is very likely to shift gradually southwards towards its near normal position during the next two days. Strong southerly winds from Bay of Bengal to northeast India will continue to prevail till August 18.There is a warning for increased rainfall activity over northwest India from August with widespread rainfall activity and isolated heavy rainfall likely over Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh from August 19 to 23; over Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on August 20 and 21; heavy to very heavy is also very likely over Uttarakhand on August 19 and 20. “Rains during the second half may help cover the rain deficiency during monsoon season,” added Pai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-monsoon-break-leaves-large-rain-deficiency-in-august-101629203734709.html
17-08-2021||India||VHP backs demand for dissolution of Char Dham Devasthanam Board||Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) has backed the demand of priests for the dissolution of the Char Dham Devasthanam Board. VHP’s central joint general secretary Surendra Jain said a resolution was passed demanding the scrapping of the Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Act, which is also being sent to the state government, after a two-day meeting of the group.“VHP firmly believes that management and control of shrines, temples, and muths should be freed from government control. It should be done by religious, spiritual, and stakeholders of temple committees only. The government should reconsider its decision on this aspect and revoke the Act,” said Jain.Also Read | Mother-daughter duo murdered near their house in Uttarakhand’s JaspurChief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami has formed a committee to submit a report on the issue of the Board after talking to all stakeholders.At the Kedarnath shrine, priests have continued agitation against the Board for over two months.Kadar Sabha president Vinod Shukla said from September 1, teerth purohits and other stakeholders will protest at Rudraprayag district headquarters to intensify their two-month-long agitation. Shukla said that agitating teerth purohits want the abolition of the Devasthanam Act and would not compromise.Earlier this month, a priest from the Kedarnath shrine wrote a letter with his blood to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding scrapping of the Board to allow priests to manage the shrines as they have been doing for centuries.The law to form the Board was passed in December 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vhp-backs-demand-for-dissolution-of-char-dham-devasthanam-board-101629203255780.html
17-08-2021||India||‘We are not cowards,’ says Afghan soldier who trained at IMA, Dehradun||An Afghan National Army officer, who was trained at Dehradun’s Indian Military Academy and has gone into hiding after the Taliban took over Afghanistan, has said they did not expect the fall of Kabul in such a short time while insisting they are not cowards.“Believe me, our army is strong. They (Taliban) are not that strong to overcome us by military force. It happened because the politicians sold us. They sold out the dignity and values...(of soldiers) who sacrificed their lives for our national flag and nation,” he told HT over WhatsApp from an undisclosed location near Kabul.“A few days ago, the Taliban attacked one of our bases in western Afghanistan. But our commanding officers and political leaders asked us not to retaliate saying it will spoil the ongoing peace dialogue with them. And they then went on to capture all the important military bases of ours.” The officer said he has not eaten anything since Sunday. “Nor have I slept since then. I am only worried about my parents who are alone at home in Kabul…I do not have any ration left. But it is summer and there is lots of grass.”Also Read | Afghan crisis: Satellite images reveal the chaos at Kabul airportHe said he managed to speak to his parents on Monday night. “They asked me to stay away from the city as the Taliban are roaming on the streets, armed. I am miles away from them, but that does not mean I am scared. Never. But till now nothing is clear,” he said. He added he is worried about his father because the Taliban know who he is.“He fought against the Soviets in the 80s. If they carry door-to-door search, then they will find him. But he is a brave man,” he said.The officer said they could not stock any ration because things happened so quickly. “But I have trained in India and know how to survive.” He said the country is looking at Ahmad Massoud, the son of national hero Ahmad Shah Massoud, for leadership. “He has said he will struggle against Taliban as we are not going to accept their rule again. His people in Panjshir Valley have enough ammunition to stand against Taliban,” he said. “There is still hope. We will struggle.”Another Afghan, who worked for the previous government, said he fears for his wife and sister after the return of the Taliban in Kabul. He too has gone into hiding as the Taliban were looking for him. “I was posted in Kohistan province of Afghanistan when Taliban took over. I escaped to Kabul where my family lives. But before we could plan an escape to safety, they captured Kabul also. Now, I have left my home and hiding somewhere else,” he said on WhatsApp. “The Taliban are searching for me, and I do not know if they capture me, what will they do to my wife and sister.” He said he tried to go to Panjshir but failed. “I could not do so because the Taliban blocked all the roads around Kabul. My brother managed to go there. He is safe now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-not-cowards-says-afghan-soldier-who-trained-at-imadehradun-101629202834618.html
17-08-2021||India||Terrorists fire at BJP leader in Kulgam; second such killing in Kashmir in Aug||Terrorists shot dead a leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Tuesday. Javeed Ahmad Dar, constituency president of Homshalibugh in Kulgam, was shifted to a hospital after militants fired upon him at Brazloo-jagir in Kulgam.The BJP’s media cell head in Kashmir Manzoor Ahmad condemned the killing, news agency ANI reported.#UPDATE | BJP condemns the killing of Javeed Ahmad Dar, Constituency President, Homshalibugh in Kulgam by terrorists: Manzoor Ahmad, BJP Media cell head, KashmirThis is the second killing of a BJP leader by militants in Kashmir in August.On August 9, terrorists had barged into the rented accommodation of Ghulam Rasool Dar and his wife Jawhara Banoo in Lal Chowk area of Anantnag, and shot at them from a close range. Sixty-five-year-old Dar was the Kulgam district president of BJP Kisan Morcha and a sarpanch. His wife was also a panch from the same village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-fire-at-bjp-leader-in-kulgam-second-such-killing-in-kashmir-in-aug-101629200695356.html
17-08-2021||India||Netta D’Souza appointed as new acting chief of Mahila Congress||The Congress on Tuesday appointed Netta D’Souza as the new interim president of its women’s wing Mahila Congress after its earlier president Sushmita Dev resigned from the post and party on August 15.“The Congress has appointed Netta D’ Souza as the acting president of Mahila Congress with immediate effect till a full-time president is appointed,” Congress general secretary KC Venugopal said in a statement.The decision was taken two days after Dev resigned from the party and joined the Trinamool Congress on August 16.Speaking to the media on Tuesday, Dev said she was grateful to the Congress for giving her ample opportunities and that she values her 30-year association with the party and has no grievances.““My association with the Congress has been 30 years long and I have listed reasons for resignation in my letter. Congress gave me many opportunities as an MP and as president of Mahila Congress too… I believe whatever responsibility was given to me, I worked on it fully. And if there have been some lacunae in my work, I hope its president will forgive me,” she said.Also Read | TMC excellent platform to work for the area I belong to: Sushmita DevDev had quit the party two days after she met with Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi in Delhi. Assam’s newly appointed Congress team had also attended the meeting.D’Souza was also a part of Youth Congress as a secretary, apart from contributing to the Congress’ student wing NSUI too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/netta-d-souza-appointed-as-new-acting-chief-of-mahila-congress-101629200854270.html
17-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Afghan students in Himachal seek visa extension and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Taliban takeover: Afghan students in Himachal seek visa extensionThe chaos and uncertainty in Afghanistan after the Taliban takeover has left Afghan students in Himachal Pradesh a worried lot as most of them are not able to speak to their families back home and are seeking extension of their visas to prolong their stay in India till stability returns. Read more.ED issues fresh summons to Anil Deshmukh in money laundering caseA day after the Supreme Court refused to grant any interim relief to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and his son Hrishikesh in the corruption-cum-extortion probe, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) summoned him to the agency’s South Mumbai office on Wednesday. Read more.Ajay Kothiyal, ex-Army man, to be AAP's CM candidate in Uttarakhand: KejriwalRetired colonel Ajay Kothiyal will be the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) chief ministerial candidate for the Uttarakhand Assembly election slated to be held in 2022. Read more.Chhattisgarh sends notice to news portal for report citing TS Singh DeoChhattisgarh’s public relations department on Tuesday sent a notice to a news portal a day after minister TS Singh Deo sought action against it for citing him as the source for a story claiming chief minister Bhupesh Baghel will resign on August 17. The department asked the portal to issue a corrigendum or else face legal action, an official said on Tuesday. Read more.This doggo is nothing less than royalty. Watch hilarious clipThe Internet never fails to entertain us with hilarious videos featuring adorable doggos. Most of them are able to make a special place among our hearts with their cuteness as well as goofiness. But there are some cute canines who are capable of stealing your heart with their attitude as well. Case in point, this golden retriever named Sugar. Shared on the doggo’s Instagram profile, shows Sugar having her lunch and the whole video may leave you laughing hard. Watch here.'England is a two-man team. India should win the next three Tests too': Gavaskar after Kohli & Co. win at Lord'sFormer India captain Sunil Gavaskar slammed England’s performance, terming them a ‘two-man team’ and predicted a 4-0 outcome in India’s favour in the five-match Test series. Gavaskar’s comments came after India beat England by 151 runs in the second Test match at Lord’s to go 1-0 up the in series. The first Test at Nottingham had ended in a draw due to frequent rain interruptions. Read more.2021 Honda Amaze facelift launching tomorrow: Price expectationHonda Amaze is one of the popular sub-compact sedans in the Indian market. It is also one of the bestselling models for the Japanese car brand. The sub-compact sedan competes with rivals such as Maruti Suzuki Dzire, Hyundai Aura, Ford Aspire, Volkswagen Ameo etc. The second-generation Honda Amaze was launched three years ago after being revealed at the 2018 Auto Expo. Now, the car is all set to get a facelift. Read more.Shanaya Kapoor goes fierce for Rhea Kapoor-Karan Boolani's wedding bash in sexy bralette and thigh-slit skirtSanjay Kapoor and Maheep Kapoor's daughter Shanaya Kapoor attended Rhea Kapoor and her husband, Karan Boolani's wedding party last night at Anil Kapoor's residence in Mumbai. It was attended by the couple's closest friends and family, from Arjun Kapoor, Janhvi Kapoor, Masaba Gupta, Khushi Kapoor, to Anshula Kapoor. While all the stars looked incredible for the occasion, Shanaya's smoking black coordinated ensemble made our hearts skip a beat. Read more.Shah Rukh Khan once said Atif Aslam didn't have time for him, singer reveals the truthPakistani singer Atif Aslam has revealed that he had recorded the track Gerua for actor Shah Rukh Khan's film Dilwale. In a recent interview, he said that he had recorded the song and sent it to Shah Rukh's team but it wasn't conveyed to the actor. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-afghan-students-in-himachal-seek-visa-extension-101629198131271.html
17-08-2021||India||TMC excellent platform to work for the area I belong to: Sushmita Dev||A day after former Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev quit the party and joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC), she said that she has no grievance against Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. She said she joined the TMC as she found it to be an “excellent platform” for her purpose to work for the area she belongs to. Following Dev’s resignation, the Congress appointed Netta D’Souza as interim president for the women’s wing until a full-time president is chosen.“My association with the Congress has been 30 years long and I have listed reasons for resignation in my letter. Congress gave me many opportunities as an MP and as president of Mahila Congress too… I believe whatever responsibility was given to me, I worked on it fully. And if there have been some lacunae in my work, I hope its president will forgive me,” she said at a press conference.Dev added that after submitting her resignation to the Congress on August 15, she travelled to Kolkata on August 16 where she met Abhishek Banerjee, TMC’s national general secretary, and had an hour-long conversation with him. “Following this, I met Mamata didi who ratified my membership (in the party),” Dev said.Also Read | Sushmita Dev’s resignation hasn’t come as surprise to Assam CongressShe said that joining the TMC will not, in any way, be “counterproductive” towards the goal that the Opposition was looking at in the future.She also added that while in Congress, Rahul Gandhi gave her ample opportunities to contest elections, to be a national spokesperson, and to be a part of the Mahila Congress. “Not even for a moment, I will be ungrateful for that,” she said.Meanwhile, regarding her conversation with Abhishek Banerjee, Dev added that her meeting with him had been excellent. She said that Abhishek Banerjee has “immense clarity and is confident about his vision”.“He can take that vision to the ground in whichever direction and whichever part of the country (he wants),” she said.Dev said it was utterly wrong to compare Abhishek Banerjee and Rahul Gandhi. “This is against my principles. I have worked under Rahul Gandhi... and shall work under Abhishek Banerjee too. Both have their qualities and in the future, the efforts of this duo will bring results that everyone will see,” she said.Asked whether she was disappointed with the Congress, Dev said that “every journey in life has ups and downs” but she has no grievances.She said TMC was the “excellent platform” for her “purpose” to start, “especially” from the area where she comes from. Dev added that her job will remain the same and it is just the platform that has changed.She said that legacy of Mamata Banerjee was an inspiration. “I have my full faith in Mamata didi. I have joined the TMC without any preconditions because a new relation sustains on trust (not preconditions),” she said.Meanwhile, Derek O’Brien said that the TMC was not “poaching” politicians but were just welcoming those with relevant aspirations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-excellent-platform-to-work-for-the-area-i-belong-to-sushmita-dev-101629199417247.html
17-08-2021||India||UP administers 6 crore doses of Covid vaccines, first state to reach milestone||Uttar Pradesh crossed another milestone in its fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday when the comulative number of vaccine doses crossed hre six crore mark. Uttar Pradesh is the only state to cross the milestone.The state achieved the landmark on Tuesday afternoon. So far, over 5,07,22,629 have received their first doses while over 94,27,421 are fully vaccinated in Uttar Pradesh.Uttar Pradesh is the first state where more than five crore people have taken at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.The state also administered over 23.67 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine to people in a single day, the second highest so far. Earlier, on August 3, around 29.52 lakh doses were given in UP.The state government said in a release that the milestone is the result of aggressive vaccination programme going on in Uttar Pradesh. It is an integral pillar of the comprehensive strategy of Uttar Pradesh government to contain and manage the pandemic, the release said, adding that tried and tested strategy of 'Test-Track-Treat' (T3) and adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour are also major factors.“Mega vaccination camps conducted recently have been instrumental in giving a push to vaccination. A large number of people are now coming to take the jabs,” Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors, said on Mo.The Uttar Pradesh government had launched a cluster model for inoculating the population across the state and it made the task easy, said the release.On Monday, the state reported 17 new cases of Covid-19 in a span of 24 hours. One fresh fatality was reported from the state in the same period, according to health department data.The number of active cases in Uttar Pradesh stands at 419, the health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-administers-6-crore-doses-of-covid-vaccines-first-state-to-reach-milestone-101629195192209.html
17-08-2021||India||Sushmita Dev says no compromise on ideology, joined TMC 'unconditionally'||Sushmita Dev, who resigned from the Congress and moved on to the Trinamool Congress on Monday, said there was no question of compromising on ideology and hence, speculation about switching loyalty to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were incorrect.She added her joining the Trinamool Congress was “unconditional” and she would take any responsibility given to her by party supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.Also read | Sushmita Dev’s resignation hasn’t come as surprise to Assam CongressDev was a former Congress MP from Assam and was heading the women's wing of the Congress at the moment. She was welcomed into the TMC by senior party leaders Abhishek Banerjee and Derek O'Brien in Kolkata on Monday, a day after she sent her resignation letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi. While she did not offer any reason for her leaving the grand old party, Dev is said to have written that she was beginning a "new chapter in my life of public service"."I don't think I have compromised my ideology in joining the TMC… My joining the TMC is unconditional and I will take any responsibility given to me by Mamata Banerjee,” Dev said at a press conference in New Delhi on Tuesday.According to a report in NDTV, Dev said she had no issues with Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. "I have a good equation (with them) but I'm also answerable to my people," she was quoted as saying in the report."I had a long association with the Congress. The Congress gave me a lot of opportunities. In my 30 years in politics, I have not demanded anything from the Congress high command. I hope the Congress president forgives me for my shortcomings," she further said.Also read | 'Congress moves on with eyes wide shut', says Sibal after Sushmita Dev resigns“When the news of my resignation (from Congress) became public, many people were speculating that I will probably move to the BJP. That's when I said the speculations were entirely incorrect,” she added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushmita-dev-says-no-compromise-on-ideology-joined-tmc-unconditionally-101629192962872.html
17-08-2021||India||Air India to operate flights till Kabul airport remains functional: Indian envoy||Some Indian citizens are still in Afghanistan and Air India will continue operating flights from Kabul as long as the airport there remains functional, Indian envoy Rudrendra Tandon said on Tuesday after his evacuation with other diplomatic staff. India decided to withdraw the ambassador and all other staff from the mission in Kabul – effectively closing the embassy for the second time since 1996 – due to the uncertainty created by the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government on Sunday. Close to 200 Indian officials and security personnel were flown out of Kabul in two groups on two C-17 military heavy lift aircraft on Monday and Tuesday, with the flights being conducted in secrecy amid the chaotic occupation of Kabul by the Taliban. On Monday, the second group of officials faced problems in getting to the airport from the embassy – a distance of about 10 km – because of checkpoints set up by the Taliban. “We are continuously monitoring the situation because there are still some Indian citizens who are there. That is why Air India will continue to run its commercial services to Kabul as long as the airport in Kabul functions,” Tandon told reporters during a brief interaction at the airbase in Jamnagar, Gujarat, where the C-17 landed en route to Hindon airbase. Also Read | Jailed IS members among Indians freedThe envoy said Air India had temporarily suspended its flights to Kabul because of the conditions at the airport. “However, we continue to ensure that anyone who is stuck there is somehow brought [back], for which the [external affairs ministry] has opened a help desk that is operating already,” he said. He added, “As you know, the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan no longer exists and the situation is quite fluid now.” Asked about the number of Indian nationals who are still in Afghanistan, Tandon said it would be difficult to give an exact figure as Indians didn’t always register themselves with the embassy in Kabul despite advisories. “There are some individuals there...I know personally of at least five or six but the figures sometimes that are quoted to us is there could be 40 to 50. But that is not something that I will stand by officially because we don’t have it as registered persons on our database,” he said. Tandon said the Indian side will continue to remain in contact with the Afghan people despite the withdrawal of the diplomatic staff. “It’s not that we have abandoned the people of Afghanistan, their welfare and our relationship with them is very much on our minds. We will try and continue our interaction with them [but] I can’t say in what form as the situation is changing,” he said. The envoy spoke hours after the Indian government introduced a new e-visa category that Afghan nationals, irrespective of religion, could apply for online. After a thorough security vetting, Afghans who qualify are expected to be granted a six-month visa. Tandon also said the Indian personnel were “very happy that it’s finally over and we’re back home safely, securely, without any accidents or harm to any of our people”. India had a large mission with 192 personnel in Kabul, and everyone was evacuated “literally within three days in a very orderly fashion in two phases”, he said. Among those brought back on Tuesday were employees of public sector companies such as Air India. “There are a lot of Indian citizens who found themselves in distress because of the fast-changing situation. So, our policy was that anyone who reached the embassy was taken into the embassy. I don’t know how they managed inside the embassy but we were sure that they were safe and secure and there was an avenue for an exit,” he said. “This would not have been possible without the work of the full embassy, different wings did different jobs. Some of the jobs I can’t even mention, but it all came together and we are finally here safe and secure,” Tandon added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ai-to-operate-flights-till-kabul-airport-remains-functional-indian-envoy-101629192333350.html
17-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh sends notice to news portal for report citing TS Singh Deo||Chhattisgarh’s public relations department on Tuesday sent a notice to a news portal a day after minister TS Singh Deo sought action against it for citing him as the source for a story claiming chief minister Bhupesh Baghel will resign on August 17. The department asked the portal to issue a corrigendum or else face legal action, an official said on Tuesday.In the letter to the department on Monday, Deo demanded “strict action” against the portal amid speculation about a rift within the ruling Congress over the chief ministerial post. Deo called the story carried on August 15 a “planned conspiracy” to “pollute” the state’s political environment. Baghel is in charge of the department.There have been reports about tensions between Baghel and Deo, who was among the chief ministerial candidates when Congress returned to power in the state in 2018. Baghel completed two and half years as the chief minister on June 17. Deo is believed to have called Baghel and reminded him about the power-sharing formula apparently agreed in 2018 when another minister, Tamradhwaj Sahu, was also among the contenders for the top post.There have been media reports about the formula for sharing the chief ministerial post between Deo and Baghel for two and a half years each.Both Deo and Baghel have maintained the central leadership will take a final decision on the matter. Deo has been in Delhi since Monday and is believed to be meeting top Congress leaders for the implementation of the formula.Deo earlier this month camped in Delhi for five days and insisted he travelled to the national capital for a health check-up.The differences within the ruling party came to the fore when Deo walked out of the assembly demanding clarity from his own government over allegations that one of his relatives was involved in an alleged attack on Congress legislator Brihaspat Singh. Deo was unsatisfied with the government’s statement over the alleged road rage incident involving Singh’s convoy on July 24.Singh alleged his convoy was attacked at the behest of Deo because he praised Baghel and said the latter will continue to be the chief minister.After the intervention of the party’s state in-charge PL Punia, the issue was resolved, and Deo returned to assembly after Singh apologised for his statement against the minister.The Opposition Bhartiya Janata Party said the issue of power-sharing should be resolved for the state’s sake. “The tiff is an internal issue of Congress but as per the statements of party leaders, it seems there was a formula. Leaders of Congress should resolve the issue as soon as possible. Secondly, the people of the state are suffering from this tiff. We all know that Deo, who is also the health minister of the state, was ignored in important meetings of Cabinet due to which people suffered,” said former chief minister Raman Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-sends-notice-to-news-portal-for-report-citing-ts-singh-deo-101629191733375.html
17-08-2021||India||Ajay Kothiyal, ex-Army man, to be AAP's CM candidate in Uttarakhand: Kejriwal||Retired colonel Ajay Kothiyal will be the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) chief ministerial candidate for the Uttarakhand Assembly election slated to be held in 2022. AAP convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who is in Dehradun, said Uttarakhand will be developed by AAP as a spiritual capital for Indians living across the world. Kejriwal said AAP will also generate employment to youth if voted to power.Kejriwal said the decision to pick Kothiyal as the party's CM face was based on the feedback received from people who were fed up with politicians helming the state. "People here want a break from politicians who have only looted the state. They now want an Armyman as CM who will not spend his tenure filling his coffers but serve them," he said at a public rally in the hill town.AAP leader & Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal rallies from Clock Tower to Dilaram Bazar in Dehradun, Uttarakhand.At a public address held earlier in the day, Kejriwal announced Ajay Kothiyal (retd Colonel) as AAP's Chief Ministerial candidate for the Assembly Election 2021. pic.twitter.com/Srgl8IlH7WOn Monday, Kejriwal said that he would visit Uttarakhand the next day and make an important announcement that would turn out to be a milestone in the state’s development.During an earlier visit in July, Kejriwal, who has been on a campaign spree across states as part of AAP’s attempts to expand its base, had announced 300 units of free electricity to the people of Uttarakhand if the party was elected to power. Speaking about replicating AAP’s Delhi model of governance in Uttarakhand, Kejriwal had said if the party won the Assembly election, it would bring in major change in schools and health infrastructure.Earlier, the AAP had said it would field Col Ajay Kothiyal from Gangotri if the then chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat contested from that assembly seat."BJP ruined Uttarakhand in the last five years. I am fortunate that my party gave me a chance to contest from Gangotri in the bypoll. I have toured several villages of Gangotri. People are very unhappy. I am confident that people will win this time," Col Kothiyal had said in a tweet.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajay-kothiyal-ex-army-man-to-be-aap-s-uttarakhand-cm-candidate-kejriwal-101629191181449.html
17-08-2021||India||IAF's C-17 aircraft with over 120 Indian diplomats from Kabul lands in Delhi||More than 100 diplomats, including Indian ambassador to Afghanistan Rudrendra Tandon, officials and journalists evacuated from Kabul in Afghanistan on Tuesday reached New Delhi at 1.30pm after a stopover at Gujarat’s Jamnagar, an official said. The C-17 aircraft carrying the second batch of Indians first touched down at the IAF airbase at Jamnagar at 11:15am, the officials added. “Your welcome has an impact on all of us. Thank you to the Indian Air Force who flew us out under conditions that are not normal,” Tandon was quoted as saying by news agency ANI after landing at Jamnagar.A video tweeted by news agency ANI later showed those airlifted inside a bus and shouting “Bharat Mata Ki Jai” and “Vande Mataram”. Their evacuation came after 24-hour-long negotiations.#WATCH | Evacuated Indians from Kabul, Afghanistan chant 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai' after landing in Jamnagar, Gujarat. pic.twitter.com/IqvESz79IO“Those who were aboard the aircraft will be given lunch and taken to their destinations,” Gujarat minister of state for food and civil supply Dharmendrasinh Jadeja said, according to news agency PTI. Jadeja and Jamnagar mayor reached the Jamnagar airbase before the plane landed.PTI reported that the Gujarat government said in a release that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is “personally looking after the evacuation of Indian nationals and officials stranded in Afghanistan” after the Taliban took over the war-ravaged country.The IAF aircraft flew from the Hamid Karzai International Airport around 8am Kabul time with the help of US forces manning the air traffic control. India is now waiting for US forces to allow civilian flights to Kabul for further evacuation. The first batch of Indians came on Sunday via an Air India flight.With no chain of command in Kabul, the Indian ministry of external affairs (MEA) and security officials started bringing evacuees to the Kabul airport from Monday as negotiations were undertaken with sundry Taliban and other terrorist groups manning the 15 check posts from the Indian mission in Kabul to the international airport. India apparently had kept two C-17s on stand-by so that officials could be evacuated as soon as the US manned ATC gave a green signal.According to sources based in Kabul, it was part of the withdrawal deal that the Turkish forces would man the HKI airport but Ankara withdrew at the very last minute leading to utter confusion. With all local staff abandoning the ATC and other positions and illiterate Taliban having no idea about manning the air traffic services, it was left to the US to take control.It was due to the ensuing chaos that led to the death of desperate Afghans at the HKI airport as the civilians feared for their life and limb at the hands of the Taliban. It was only after this that the US decided to stop civilian flights from Kabul on Monday and decided to only allow military flights. Other Indians will be evacuated from Afghanistan after the HKI airport is opened to civilian flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iafs-c-17-aircraft-with-over-120-indian-diplomats-from-kabul-lands-in-delhi-101629189048468.html
17-08-2021||India||Assam revises Covid-19 SOPs from August 18. Check details here||Assam on Tuesday revised its existing standard operating procedures (SOPs) imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after recently reviewing the pandemic situation in the state and said there was an improvement with regard to caseload and overall positivity rate. The SOPs will come into force from Wednesday and will remain in place until further orders.“In exercise of the powers, conferred under Section 22(2) (h) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the undersigned, in his capacity as chairperson, state executive committee of the state disaster management authority, Assam, do hereby issues the following directives for both rural and urban areas which will remain in force w.e.f 5am of August 18 until further orders,” an official order read.Areas where the Covid-19 test positivity rate reaches more than 10 cases in the last seven days, will be notified as a containment zone. Emergency services in containment zones will operate 24X7.#COVID19 | Assam government revised the existing SOP (Standard operating procedure), which will remain enforced from August 18 until further orders. "Night curfew between 7 pm and 5 am will now be enforced," reads the letter pic.twitter.com/nyzBPmKgo8Essential services in containment zones including shops selling fruits and vegetables, groceries, dairy and milk booths etc can remain open till 6pm. The government has also permitted the delivery of food, pharmaceuticals, medical equipment through e-commerce firms.Except for the exemptions provided for containment zones, curfew timings in all other districts of Assam have now been relaxed from 7pm-5am. Private and government offices, businesses and commercial establishments including shops can remain open till 6pm.Dine-in services in restaurants, dhabas and eateries in the above districts are allowed till 6pm with 50 per cent seating capacity. The takeaway of food from all such places is also allowed till 6pm.Cinema halls across the state will remain closed. Final year classes for MBBS, engineering, aeronautical engineering and BSc and GNM nursing courses will resume from Wednesday. However, students should “preferably be fully vaccinated to attend the classes,” Assam health minister Keshab Mahanta said.Assam government employees, who have been inoculated with at least one dose of the vaccine can attend office. Private enterprises can decide on their own in this regard.Employees engaged in essential and emergency services can attend their work without restrictions, the state government order also said.Assam has so far recorded 580,657 cases and 5,502 deaths due to the coronavirus disease. On Monday, the state saw 758 fresh infections while 10 more people succumbed to the viral disease. Over 566,000 patients have recovered so far and the active cases stand at 7,707.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-revises-covid-19-sops-from-august-18-check-details-here-101629183912097.html
17-08-2021||India||Air India pilots fly beyond their time limit to get Indians home from US||Closure of the Afghanistan airspace on Monday led to flight cancellations and diversions. Two Air India flights from the United States that would have normally used Afghanistan air space to arrive in Delhi had to be re-routed and made to halt in the UAE due to fuel considerations. The two flights carrying roughly 600 passengers finally landed in Delhi only a few hours behind schedule since the pilots chose to work beyond their flight duty time limit (FDTL).According to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), the flying time limit or the FDTL allows a pilot only one landing in a long haul flight. However, Air India pilots flying AI 126(Chicago- Delhi) and AI 174 (San Francisco to Delhi) decided to go beyond it to avoid inconvenience to passengers and cost to the company, AI Pilots’ union said.“The regulator leaves it to the operating pilots to take a call. It is only on a voluntary basis that the pilots operate beyond their time limit. No one can force them to compromise their FDTL,” an ex DGCA official explained that only the pilots of the two airlines were in a position to extend their FDTLs.Officials aware of the development said the flight from Chicago was informed about Afghanistan airspace being closed late, due to which, it diverted to Sharjah just before entering the Afghan airspace.“However, the flight from San Francisco that landed in Sharjah at around 3pm was given the information on time,” the official said. “The Chicago flight, after being refuelled, took off for Delhi after around three hours and the other flight from the US was in Sharjah for over an hour,” he added.A senior official from the airline said the pilots must have considered the fact that taking a break and obeying their FDTL would only cause complications. “If the pilots would have not taken the decision to fly beyond their FDTLs, then it would have not only cost the airline more (since the passengers would have to be accommodated in UAE) but also inconvenienced the passengers,” he said.While the flight from Chicago landed in Delhi at 6.15pm, the San Francisco flight that was ideally to land in Delhi at 3pm, landed at around 7.40pm.Air India’s Boeing pilots’ union tweeted, “To avoid major inconvenience to the passengers and cost to the company, they opted to extend their FDTL and safely operated another sector. Over 24 hours in uniform, they landed safely in #Delhi. All in a day’s work for @airindiain pilots. The closure of #kabulairport and #Afghanistan airspace caused major disruption. Kudos to our member pilots and the crew of AI126. With limited time to react and with inadequate fuel for Delhi they managed a diversion to #Sharjah.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-pilots-fly-beyond-their-time-limit-to-get-indians-home-from-us-101629187653259.html
17-08-2021||India||Kerala HC allows 9-year-old girl to accompany her father to Sabarimala temple||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday allowed a minor girl to accompany her father to the Sabarimala temple later this month. The order was passed on the plea filed by the nine-year-old, seeking permission to accompany her father to the sanctum sanctorum of the hill shrine. The father will visit the temple on August 23, according to a report by the news agency ANI.During the hearing lawyers, arguing on the behalf of the girl, said that she wished to go to the Sabarimala before she turns 10 years old. After which, the lawyers said that she might not be able to visit the shrine for more than four decades. "We are of the considered opinion that an interim order can be issued permitting the petitioner to accompany her father to Sabarimala for darshan on August 23," the high court reportedly said after hearing the matter.The order was in line with the similar order passed by the court in April this year in which it allowed the children to accompany vaccinated persons in all activities they undertake. The state government also passed a similar order.The Ayyappa temple opened for devotees on August 15 for the annual Niraputhari festival. In view of the Covid-19 restrictions, only 15,000 devotees are allowed for darshan in a single day. The shrine will close after the completion of the monthly pujas by August 23 evening.Since 2018, the temple has been in the middle of controversies after the Supreme Court struck down a law that prevented women aged 10-50 from entering the temple. The order sparked massive outrage across the state with devotees taking to the streets against the judgement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-allows-9-year-old-girl-to-accompany-her-father-to-sabarimala-temple-101629187408063.html
17-08-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir police officer suspended for ‘unbecoming conduct’||Senior Jammu and Kashmir police officer Maqsood ul Zaman, commandant IR-8th battalion, was suspended on Monday for "conduct unbecoming of an officer" in his capacity as a member of the board for recruitment of constables for two border battalions, said a government communique.“Disciplinary proceedings are contemplated by the government against Maqsood ul Zaman, JKPS, commandant IR-8th Bn., for exhibiting conduct unbecoming of an officer, in his capacity as Member, Recruitment Board, for recruitment against the posts of constables for 2 Border Battalions,” said the order issued by Dr Arvind, additional secretary to J&K government.The suspended officer will remain attached with the police headquarters. The government communiqué didn’t reveal the specifics of the allegation of ‘unbecoming conduct’ against Zaman.Recruitment to fill 1,350 constable posts in the two border battalions of Jammu and Kashmir Police began in July in Kashmir this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-police-officer-suspended-for-unbecoming-conduct-101629185312478.html
17-08-2021||India||Covid cases decline, Assam allows inter-district movement after 3 months||The Assam government on Tuesday decided to lift restrictions on inter-district movement of vehicles. The curbs were put in place three months ago to contain the spread of coronavirus. The new direction, which will come into force from 5am on August 18, is a part of the fresh standard operating procedures (SOPs) that include decreasing curfew timings by an hour and lifting odd-even formula for vehicle movement. “Inter-district movement of private vehicles and movement of people shall be allowed, except to and from Kamrup (Metropolitan) district. Inter-district movement of public transport will remain suspended for the time being,” said health minister Keshav Mahanta. The state government had imposed restrictions on inter-district movement of vehicles on May 21 this year and only vehicles carrying goods and some categories of exempted people were allowed to travel from one district to another. The new SOP reduces the present curfew timings of 6pm to 5am daily to 7pm-5am daily. “Meetings or gatherings in open spaces would be allowed for up to 200 persons. In closed spaces, 50% of the hall’s capacity or 200 fully vaccinated persons (whichever is lower) will be allowed to hold meetings,” Mahanta said. For marriages and funerals, up to 25 persons will be allowed now. Religious places are allowed to open with entry of 20 fully vaccinated persons per hour --for iconic places such as Kamakhya Temple in Guwahati -- and 10 fully vaccinated persons for other places. Resorts, hotels, and restaurants will be allowed to remain open till 6pm with 50% capacity. However, cinema halls and multiplexes will continue to remain closed. The government directed that final year students of MBBS, engineering, nursing, aeronautical engineering etc. will be allowed to attend physical classes provided they all, and their teachers, are fully vaccinated. Fully vaccinated passengers who can produce a recent RT-PCR negative test report will not be required to undergo and COVID19 test on arrival at any airport in the state. Government employees who have taken at least on vaccine dose have been directed to report for work regularly. Women employees with children below 3 years of age will be allowed to work from home. Assam has been witnessing a gradual decline in the number of fresh Covid cases in recent weeks. The number of new cases recorded daily has dropped to around 700-800 and the test positivity rate (TPR) has also dipped below 1%. At present, the state has around 7,700 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-cases-decline-assam-allows-inter-district-movement-after-3-months-101629185013194.html
17-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: India logs lowest daily spike of Covid cases in 154 days and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India records lowest daily Covid-19 cases in 154 days; Delta variant continues to worryAfter weathering a brutal onslaught of the second wave of coronavirus pandemic, India on Tuesday reported its lowest single-day rise in Covid-19 cases in 154 days. Read MoreManipur refuses to compensate activist detained for FB postManipur has refused to compensate activist Leichombam Erendro for his detention under the National Security Act (NSA) for an “objectionable” Facebook post, saying he is a “habitual offender” whose arrest was essential to maintain public tranquillity. Read MoreTaliban seizure of Kabul sparks frenetic global diplomacyWith Pakistan-backed ultra-conservative Taliban seizing Kabul by force on August 15, there is frenetic diplomacy among major powers with US secretary of state Antony Blinken talking to his Chinese and Russian counterparts to find a way forward to stem the present chaos in Afghanistan. Read MoreDFL Super Cup: Dortmund coach Rose expecting close duel, Bayern coach Nagelsmann wary of rival's counter-attacking playIt has not been the dream start for Julian Nagelsmann as Bayern Munich head coach. Read MoreSaif Ali Khan rents out his and Kareena Kapoor's old Mumbai home for ₹3.5 lakh per month: reportSaif Ali Khan has reportedly rented out his old house at Fortune Heights in Mumbai. Read MoreTata Motors teases new Tigor EV again, official launch tomorrowTata Motors has teased the upcoming Tigor EV again on Twitter, just a day ahead of its official launch on August 18. Read MoreGoogle Pixel 5a expectations: Here’s what we know about specs, price, and moreWhile Google goes in all guns blazing with its flagship offerings every year, they also do an affordable take on those devices in the form of the mid-rangers, like what they did with the Google Pixel 4 and the Pixel 4a. Read MoreHina Khan shares a glimpse of her 'work in progress' physique in workout pics, videosTuesday blues are a thing, and in case you needed the motivation to kickstart your day on a high note with some rigorous workouts, take cues from television and film actor Hina Khan. Read MorePV Sindhu tweets about sharing ice cream with PM Modi. Seen it yet?Ace shuttler and Olympic medalist PV Sindhu has shared glimpses of her interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on her Twitter. Read MoreAkhundzada, Haqqani, Baradar: Meet the Taliban leaders running AfghanistanAs the Taliban win back Kabul and remove an elected government from power, we look at the men who are behind the powerful insurgent group that fought America and its allies for two decades. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-logs-lowest-daily-spike-of-covid-cases-in-154-days-and-all-the-latest-news-101629183630224.html
17-08-2021||India||Won’t allow anyone to use Afghan soil against another country: Taliban||The Taliban won’t allow anyone to use Afghanistan’s soil against any other country, though India is welcome to complete its reconstruction and infrastructure projects in the country, a spokesman for the group has said.The remarks by Taliban spokesman Suhail Shaheen, made during an interview with Pakistan’s Hum News channel late on Monday night, were the first official comments by a leader of the group since it assumed power in Kabul on Sunday following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. India had opened channels of communication with some Taliban leaders and factions over the past few months but New Delhi is yet to take a call on any recognition for the new dispensation in Kabul. On Tuesday, India withdrew its ambassador and diplomatic staff from Afghanistan, reflecting misgivings about Taliban guarantees for the security of foreign missions and their personnel in Kabul. Also Read | Why India must not abandon Afghanistan againAsked about the Taliban’s views regarding India, Shaheen said in Urdu: “We have said that we will not allow any country or any group to use the soil of Afghanistan against anyone. This is clear.” Shaheen, responsible for the group’s interaction with foreign media, added: “Secondly, [India] has made projects, many reconstruction and infrastructure projects, and if they want, they can complete the incomplete projects because they are for the people.” He further said: “But if anyone wants to use Afghan soil for their objectives or for their military objectives or for their rivalries – our policy doesn’t allow anyone to do that.” India recently withdrew all professionals working on hundreds of development projects in all of Afghanistan’s 34 provinces. Besides major infrastructure projects such as constructing the Parliament building in Kabul and the Salma Dam, India was implementing scores of smaller community development projects to build facilities such as schools and health centres. With total pledges of $3 billion, India was also the largest regional donor in Afghanistan. The external affairs ministry recently made it clear that India has no role once projects are completed and it would be up to the Afghan people to protect them. In response to another question on whether the Taliban would ensure that any Indian presence in Afghanistan wouldn’t be used against Pakistan, Shaheen said: “They [India] have incomplete projects in Afghanistan such as roads and dams, they should complete them. But as I said, we will not allow anyone to use [Afghan soil] against any other country. This is our clear-cut policy.” There was no immediate response from Indian officials to Shaheen’s remarks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-allow-anyone-to-use-afghan-soil-against-another-country-taliban-101629184292773.html
17-08-2021||India||Manipur refuses to compensate activist detained for FB post||Manipur has refused to compensate activist Leichombam Erendro for his detention under the National Security Act (NSA) for an “objectionable” Facebook post, saying he is a “habitual offender” whose arrest was essential to maintain public tranquillity.“Arrest of detenu was essential in order to prevent him from indulging in posting further hatred or insulting comments on social media and abusing his position as a political activist,” district magistrate (Imphal West) said in an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court on Sunday.The affidavit came in response to a petition by Erendro’s father seeking compensation for his son’s detention under NSA, which provides for imprisonment without trial for up to two years, on May 13.Erendro, who was released in July, was arrested for poking in a Facebook post fun at cow urine and dung being used as a cure for Covid-19 following the death of ruling Bharatiya Janata Party chief S Tikendra Singh of the disease.Also Read | Meghalaya hands over erstwhile royal estate in heart of Shillong to ManipurThe affidavit listed eight pending criminal cases against Erendro, which include four filed in connection with his May 13 post. A sedition case is also pending against him since 2018. Charge sheets have been filed in five cases against him.The affidavit described Erendro as an “influential young social activist” with a huge fan following on social media that raises him to the status of a “celebrity”. “There was no malafide intention…the detention order was passed taking into account the situation that was prevailing at the time when the post was made on Facebook. The detenu was not subjected to any custodial torture. Therefore, ground for compensation is not made out.”A bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah took the affidavit on record and agreed to consider compensation on August 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-refuses-to-compensate-activist-detained-for-fb-post-101629182792391.html
17-08-2021||India||India records lowest daily Covid-19 cases in 154 days; Delta variant continues to worry||After weathering a brutal onslaught of the second wave of coronavirus pandemic, India on Tuesday reported its lowest single-day rise in Covid-19 cases in 154 days. The country reported 25,166 new infections in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said. The national recovery rate, which as of Tuesday stands at 97.51 per cent, is also the highest since March 2020. India's Covid-19 tally now stands at 32,250,679, according to the Union health ministry.This new record comes days after Dr Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, said on August 14 that a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic will not be as brutal as the second one, cautioning that his prediction was dependent on the general population abiding by Covid-appropriate behaviour.The country’s Covid-19 positivity rate, which has remained below 3 per cent for the last 53 days, was recorded at a low of 1.98 per cent, after 1,563,985 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. The World Health Organization (WHO) mandates a positivity rate of 5 per cent for an outbreak to be considered under control.The declining tally of daily Covid-19 cases has, however, failed to dull the apprehension of a third wave even as states like Maharashtra have gone forward with relaxations in curbs. The rise in cases of the Delta and Delta Plus variants of the coronavirus and shortage of vaccines has been a continuous cause of concern for the state. Maharashtra has also sent over 80,000 samples for genome sequencing since the second wave started and about 80 per cent of the samples tested positive for the Delta variant.Also Read: India administers 8.8mn Covid vaccine doses, highest ever in a single dayKerala has also been battling a high number of cases and a positivity rate of 14.03 per cent. As per the latest sero survey, at least 45% of the population do not possess Covid-19 antibodies and are susceptible to infection. Much like Maharashtra, the state government in Kerala too have been asking for more vaccine doses to inoculate its population.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan met Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on August 16, and cautioned that with 56 per cent of the population still unaffected by the coronavirus disease, more people are likely to be infected in the coming days and vaccinating them is the only possible solution. Mandaviya assured Vijayan that 1.11 crore vaccines will be supplied to the state over the course of August and September.Fear of an imminent third wave also kept the West Bengal government from allowing local trains to operate even as it lifted curbs on theatres, multiplexes, and restaurants. “The Covid situation in Bengal is quite good but the danger of the third wave is still lurking. This is one of the reasons we have not allowed local trains,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee told reporters on August 13. She added that if the state gets vaccines the rural population can be inoculated with at least one dose and trains can then be allowed to operate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-lowest-daily-covid-19-cases-in-154-days-delta-variant-continues-to-worry-101629182270477.html
17-08-2021||India||IS widow’s mother seeks her return to India||The mother of one of the widows of the so-called Islamic State (IS) fighters from Kerala has asked the government to allow her daughter to return to India to face justice after the Taliban released them from jails after taking power in Afghanistan.HT on Tuesday reported that a dozen Indians, including several women from Kerala who travelled to Afghanistan to fight for IS in 2016, were among hundreds of those released from Kabul’s two prisons. The National Investigation Agency questioned these women last year.Bindu S, the mother of Nimisha alias Fathima, one of the widows, cited her “contacts in Delhi” and said they told her about the release. She urged the government to get her daughter and grandchild back.“I plead the Union government to save them. Let them come back and face the law of the land. They are desperate to come back,” said Bindu S.Nimisha, a dentist, was seven-month pregnant when she left the country in 2016 with her husband. She later gave birth to a baby girl in Afghanistan. “Let the government punish my daughter for her wrongdoings. But her child is innocent. I can bring up the child as a responsible citizen,” she said.Also Read | Rahul Gandhi to participate in inauguration of farmers’ day programme in Kerala Nimisha was among the 21 people from middle-class backgrounds, who went missing from Kerala in 2016 and were later traced to Afghanistan. Among the group, two men and three women were converts. Seven of them, all men, are believed to have been killed in the US drone attacks.The Kerala Police have arrested two men from Mumbai, Arshid Qureshi, and Rizwan Khan, for their alleged role in recruiting the 21 and sending them abroad. Qureshi is an associate of controversial preacher Zakir Naik.Families of most members of the group have disowned them saying they brought disrepute and shame to the country.In 2020, a video of Nimisha and Merlin, another member of the group, surfaced on social media. In the video, both were purportedly heard saying they were disappointed with their lives in Afghanistan and were keen to return and face the law in India. The government then made it clear it has no plan to bring them back.The IS overran parts of Iraq and Syria in 2014 before it was driven out of its last Syrian stronghold in March 2019.Bindu S said she does not have more information. “I plead the union government to save them before they get into more trouble...they really repent now.”Deputy superintendent P P Sadanadan, who investigated some of the terror modules, in 2019 said more than three dozen people from Kerala joined the IS and a majority of them got killed.One of the relatives of Ijaz, a medical doctor, who also left India in 2016, said they have disowned them long back for bringing shame. “We are not interested to know about their fate either,” he said. Ijaz was reportedly killed leaving behind his widow Rafeela and two children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-widows-from-india-freed-from-afghan-jail-claims-kin-101629181712797.html
17-08-2021||India||India administers 8.8mn Covid vaccine doses, highest ever in a single day||India on Monday administered at least 8.82 million (88.13 lakh) doses under its nationwide coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination drive, said union ministry of health and family welfare, making it the highest ever number of vaccinations in a single day since the start of the drive on January 16 this year. “Along with this, India’s COVID-19 vaccination coverage achieved 55 crore milestone yesterday (Monday). Cumulatively, 554,730,609 vaccine doses have been administered through 6,212,108 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7am today (Tuesday),” said the union health ministry in a statement.The previous high was on June 21 when around 8.6 million jabs were administered in a single day after the new phase of universalization of Covid-19 vaccination commenced. Also Read | Covid-19 vaccines reduce infection, mortality risk in organ transplant patients“The union government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of COVID-19 vaccination throughout the country,” the ministry said in the statement.According to government data, at least 8.1 million health workers have received the second vaccine dose so far. In the first phase, health workers were prioritised for vaccination.On February 2, all frontline workers, including police personnel, civic workers etc., were included as part of the first phase of the vaccination drive. According to government data, 12.2 million second dose jabs were administered to frontline workers.In the 18-45 years category, around 16 million people have received their second vaccine dose; and among the remaining population group (45-59 and above 60 years), about 86 million have received their second vaccine dose to date, shows government data.“With vaccine supplies and logistical arrangements gradually improving , the daily numbers are going to go up. It was expected. We have the capacity and capability to do more in a single day and it will see further increase in coming weeks,” said a government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-administers-8-8mn-covid-vaccine-doses-highest-ever-in-a-single-day-101629180512038.html
17-08-2021||India||Not the way to leave: Omar Abdullah criticises US departure from Afghanistan||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah said that the departure of United States from Afghanistan wasn’t “the way to leave”. Since Monday, there has been chaos around the Kabul airport as people try to flee from Afghanistan. However, a majority of people have not been able to board the flights. Reacting on Twitter, Abdullah said “I don’t grudge the US their departure from Afghanistan but this wasn’t the way to leave. @JoeBiden this is on you. You can’t blame Trump or anyone else for this. As @POTUS you set the final date & created a vacuum. This is your foreign policy legacy, make no mistake.”So far, no mainstream politician from J&K except Abdullah has reacted on the takeover of Afghanistan by Taliban.Also Read | Taliban seizure of Kabul sparks frenetic global diplomacyAfghanistan is in a state of disarray as the Taliban seized control of the country at a lightning speed following the pullout of troops by the United States and Nato. Within weeks, the Taliban swept from province to province until the group reached the presidential palace on Sunday, seizing power in the war-torn country.The stunning military takeover has triggered a massive panic across the capital with thousands of Afghans swarming to the airport in a desperate attempt to flee the country, fearing a repeat of the Taliban’s brutal Islamist rule from 1996 to 2001.On Monday, dramatic footage posted on social media showed hundreds of men running alongside a US air force plane as it rolled down the runway, with some clinging to the side of it. In other videos, civilians frantically clambered up an already overcrowded and buckling jetway.President Ashraf Ghani fled as the Taliban reached Kabul on Sunday, saying that he left to avoid further “bloodshed” in Afghanistan. As of now, it’s not clear where he went.After a day of chaos at Kabul airport, military flights evacuating diplomats and civilians from Afghanistan restarted early on Tuesday after the runway at Kabul airport was cleared of thousands of people desperate to flee after the Taliban seized the capital. Ten Afghan civilians have been killed so far at the Kabul airport amid the ensuing chaos, but it was not clear whether they had been shot or crushed in a stampede. Meanwhile, several reports indicated that there is no aviation fuel left at the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-the-way-to-leave-omar-abdullah-criticises-us-departure-from-afghanistan-101629179732089.html
17-08-2021||India||IAF's C-17 aircraft with over 120 Indian diplomats from Kabul lands in Gujarat||The Indian Air Force C-17 heavy-lift aircraft, carrying the second batch of diplomats, officials and journalists from Kabul, landed in Gujarat's Jamnagar. The IAF aircraft flew from Hamid Karzai International (HKI) Airport around 8am Kabul time with the help of US forces manning the ATC. Indian ambassador to Afghanistan Rudrendra Tandon is on the flight along with 120 other diplomats and officials.The evacuation comes after 24-hour-long negotiations.The IAF aircraft is expected to reach Delhi around 1pm. India is now waiting for US forces to allow civilian flights to Kabul for further evacuation. The first batch of Indians came on Sunday via an Air India flight.With no chain of command in Kabul, the Indian ministry of external affairs (MEA) and security officials started bringing evacuees to HKI airport from Monday as negotiations were undertaken with sundry Taliban and other terrorist groups manning the 15 check posts from the Indian mission in Kabul to the international airport. India apparently had kept two C-17s on stand-by so that officials could be evacuated as soon as the US manned ATC gave a green signal.According to sources based in Kabul, it was part of the withdrawal deal that the Turkish forces would man the HKI airport but Ankara withdrew at the very last minute leading to utter confusion. With all local staff abandoning the ATC and other positions and illiterate Taliban having no idea about manning the air traffic services, it was left to the US to take control.It was due to the ensuing chaos that led to the death of desperate Afghans at the HKI airport as the civilians feared for their life and limb at the hands of the Taliban. It was only after this that the US decided to stop civilian flights from Kabul on Monday and decided to only allow military flights. Other Indians will be evacuated from Afghanistan after the HKI airport is opened to civilian flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iafs-c-17-aircraft-with-over-120-indian-diplomats-from-kabul-lands-in-gujarat-101629179389404.html
17-08-2021||India||India has administered at least 550 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 550 million Covid vaccine doses by Monday, August 16. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will visit Assam today to review the Covid situation in north-eastern states.He will also review construction works at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Changsari. Earlier, on Monday, Mandaviya visited Kerala to discuss the COVID-19 situation and assured the complete help from the Centre.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Monday, 551,489,821 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 5,585,834 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 4,318,152 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 1,267,682 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine.Also Read | Mandaviya announces ₹267-cr aid for KeralaIn the 18-45 age group, 3,144,650 were given the first dose while 522,629 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 200,068,334 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 15,935,853 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 10 million vaccine doses in the 18-45 years age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-550-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101629178772019.html
17-08-2021||India||Pandemic hit kids with special needs as online classes fail to cater to them||Manav, a teenager on the autism spectrum, looked forward to going to school where he had friends who understood him and teachers who didn’t judge him. The pandemic changed everything for him last year when schools were shut. Being cooped inside his home for 18 months now, without getting to meet his friends, seeing them only online has taken a toll on him.Manav isn’t an isolated case. Psychologists and education experts say online education has taken a toll on children with special needs. Parents of many children with learning disabilities have expressed concern over the online mode of education. Sneha, a mother of a 16-year-old boy with autism, said that she has observed a lack of sleep and mood swings in her son due to increased screen time.“One of the main concerns for children with special needs is that they have not been included in this struggle; they have been and still are on the periphery,” said Simmi Vasu, Principal of Orane Kids, a Noida-based school for children with autism and intellectual disabilities.For children with special needs, their challenges do not end with online classes. They also have to deal with various neurological and sensory issues that come with their specific disability, making the challenges multi-fold.According to a research by the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuroscience (NIMHANS) in 2020, 29% of children with special needs were not able to access online schooling, one of the possible reasons being their belonging to a lower socioeconomic strata. This figure is from the small portion of children with special needs who attend school and have access to education. This implies that such children will experience an immediate change in routine and loss of a social set-up, with limited resources to then deal with the changes.Children with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) find it difficult to sustain their attention through online classes, and it can become difficult for teachers to engage them. Similarly, children with autism can find it difficult to get through the day with a change in routine. The problem arises when these issues are looked at from a normative lens, and not from how these are experienced by children with special needs.Dipti Srivastava, a special educator at Orane Kids, said, “We have not been able to fulfil their needs.” She said since the students now don’t have access to all tools and resources educators use at school, they have to learn through kinaesthetic ways.Further, the support that children with special needs require in terms of occupational therapy and special education may not be available and accessible online, leading to a disruption in their therapy and growth. Conflicts at home have also impacted children with special needs. Varsha KV, a practising psychologist, said parental conflicts can increase emotional concerns among children with special needs, as “the space at home may not feel safe”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandemic-hit-kids-with-special-needs-as-online-classes-fail-to-cater-to-them-101629178471905.html
17-08-2021||India||Indian family stranded in Afghanistan hopes to leave soon||Around 150 kilometres from Kabul, Surbeer Singh, his wife, and their two daughters have taken refuge in a gurdwara in Afghanistan’s Ghazni province, which fell to the Taliban on August 12, as they hope to leave the country as soon as commercial flights resume operations.People have been trying desperately to leave Afghanistan. Some have tried to flee the country as stowaways, either by clinging on the belly or the wheels of planes. At least three men were seen falling off a US military plane as it took off. An official from the US government told Reuters that their troops fired in the air to disperse people “trying to force their way onto a military flight evacuating the US diplomats and embassy staff.”Singh said his family and five more Indians have been figuring ways to leave Ghazni since the Taliban took over Kabul this week. He told HT over the phone that there have been assurances but no help yet.Also Read | Billions spent by US on Afghan army ultimately benefited TalibanTaliban took over Ghazni after Governor Dawood Laghmani and his police chief surrendered. The road that connects Ghazni to Kabul has since been under the Taliban’s control.“I have a small shop here in Naya Shahar area where I sold spices. There had been a talk among local shopkeepers that the Taliban are just a few kilometres away. Following this, I collected my belongings and along with my wife and daughters, we came to gurdwara last week,” said Singh.“Canada has said it would be taking in 20,000 refugees. Sikh groups there have said that they would be sponsoring our travel and stay. Whatever flight, we are able to catch first, be it to Canada or India, we will try leaving.”Singh said there has been firing at the Kabul airport as well. “So, it is better if we stay in the gurdwara rather than risk our lives by moving out or stay at the Kabul airport.”Singh said the Taliban have taken over the Ghazni completely. “I happened to come across them few times in the last one month as I went to Kabul twice to renew my daughters’ visas. They did not do anything,” he said. “My Afghan partner in the business has been staying home since the Taliban takeover. He too fears coming out. There is a lull; everyone is staying inside as all fear for their lives.”India has said it will repatriate India citizens and also the Afghan Sikhs and Hindus who wish to leave Afghanistan.The commercial operations from the Kabul airport have been suspended which has halted India’s repatriation efforts. Singh shared videos of his stay in gurdwara in which Indians stranded there can be seen eating together. He said they stocked up ration at the gurdwara before the imminent Taliban take over. “There is a school run by the gurdwara which is connected through its rear. It has few toilets attached to it. We are using the same for now.”Singh said Ghazni has over 200 Indians who want to leave the country. “I have been in constant touch with the Indian embassy in Kabul as well as with officials in New Delhi. They have been cooperative but for now, all are helpless... They are asking us not to worry and have said that they will soon make arrangements to get us back,” he said. “I have a large family back in Delhi. My sisters and mother must be really worried about us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-family-stranded-in-afghanistan-hopes-to-leave-soon-101629177571867.html
17-08-2021||India||Union health minister Mandaviya to visit Assam to review Covid situation in state||Union minister of health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya will visit Assam on Tuesday to review the Covid-19 situation there. Mandaviya will also take stock of the ongoing construction of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Changsari, reported news agency ANI.Mandaviya was Kerala on Monday and announced a financial package of  ₹267.35 crore to help the state prepare for a third wave. “Had an intensive meeting with the CM and health minister and officials. The Centre is committed to help the state. For prioritising health of children, paediatric ICU will be established in each district hospitals with 10 kilo-litre liquid oxygen storage tank facility,” Mandaviya tweeted after the meeting.After the positivity rate went down in most districts, the Assam government lifted Covid-induced restrictions and ‘round-the-clock’ curfew timings on August 9, imposing a partial curfew between 5pm and 5am instead. The government has also notified that districts where the positivity rate goes up to 10 per cent will be immediately declared as containment zones, with only essential services being allowed to operate.Also Read: Instead of floods, Assam witnesses less rainfall this monsoonHowever, inter-district travel and weekly markets will continue to be prohibited. Educational institutions and religious places of worship have also been directed to remain closed until further order.Assam has reported 580,657 cases of coronavirus disease till date. The state recorded 758 new cases on Monday and at 163, the Kamrup Metropolitan District, which covers Guwahati, contributed the highest number of infections, followed by Barpeta and Lakhimpur (49 each) and Nalbari (45). The state also reported 10 fatalities in the last 24 hours, pushing the death toll to 1,347. After testing 1.01 lakh samples for coronavirus a day before, the positivity rate now stands at 2.84 per cent, while the daily test positivity rate was at 0.69 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-health-minister-mandaviya-to-visit-assam-to-review-covid-situation-in-state-101629176829670.html
17-08-2021||India||3 Maoist cadres from Chhattisgarh surrender before Odisha police||Maoists operating on the Odisha-Chhattisgarh border with the responsibility of intensifying insurgency in the Chhattisgarh-Odisha-Jharkhand axis, surrendered before Odisha police on Monday, dealing a major blow to the ultras’ movement.Lakma Madvi alias Lakhan, area committee member of village Isurnag under Bijapur police station, Ganga Madkami alias Nitesh alias Sendra, area committee member of village Kamalpad under Kistaram police limits, and Suka Sodi alias Nabin of village Dulad, under Chintakupa police limits of Sukma district surrendered before Odisha Police chief Abhay.The surrendered Maoists belonged to the Kodanga-Mahanadi-Sanjukta Area Committee operating under the Kandhamal- Kalahandi-Boudh-Nayagarh (KKBN) division of Odisha State Committee of CPI (Maoist). “The trio had been specially deployed to resurrect Mahanadi Area Committee and activate northern Kandhamal and adjoining axis, which was moribund since 2018 after the killing of divisional committee member Badal alias Shankar Majhi and surrender of Kunu Dehury,” said Abhay.“Surrender of the three Maoists will give a serious blow to the Maoist plan and designs in northern Kandhamal and adjoining axis and their plan to revive the north Mahanadi corridor up to Saranda of Jharkhand state will fall flat,” said the DGP.The surrendered Maoists said they preferred to surrender and join the mainstream in the light of the appeal made by the Odisha chief minister asking Maoists to be a part of the developmental initiatives and benefit from the Surrender and Rehabilitation Policy.The surrender of the three cadres came a month after Sudheer alias Chikudu Chinna Rao, a divisional committee member and commander of Pedabayalu and Korukonda area committee of Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee of Maoists walked out of the party and surrendered.Last month, Rame Podiami alias Sabita, commander of Palachalam local operational squad of Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee(DKSZC) and Raidhar Dhurua alias Raidhar, party member of Mahupadar local operational squad under DKSZC surrendered before police. In the last two years more than 20 active Maoist cadres and hundreds of active militias/Maoist sympathizers have surrendered in Malkangiri district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-maoist-cadres-from-chhattisgarh-surrender-before-odisha-police-101629176791670.html
17-08-2021||India||How India brought back its ambassador, staff from embassy in Kabul||India announced on Tuesday that its ambassador and staff at the embassy in Kabul were being brought back home even as a second C-17 Globemaster heavy lift aircraft took off from the Afghanistan capital with more than 120 people on board. On Monday, another C-17 aircraft had brought back some 40 people, including diplomats and security personnel, before operations at Kabul airport were suspended and control of the airspace over the city was handed over to the military. “In view of the prevailing circumstances, it has been decided that our Ambassador in Kabul and his Indian staff will move to India immediately,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted. Ambassador Rudrendra Tandon had taken up his assignment in Kabul in August last year, and people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the decision to bring back the envoy and diplomatic staff was made because of the perception that their security could not guaranteed in the Afghan capital. The people said the second C-17 aircraft of the Indian Air Force was bringing back more than 120 people, including officials and security personnel from the embassy and some Indian nationals, from Kabul. The people were brought into the secure areas of Kabul airport late on Monday, they added. Also Read | Taliban must ensure soil not used by terror groups: IndiaOn Monday, the people who were to return on the second military evacuation flight were initially turned back by Taliban fighters guarding Kabul’s diplomatic quarter and later drove to the airport following intense efforts by the Indian side all through the day. External affairs minister S Jaishankar too was involved in these efforts. At almost 3am on Tuesday, he tweeted about his discussions in this regard with US secretary of state Antony Blinken: “Discussed latest developments in Afghanistan with @SecBlinken. Underlined the urgency of restoring airport operations in Kabul. Deeply appreciate the American efforts underway in this regard.” There was no official word on the two C-17 flights. The people cited above said both C-17s had flown into Kabul using a more circuitous route through Iranian airspace and over the Arabian Sea in order to avoid flying over Pakistan and spending too much time in Afghan airspace. The repatriation of the ambassador and other staff from Kabul reflected India’s lack of trust in the Taliban’s announcement that all embassies and diplomats would be provided security. Taliban spokesman Suhail Saheen had tweeted on Monday night: “We assure all diplomats, embassies, consulates, and charitable workers, whether they are international or national, that not only no problem will be created for them on the part of IEA but a secure environment will be provided to them, Inshallah.” There was also no official word on the status of the Indian embassy in Kabul, where many Western countries have shuttered their missions. After the Covid-19 outbreak last year, India had closed its consulates in Herat and Jalalabad, while the consulates in Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif were left in the care of local Afghan staff as fighting with the Taliban intensified in recent weeks. In a separate development, the Union home ministry (MHA) announced on Twitter on Tuesday that it had reviewed “visa provisions in view of the current situation in Afghanistan” and introduced a new category of electronic visa called “e-Emergency X-Misc Visa” to “fast-track visa applications for entry into India”. Also Read | Repatriation of Indians hit as chaos clouds Kabul airportThe online portal for e-visa applications was updated and when an applicant selects “Afghanistan” in the drop down menu, the “e-Emergency X-Misc Visa” category shows automatically. Afghanistan is not yet listed among “eligible countries” on the homepage of the e-visa portal, but the application form was updated to include Afghanistan and the new e-visa category, officials said. Jaishankar also tweeted that the Indian side is in “constant touch with the Sikh and Hindu community leaders in Kabul”, and their “welfare will get our priority attention”. India had earlier said it will facilitate travel to India by members of the two Afghan minorities. The minister further tweeted that he was monitoring the situation in Kabul continuously. “Understand the anxiety of those seeking to return to India. Airport operations are the main challenge. Discussions on with partners in that regard,” he added. “Given the Kabul situation, important we have accurate information about Indians there,” Jaishankar said in another tweet and called for such information to be provided to the external affairs ministry’s Special Afghanistan Cell at the phone number +919717785379 and the email ID: MEAHelpdeskIndia@gmail.com. There was no word if any Indian nationals were still in Kabul, which is currently the only way out of Afghanistan as the Taliban have taken over all land border crossings and smaller airports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-bring-back-ambassador-staff-from-embassy-in-kabul-101629174033256.html
17-08-2021||India||India announces new e-visa to fast-track applications amid Afghanistan crisis||India on Tuesday announced a new category of electronic visas to fast-track applications of Afghans for entry into India from Afghanistan, which has plunged into crisis after the Taliban seized power. The announcement by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) came two days after the Taliban captured power in Afghanistan. "MHA reviews visa provisions in view of the current situation in Afghanistan. A new category of electronic visa called “e-Emergency X-Misc Visa” introduced to fast-track visa applications for entry into India," the ministry's spokesperson tweeted.Also read | Jaishankar speaks to Blinken, gets US support for evacuationThousands of people were seen trying to exit the country and crowding the Kabul airport, which is now the only way out of Afghanistan. Some even held onto a military jet as it took off and were seen plunging to their deaths in videos widely shared on social media. At least seven people died in the chaos, US officials said, as America's longest war ended with its enemy the victor.The Taliban stormed across Afghanistan, capturing all major cities in a matter of days just two weeks before the US was set to complete its troop withdrawal after two decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-announces-new-e-visa-to-fast-track-applications-amid-afghanistan-crisis-101629170551178.html
17-08-2021||India||EXCLUSIVE: India evacuates second batch of diplomats, officials from Afghanistan||After negotiations for over 24 hours, India has managed to evacuate the second batch of diplomats, officials and journalists from Kabul using an Indian Air Force C-17 heavy-lift aircraft. The IAF aircraft flew from Hamid Karzai Airport around 8am Kabul time with the help of US forces manning the ATC. Indian ambassador to Afghanistan Rudrendra Tandon is on the flight along with 120 other diplomats and officials.While the Modi government is tight-lipped about the entire operations, the C-17 with all the evacuees will cross into Indian air space around 11am (IST) and land at Jamnagar. The IAF aircraft is expected to reach Delhi around 1pm. India is now waiting for US forces to allow civilian flights to Kabul for further evacuation. The first batch of Indians came on Sunday via an Air India flight.Also read | Jaishankar speaks to Blinken, gets US support for evacuationWith no chain of command in Kabul, the Indian ministry of external affairs (MEA) and security officials started bringing evacuees to HKI airport from Monday as negotiations were undertaken with sundry Taliban and other terrorist groups manning the 15 check posts from the Indian mission in Kabul to the international airport. India apparently had kept two C-17s on stand-by so that officials could be evacuated as soon as the US manned ATC gave a green signal.Also read | Kabul's situation better under Taliban than it was under Ghani: RussiaAccording to sources based in Kabul, it was part of the withdrawal deal that the Turkish forces would man the HKI airport but Ankara withdrew at the very last minute leading to utter confusion. With all local staff abandoning the ATC and other positions and illiterate Taliban having no idea about manning the air traffic services, it was left to the US to take control.It was due to the ensuing chaos that led to the death of desperate Afghans at the HKI airport as the civilians feared for their life and limb at the hands of the Taliban. It was only after this that the US decided to stop civilian flights from Kabul on Monday and decided to only allow military flights. Other Indians will be evacuated from Afghanistan after the HKI airport is opened to civilian flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-evacuates-second-batch-of-diplomats-officials-from-afghanistan-via-iaf-101629170712291.html
17-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: US eases travel advisory for India to second-lowest level and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.US eases travel advisory for India to second-lowest levelThe US has eased travel advisory for India to its second-lowest level of “exercise increased caution” and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said the South Asian nation now has a “moderate level of Covid-19.” Read MoreJaishankar speaks to Blinken, gets US support for evacuationExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar spoke to US secretary of state Antony Blinken from New York today to seek American assistance in getting Indians evacuated from Kabul. Read MoreKabul's situation better under Taliban than it was under Ghani: RussiaRussia's ambassador to Afghanistan Dmitry Zhirnov has praised the Taliban's conduct describing their approach as "good, positive and business-like" and said the hardline Islamist group had made Kabul safer in the first 24 hours than it had been under the previous authorities. Read MoreFour-pronged pace attacks keeps India soaring in Lord's TestIndia’s decision to go in with four fast bowlers, risking uncomplimentary memes of having the longest possible tail, proved right in the end as their seamers hunted in a pack to clinch a famous Test win at Lord’s. Read MoreInside Rhea Kapoor-Karan Boolani's wedding party: Sonam Kapoor, Janhvi Kapoor, Arjun Kapoor have a ball, see picsSonam Kapoor, Arjun Kapoor, Janhvi Kapoor, Khushi Kapoor and their other family members came together for newlywed Rhea Kapoor and Karan Boolani's wedding party on Monday night. Read MoreIf looks could kill: Madhuri Dixit in pre-draped turquoise blue saree glams up Dance Deewane 3 stageBollywood's Dhak Dhak girl Madhuri Dixit Nene never fails to make a mark with her sartorial choices, be it in a concept saree, lehenga or a bespoke suit set. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-us-eases-travel-advisory-for-india-to-second-lowest-level-and-all-the-latest-news-101629170664037.html
17-08-2021||India||Nagaland set for all party government to push peace process forward||Nagaland will form an all party government called Nagaland United Government (NUG) with the aim to speed up Naga peace process.Ruling Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP), its ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the party in Opposition, Naga People’s Front (NPF), along with two independent MLAs, signed an agreement on Monday to form the NUG for achieving inclusive, acceptable and honorable solution to the Naga political issue as committed in their respective party manifestos.The 60 member-house has 25 NPF, 20 NDPP, 12 BJP and two independent MLAs. One seat fell vacant after a sitting NDPP MLA passed away on July 1.The terms of the agreement say that the united government will promote the Naga peace talks with a positive approach in the greater interest of achieving peace. It promises to move towards finding a political solution at the earliest time possible; to urge all the Naga political groups to make serious efforts to unite and reconcile; that the political parties shall ensure unity of its members in the legislative assembly on the issue and make all possible endeavours to achieve the objective.The agreement also states that the political parties shall impress upon the Central government and all the negotiating groups to bring about a solution at the earliest. The agreement was signed by the presidents of all political parties.“The Naga political issue... has been pending for decades, and to achieve a peaceful amicable solution, the parties to this resolution which constitutes all the members of Nagaland Legislative Assembly, have resolved to stand united for the said purpose. Thus, in light of the ongoing peace talks, all the political parties to this resolution have endorsed the concept of united government so as to facilitate the Naga political issue to achieve an honourable and acceptable solution,” the agreement said.While the NPF earlier announced that it will join the government without any pre-conditions, people in the know of the developments said a minor reshuffle was likely to induct a couple of senior NPF MLAs including former leader of Opposition and former chief minister TR Zeliang.In 2015, eight Congress MLAs had merged with the then ruling NPF to form the first all party government in the state. In the same year, the Centre signed the “framework agreement” with the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM) after 18 years of truce between them.While the substantive issues were resolved, the NSCN (IM) has remained firm on its demand for a separate Naga flag and constitution, which is said to be the main reason for the delay in inking a final deal for a settlement on the protracted Naga dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-set-for-all-party-government-to-push-peace-process-forward-101629170791235.html
17-08-2021||India||Supreme Court notice to CBI on plea opposing bail to Dabholkar killer||The Supreme Court on Monday issued a notice to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on a petition filed by the kin of murdered anti-superstition activist Narender Dabholkar opposing bail granted by the Bombay high court to one of the men accused in the case, Vikram Vinay Bhave. The petition filed by Dabholkar’s daughter Mukta and son Hameed challenged the May 6 order passed by the high court allowing the bail plea of Bhave on furnishing a personal bond of ₹1 lakh and two sureties in the like amount. He was also required to report to the local police station every day in the first month of bail, twice a week in the second and third month after release, and thereafter, once a month. Dabholkar was killed in Pune on August 20, 2013 and the accused in question was arrested in May 2019 for his role in conducting a reconnaissance of the area where Dabholkar used to take his walk, and to provide logistical support to the two accused who committed the murder. Also Read | CBI declares ₹5L reward for info on Dhanbad judge’s deathThe bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy issued notice to the CBI, the state of Maharashtra and Bhave. While initially the court was of the view that the role attributed to the accused was small, senior advocate Anand Grover appearing for the Dabholkar kin informed that the crime was committed by Bhave while he was out on bail in a criminal case involving Explosive Substances Act. In that crime, he was convicted and sentenced to 10 years imprisonment. He was released on bail on May 8, 2013 and within three months (of bail) he conspired to commit the murder of Dabholkar, Grover said. Considering this aspect, the court agreed to issue a notice. Grover even attributed a larger plot against Bhave accusing the organisation to which he belonged - Sanatan Sanstha – being involved in similar killings of persons opposed to the organisation’s ideology, referring to the murder of Gauri Lankesh in Bengaluru in September 2017. Since Bhave was not named an accused in Lankesh murder case, the bench told Grover, “This is a very dangerous precedent if we start imputing motive to a particular ideology. What you are suggesting will have serious repercussions on other cases.” It was at the instance of the present petitioners that the investigation into Dabholkar’s death was transferred to CBI in June 2014 by an order of the Bombay high court. The CBI named three persons for the crime – Virendra Tavade, Sharad Kalaskar and Sachin Andure In all, there are six accused persons named by CBI.Bhave is charged for murder (IPC Section 302), destruction of evidence (IPC Section 201), criminal conspiracy (IPC Section 120B) and terrorist act (Section 16) of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. Dabholkar’s kin in their petition filed through advocate Krishna Kumar said, “Considering the criminal antecedents of the appellant (Bhave) there is reasonable apprehension of tampering the evidence and witnesses. The charges levelled against the appellant are of grave and serious nature and involves connection series of murders, therefore it has far-reaching consequences on the society at large and involves national interest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-notice-to-cbi-on-plea-opposing-bail-to-dabholkar-killer-101629170011102.html
17-08-2021||India||BJP to flag off election campaign in Uttarakhand with Aashirward Yatra today||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is all set to begin campaigning in Uttarakhand with a two-day Aashirwad Yatra on Tuesday for the 2021 assembly elections. The newly appointed Union minister of state for tourism and defence Ajay Bhatt will launch the BJP's poll campaign from the Narsain border in Haridwar district, and travel to five districts for the same.The yatra will pass through Manglaur, Roorkee, Bhagwanpur, Mohand and Dath Kali Mandir before reaching the party headquarters in Dehradun. The yatra will be covering Rishikesh, Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar and Nainital before concluding in Almora on August 18. BJP leaders will also pay a visit to the shrines of Shri Dakshin Kali and the Shiv temple at Shayampur in Haridwar.BJP district general secretary Vikas Tiwari told Hindustan Times on August 5 that the yatra is meant to be a morale-boosting exercise for party workers ahead of the polls, as they will be spreading information about various policies of the government. “Party workers are gearing up for the yatra. Throughout the route, a grand welcome will be given to the yatra at major points. It will surely boost the morale of party workers and we will disseminate policies and achievements of the BJP government among people seeking their support again,” said Tiwari.Also Read: Very ‘important’ announcement tomorrow: Arvind Kejriwal on visit to UttarakhandBJP leaders have been embarking on ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatras’ in states across India to publicise the Centre’s schemes. "Ministers have been asked to educate people about the work done by the government. They have been asked to interact with all sections of society and connect them with the government's schemes," organisation minister of Telangana G Parmendra Reddy told ANI.Meanwhile, Congress has appointed former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat as the head of the campaign committee for next year’s polls. Congress hit out at BJP for indulging in electoral events instead of preparing for the probable third wave of the coronavirus pandemic and ensuring mass vaccination.“The BJP should first answer why it failed to properly manage the second wave of Covid-19. Now it seems again to be focusing on party electoral events rather than on improving infrastructure to counter the third wave and ensure mass vaccination. Just seven months before the election, they are now seeking blessings but in fact, it is Congress towards whom the voters are inclined now,” the party’s state vice president Dhirendra Pratap told Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-flag-off-election-campaign-in-uttarakhand-with-aashirward-yatra-today-101629168983330.html
17-08-2021||India||Maharashtra defers reopening of schools; Mumbai Covid-19 cases drop below 200||The Maharashtra government on Monday deferred its decision on reopening schools in the state following opposition to its earlier announcement to resume in-person learning in schools beginning Tuesday, officials said.Covid-19 task forces in the state were not in favour of government’s earlier decision to resume in-person teaching for classes five and eight in rural areas and classes eight to 12 in urban areas since the under-18 population is not yet vaccinated against the deadly virus, they added.Meanwhile, Mumbai on Monday recorded 195 fresh infections, a significant decrease from the high numbers witnessed since the beginning of the second wave.The administration has also said that all mall employees and visitors have to be fully vaccinated, barring those below 18 years of age.Maharashtra on Monday recorded 4,145 new cases and 100 deaths due to the pandemic. There were 152,165 tests done on Monday, while the number of recoveries stood at 5,811. There are currently 62,452 active Covid-19 patients across the state including 14,610 in Pune, the highest for any city in the state, followed by 6,938 in Thane and 6,909 in Satara. A total of 625,414 vaccine doses were administered in the state on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-defers-reopening-of-schools-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-drop-below-200-101629168870829.html
17-08-2021||India||Jaishankar speaks to Blinken, gets US support for evacuation||External affairs minister S Jaishankar spoke to US secretary of state Antony Blinken from New York today to seek American assistance in getting Indians evacuated from Kabul. After Turkey backed off from manning the Hamid Karzai International Airport, the airport is being technically manned by the US forces with air traffic control and perimeter under American security cover.While India is all set to evacuate the second batch of its nationals from Kabul, the US secretary of state assured Jaishankar of full support in future evacuations through civilian flights. Jaishankar will today speak to UNSC members to evolve a broader consensus on the Afghanistan issue as well as meet UN secretary general Antonio Guterres later in the day on the same burning issue. The Indian EAM will be chairing UNSC sessions on terrorism and peacekeeping for two days.Also read | India sets up Afghanistan cell to coordinate repatriation amid chaos in KabulGiven the chaos in Kabul, EAM Jaishankar is working with the Americans to get the HKI airport ready to receive civilian flights so that Indians and Afghan friends with traditional links are evacuated from the strife-torn nation. “ Our priorities are Indians working in Afghanistan, Indians who went to Afghanistan despite our advisory, Indians who were employed by US and European contractors to work in Afghanistan, the civilian population of Indian origin and Afghan friends with traditional links with our country …. E-visas will be issued to those who don’t have documents to travel on application,” said an official.Also read | Kabul's situation better under Taliban than it was under Ghani: RussiaThe situation in Kabul continues to be precarious with Taliban fighters under no visible chain of command and various sundry terror outfits setting up security check posts to demand protection money. “It is free for all in Kabul with power flowing from the barrel of the gun,” said another official.It is understood that Indian officials have managed to get the second batch of evacuees to the HKI airport post-midnight and are waiting to leave for India from Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-speaks-to-blinken-gets-us-support-for-evacuation-101629166450972.html
17-08-2021||India||Facebook official to appear before NCPCR today over Rahul Gandhi Instagram post||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has summoned a Facebook official on Tuesday along with the action report taken against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for posting a video on social media, revealing the identity of the family of the nine-year-old girl allegedly raped and murdered in Delhi. The video by Gandhi was posted on Instagram, a platform owned by Mark Zuckerberg's Facebook.In the summon letter, the child rights body asked Satya Yadav, trust and safety head of Facebook India, to appear before it through video conferencing at 5 pm, according to the news agency ANI. The NCPCR sent the notice under Section 13 and 14 of the Care and Protection of Children Act for Juvenile justice.Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act prohibits anyone to disclose the identity of a child in any form of media, and Section 23 of the Pocso (expand this) Act states that no information or photo of a child should be published in any way, which could reveal the identity of the child victim. This includes their name, address, photograph, family details, school, neighbourhood or any other particular information which may lead to the identification of the child.Rahul Gandhi posted a photo of him meeting the family of the nine-year-old Dalit rape and murder victim in Delhi's Nangal area.Before this, NCPCR has pulled up Twitter for the same and asked it to take action against Gandhi for posting the photo. Following this, the company briefly suspended Gandhi's account, saying it reviewed the Congress leader's tweet against its rules and policies.Meanwhile, Gandhi has slammed the micro-blogging site and alleges that it is a "biased platform" and follows the government's directions.Last Thursday, Twitter clarified its position regarding blocking accounts of the Congress party and several of its leaders and said its rules are enforced judiciously and impartially for everyone on its service.Earlier this month, the girl was allegedly raped, murdered and forcibly cremated by the accused in Delhi triggering a nationwide outrage. Since the incident came to light, Gandhi and other opposition leaders have been speaking against the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-official-to-appear-before-ncpcr-today-over-rahul-gandhi-instagram-post-101629167440679.html
17-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi to participate in inauguration of farmers’ day programme in Kerala||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who is on a three-day visit to his parliamentary constituency Wayand in Kerala, will on Tuesday meet the district collector of Kalpetta. Gandhi will also take part in the inauguration of the Karassery Panchayat Farmers’ Day programme where he will felicitate agriculturists at Karassery Bank Auditorium in North Karassey, Thiruvambady, news agency ANI reported.Later in the day, he will also have lunch with the residents of the Gandhi Bhavan Sneharamam old age home at Wandoor in Malappuram.On Monday, the Congress leader unveiled the statue of Mahatma Gandhi at the Gandhi Park in Mananthavady in Wayanad. Addressing the event, he said that whatever Mahatma Gandhi said, he put it into action.“The powerful thing about Mahatma Gandhi was that whatever he said, he put it into action. So, if he said India should be a tolerant country then he behaved in a tolerant way. If he said India should treat its women with respect, he treated women with respect,” the Wayanad MP said, adding the “father of the nation” also behaved in a secular manner.“If Gandhi ji said that India is a secular country, he himself behaved in a secular manner. He had the Gita, the Quran, the bible, and the Guru Granth Sahib as his guide,” Rahul Gandhi told the gathering.He also inaugurated the drinking water project at Ponkuzhi Kattunaika Colony, Ponkuzhi.Gandhi’s visit to Wayanad comes almost a week after he visited Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar, where he called for J-K’s statehood and the conduction of free and fair elections without any delay. This was his first visit to Kashmir after the revocation of Article 370 in 2019. At that time, he led an opposition delegation to J-K, but was forced to go back from the Srinagar airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-participate-in-inauguration-of-farmers-day-programme-in-kerala-101629158005681.html
17-08-2021||NA||Breaking News LIVE: No plans to recognise Taliban govt in Afghanistan: Canada||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get the latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Canada has no plans to recognize Taliban government in Afghanistan: PM TrudeauCanada has no plans to recognize Taliban government in Afghanistan, says Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.Earthquake of 4.7 magnitude occurred in Manipur's Ukhrul at 9.02pm, reports ANIMagnitude 4.7 earthquake occurred in Ukhrul, Manipur at 9:02 pm today47 migrants feared dead off Mauritanian coast: UN migration agencyAs many as 47 migrants are feared dead off Mauritanian coast, reports AFP quoting UN migration agency.The security of embassies in Kabul is of crucial importance to us: Taliban spokesperson MujahidThe security of embassies in Kabul is of crucial importance to us. We would like to assure all foreign countries that our forces are there to ensure the security of all embassies, missions, international organizations, and aid agencies: Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid pic.twitter.com/tmMKJifZc9Taliban co-founder Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar returns to Afghanistan, reports AFP citing spokesperson#BREAKING Taliban deputy leader and co-founder Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar returns to Afghanistan: spokesman pic.twitter.com/LVdBvamCIbOdisha to continue sponsoring Indian hockey teams for another decade: CM Naveen PatnaikOdisha will continue to sponsor Indian hockey teams for another 10 years, says CM Naveen PatnaikFirst VP of Afghanistan Amrullah Saleh declares himself caretaker President#Afghanistan's First Vice President Amrullah Saleh declares himself caretaker president of the country; says he is "reaching out to all leaders to secure their support & consensus" pic.twitter.com/SUG3e7vLCLTaliban clarifies its position on Kashmir; regards it as "bilateral, internal issue", reports ANI citing sourcesTaliban has clarified its position on Kashmir. It regards it as a bilateral, internal issue; their focus is unlikely on Kashmir: SourcesCentre to provide ₹1,300 crore as Covid response package to NE states: MandaviyaThe central government will provide ₹1,300 crore as Covid response package to all northeastern states, says Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya in Guwahati.Germany halts development aid for Taliban-captured Afghanistan#BREAKING Germany halts development aid for Afghanistan: minister pic.twitter.com/Iu1wnH4LvRTurkey welcomes 'positive messages' from Taliban in Afghanistan: Foreign minister#BREAKING Turkey says welcomes 'positive messages' from Taliban in Afghanistan: foreign minister pic.twitter.com/x6nC8qbFCgFacebook removes accounts associated with TalibanThe Taliban are sanctioned as a terrorist organisation under US law and we have banned them from our services under our Dangerous Organisation Policies. This means we remove accounts maintained by/on behalf of the Taliban and ban their praise, support, and representation, ANI quotes Facebook spokesperson as saying.We also have a dedicated team of Afghanistan experts, who are native Dari and Pashto speakers and have knowledge of local context, helping to identify and alert us about emerging issues on the platform, the spokesperson also said.Indian ambassador thanks govt for evacuationYour welcome has an impact on all of us. Thank you to the Indian Air Force who flew us out under conditions that are not normal, says Indian Ambassador to Afghanistan, Rudrendra Tandon after landing at Jamnagar, Gujarat, from Afghanistan.HC seeks report on investigation from Delhi Police, SIT set upThe Delhi High Court Tuesday sought a report from the police on the status of investigation into the alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl here even as it was informed that an SIT has been set up to probe the case.Snap national lockdown in New Zealand over virus caseNew Zealand will move into a snap three-day lockdown after recording its first case of locally transmitted Covid-19 in six months, suspected to be the Delta variant, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said Tuesday."We have seen what can happen elsewhere if we fail to get on top of it. We only get one chance," Ardern said in a televised national address, calling the Delta strain "a game-changer".Taliban announce 'general amnesty' for govt officials, urging them to return to work: ReportTaliban announce 'general amnesty' for govt officials, urge them to return to work, reports AFPIAF C-17 aircraft that took off from Kabul with Indian officials, others lands in JamnagarIndian Air Force C-17 aircraft that took off from Kabul with Indian officials have landed in Jamnagar, Gujarat, news agencies ANI reported quoting sources.In highest single-day inoculations, India administers over 8.8 million Covid-19 vaccine dosesIndia administers over 8.8 million vaccine doses, achieves the highest single-day record of Covid-19 vaccination, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.4 kiled as two vehicles catches fire after collision at Ajmer highwayFour people killed as two vehicles caught fire after a collision at National Highway 8 in Ajmer, says sub-inspector of Adarsh Nagar, Kanhaiya Lal.India's daily Covid-19 tally falls lowest in 154 daysIndia reports 25,166 new cases in the last 24 hours, lowest in 154 days. Active cases decline to 3,69,846, lowest in 146 days; recovery at 97.51%.Second Indian C17 aircraft has left Kabul with more than 120 officialsIndian Air Force C-17 aircraft has taken off from Kabul with more than 120 Indian officials in it. The staff was brought inside the secure areas of the airport safely, late last evening, news agency ANI reported.Govt launches e-Emergency X-Misc Visa provision to fast-track application for entry to IndiaIn view of the deteriorating situation in Afghanistan, the ministry of home affairs has introduced a new category of electronic visas called “e-Emergency X-Misc Visa” to fast-track visa applications for entry into India.Jaishankar speaks to Blinken, gets US support for evacuationExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar spoke to US secretary of state Antony Blinken from New York today to seek American assistance in getting Indians evacuated from Kabul.Facebook official to appear before NCPCR today over Rahul Gandhi Instagram postThe National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has summoned a Facebook official on Tuesday along with the action report taken against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for posting a video on social media, revealing the identity of the family of the nine-year-old girl allegedly raped and murdered in Delhi. Read MoreUS CDC eases travel advisory for IndiaThe US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) modified the travel advisory for India due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It is now "a Level 2 Travel Health Notice", indicating a moderate level of infection in the country.Indians stuck in Afghanistan to be repatriated to India within a day or two: ReportSeveral Indians in Afghanistan wanting to be repatriated to India are in a secure area and will be brought back home safely in a day or two, reports news agency citing sources.Chemical tanker overturns in Thane; no casualtyA chemical tanker overturned on the Ghodbunder Road in Thane, Maharashtra. Police and fire brigade officials are rushed to the spot. No casualty reported, news agency ANI reported quoting Thane Municipal Corporation.India sets up Afghanistan cell to coordinate repatriation amid chaos in KabulIndia has set up a cell to coordinate repatriation and related matters in Afghanistan even as Sikh and Hindu families have taken refuge inside a gurdwara in Kabul as hundreds of thousands of people are desperately trying to flee the country after the Taliban seized the capital. Read MoreWorried over safety, 120 Sikh, Hindu families huddle up in Kabul gurdwaraConcerned over their safety in Afghanistan, particularly after the fall of Kabul to the Taliban, nearly 120 Sikh and Hindu families have taken refuge at Gurdwara Karte Parwan in the national capital, making desperate efforts to be evacuated from the war-torn country. Read MoreEarthquake of 4.5 magnitude hits Afghanistan's Fayzabad areaAn earthquake of magnitude 4.5 on the Richter scale hit Fayzabad, Afghanistan on Tuesday, National Center for Seismology has said.I stand squarely behind my decision: BidenBiden called the anguish of trapped Afghan civilians “gut wrenching ” and conceded the Taliban had achieved a much faster takeover of the country than his administration had expected. “I stand squarely behind my decision” to finally withdraw US combat forces, Biden said,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-august-17-2021-101629160988496.html
17-08-2021||India||India sets up Afghanistan cell to coordinate repatriation as Sikhs, Hindus huddle in Kabul gurdwara||India has set up a cell to coordinate repatriation and related matters in Afghanistan even as Sikh and Hindu families have taken refuge inside a gurdwara in Kabul as hundreds of thousands of people are desperately trying to flee the country after the Taliban seized the capital. The announcement by the ministry of external affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi came on Monday night hours after he said that India will facilitate the repatriation of Sikhs and Hindus who wish to leave the war-torn country."#MEA has set up a Special Afghanistan Cell to coordinate repatriation and other requests from Afghanistan," Bagchi tweeted. Bagchi also posted the contact details of the cell.#MEA has set up a Special Afghanistan Cell to coordinate repatriation and other requests from Afghanistan. Pls contact :Phone number: +919717785379Email: MEAHelpdeskIndia@gmail.com@IndianEmbKabulBagchi said earlier in the day the situation in Afghanistan is being monitored "on a constant basis at high levels" and the government will take "all steps to ensure the safety and security of Indian nationals and our interests in Afghanistan". "There are also a number of Afghans who have been our partners in the promotion of our mutual developmental, educational and people to people endeavours. We will stand by them," he said.Also watch | ‘If Afghan soil isn’t used by terror groups…’: India on Taliban at UNSC meetDelhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa said people from Sikh and Hindu communities have taken refuge at the Karte Parwan Gurdwara in Kabul. "I am in constant touch with President, Gurdwara Committee of Kabul and Sangat who have told me that more than 320 people of minorities living in Ghazni and Jalalabad (including 50 Hindus and more than 270 Sikhs) have taken refuge in Karte Parwan Gurdwara in Kabul in wake of recent developments," said Sirsa.Also read | Implications of US move for the world"Taliban Leaders have met them and assured them of their safety. We are hopeful that Hindus and Sikhs would be able to live a safe and secure life despite political and military changes happening in Afghanistan," he added.The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, the top gurdwara body, on Saturday urged the Centre to ensure the safety of Sikhs living in Afghanistan and make arrangements to bring back those who want to come to India.The Taliban's capture of Kabul on Sunday has stunned the world and brought panic and chaos in Afghanistan. On Monday, authorities shut Afghan airspace for civilian flights and allowed the airfield at Hamid Karzai International Airport in Afghanistan's capital Kabul only for military use. However, thousands of people gathered at the airport in a last-ditch effort to leave the war-torn country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sets-up-afghanistan-cell-to-coordinate-repatriation-amid-chaos-in-kabul-101629158708585.html
17-08-2021||India||Jailed IS members among Indians freed||A dozen Indians including several women from Kerala, who travelled to Afghanistan to fight for the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria in 2016, are among hundreds of jihadis freed by Taliban from Kabul’s two prisons, Pul-e-Charkhi and Badam Bagh, according to an initial assessment by Indian counterterrorism and intelligence agencies.Counterterrorism officials monitoring the situation closely said that with the Taliban now in power in Afghanistan, these highly radicalised men and women, who travelled to the Nangarhar province along with their partners and children to live under the Sharia law, have finally got what they wanted.The rapid collapse of Ashraf Ghani’s government and surrender by Afghan security forces mean that Indian agencies have no means to confirm the exact location of the jihadis. “There is also a possibility that at some point, they will try to enter India via a third country. We have to maintain a close watch now,” said an officer at of the Indian agencies who spoke on condition of anonymity.While at least eight people from the Kerala ISIS module, wanted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), are among those released, an estimate suggests that there were around 24-25 Indians lodged in various prisons in Afghanistan. About a dozen of these were lodged at Pul-e-Charkhi and Badam Bagh.Indian agencies are not clear about the status of the other prisoners.The Kerala women lodged in the two prisons were questioned by Indian agencies last year.The National Investigation Agency was supposed to travel to Kabul last year following an attack at a gurdwara on March 25, 2020, in which 27 Sikh devotees including an Indian citizen were killed. However, it was forced to abandon its plan due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The counterterrorism officials believe terrorists such as Aijaz Ahangar will conspire against India with the help of Pakistan’s spy agency ISI while the widows from Kerala might be married off to Taliban fighters.The biggest threat from India’s point of view, according to the intelligence officers, is Taliban’s deputy leader Sirajuddin Haqqani. He might use Indians for further training to target Indian assets and individuals in Afghanistan.“It is too early to predict anything right now, but Pakistan will try to use Haqqani network for train and launch terrorists in Afghanistan and then launch them in India,” said a second Indian officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jailed-is-members-among-indians-freed-101629152279128.html
17-08-2021||India||Centre mulls single law to supervise all media||The Union government is considering a super legislation for all traditional and digital media companies so as to ensure a level playing field.The idea is to have an umbrella law that will cover print and electronic media, digital media, cinema, even so-called over-the-top or OTT platforms such as Netflix and Hotstar, government officials familiar with the matter said.According to one of the officials, the new law will draw elements from the Cable Television Network Act, Cinematograph Act, Press Council Act, and the new digital media guidelines. “The space is evolving,” added this person. “There is a need for platform-wise self-regulation. But at the same time, the technology is converging, the viewers and readers are converging. Earlier, different platforms were using different technologies, but now increasingly we are seeing them move towards a similar approach.”The process, however, is still at a discussion stage. Amit Khare, secretary, information and broadcasting (I&B) ministry, did not respond to HT’s request for comments.The new law may have been borne from the realisation that while print media has the Press Council, digital news media does not have a corresponding body.The I&B ministry has already amended the Cable Television Network Act and proposed draft amendments to the Cinematograph Act to ensure they are not at odds with the new social media and intermediary guidelines and digital media code of ethics, which were notified by the government under the Information Technology Act in February to bring hitherto unregulated digital platforms under a three-tier grievance redressal system.The new IT guidelines require platforms to appoint grievance redressal officers in case of OTT and digital news media platforms, institute a three-tier mechanism for grievance redressal with an inter-ministerial committee at its apex and give the I&B ministry takedown powers over the content circulated online. The government’s oversight mechanism, however, will also including members from industry bodies such as Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Confederation of Indian Industry and the Press Council. The rules have been challenged in court by several media companies.To create a balance between the regulation of online and offline platforms, the government on June 17 amended the Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994, to mandate that the earlier ad-hoc structure of self-regulation now be mandated under law, with a similar three-tier structure .According to an official at the I&B ministry, there are around 900 channels which are already part of a system of self-regulation and the amendment just added builds on that. The amendment, notified in a gazette notification issued on June 17, states that cable TV channels under the programme rules must have self-regulation by broadcasters themselves, regulation by the self-regulating bodies of the broadcasters, and an oversight mechanism by the central government. Broadcasters also have to acknowledge complaints within 24 hours of being filed.Similarly, amendments have been proposed to the Cinematograph Act, 1952, that will enable the introduction of a broader age-related classification, grant the central government the ability to ask the central board of film certification (CBFC) to re-examine a film, and curb piracy in the industry. The proposed amendments to the Act will introduce an age classification system akin to the one specified under the new intermediary and digital media guidelines. They also grant the government powers to ask the CBFC to re-examine a film on the grounds of national security and threat to public order.Supreme Court lawyer and co-founder of Cybersaathi, NS Nappinai, said a common legal framework would be a good move “but the government should also be cognisant of existing frameworks and see if a complete overhaul is needed”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-mulls-single-law-to-supervise-all-media-101629149955442.html
17-08-2021||India||SC denies interim relief to former Maharashtra minister in corruption case||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to grant interim relief to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh who was seeking protection from any coercive action in connection with a money laundering case lodged by the Enforcement Directorate.“We are not inclined to grant any interim relief. The petitioner is at liberty to seek other remedies available to him under the Code of Criminal Procedure,” the bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Krishna Murari and V Ramasubramanian said.Deshmukh and his son Hrishikesh are yet to respond to three summons issued by the central agency.The ED had registered the case earlier this year following a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation into allegations of a bribery-cum-extortion racket operated by the former minister.In their plea filed through advocate Avadh Bihari Kaushik, the duo had sought an order of “no coercive action” as it challenged the constitutional validity of certain provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act 2002.Appearing for the ED, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said: “There are serious allegations of money laundering against him (Deshmukh). He was found to be operating 13 shell companies. These are in addition to 11 firms related to Deshmukh’s family which are already under probe. He has much to answer before the Special Judge, PMLA.”Deshmukh’s counsel and senior advocate Vikram Chaudhari, however, told the bench that this is a classic case of “political witch-hunt”.“I stand on equal footing with all other matters where the Court has protected accused facing ED charges.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-denies-interim-relief-to-former-maha-minister-in-corruption-case-101629149157237.html
17-08-2021||India||Mamata introduces ‘one person, one post’ in TMC; splits districts into multiple smaller units||Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee dropped several state ministers from holding the post of district presidents, even as she introduced the ‘one person one post’ policy while splitting some of the larger districts into smaller organisational units in a bid to decentralise the present structure. Prominent among leaders whose names were dropped from the post of district presidents were TMC MP Mahua Moitra who was the district president of Nadia, state irrigation minister Saumen Mahapatra, who was the president of East Midnapore district, state forest minister Jyotipriyo Mullick who was the president of North 24 Parganas, state cooperation minister Arup Roy who was in charge of Howrah and PHE minister Pulak Roy who was the president of Howrah rural. Senior leaders of the party said that the changes were made in view of the civic body election, which are overdue, as well as the 2023 panchayat polls and Lok Sabha polls in 2024. “In July, political strategist Prashant Kishor and chief minister Mamata Banerjee held a meeting in Kolkata to discuss the changes. The meeting, which continued for three hours, was held at the chief minister’s residence at Kalighat in south Kolkata. Her nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee was also present,” said a senior leader. According to the new set up, the larger administrative districts including Kolkata, were split into multiple organizational units and new committees, with a president heading each of these, have been created. “Even though the party has managed to win 213 out of the 292 assembly seats in some districts the performance was not satisfactory. The new set up has been planned to focus on smooth operation and check infighting among local leaders, something that has affected the party’s image at the grass root level,” said another senior party leader. While West Bengal has 23 administrative districts, the TMC has split them into 35 organisational units. Districts like Murshidabad and Nadia have been divided into two parts, while North 24 Parganas have been split into four areas. Even though the TMC returned to power for the third consecutive time, Banerjee lost to her protege-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram in East Midnapore. The district has been split into two parts, Tamluk and Contai. Nandigram from where Banerjee lost falls under Tamluk. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has a similar organizational structure with around 39 such smaller units carved out from larger administrative districts. It has two units in Murshidabad and Nadia. Each of these is headed by a president. In North 24 Parganas, which has 34 assembly and five Lok Sabha seats, the BJP has four units. The BJP refers to these units as organizational districts. “It was not possible for a minister or a MP to look after an entire district. They would be there to guide but the party wants to give more importance to young leaders and local leaders, following Kishor’s advice to shake up the rank and file,” said a TMC leader. The BJP, however, took a jibe at the TMC’s latest announcement saying that the ‘one person one post’ policy doesn’t seem to be applicable for Mamata Banerjee herself, who holds multiple portfolios from party’s chairperson, chairperson of the TMC parliamentary party and chief minister with several departments under her including home and hill affairs, information and cultural affairs and land and land reforms among others. “This is a kind of oligarchy but even an oligarchy requires some kind of consensus. The TMC is like a private limited company which was set up by a woman who takes all the decisions. She is the owner, and her wish is the last word in the party. Hence talking about such changes like ‘one person, one post’ is a waste of time,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson. “Why don’t BJP leaders mind their own business and focus on how to manage their own party? Will they now decide as to who would hold which post in the TMC?” said Chandrima Bhattacharya, senior TMC leader and minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-introduces-one-person-one-post-in-tmc-splits-districts-into-multiple-smaller-units-101629147508431.html
17-08-2021||India||Ready to form probe panel on Pegasus to dispel narrative: Govt||The Union government on Monday refrained from confirming or denying in the Supreme Court, its use of the Pegasus spyware for alleged surveillance of Indian citizens even as it offered to set up an expert committee to look into all aspects of the controversy and “dispel any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests”.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta repeatedly during the proceedings whether the government will come clean on the purchase or use of Pegasus. The S-G, however, maintained that a committee of experts should rather be allowed to delve into the issue, adding “whatever interception was done, it was done in the interest of national security”.The bench asked Mehta why the government shouldn’t file an additional affidavit so that the court could have clarity regarding all the averments made by them. “An affidavit of facts can be filed by you. If you don’t want to file the additional affidavit, then only the question of the committee will come up,” the CJI told the S-G.The S-G, however, urged the bench to rather have a technical committee of “some neutral and eminent experts” who could examine all the aspects and submit a report before the court instead of imploring the government to clarify anything on the use of Pegasus.At this point, the bench adjourned the proceedings for Tuesday, asking Mehta to revert if there is a “change of mind” on making a statement on the use of Pegasus.In its three-page affidavit filed nearly an hour before the top court was to consider a clutch of petitions for a court-monitored independent investigation into the alleged snooping, the Union government contended that the petitions “are based on conjectures and surmises or on other unsubstantiated media reports or incomplete or uncorroborated material” and, hence, failed to make out any case to invoke writ jurisdiction.“It is, however, submitted that with a view to dispel any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests and with an object of examining the issues raised, the Union of India will constitute a committee of experts in the field which will go in to all aspects of the issue,” stated the affidavit, filed by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology.While the affidavit said that the government “unequivocally” denies “any and all of the allegations”, it did not answer whether the Union government or any agency authorised by it used Pegasus for surveillance and was in possession of any information obtained using the spyware.The law officer argued that the petitioners were unlikely to withdraw their cases even if the Centre was to state on an affidavit that it did not use Pegasus and, therefore, the court should approve the creation of the expert committee by laying down the terms of references for the panel of experts, who will be given access to all the relevant information available with the government and its agencies.“There will be issues of national security if this court decides to go into it. With all respect, there cannot be an adjudicatory process invoked by the petitioners to seek answer whether Pegasus was bought or not. There cannot be a question like you first tell us whether you bought Pegasus or not... Any debate or deliberation will invoke issues of national security. It is a known fact that lawful interceptions take place,” Mehta submitted before the bench, which also included justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose.The S-G emphasised that the government “has nothing to hide” and that the proposal to set up the committee is to show their bona fides in a “sensitive” matter, which he claimed, is being made “sensational” by the petitioners for reasons best known to them. He pointed out that the government’s position on the alleged snooping has already been clarified in Parliament by IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw by rejecting all the accusations.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for senior journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar, emphasised that the question of a committee or its composition will come only after the government tells the court whether it used Pegasus or not.“I am concerned about two pillars of democracy, judiciary and journalism. These are the institutions which protect the rights of the people. They cannot be penetrated in this manner by spyware. Let the government state on oath they have not used Pegasus. Our future arguments have to be on the basis of their statement,” said Sibal, adding a confirmation or denial on the use of the spyware will not affect national security.On his part, senior advocate Shyam Divan, who represented the Editors Guild of India, argued that issues of violation of privacy and constitutional rights cannot be dealt with by the government through “a skimpy, two-page affidavit”.Appearing for journalist SNM Abdi whose name was reportedly on the list of people targeted for snooping, senior counsel Rakesh Dwivedi also highlighted that the government has said nothing about using the spyware and that the purpose and role of the committee can be examined only after there is a specific answer in this regard.“If the government is reluctant and is saying they don’t want to file an affidavit, how do we compel them?” the bench told the petitioners’ lawyers, adding it will hear them on Tuesday.The petitioners in the case include advocate ML Sharma; former minister Yashwant Sinha, Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas, the EGI, journalists Ram and Kumar, journalists Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, Rupesh Kumar Singh, Ipshita Shatakshi, SNM Abdi, and Prem Shankar Jha, and civil rights activists Jagdeep S Chhokar and Narendra Mishra.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi appeared for WhatsApp in the case and said that the messaging platform has nothing to do with Pegasus.The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international investigative consortium reported that the phones of Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 that were potentially targeted by Pegasus, Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. According to this consortium, Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning a phone into a pocket spy.In the first hearing of the batch of petitions on August 5, the top court said the allegations were serious in nature if the reports were correct and called for a law officer of the government even as it posed three questions to the petitioners.The first was why they came to the court after a gap of almost two years since the first reports on the use of Pegasus spyware were out back in May 2019. This was a reference to WhatsApp revealing then that NSO’s software was used to send malware to more than 1,400 phones.The second question was on whether any of the petitioners lodged a first information report or a criminal complaint against alleged illegal interception of their phones. The third related to the existence of any empirical evidence to corroborate the claims of the infractions.On August 10, Mehta, representing the Centre, was given time to get instructions on the matter from the government. During that hearing, the court also took exception to a “parallel debate” by petitioners outside the courts on the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens with the Pegasus spyware, saying if they are using the legal system, they must have faith in it. The court asked the petitioners to refrain from debating the issue on public platforms while it was adjudicating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-form-probe-panel-on-pegasus-to-dispel-narrative-govt-101629142359717.html
17-08-2021||India||BRO officers serving near Indo-China border build makeshift schools for kids of migrants||Apart from serving the country by developing crucial roads near the Indo-China border in Uttarkashi district of Uttarakhand, two officers of the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) have also been trying to serve the underprivileged by running a makeshift school for the children of labourers involved in road development project at an altitude of about 12,000 ft. The two BRO officers- -Junior Engineer Rahul Yadav and Subedar Sandesh Pawar- started the initiative about 20 days ago while being deployed in BRO’s Shivalik road project near the Indo-China border. Both are attached to BRO’s 72 Road Construction Company (RCC) working in the area. Speaking on the commendable initiative over the phone from Uttarkashi, Yadav said, “The sole aim of the initiative is to keep the children engaged after their parents go to work in the morning at 8 am.” “While working for the project, I observed that after the labourers leave for the worksite, their children often used to run behind army vehicles or play on the roads amid running traffic. This was greatly endangering their safety and inviting an unfortunate incident. To stop this, initially, we asked one of the female labourers to look after them but she failed. It was then that we decided to start a makeshift school to keep them engaged,” Yadav said. He said that he was soon joined by Subedar Pawar in the project. “We then started three makeshift schools in areas near the international border namely at Jangla, Hondoligarh and Neelapani at an altitude of about 10,000-12,000 ft. The schools are running under tents and boulders are used as seats for the children,” said Yadav. He informed that as the children were “cut off from the mainstream society”, they had to be taught from scratch. “We are teaching them the alphabets of Hindi and English apart from helping them identify various animals, fruits and vegetables. We have also taught them the national anthem and important dates of national importance. Apart from the two of us, we have also involved a few labourers in the initiative who are a little literate to teach the children in our absence,” said Yadav. His colleague Pawar said, “Since the initiative started, there are a total ofabout 75 children studying in these schools.” “The classes start from 8 am and continue till 12 noon. Then there is a two hour recess period followed by resumption of classes from 2 pm- 4 pm. Now, all those children playing on roads are engaged in studies with full dedication. It feels nice that we are able to get them to do something productive,” said Pawar adding, “We have provided them basic stationery like notebooks and pencils.” Their Commanding Officer, Major Binu VS too praised their effort and said, “What they are doing is really praiseworthy because it is providing education to these needy children. The BRO is trying to provide all the necessary items in these makeshift schools so that the children can learn effectively.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bro-officers-serving-near-indo-china-border-build-makeshift-schools-for-kids-of-migrants-101629146189054.html
17-08-2021||India||Create separate birth forms for kids born to single mothers, says Kerala HC||The Kerala High Court on Monday directed the state government to prepare separate birth and death forms for children born to single unwed mothers through the assisted reproductive technology (ART) which did not carry details of the father. The court held that since the right of single mothers to conceive through ATR and other procedure is recognised the column regarding the father’s details in birth certificates violates the right to privacy, liberty and dignity of mothers. It directed the government to create separate forms for such mothers at the earliest. The direction came on the plea of a divorced woman, who later conceived through In Vitro Fertilisation procedure. While filling the form for birth certificates, father’s details are must under the Kerala Registration of Birth and Deaths Act (1970). The petitioner contended that she received the sperm from a sperm bank and even she has no idea about the contributor and repeated requests to fill the form in full (with father’s details) intrudes upon her privacy and liberty. She also said the certificate leaving the father’s details as blank will lead to further questions in future and it will affect her privacy and dignity. Later the court agreed to her contention. “It falls within realm of the right of privacy. There is no rhyme or reason to insist to provide the name of the father in the form prescribed for registration of birth and death. Leaving the father’s column blank will later affect the mother and child’s dignity,” the court said directing the government to prepare separate forms for such mothers. “By the passage of time evolution of new technique, change in lifestyle and personal choices recognised by the rule of law need appropriate modifications/changes and additions,” the court observed. Since the petitioner is in the 8th month pregnancy the court directed the government to take immediate steps||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/create-separate-birth-forms-for-kids-born-to-single-mothers-says-kerala-hc-101629144688421.html
17-08-2021||India||Create separate birth forms for kids born to single mothers: Kerala HC||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala high court on Monday directed the state government to prepare at the earliest separate birth and death forms that didn’t carry details of the father for children born to single, unwed mothers through assisted reproductive technology (ART). The court held that since the right of single mothers to conceive through ART and other procedure is recognised, the column regarding the father’s details in birth certificates violates the right to privacy, liberty and dignity of mothers. The direction came on the plea of a divorced woman, who later conceived through in-vitro fertilisation or IVF. The father’s details are mandatory under the Kerala Registration of Birth and Deaths Act, 1970.The petitioner contended that she received sperm from a sperm bank and had no idea who contributed it, so repeated requests to provide the father’s details intrude upon her privacy and liberty. She also said a certificate that would leave the father’s details blank would raise questions in the future, affecting her dignity. The court accepted her argument. “It falls within the realm of the right to privacy. There is no rhyme or reason to insist the petitioner provide the name of the father in the form prescribed for registration of birth and death. Leaving the father’s column blank will later affect the mother and child’s dignity,” the court said, directing the government to prepare separate forms for such mothers. The court added that the rule of law also needs appropriate modifications or changes given the fact that with time, new techniques have evolved and lifestyle and personal choices have changed. Since the petitioner is in her eighth month of pregnancy, the court told the government to take immediate steps to create separate forms for people like her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/create-separate-birth-forms-for-kids-born-to-single-mothers-kerala-hc-101629144089219.html
17-08-2021||India||Police action on Bidar school students in violation of juvenile justice Act: Karnataka HC||BengaluruThe Karnataka high court on Monday observed that the police action against students of Shaheen School in Bidar, which included interrogation by weapon-carrying and uniformed law enforcement authorities, amounted to a violation of the Juvenile Justice Act.Basava Prasad Kunale, the advocate on record of the petitioners, told HT on Monday that the interrogation of the school students by uniformed policemen was challenged as only a special officer can do this when any child is in conflict with the law.“The reason (for HC to call it a violation of juvenile justice act) is that the investigating officer himself admits in his affidavit that they went to the school with police uniforms. So since they are admitting it, it is clearly in violation of the Juvenile justice act. It says that the interrogation has to be by the special officer,” Kunale said.A division bench of Chief Justice Abhay Oka and Justice NS Sanjay Gowda on Monday asked concerned higher officials to submit an affidavit on what action they will take against the police officials who interrogated these children.“It (HC) has also directed the state government to come up with guidelines so that those guidelines in the future will be a law for the police, whenever they are interrogating children,” according to the advocates on record for the petitioners.The students of the 4th, 5th and 6th grade of Shaheen School were subjected to interrogation after a local Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) activist, Neelesh Rakshyal, on 26 January 2020 filed a case against the school authorities over organising a play ‘Hum Kaghaz Nahin Dikhayenge’ (We will not show our document), a popular poem penned by comedian Varun Grover, that allegedly portrayed Prime Minister Narendra Modi in poor light, on January 21.One parent’s decision to stream the play on a social media platform exposed the school to intense scrutiny in the border district, about 676 kms from Bengaluru. Rakshyal had alleged that the head of the school had performed anti-national activities by spreading negative opinion about the Parliament’s laws among the students, spreading communal tension and inciting the public to oppose the legislation.The charges of sedition against the school authorities, arrest of two people (a parent and teacher) and the interrogation of students no older than 12 sitting scared on the floor when police questioned them, made national headlines last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-action-on-bidar-school-students-in-violation-of-juvenile-justice-act-karnataka-hc-101629144027421.html
17-08-2021||India||Senior JD(U) leaders skip RCP Singh’s event, Nitish Kumar says all well in party||The factionalism within the ruling JD-U in the state has finally come to the fore with senior party leaders including party national president Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh and party parliamentary board president Upendra Kushwaha maintaining distance from the programme organized to felicitate former party president and Union minister RCP Singh. Despite the denial by all top leaders, including chief minister Nitish Kumar, the chasm between supporters of Lalan Singh and RCP Singh is increasing. One example of this was the posters put up in Patna to welcome the Union minister. The posters initially didn’t have the photographs of Lalan Singh or Kushwaha, which raised a hue and cry in party circles. The pictures were restored after that. Kushwaha feigned ignorance about any such felicitation programme and said, “I have not been invited.” “’I have not received information about this nor has any letter come, so how can I join. I have to go to Jehanabad for an event. I came to know about his visit through the media,” Kushwaha said. Kushwaha, who joined JD(U) in March this year, however, was quick to add that there was no factionalism in the party. “There is no factionalism in the party. Those who are indulging in such things will fall in their places,” he said. “The disappearance of national president Lalan Singh’s picture from the banner poster made to welcome RCP Singh is intolerable. Lalan Singh is the national president of the party and his role should be understood by everyone,” said Kushwaha. Nitish Kumar on Monday laughed off the talks of factionalism. “If someone becomes the national president, he is welcomed. If someone becomes a Union minister, he is being welcomed. There is no factionalism, no difference in the party,” said Kumar after his Janata Darbar on Monday. Kumar went on to say that it was he who made RCP Singh the national president of the party. “When he became a minister at the Centre, he wanted to pass on the baton to Lalan Babu. So don’t be under any kind of confusion,” said Kumar. With rumours of factionalism in the party surfacing, Union minister RCP Singh said in Patna that he has a very cordial relation with Lalan Singh. “There is only one leader Nitish Kumar in the party while others work under him,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-jd-u-leaders-skip-rcp-singh-s-event-nitish-kumar-says-all-well-in-party-101629143669338.html
17-08-2021||India||In swipe at present day leaders, Rahul Gandhi says they should learn from Mahatma’s actions||On a three-day visit to his constituency in Wayanad in north Kerala, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said whatever the Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi said he translated into action and present-day people in power would do well to draw lessons from his teachings and actions. “The powerful thing about Gandhiji was that whatever he said he put into action. If he said India should be tolerant then he behaved in a tolerant way. He said India should be a secular country and he behaved in a most secular manner. He had Gita, Bible, Quran and Guru Granth Sahib as his guide,” he said while unveiling the statue of Mahatma Gandhi in Mananthawady. Later he had sadya (rice on plantain leaf with many traditional curries) with tribal students from the district who had cracked the common law admission test. The district was in the news in the first week of August after 9 students cleared the CLAT, seven of them from the Kattunayakkan community, most backward and vulnerable among the district population. “Today we have many people who say the country should be fair and they treat others unfairly. They say they want a secular nation but they themselves view religions differently. For me the statue is much more about the practice than it is about the personality,” he said without taking any names. On his three-day visit (August 16-18), he will be attending many programmes including the inauguration of two drinking water projects. Wayanad turned the first district in the country to vaccinate nearly 100 per cent of the eligible population. Young collector Adeela Abdulla, also a doctor, and a team of committed health officials were lauded by many. Gandhi also called on the collector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-swipe-at-present-day-leaders-rahul-gandhi-says-they-should-learn-from-mahatma-s-actions-101629142467827.html
17-08-2021||India||Parents from Odisha arrested for killing 2 newborns in Goa: Police||Bhubaneswar: Arrest of a 36-year-old man by the Odisha police in a different case led to a shocking revelation of murder of two newborns in Goa, where the accused and two women, all three migrant construction workers, stayed since the nationwide lockdown in March last year until last month, police said on Monday. According to the Odisha police, the three accused, during their stay in Goa, got into a relationship following which the two women gave birth to two children, who were murdered and buried by the trio. Police officials in Kalahandi district on Monday said they arrested the three accused and identified them as 36-year-old Tripal Naik, the two women 30-year-old Gurubari Majhi and 21-year-old Gayatri Nag, all from the same district, on charges of murder of the two newborn babies. “The three took part in the murder and burial of the two newborn male children in Goa. They buried the bodies to hide the heinous crime. Their confessions, post-mortem of the skeletal remains of the newborns by a forensic expert at Goa Medical College and Hospital and DNA fingerprinting cracked the case,” said sub-divisional police officer of Dharmagarh, Dhiraj Kumar Chopdar. Police said the main accused Naik had gone to Goa with Nag and Majhi to work as labours at a construction site before the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March 2020. While several other labourers from Odisha returned home, the trio stayed back at Saper in Goa. “During their stay, Tripal developed physical relationship with Majhi, a widow, and Nag, an unmarried woman, claiming to be unmarried and proposing to keep both of them as his wives. In June this year, Majhi gave birth to a boy. As the baby was not born out of wedlock, she did not go to the hospital and delivered at their home in Goa. As Naik was not ready to raise the child, both of them strangulated the newborn to death and buried the body behind his house. Nag also helped both in disposing of the body,” said Chopdar. After a month, Nag too gave birth to a baby boy. “Gayatri and Tripal then killed the one-day-old baby. After killing her baby, Gayatri covered the body and gave it to Tripal who then buried the body behind his house,” said an official. After few days Naik told the two women that he was already married and suggested both of them to go their own way. On July 4, all of them returned home in Odisha, police said. The murder of the two newborns would have remained a secret if Naik on July 26 would not have come to Borguma village and abducted Nag with assurance of marriage, police said. However, family members of Nag brought her back along with Naik from Brahamaniguda jungle of Kesinga and reported the matter to Golamunda police station. During the interrogation of Naik, police came to know about the murder of the two newborns and subsequently arrested Gayatri and Gurubari. Police exhumed the skeletal remains of the newborns from Saper in Goa on August 5 in the presence of an executive magistrate and also seized the pickaxe used by the accused for digging pit. Postmortem of the skeletan remains by assistant professor at Goa Medical College, Dr Panag S Kumar, proved that the newborns were children of the two women, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parents-from-odisha-arrested-for-killing-2-newborns-in-goa-police-101629140850127.html
17-08-2021||India||Maoism affected districts down to 70 for the first time: MHA||New Delhi The number of districts affected by left-wing extremism (LWE) has declined sharply to 70 in 10 states for the first time in over three decades, with Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand showing the biggest improvement, according to a map of the Maoist insurgency redrawn by the ministry of home affairs. Of these, only 25 districts in eight states are now categorised as “most affected”. Uttar Pradesh is now free of Maoism, according to the home ministry’s revised list, accessed by HT. Until two months back, about 90 districts in 11 states were affected by LWE which received central assistance under the Security Related Expenditure (SRE) while 30 districts in seven states were categorised as “most affected”.“Overall, the incidents of LWE violence have reduced by 70% from an all-time high of 2,258 in 2009 to 665 in 2020. Similarly, the deaths of security forces and civilians have come down by 80% from all time high of 1,005 in 2010 to 183 in 2020,” said an officer, requesting anonymity. The home ministry, upon considering the improved security situation, reduced violence and development work, decided to revise the list from July 1. According to the list, only 70 districts in 10 states are affected and are covered under the SRE scheme. Under SRE, districts affected by left wing extremism get assistance from the Centre for the purpose of reimbursement of security-related expenditure such as transportation, communication, hiring of vehicles, stipend to surrendered Maoists, construction of infrastructure for the forces, etc. People familiar with the development said the shrinkage of geographical spread of LWE influence is evident in reduced violence in the last six years (from 2015 to 2020), with 47% fewer incidents compared with the preceding 6 years (from 2009 to 2014). Subsequently, security forces have opened multiple camps inside the jungles which used to be the stronghold of the Maoists, due to which insurgents are not able to carry out frequent attacks, over 2,300 mobile towers have been installed, close to 5,000km of roads have been constructed, and other infrastructure work is being carried out. Former director general of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) K Durga Prasad said: “The recruitment of Maoists have come down, their leadership is old, and the party ideology is missing among the young cadres due to which the pockets of their activities have been restricted enormously over the years. There is also better intelligence sharing between agencies, disruption of logistics chains like weapons, money and food items and they are not able to recruit cadres from any state other than Chhattisgarh.” According to the revised list, Bihar, where the Maoists once enjoyed widespread support among the poor, has shed the highest (six) number of districts in the latest list, with only 10 districts now affected by LWE as compared to 16 till June this year. Arwal, East Champaran, Jehanabad, Muzzafarpur, Nalanda and Vaishali are no longer affected by Maoism. In Odisha, where the state government has a formidable anti-naxal force, the Special Operations Group (SOG), districts affected by Maoism have come down from 15 to 10. Similarly, Jharkhand has shown significant improvement with only 16 districts now affected by LWE against 19 till June. Koderma, Ramgarh and Simdega have been removed from the list. The most affected districts in the state have also come down from 13 to only 8. Chhattisgarh, where the worst violence has been reported over the years, continues to have 14 affected districts. There is no change in the LWE situation in Kerala and West Bengal, where three districts and one district, respectively, are affected by LWE; while Madhya Pradesh now has three affected districts as compared to two earlier. Uttar Pradesh, which had three Maoist-affected districts – Chandauli, Mirzapur and Sonbhadra – is now free of any kind of LWE-related incidents. The government has, for the first time, classified eight districts as “districts of concern” on the basis of inputs from intelligence and security agencies that Maoists are making serious inroads there. These are – Wayanad in Kerala, Kabirdham, Kondagaon and Mungeli in Chhattisgarh, Mandla in Madhya Pradesh, Koraput in Odisha, Garhwa in Jharkhand and Aurangabad in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoism-affected-districts-down-to-70-for-the-first-time-mha-101629140788162.html
17-08-2021||India||SC asks petitioner to approach Centre for treatment expenses under Rare Diseases policy||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Monday directed a woman seeking financial assistance for her husband’s lung transplant to approach the Centre under the National Policy for Rare Diseases 2021 after coming across a news report that talked about a huge sum of over ₹62 crore getting added to the fund under the new policy. This money was reportedly collected as part of a crowd-funding exercise to save a Kerala toddler, suffering from a rare condition, who died recently.The news report that appeared on Monday in leading newspapers caught the attention of the court, which was dealing with the issue of a 31-year-old woman Sheela Mehra hailing from Madhya Pradesh. She approached the court seeking a sum of ₹1 crore to treat her husband, who required a daily expense of ₹1.5 lakh to sustain on an artificial lung-support machine called ECMO (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation) at Secunderabad-based Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences Limited (KIMS). There was a huge outstanding amount of ₹14 lakh to be paid to the hospital and the woman had already spent close to ₹1 crore on her husband’s treatment.The bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai said, “You (petitioner) can apply under the policy (National Policy for Rare Diseases). We have read it in the newspapers that one boy was in need of finances after a petition for him was being considered by the Kerala High Court. Around ₹62 crore was collected but the boy died. This money is now to be transferred to this fund under the National Policy (for Rare Diseases). We can allow you to file representation. Let the Government consider.”The bench was referring to a report with regard to a toddler in Kerala who suffered a rare disease called spinal muscular atrophy for which he frequently required an expensive injection of ₹18 crore. The news led to people contributing generously for the cause. After nearly ₹64 crore was collected, the boy died. Later, a petition was filed by a 41-year old woman, who suffered a rare illness, seeking part of the money collected for the toddler, which was to become part of the fund under the National Policy for Rare Diseases. It was this news that was reported in newspapers on Monday.The petitioner’s lawyer Mukesh Kumar informed the court that already a representation has been moved before the Centre and the MP government based on which the petitioner was allocated ₹3 lakh under the PM CARES fund and ₹2 lakh from the Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Relief Fund. However, the petitioner still needed ₹55 lakh for conducting a lung transplant for her husband Manish Kumar Gohiya whose lungs suffered 100% damage after contracting Covid-19 in May this year.The bench directed a fresh representation to be moved under the 2021 policy to the Centre, PM CARES fund, PM Relief Fund, Madhya Pradesh government and MP Chief Minister Relief Fund. The court directed the concerned authorities to deal with the representation by passing necessary orders.The petitioner also sought an order from court for immediate release of ₹3 lakh from PM CARES as the disbursal was expected to take about three months. The bench remarked, “We will not pass such an order. It is not that the Government has so much of money that they can distribute to all. We know the condition of several other people suffering in this country.”In order to help the petitioner, the court had last week asked the hospital KIMS to be generous and specify if some amount could be waived off.On Monday, advocate M Shrinivas Rao, appearing for KIMS, told the court that the hospital had agreed to provide a 15% waiver on the total outstanding amount. The bench observed, “You are running such a big hospital. What will this 15% be? Anyway, we will not hold anything against you. We will allow the petitioner to file a representation to you (hospital).”“There is a possibility that the petitioner’s husband could be wheeled out of ECMO. Doctors will be taking a call on it tomorrow since the patient’s condition is improving,” the hospital informed the court. When the bench wished to know if the patient does not require lung transplant, the counsel for KIMS said, “In this sort of condition, we do not know whether a person’s condition improves or deteriorates.”After being diagnosed with Covid-19 during the second wave of the pandemic, Gohiya was admitted at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhopal on May 14. He was later shifted in an air ambulance on June 2 to Hyderabad-based Yashoda Hospital where a CT scan revealed that his lungs had suffered 100% damage. He required ECMO machine to survive and the only hospital having this machine was KIMS Hospital. He was shifted to KIMS on July 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-petitioner-to-approach-centre-for-treatment-expenses-under-rare-diseases-policy-101629140489916.html
17-08-2021||India||Bengaluru lakes degrading due to neglect: VP Naidu||Bengaluru Vice President Venkaiah Naidu on Monday mirrored the sentiments of concerned Bengalureans when he pointed out that the water bodies in India’s IT capital were degrading due to neglect and encroachments.“Bangalore (Bengaluru) is blessed with so many lakes and water bodies. Slowly they are getting degenerated because of people’s carelessness and also encroachments at various levels,” Naidu said, breaking away from his speech to make the observations while addressing scientists and students at the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR) at Bengaluru on Monday. Earlier in the day, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai received the vice president while governor Thaawarchand Gehlot accompanied Naidu to the event.Naidu’s comments comes at a time when lakes continue to disappear in Bengaluru on account of rapid and unplanned growth, encroachments and poor maintenance of these water bodies by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP).Bengaluru, once known as the land of a thousand lakes, now has barely 200 of them which are in pitiable conditions.Though the BBMP and the state government earmark hundreds of crores towards rejuvenation of lakes each year, experts state that this is mostly to beautify the surroundings of the lake than the ecology which is far more important than the aesthetics of such water bodies.Even the Vrishabhavathi river, once a source of water for Bengaluru, has now become nothing more than a flowing drain with toxic water on account of unplanned civic infrastructure which allows sewage water directly into lakes and other water bodies, contaminating soil, underground water and impacting the overall quality of life in a city which is known world over for its prowess in information technology, startups and aerospace among other sectors. At least 19 lakes out of the remaining 205 (out of earlier estimates of at least 250) under the BBMP have been termed as disused lakes due to encroachments according to a February 2021 report by CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI).Some of these encroachments are by big builders who then name these projects “lake view” to attract more interest from potential buyers, Hindustan times had reported on March 21.Bengaluru, experts say, is a victim of its own success as it continues to encroach upon lake beds to build apartments and other commercial spaces which has impacted the ecology, making it prone to flooding and an acute drinking water crisis which has forced successive state governments to deprive several districts of Cauvery river water, about a 100 kms away, and pump it into Bengaluru to quench its thirst.The vice president also said that Karnataka chief minister should focus his attention on the “maintenance and rejuvenation” of water bodies in and around Bengaluru and the rest of the state.Naidu also asked the scientific community to come up with out-of-the-box solutions to address challenges faced by mankind like climate change, promote research in emerging areas like computational biology and artificial intelligence and focus on agriculture among others.He also said that agriculture is the “basic culture of the country” and asked the scientific community to focus their attention on issues faced by the farming community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-lakes-degrading-due-to-neglect-vp-naidu-101629140192911.html
17-08-2021||India||New K’taka Cabinet may help Cong revive AHINDA: Experts||The BJP’s decision to follow a dominant-caste strategy, reflected in the replacement of BS Yediyurappa with Basavaraj Bommai – both Lingayats – as the Karnataka chief minister last month, has made it more conducive for opposition parties and leaders to cash in on efforts at mobilising the extremely backward communities in the state, people aware of the developments said.Former chief minister and Congress’s leader of the opposition Siddaramaiah, who came to power riding on his AHINDA strategy in the 2013 state assembly elections, is most likely to benefit from the regrouping of backward classes, the people said.AHINDA is the Kannada acronym for minorities, backward classes, and Dalits.Experts say the environment is conducive to mobilise the support of smaller and marginalised groups, which due to their numbers have the potential to become deciding factors in close election contests.The efforts for mobilisation include taking the legal route to bring pressure on the Bommai government to release the findings of the Social and Educational Survey-2015, better known as the caste census, which was conducted by the Siddaramaiah-led state government in 2015.“A forum of extremely backward classes has started tours across all districts in Karnataka. They have already done it in Kolar and Tumakuru to pile pressure on the government to release the caste census report. They have also gone to court over the matter,” one person aware of the developments said, requesting not to be named. The newly formed Athi Hindulida Jagruti Vedike (Extreme Backward Classes Awareness Forum in Kannada) had approached Siddaramaiah and the Congress, seeking help for making the caste-census report public.Hundreds of small and marginalised groups in Karnataka are denied political, educational and employment benefits as they are largely unorganised and scattered across the state, leaving them at a disadvantage for availing of government-supported benefits or reservations.Mukya Mantri Chandru, the honorary president of the forum, earlier told Hindustan Times that reservation was being given across the country based on unscientific data and that those with no representation in employment, education or politics are often left out.The initiative for mobilisation of backward classes also puts Siddaramaiah on a collision course with his own partymen, especially those like party president DK Shivakumar, who are from dominant communities like Vokkaligas. The forum has also approached Shivakumar for his support.With the Lok Sabha already passing a bill to give back powers on forming OBC lists to the state, Karnataka, which has seen several communities seeking higher share of reservation, is now trying to make the most for lifting of the upper ceiling, which is 50% according to a Supreme Court ruling.But unlike the Lingayats, believed to be the single-largest caste group in the state, backward classes are not consolidated and do not vote en masse.“How do you categorise people and communities unless you get the data. There are different categories of backward classes that include more backward, most backward, microscopic and invisible,” said one person aware of the developments, requesting not to be named.At least 36 caste groups in Karnataka await their turn for a change in reservation status and category as well as corrections in spellings, among other requests, before the Karnataka Backward Classes Commission, people aware of the developments said.But the limelight has been on the dominant caste groups, especially the Lingayats and Vokkaligas, that have been challenged by smaller and more unorganised groups for similar benefits.Yediyurappa had doled out sops in caste-specific programmes as part of the BJP’s outreach to get the backing of communities which are traditionally not known to support the party.The recent reservation-related demands by Panchamasali, Kurubas, Vokkaligas and Valmikis, among others, have added to apprehensions of smaller communities with scattered populations across the state.Siddaramaiah’s attempt to accord the Lingayats with the a separate religion status and make demarcations on Veerashaivas (a term used interchangeably in many parts but also believed to be the Hinduised version of the community) cost the Congress power in 2018, forcing the party to ally with its rival, Janata Dal (Secular), to keep the BJP at bay.Siddaramaiah has a difficult task to get the backing of such groups over members of his own partymen, BJP and JD(S) who are also trying to reach out to these communities.HD Kumaraswamy, the former chief minister and JD(S) leader, said on Monday that Siddaramaiah claims to be the saviour of backward classes but the reality is different.“During Siddaramaiah’s term, homes that were supposed to be given to Dalits were cancelled and given to other communities. I have the information. He is not the only one who is protecting backward communities,” Kumaraswamy said. “In their (backward classes) name, the atrocities committed are many and I have all the details of this. He is not the only one who can save AHINDA. There are many people who have worked hard to protect this group.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-k-taka-cabinet-may-help-cong-revive-ahinda-experts-101629140191537.html
17-08-2021||India||BJP leadership will decide on my future role: Vijayendra||Vice president of the Karnataka Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and son of former chief minister BS Yediyurappa, BY Vijayendra, on Monday said that the national leadership would decide his future role in the state.“There is no question of me aspiring to become a minister or the state president. Ours is a national party, not a regional party, so there are state and central leaders to decide on what position or responsibility should be given at what time,” Vijayendra said in Shivamogga, the home district of the former chief minister.Vijayendra was accused of running a parallel administration under the aegis of Yediyurappa, the then CM, that led to simmering dissent within the BJP unit of the state, which openly called out the father-son duo for corruption.It was speculated that Vijayendra would enter the Basvaraj Bommai cabinet after his father agreed to step down, indicating towards the possibility that Yediyurappa and the BJP national leadership had arrived at some understanding to placate the former.“In the past, Yediyurappa when he struggled for the party by organising marches and rallies, he never did that with an idea to come to power, to become a minister or a chief minister. In the same way, Raganna (brother and Shivamogga MP B Y Raghavendra) and I....I’m working within the party framework as the vice- president,” Vijayendra said.Vijayendra has also been put in-charge of three bypolls so far in the state, of which he managed to secure victory in two, including the BJP’s first ever victory in Mandya district, about 99 kms from Bengaluru in 2019.The BJP is looking to make further inroads into the old Mysuru region where it has little or no presence in terms of political representation, to help it come back to power in 2023 on its own.Yediyurappa and Vijayendra have both stated that they will go on state-wide tours as part of efforts to build the party. With the upcoming Grama and Taluka Panchayati elections, the BJP hopes to increase its presence in grass roots that would later help them in the 2023 assembly elections.“It is the dream of both Yediyurappa and JP Nadda. And to realise that dream, the old Mysuru region should be given importance and I will involve myself more in the region,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leadership-will-decide-on-my-future-role-vijayendra-101629140189368.html
17-08-2021||India||2 held in MP for creating fake voter ID cards||With the arrest of two youths, the Madhya Pradesh police are looking at a possible cyber fraud gang allegedly involved in duping people by getting access to their bank accounts by changing their personal details on Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), or Aadhaar, website, a police officer said. There have been instances of fake Aadhaar cards being created by photo-shopping original Aadhaar letter, but this could probably be one of the few cases where a person’s original details on UIDAI website was changed to get control of their Aadhaar details and linked bank account, the police officer added. The MP police on Friday arrested two people from Morena, who were reportedly working for one Hariom Sakhwar, the prime suspect in the case of illegal access to the Election Commission of India (ECI) website for creating fake voter identity cards. Shakhwar, 18, a resident of Ambah town of Morena, is absconding, police said. A police officer, who is investigating the case, said Sakhwar used to send some link to the two arrested accused -- identified as Akash Jain and Ajay Singh Kushwaha, both 19 years old and unemployed -- for making changes in Aadhaar details by changing the mobile numbers, police said. “They used to create a fake identity document of a person using their biometric details on the UIDAI website through that link within a few minutes,” the officer said. He added that for each change, they would get ₹300 to 400 and most of the times the new identity would be used for a cyber crime. Morena superintendent of police Lalit Shakyawar said, “Jain and Kushwaha used to get ₹300-400 for creating fake IDs. We are investigating the case separately and more revelation will be done after the arrest of Hariom Sakhwar as we are yet to know about the link which he used to send to them for creating fake IDs.” The officer cited earlier said they cannot confirm yet whether the UIDAI system was hacked or the accused used to some other mechanism to make changes in the details of a person. “There are many unanswered questions from their interrogation,” he said. The two accused, who operated a small cyber shop, smashed their computers before their arrest, police said. “We are trying to retrieve data from their systems,” the officer said. Elaborating the modus operandi, police said the two accused would swap mobile phone SIM cards to withdraw money from bank accounts of people. Through SIM swap, the fraudsters would obtain duplicate SIM card and get the original card blocked for some time. In the period when the original SIM is blocked, the accused would use the fake one to withdraw money from the person’s bank account gaining access of the one-time passwords (OTPs). The Uttar Pradesh police on Thursday busted a gang involved in creating fake voter identity cards by accessing the Election Commission’s website by using password of a contractual employee of the commission in Saharanpur. As one of the accused was from MP, the state police started separate investigation into the case. Shakhwar, a school dropout, used to run a cyber café, where he came in contact with another accused Vipul Saini and mastermind Arman Malik. They together created about 10,000 fake IDs, police said. MP Police on Friday detained four friends of Shakhwar and released two of them, who were also teenagers. The other two, Akash and Ajay, have been arrested under Section 420 (fraud) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of IT Act, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-held-in-mp-for-creating-fake-voter-id-cards-101629140190046.html
17-08-2021||India||City starts door-to-door survey to tackle Covid||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) on Monday rolled out its ambitious initiative to send door-to-door a team of health officials in India’s IT capital to monitor general health of residents, collect information and spread awareness on Covid-19 pandemic. The move comes at a time when Bengaluru and the rest of Karnataka are staring at another wave of Covid-19 infections, which appears to be increasing with each passing day. The scheme – “Palike Vaidyaru Nimma Mane Bagilige”(Palike doctors at your doorstep) – will have one doctor and one paramedical staff to collect information on Covid-19 symptoms and comorbidities by going door-to-door as well as provide advice to residents on health care. “In the first phase, two wards each from assembly constituencies, 54 in total, have been chosen and the survey will start on 16 August 2021,” the BBMP said in a statement on Monday. The questions in the survey will include details of residents and family members, health and vaccination details among other information, which will be entered into the BBMP software each day. R Ashok, Karnataka’s revenue minister and in-charge of Bengaluru’s Covid-19 situation, on Monday said the new programme is part of an initiative to ensure safety of the city’s residents. “The first (intent of the new initiative) is to ensure health for Bangaloreans. If anyone tests positive when our team reaches them, then arrangements will be made to move them to hospitals,” Ashok said. He added that health officials will collect information on vaccination coverage and details of comorbidities--diagnosed and undiagnosed--and provide residents more targeted health care requirements. Ashok said the team will reach 50 homes each day with a set of questions. He added that this will build confidence among the residents and reduce any instance of panic. Bengaluru has seen the Covid-19 infections swing to extremes and was overwhelmed in the past two waves as the number of people requiring hospitals far exceeded the number of beds. The second wave, from around March this year, led to one of the worst crises the city and state has seen, when hospitals ran out of beds, oxygen, life-saving medicines and even space to cremate the dead as casualties increased. Karnataka and Bengaluru reported 1,065 and 270 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, respectively. A total of 28 deaths due to the infections were reported from the state on Monday, taking the toll to 37,007, according to the state health department’s daily bulletin. The former chief minister BS Yediyurappa-led government was criticised for its mishandling of the Covid-19 crisis and prioritising election and politics, adding to the challenges that the state had to overcome since the beginning of the pandemic around March last year. The new government under chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has been trying to prioritise Covid-19 management but has faltered in putting an end to political events where hundreds and thousands of people gather to be part of mega events like distribution of ration kits and, ironically, raising awareness on the pandemic. The Bommai government has imposed strict rules like weekend curfew in districts bordering with Kerala and Maharashtra and a night curfew across the state including in Bengaluru. Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the BBMP, said the initiative was part of the preventive measures in the city. He said the administration has brought down the threshold of 10 Covid-19 patients to just three to declare it as a micro-containment zone. He said the BBMP was in touch with over 1,000 apartment complexes with over a million homes in total to ensure that there is enough monitoring of the Covid-19 situation. Bengaluru has 198 wards as on date and Ashok said all wards will be part of their drive within one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/city-starts-door-to-door-survey-to-tackle-covid-101629140187652.html
17-08-2021||India||‘Democracy cannot be held to ransom, Oppn not playing its part’||Bhupender Yadav, the union minister for environment, forests and climate change, and labour and employment,  blamed the opposition for behaving in an autocratic manner and not letting Parliament function during the monsoon session. In an interview,  he said democracy cannot be held to ransom, but works with the agreement, consent and discussion.Edited excerpts: The opposition says the government made no efforts to break the deadlock in Parliament.The opposition did as they pleased. When they wanted a discussion on certain issues such as the OBC Bill they allowed that, when they wanted a division of votes during the passage of any bill, they allowed that, but when the issue did not suit them, or the government wanted to put forth any issue, they did not allow it. People should see this. Democracy cannot be held to ransom; it works on the principle of agreement, consent and discussion. The opposition did not play its part.The opposition also claims that they were not informed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would introduce his ministers on the floor of the house and that this was not listed in the day’s business.The opposition knows that the business is conducted as per the business of the advisory committee’s decision. After that, there is an informal outreach as well. On the OBC bill issue, they allowed the house to run, which means an informal outreach was made. Did they mention the informal outreach when the OBC Bill was taken up or when the division was sought? Ultimately the government could pass some bills but the lawmakers’ right to ask questions was snatched by the protests. They snatched the MPs’ rights to raise questions related to their constituencies, the right of the members to move private members bills. The private member’s bills do not have any government involvement these are selected through the consensus of the House. Then why did the opposition not allow Parliament to run on these issues also? This shows completely autocratic behaviour towards running the house.The opposition also accuses the government of autocratic behaviour. They say despite their demand to send certain bills to select committees for further scrutiny the government does not agree to do so.Even those bills that were sent for further scrutiny were not allowed to be taken up or discussed in Parliament. Ordinances are time-bound; they are taken up as per the urgency of the time, and the opposition has the right to seek amendments to these. There have been instances in the Rajya Sabha when despite having the numbers on its side the government has agreed to (make) good amendments sought by the opposition. When has the government said it will not agree to a good suggestion?What about the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill; even the friendly parties wanted further scrutiny?Bills are sent to select committees when the House takes a decision to do so. But the opposition does not want to follow the first step that is to have a discussion and then agrees or not to move a motion to send the bill to the select committee. Between 2014 and 2019 more bills have been referred to the committees than during the UPA time.Both inside and outside Parliament there is a demand for the caste-based census, even from the BJP’s allies. Will the government agree to the demand since it is expected to come up during upcoming assembly elections?The ministry that undertakes this work (of conducting census) takes feedback from experts. This is still in the discussion stages; no decision has been taken on the issue so far. Unlike some of the parties that have only misled people, we are committed to ensuring social equity and justice through our policies and to the social-economic inclusion of all communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/democracy-cannot-be-held-to-ransom-oppn-not-playing-its-part-101629140128909.html
17-08-2021||India||Meghalaya orders judicial probe into police encounter of militant||Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma on Monday ordered a judicial probe into the police encounter of former Hynniewtrep National Liberation Council (HNLC) general secretary, Cherish Starfield Thangkhiew, a day after protests by the latter’s supporters led to vandalism and arson, prompting authorities to enforce a curfew in the state capital.The chief minister also said that the government is yet to take any decision on a request by home minister Lahkmen Rymbui to relieve him from the portfolio “with immediate effect”. In his resignation letter on Sunday, Rymbui had expressed shock over the protests and proposed a judicial probe into the encounter.“We have decided to institute a judicial inquiry under the Commission of Inquiry Act to look into the events that took place on August 13,” Sangma told reporters soon after chairing a cabinet meeting on the law and order situation on Monday evening.On Rymbui’s resignation, he said: “I have received the letter from the home minister but I have not yet made a decision. I will be examining the matter and will make a decision at an appropriate time.”The government also decided to extend the curfew in Shillong by 24 hours, till 5 am on August 18. The curfew, which came into effect at 8 pm on Sunday, was initially slated to continue till 5 am on August 17. Internet services in Shillong will also remain suspended for 24 hours, the chief minister said.Data services in the districts of East Khasi Hills, West Khasi Hills, South West Khasi Hillis and Ri-Bhoi were already withdrawn for 48 hours on Sunday.Thangkhiew, who surrendered in 2018, was suspected to be the mastermind of a spate of IED attacks, police said. According to director general of police R Chandranathan, he was shot dead on August 13 after he allegedly attacked a police team with a knife when they tried to arrest him in connection with two IED blasts at Laitumkhrah on August 10 and Khliehriat police reserve on July 14, respectively.During his address to the media, Sangma also revealed that the cabinet has decided to set up a ‘Peace Committee’ headed by deputy chief minister Prestone Tynsong and comprising cabinet ministers H Dohling and R Tongkhar to restore law and order in the state. “This committee will also co-opt members from the civil society organizations, religious organizations, Synjuk Ki Rangbah Shnong and others,” he said.Besides this, the chief minister said he will head a sub-committee with Tynsong and home minister Lahkmen Rymbui to look into the situation.“This committee will look into the different aspects of law and order, future threats that there may be, and at the same time look at the overall strengthening and functioning of the police,” he added.Three companies of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and two companies of Border Security Force (BSF) have already arrived and the state government has sought an additional five companies of Central Armed Paramilitary Forces (CAPF) to assist the state in containing the law and order situation in Shillong, Sangma said.“We have spoken to the home secretary. I (also) had a detailed discussion with Union home minister Amit Shah yesterday twice. He assured us of full cooperation and support,” he said.On the effect of suspension of internet services on students amid online classes, the chief minister said: “We realise the inconvenience that is being caused to the students but the overall law and order situation is our priority. Though they will be having some concerns and some difficulties which are unavoidable at this time, the priority of the government will always be to maintain law and order.”Meanwhile, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma requested Sangma to ensure the safety of people stranded in the hill state due to the curfew clamped since Sunday.Retweeting an appeal for help on Twitter by a person who’s wife and son are stranded in Shillong, he said: “For your information and necessary action @SangmaConrad”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-orders-judicial-probe-into-police-encounter-of-militant-101629140127787.html
17-08-2021||India||Congress accuses Centre of evading query on purchase of Pegasus||Opposition leaders accused the Union government on Monday of evading a simple question of whether it used the Pegasus spyware to snoop on Indian citizens after the Centre told the Supreme Court that it will set up a committee of experts to investigate the allegations.The government’s stand came following the week when it had to cut short a torrid monsoon session of Parliament, where opposition MPs were unrelenting in calling for deeper investigations and answers from the government. Gopal Aggarwal, national spokesperson of BJP said the government has already said that “lawful interception is its right” and “no one can deny it the power to combat terrorism and other crimes through surveillance.”“There are two things… government has the right of interception and it is a matter of internal security. Now, if there is an unauthorised interception, only the legal investigation can find it out. Congress is trying to make it a political issue than trying to investigate (it),” Agarwal said.Reacting to Agarwal, Congress national spokesperson Gaurav Vallabh said that the government was just beating around the bush and the magnitude of the problem was so big that it needed a high-level investigation and not just an FIR.“Our question has been same (from the beginning) … that whether government purchased Pegasus or not. Why is this question not being answered simply in yes or no?” he asked.Vallabh added that the defence ministry is saying that we had not purchased it in defence ministry but why does not PM say that this was not purchased for any ministry at all.“Also, why did the budget of national security council secretariat have an exponential increase under the research and development heading? What has the government of India done with that money?” Vallabh questioned.He added that if the government has used it, then there arises another question as to why did they use a terror combating weapon against democracy of the country.“But the government is dodging the question. They are trying to answer it in a way that if one asks them that did they heat up the water, they say no we boiled it. The issue needs a one-line answer that whether they purchased the spyware or not.”CPI (M) leader and Rajya Sabha MP Jhon Brittas who is also a petitioner in the court desisted from commenting over the issue. He said that there have been directions by the court to not speak over this sub-judice matter.TMC did not respond to calls from HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-accuses-centre-of-evading-query-on-purchase-of-pegasus-101629140007595.html
17-08-2021||India||Bengal’s new e-service to clear building plans, mutation, trade licence in 15 days||West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra and urban development minister Chandrima Bhattacharya on Monday launched an extensive e-governance programme under which building plans and applications for mutation of property and trade licence will be processed and cleared online in 15 days in all urban areas. Only the twin cities of Kolkata and Howrah, where these services are already being offered, will be out of the new system, Mitra said at a virtual press conference. “These two urban areas have some exclusive by-laws as well,” he added. Urban local bodies (ULB) of all categories will offer the three services. Applicants will be able to register their complaints online if there is delay or any irregularity. The government will send its feedback through text messages and e-mails. Fees for the services will also be calculated online. “Nobody has to visit government offices anymore,” said Mitra. “The service for building plans will benefit around 15 million people in 60 ULBs of which five are corporations and 55 are A, B and C category civic bodies. The service for mutation will benefit people in 123 ULBs while 20 million people will get trade licence in all ULBs. We will include the 39 ULBs of D and E category in the next three months,” said Mitra. “Transparency is a salient aspect of the service. I have talked to finance ministers from several states. None of them offer these services on such a large scale,” said Mitra In the single-window system, which has been given the catch line, ‘You click, we serve,’ applicants will have to provide only proof of identity and ownership of property. Earlier, they had to physically submit multiple documents, said state chief secretary H K Dwivedi. “An application will be deemed cleared if not processed in 15 days. Clearing building plans sometimes takes time since it involves physical verification of property. However, civic bodies will be liable to pay penalty under the West Bengal Right to Public Services Act if there is excessive delay,” said Bhattacharya. “Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has set an example in e-governance. Government offices, engineers and architects have undergone extensive training over the last few months. The fire services department, the power department, the National Monuments Authority and the Union civil aviation ministry, whose clearances are required for building plans, are integrated in the system. We have a toll-free helpline and an online helpdesk as well,” said Bhattacharya. “Earlier, people had to wait for months although, on paper, these jobs were supposed to be done in 30 days. We now have one centralized system for all civic bodies. The moment an entry is made, it will be checked automatically,” Dwivedi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengals-new-e-service-to-clear-building-plans-mutation-trade-licence-in-15-days-101629139947745.html
17-08-2021||India||Need new birth forms for single mothers: HC||The Kerala High Court on Monday directed the state government to prepare separate birth and death forms for children born to single unwed mothers through the assisted reproductive technology (ART) which did not carry details of the father. The court held that since the right of single mothers to conceive through ATR and other procedures is recognised the column regarding the father’s details in birth certificates violates the right to privacy, liberty and dignity of mothers. It directed the government to create separate forms for such mothers at the earliest. The direction came on the plea of a divorced woman, who later conceived through In Vitro Fertilisation procedure. While filling the form for birth certificates father’s details are must under the Kerala Registration of Birth and Deaths Act (1970). The petitioner contended that she received the sperm from a sperm bank and even she has no idea about the contributor and repeated requests to fill the form in full (with father’s details) intrudes upon her privacy and liberty. She also said the certificate leaving the father’s details blank will lead to further questions in future and it will affect her privacy and dignity. Later the court agreed to her contention. “It falls within the realm of the right of privacy. There is no rhyme or reason to insist the petitioner provide the name of the father in the form prescribed for registration of birth and death. Leaving the father’s column blank will later affect the mother and child’s dignity,” the court said directing the government to prepare separate forms for such mothers. “By the passage of time evolution of new technique, change in lifestyle and personal choices recognised by the rule of law need appropriate modifications/changes and additions,” the court observed. Since the petitioner is in the 8th-month pregnancy the court directed the government to take immediate steps to create separate forms for mothers like her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-new-birth-forms-for-single-mothers-hc-101629139827541.html
17-08-2021||India||Current rulers should learn from Gandhi: Rahul||On a three-day visit to his constituency in Wayanad in north Kerala, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said whatever Mahathma Gandhi said, he put it into action, and present-day rulers will have to take many lessons from his teachings and actions. “The powerful thing about Gandhi Ji was that whatever he said he put it into action. If he said India should be tolerant then he behaved in a tolerant way. He said India should be a secular country, and he behaved in a mostly secular manner. He had Gita, Bible, Quran and Guru Granth Sahib as his guide,” he said while unveiling the statue of Mahatma Gandhi in Mananthawady. Later, he had a Sadya (rice on a plantain leaf with many traditional curries) with tribal students from the district, who cracked the common law admission test. The district was in the news in August first week after nine students cleared the CLAT, seven of them from the Kattunayakkan community, most backward and vulnerable among the district population. “Today, we have many people who say the country should be fair and they treat others unfairly. They say they want a secular nation, but they view religions differently. For me, the statue is much more about the practice than it is about the personality,” he said without taking any names. On his three-day visit (Aug 16-18), he will be attending many programmes, including the inauguration of two drinking water projects. Wayanad turned the first district in the country to vaccinate nearly 100 per cent of the eligible population -- young collector Adeela Abdulla, who is also a medical doctor and a team of committed health officials were lauded by many. Gandhi also called on the collector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/current-rulers-should-learn-from-gandhi-rahul-101629139771695.html
17-08-2021||India||Will fix irregularities before waivers: Stalin||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Monday said that his government will implement schemes to waive farm loans and gold loans only after they rectify malpractices, which they have found running to the tune of several crore rupees in these schemes. “Though we intend to implement these schemes, there are several irregularities,” said Stalin. “Even when we made calculations for waving farmers’ loans, irregularities run up to several crores. This will be rolled out after the system is rectified.” It was a heated discussion between the DMK and opposition AIADMK during the first day of the debate in the Assembly on the revised budget that was presented last week by finance minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan. Former AIADMK minister R B Udhayakumar accused the DMK of tabling the white paper on the state’s finances ahead of the budget only to wriggle out of its election promises. Stalin assured that the three-month-old DMK government will not back on its election promises and went on a counter-attack blaming the AIADMK for not implementing several of its election promises, such as offering free mobile phones, wifi in public places, Amma mineral water and subsidised ration. “It’s a huge list. But concerning waiving farm loans and gold loans, the cooperation minister I Periyasamy would submit the irregularities in these schemes with evidence during his reply to the debate on the demand for grants in his department,” Stalin said. After the assembly session speaking to HT, Udhayakumar said that they didn’t get into the issue of farm and jewellery loans. “It’s the new government’s opinion (that there are irregularities) and let them do what they have to (by conducting an enquiry). We cannot stop them,” he said. “All we are saying is that they have to prioritise social security schemes the way we did even when the state’s finances were tight. The white paper has not brought out any new information. But they are using it as a reason to delay implementing the schemes. Did they say before elections that they will identify those eligible for the scheme and then implement? Why are they taking a difference stance now? And they haven’t said anything about the criteria for eligibility.”The previous AIADMK regime in February, close on the heels of the model code of conduct coming into effect, had announced a crop loan waiver taken by 1.643 million farmers from cooperative banks. “That government left us with the onerous legacy of meeting the cost of the scheme estimated at ₹12,110.74 crores,” Rajan had said while presenting the Revised Budget Estimates 2021-22 on August 13 and allocated a provision of ₹4,803.95 crores. The irregularities that Rajan listed were: a large number of loans were disbursed just before the announcement of the scheme, violations at the individual beneficiary level, including disbursal of loans without crop details as per the Adangal. At the cooperative society level, some societies have disbursed loans without obtaining sanctions or without the release of cash credit from the District Co-operative Credit Banks. “In some cases, societies retained loan collections and disbursed them again, which amounts to ever-greening of the portfolio,” he said. In the case of agricultural jewel loans to the DMK says that it was found that jewels were not valued properly and were short in weight or poor in quality. “Writing off such loans amounts to rewarding wrongdoers,” Rajan had said. He added that a preliminary assessment shows that it is a similar case regarding jewel loans and they want to enquire so that only the truly eligible beneficiaries are benefitted. Besides, the malpractices in the system, the revised budget had indicated that welfare schemes and subsidies will be provided only after identifying true beneficiaries by taking up a data collation exercise to understand the true economic status of all the households. The white paper had stated that the state will have to reorient to targeted subsidies so that it goes only to the poor for whom it was intended to control overspending. The subsidies, which accounted for 12.6% in 2006, have currently risen to 27% of the state’s total revenue expenditure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-fix-irregularities-before-waivers-stalin-101629139769836.html
17-08-2021||India||Mandaviya announces ₹267-cr aid for Kerala||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday announced a special package of ₹267.35 crore for Kerala to strengthen its health infrastructure to fight the second wave of the Covid-19 outbreak. Having rushed to the state in the wake of high caseload, Mandaviya met Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and state health minister Veena George and officials in the state capital on Monday. “We will provide all possible help to the state. Besides this amount, ₹1 crore will be made available to each district to create a medicine pool. The Centre will also ensure creation of a centre of excellence that caters to telemedicine facilities in every district,” the minister tweeted after his marathon talks with the CM and others. He added the state will be given top priority in allocation of vaccine. In another tweet, the Union minister, said, “Under the visionary leadership of PM @NarendraModi ji, Central Government has assured all possible help to Kerala, including providing vaccines to the State.”“Had an intensive meeting with the CM and health minister and officials. The Centre is committed to help the state. For prioritising health of children, paediatric ICU will be established in each district hospitals with 10 kilo-litre liquid oxygen storage tank facility,” Mandaviya tweeted. Later a senior state health official, who did not wish to be named, said talks were fruitful and the central minister was studious and aware of problems being faced by the state. The state also raised its long-pending demand for an AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Science) in the state, the official added.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the Union minister expressed satisfaction over the ongoing containment and mitigation measures of the state. “We told we need enough doses to inoculate maximum people in coming months. We sought 1.11 crore doses. The minister assured us the Centre will try its best to send enough vaccines,” the CM said in a Facebook post.For more than a month, the state has been reporting half of the total caseload of the country and its test positivity rate is four times higher than the national average. With only 3% of the nation’s population, the state has been contributing more than half of the total cases for the past few weeks and its case trajectory has baffled medical experts and others. Pointing out that the Union government rushed an experts’ team to the state in the first week of August and it visited eight districts during the week-long tour, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan, who is from the state, said two days back that the Centre was really worried over the pandemic situation in the state. Meanwhile, the state reported 12,294 cases on Monday with a TPR of 14.03% after 87,578 samples were tested, according to the state health ministry. It also reported 142 deaths, taking the to 18,743 in the state. Malappuram remained top on the Covid-19 chart with 1,693 new cases. The active caseload in the state stood at 1,72, 239. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 32,937 cases with TPR less than 3%. The Kerala government is keeping a high vigil during the ongoing Onam festivities and many experts have warned another surge after the festival. With inputs from Delhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandaviya-announces-267-cr-aid-for-kerala-101629139767460.html
17-08-2021||India||BJP kicks off Jan Ashirwad Yatra with new ministers||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday launched Jan Ashirwad Yatras from different parts of the country, accusing the opposition of jeopardising democracy by stalling the recently concluded monsoon session of Parliament. Thirty nine ministers, who were inducted into the Union council of ministers on July 7, will be part of these yatras across 22 states.On Monday, close to a dozen central ministers participated in the yatras organised to introduce the newly inducted ministers to the people and tell them the party’s version of the washout of the monsoon session of Parliament. This was decided after Prime Minister Narendra Modi was not able to introduce his council of ministers in both houses of Parliament on account of the opposition’s protest, seeking a discussion on the Pegasus snooping controversy, the farmers’ agitation and price rise.At one such yatra undertaken by Union environment minister Bhupendra Yadav, the mainstay of his speech was the opposition’s alleged efforts to derail the session. “The Parliament is for discussion not dancing on the tables. The books kept there are for reading not ripping apart…” he said at a public meeting organised to felicitate him in Alwar, Rajasthan.Yadav, an OBC leader who before being inducted as minister was the party’s national general secretary, in charge of seven state elections, dubbed the disruptions as “disrespect” and said, “…A big change in India’s polity is about to come, it has begun with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The opposition did not allow him to introduce the ministers, this is an insult to the people. And when the time comes, the people of this country will give them (the opposition) a befitting reply.” The government had earlier alleged that the opposition, by not deferring to the tradition of introducing ministers in Parliament, showed disregard towards the representatives from the socially and educationally backward classes, women and other marginalised sections, who have been given a place at the high table.This was reinforced in Coimbatore on Monday by L Murugan, minister of state for information and broadcasting, when he accused the opposition Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and Congress of not allowing him to be introduced in Parliament as he was a Dalit. “DMK has been in power for 20 years but did they make anyone from a poor and ordinary family a Union minister? No,” said Murugan, who was the former Tamil Nadu BJP president.Taking a dig at the DMK government in Tamil Nadu, Murugan said that through his induction and several others from backward communities as Union ministers PM Modi showed the spirit of social justice. “Modi ji is the true champion of social justice,” said the minister, who had earlier served as the national SC/ST commission’s vice-president. “I’m from a poor and ordinary family. Congress and DMK didn’t want a person like me, who is now a Union minister, to be introduced,” Murugan said while beginning his three-day tour. Union minister of state for education, Annapurna Devi, at her constituency Koderma, called the Narendra Modi goverment an inclusive government that gives representation to all sections of society. “The basic philosophy of the BJP is to work for Antyodaya, that is the last man standing. The Narendra Modi government works with the mantra of Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas. I thank the PM for giving me an opportunity. In today’s cabinet, there are 11 women, 28 OBCs, 12 SCs and 8 belonging to the ST community,” she said. Annapurna Devi, the second MP from Jharkhand to join the Modi cabinet after tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda, is a former Rashtriya Janata Dal veteran. She was the Jharkhand president of the Lalu Prasad Yadav-led RJD when she switched sides and joined the BJP ahead of the 2019 general elections. Newly-inducted Union ministers Bharti Pawar (health and family welfare), Kapil Patil (MoS Panchayati Raj) and Bhagwat Karad (MoS finance) also took out their yatras in different parts of Maharashtra.In Gujarat, Union ministers Mahendra Munjapara and Devusinh Chauhan embarked on the yatra a day after Union minister Darshna Jardosh (MoS railways and textiles) started her tour from Karamsad town on Sunday. The vehicle rally of junior women and child development minister Mahendra Munjapara, an MP from Surendranagar, began from Ahmedabad, while Kheda MP and junior communications minister Devusinh Chauhan started his yatra from Palanpur in Banaskantha district.Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya and junior fisheries minister Parshottam Rupala will start their yatras from August 17. In Bihar, the yatra will start from August 19.Following the opposition’s unrelenting protest in both Houses of Parliament that saw proceedings affected, the government has accused the opposition of disrespecting parliamentary etiquette, wasting public money and flitting from issue to issue instead of taking up debates and discussion. A delegation of seven Union ministers on Sunday submitted a memorandum to the Rajya Sabha chairperson Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu to take stern action against what they alleged is “unprecedented, extreme and violent acts” in the Upper House in the final hours of the disruption-hit monsoon session on August 11. That day, there was ruckus in the House following which at least two marshals complained about being manhandled by some opposition lawmakers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpkicks-off-jan-ashirwad-yatra-with-new-ministers-101629139647995.html
17-08-2021||India||Repatriation of Indians hit as chaos clouds Kabul airport||India on Monday pledged to stand by its partners in Afghanistan following the country’s takeover by the Taliban even as the repatriation of Indian officials and nationals was paused because of chaos at Kabul airport, where thousands of Afghans rushed in, some so desperate to escape the Taliban that they held onto a military jet as it took off, and plunged to their deaths.At least seven people were killed around the airport, with the circumstances not being entirely clear — some likely died in a stampede while gunshots too were heard.All flights at the airport — both military and civilian — were halted until Afghan civilians can be cleared from the runway, a Pentagon official told the Associated Press.Late on Monday, hundreds of people remained trapped between American forces trying to push them out of the airport and Taliban forces trying to keep them in, witnesses said.In India, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the government was working to facilitate the repatriation of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus who wish to leave Afghanistan as well as some Indian nationals who are still in the war-torn country.“The security situation in Kabul has deteriorated significantly in the last few days. It is changing rapidly even as we speak,” Bagchi said in the first official reaction from the Indian side since the fall of President Ashraf Ghani’s government on Sunday.The sudden closure of Hamid Karzai International Airport threw schedules for the few remaining airlines operating flights to Afghanistan into disarray, including Air India, which cancelled a flight to Kabul scheduled for 12.30 pm on Monday.“Commercial operations from Kabul airport have been suspended [on Monday]. This has forced a pause in our repatriation efforts. We are awaiting the resumption of flights to restart the process,” Bagchi said.Without giving details, he added, “There are also a number of Afghans who have been our partners in the promotion of our mutual developmental, educational and people-to-people endeavours. We will stand by them.”Bagchi said the Indian side is in touch with representatives of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus and will “facilitate repatriation to India of those who wish to leave Afghanistan”.At the same time, the Indian side is “aware that there are still some Indian nationals in Afghanistan who wish to return and we are in touch with them”.Last year, the Indian government helped more than 380 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus to travel to the country.People familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity that the government is likely to grant refuge to other Afghans who face threats or fear persecution by the Taliban, including civil society activists, journalists and human rights workers.Two NOTAMs or notices to airmen — official notices containing essential information on flight operations — issued by the Afghanistan Civil Aviation Authority said the Kabul airport’s civilian side was “closed until further notice” and airspace over the city had “been released to the military”. The second NOTAM advised all “transit aircraft to reroute” and cautioned that “any transit through Kabul airspace will be uncontrolled”.The storming of the airport raised questions about how much longer aircraft would be able to safely take off and land. The US military and other Western forces continued to organise evacuations, and AP reported the head of the US Central Command met senior Taliban leaders in Qatar and “won their agreement to establish an arrangement under which evacuation operations” can continue without interference.The people cited above said that a few hundred Indians, including diplomats, officials and security personnel posted at the embassy in Kabul, and journalists and citizens were currently in the Afghan capital. Military aircraft have been on standby for evacuation flights and two C-17 Globemaster heavy-lift aircraft of the Indian Air Force have been sent to Kabul via Iranian airspace since Sunday.One of these aircraft returned on Monday, again flying over Iran in order to avoid Pakistani airspace. Officials were tight-lipped about the evacuation flights, citing operational reasons and security concerns, and didn’t give any details, including the number of Indians brought back.Though the Taliban said that fighters in Kabul had been instructed to protect the “life, property and honour” of people, there were reports of the group conducting house-to-house searches to identify people who had worked with the government or US forces, government employees, musicians, reporters and women journalists.Taliban spokesman Suhail Saheen tweeted on Monday night: “We assure all diplomats, embassies, consulates, and charitable workers, whether they are international or national, that not only no problem will be created for them on the part of IEA (Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan) but a secure environment will be provided to them, Inshallah.”However, the people cited above said such assurances couldn’t be taken at face value given the group’s reputation and long-standing links to Pakistan’s security establishment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/repatriation-of-indians-hit-as-chaos-clouds-kabul-airport-101629139232484.html
17-08-2021||India||Concession on 2 daughters rejected in UP draft population bill||The Uttar Pradesh Law Commission on Monday submitted to chief minister Yogi Adityanath a controversial draft population control bill that proposes to bar people with more than two children from local body elections, government jobs, increments and promotions, and restrict their welfare benefits.The 232-page draft of the Uttar Pradesh Population (Control, Stabilization and Welfare) Bill, 2021, was finalised after the commission went through roughly 8,500 public suggestions received over the past fortnight. Some controversial suggestions -- such as keeping people with two daughters outside the ambit of the law -- were rejected.“Rising population is a cause of concern for every nationalist...the commission studied all suggestions in detail and incorporated suitable revisions,” said justice (retired) AN Mittal, chairman of the commission, in a written message addressed to the chief minister.“The state law commission has submitted the draft bill on population control to the chief minister, recommending a specific law for checking population growth,” added justice Mittal, a former judge of the Allahabad high court.The government is likely to table the draft bill in the assembly soon, said people aware of the developments. The monsoon session of the assembly is scheduled to run from August 17 to 24.Uttar Pradesh is scheduled to go the polls early next year.On July 9, the commission uploaded the draft bill on its website seeking suggestions in 10 days (till July 19) from the public. The commission received 8,500 responses on email; out of this, 8,200 backed the draft legislation and 300 opposed it, said the commission.But the draft bill immediately stirred a row, with some experts saying the provisions violated constitutional rights and was aimed at particular communities. Opposition politicians also questioned the timing of the draft bill’s release, alleging it was aimed at vote consolidation ahead of the polls.At least nine other states -- including Rajasthan, Assam and Odisha, among others -- have adopted two-child norms for limited purposes, mainly for limiting candidature in local body elections. The ambit of the draft UP bill has a wider sweep.In its report to the CM, the commission rejected the argument that it violated the right to privacy.“In no way, the right to life and liberty as provided in Article 21 of the Constitution of India is being curtailed. Moreover, if a couple does not want to adopt the two-child norm, then he is free to do so but certain disincentives have been provided under the bill, which cannot be claimed as of right,” the commission said in the report.The draft bill recommends various benefits to public servants and ordinary people who adopt the two-child policy, including financial incentives. It also recommends special benefits to those who have one child and exemption to couples from the two-child policy in case of multiple births out of the second pregnancy and revocation of incentives in case of breach of the two-child norm.Those in breach of the two-child norm may find their government promotions and increments blocked, their ration and other government benefits curtailed, and candidature and nomination to local elections and bodies cancelled -- if the recommendations are accepted. Such people cannot apply for government jobs or receive government subsidies, the draft bill proposes. Exceptions have been carved out for people with disabled children, or in the case of the death of a child.“It shall come into force on the appointed date as may be notified by the state government in the gazette and different dates may be appointed for different provisions of the act,” recommended the draft bill.The commission rejected many suggestions received. Prominent among them were stopping people with more than two children from voting, fighting state and national elections and accessing reservation benefits.It also dismissed a suggestion to allow a third child after two daughters.“The commission has made recommendations for a third child in case there is disability of first or second child or there occurs death of child or any of the child is transgender. It shall be a never ending process to give birth to more children in quest of a male child,” said the commission.The panel also accepted several suggestions, including more incentives for poor families and women from marginalised castes and tribes.The commission expanded benefits for sterilisation from below-poverty-line families to anyone who underwent the procedure voluntarily, and said it was acceptable to link the policy to Aadhaar.On a suggestion that in polygamous relationships, the two children should be counted per man, not woman, the commission said, “Taking into consideration, the large number of suggestions, this aspect shall be reconsidered.”The commission said that if the draft bill becomes law, it should be implemented one year after its notification in the gazette.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/concession-on-2-daughters-rejected-in-up-draft-population-bill-101629139231877.html
17-08-2021||India||Supreme Court slams govt inaction on tribunal vacancies||The Supreme Court on Monday put the Union government in the dock over “making tribunals virtually defunct” by not filling up vacancies, while also questioning the rationale behind re-enacting the very same provisions for the administration of tribunals that were struck down by the court last month. A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, added that it has not come across any debate in Parliament or sufficient reason why the same provisions have been brought back by the government in the new Tribunals Reforms Bill when they failed to pass muster in terms of constitutionality earlier. The bench, which included justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, was hearing petitions by advocate Amit Sahni and the Bar Council of Madhya Pradesh when it reproached the Union government for delay in filling up more than 200 vacancies across 15 tribunals in the country even after recommendations made by selection committees, which are usually led by a sitting Supreme Court judge. “We can show you (instances)...Recommendations pending for one year, one year and four months. And we get the same reply every time — ‘It is under process.’ This phrase ‘under process’ means nothing in fact,” the bench told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who represented the Centre. Giving the government 10 days to show progress in appointments, it remarked: “There are tribunals which are on the verge of becoming defunct...It is a serious issue. Just tell us, the tribunals have to function or should they wrap up? This is the only issue now.” The bench also questioned how and why the Union government opted to bring back the same provisions under the Tribunals Reforms Bill which were nixed by the top court on July 14. By its July judgment, the apex court struck down provisions of the Tribunal Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) Ordinance, 2021, fixing the tenure of members and chairpersons of tribunals at four years. The court said the tenure has to be for five years. However, the new Bill which has been passed by both the Houses of Parliament, re-enacted the same provision, keeping the tenure at four years. Similarly, the minimum age requirement of 50 years, which was quashed by the court in July, still finds a place in the new Bill. The court ruling held that the provision relating to the recommendation of two names for each post by the Search-cum-Selection Committee (SCSC) and further, requiring the decision to be taken by the government preferably within three months, is violative of the Constitution. But the new Bill puts this stipulation back in the statute. Referring to the Bill, the bench pointed out that the Supreme Court has been passing directions regarding the tenure and service conditions of the chairpersons and members of the tribunals since 2017 but the issues were far from being settled. “I have not come across any debate that took place in the Parliament. In spite of all these (court directions), a few days back we have seen, the ordinance which was struck down has been re-enacted. You have come up again with the same rules. We are not commenting on the Parliament proceedings. Of course, the legislature has the prerogative to make laws. At least we must know why the government has introduced the Bill despite being struck down by this Court,” observed the CJI. Justice Ramana referred to a news report which quoted the statements made by Union finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on the floor of the House. “Please show us any debate...what reasons were there? The honourable minister has said just one sentence, that the court has not struck down the provisions on grounds of unconstitutionality. There is no reason given. It is a serious issue. What should we make of this Bill? The tribunal has to function or should they be wrapped up?” the bench asked Mehta. The SG said in response that the Bill has been passed in the wisdom of the Parliament and the new law is not under challenge before the court. “The government introduced the Bill. The ministry must have prepared a note for reasons. Can you show us that?” the CJI asked the SG, who replied that the Bill was yet to be notified as an Act and it will not be proper for him to respond until the notification. The bench then adjourned the matter for August 31 but clarified in its order: “Pendency of the writ petitions and special leave petition before this court shall not come in the way of the Union of India and/or taking an excuse by them for not processing or appointing members in various tribunals.” On August 15, speaking at the Independence Day ceremony, CJI Ramana rued the “sorry state of affairs” in Parliament, where, he said, laws are being passed without constructive debates, leading to legislation with “a lot of ambiguities”. “(Now) we see legislation with a lot of gaps, a lot of ambiguities in making laws. There is no clarity in laws. We don’t know for what purpose the law is made...which is creating lots of litigation, inconvenience, loss to the government and inconvenience to the public.” On August 6, the bench asked the Union government if it wanted all tribunals to be wrapped up since they are unable to function due to a massive shortage of manpower. It had asked the SG to consult with competent authorities and inform the bench about appointments in the tribunals. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-slams-govt-inaction-on-tribunal-vacancies-101629139231402.html
17-08-2021||India||Sisodia writes to HM on O2 deaths panel||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that the he has written to Union home minister Amit Shah, urging him to issue directions to lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal to approve expert committee investigation to determine the numbers of deaths due to shortage of oxygen during the Capital’s fourth wave of Covid-19 infections in April-May.Sisodia, in a video statement, said that a file concerning the matter has been resent to Baijal’s office on Monday, and urged that there be more “transparency” in the matter. The Union home minister’s and L-G’s offices did not respond to requests for a comment.In his letter to Shah, Sisodia called it an “irrefutable fact” that shortage of oxygen caused deaths during the recent wave of the pandemic, according to a copy seen by HT. He also alleged that the central government acted in a “hurry” while claiming in Parliament last month that states reported no deaths caused by the shortage.“Deaths caused by shortage of oxygen in Delhi cannot be denied and the Delhi government is in favour of getting it probed. The Delhi government formed a committee for that and the file was sent to lieutenant governor. Today, I have sent the file again to him. We need a probe on the matter. I have highlighted deaths caused by oxygen shortage in a country’s capital in the 21st century is a big thing. As a responsible government, we should not run away from such questions. If needed, we have to improve our systems. Good governance demands more transparency,” said Sisodia on Monday.Sisodia confirmed he had written to Shah. “I have also written about the matter to the Union home minister. We are aware that the central government is also collating data on deaths caused by oxygen shortage. But the numbers cannot be ascertained without a probe. I requested him to issue directions to the lieutenant governor to approve the setting up of an expert committee on oxygen deaths so that we can share accurate details with the central government and use the findings for better governance in future.”The Union home ministry and the lieutenant governor’s office did not comment on the matter.At its peak, Delhi recorded around 28,300 cases in a day on April 20 and the positivity rate exceeded 36% on April 22. Around that time, at least 31 people are believed to have died because of oxygen shortage in two separate incidents in two hospitals – Jaipur Golden and Batra. On May 4, the Delhi government told the Delhi High Court that an expert committee could not ascertain whether 21 deaths at Jaipur Golden Hospital had happened because of oxygen shortage. Later, health minister Satyendar Jain said that it was a “preliminary report”.In June, the Delhi government proposed another expert committee to ascertain the number of deaths caused by oxygen shortage but Baijal did not give it approval, citing a similar committee set up by the Union government – eventually leading to a tussle between the elected government of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Delhi and the lieutenant governor, who is an appointee of the Centre.On July 20, the central government told the Parliament that states recorded no specific cases of deaths caused by oxygen shortage during the Covid-19 pandemic. With that, the AAP government in Delhi, revived its demand for setting up its own expert committee on the matter.“It is an irrefutable fact that during the dreaded second wave of Covid-19 many citizens lost their lives due to shortage of medical oxygen in the country including Delhi during the months of April and May 2021… The Delhi government, realising its responsibilities and accountability towards the family of those who had lost their relatives due to Covid-19 had constituted a high-level committee of medical experts to investigate the incidents in death in Delhi due to lack of oxygen. But unfortunately, the lieutenant governor of Delhi stopped the formation of the high-level enquiry committee at that time,” said Sisodia’s letter sent to Shah on Monday.It further said, “After the issue (of deaths caused by oxygen shortage) was raised in the Parliament, an email was sent by the Union government to all state governments on the evening of July 26 seeking data whether any data is being maintained by them about the deaths due to shortage of medicines, medical equipment, medical oxygen, medical oxygen cylinders, etc… In a hurry on the basis of records made available or non-available, (the) union government in a hurry claimed that no death had occurred due to shortage of oxygen in the country during the second wave of the pandemic. It appears that the government of India does not want to face the truth and somehow hide the deaths that happened due to shortage of medical oxygen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sisodia-writes-to-shah-urges-him-to-tell-lg-to-approve-o2-deaths-probe-panel-101629139048106.html
17-08-2021||India||Indians stuck in Afghanistan struggle to return home||Indian citizens scrambling to escape the Taliban occupation in Afghanistan are facing several challenges, ranging from the inability to get in touch with any embassy official and a sealed airport to difficulties in getting Covid test reports as necessitated by the Indian government for taking a flight, even as the ministry of external affairs on Monday said that the Centre will “ensure the safety and security of Indian nationals in Afghanistan”.A 32-year-old man from Kolkata, West Bengal, working with a local non-government organisationin Kabul for the last two years spent Monday morning in vain trying to reach the Hamid Karzai International airport only to find out that it was shut for commercial flights.Taliban fighters swept into Afghanistan’s capital on Sunday after the government collapsed and President Ashraf Ghani left the country.According to a NOTAM (notice to airmen) issued by the Kabul airport authorities on Monday, the Afghan airspace has been released to the military and any aircraft transit through it “will be uncontrolled”. In another NOTAM, it was stated that the civilian side of the Kabul airport has been shut down until further notice“I managed to reach Kabul airport but there were 8,000 or 9000 people trying to get a flight, none of them had tickets. They were out of control and the airport was guarded by Taliban and they couldn’t control the crowds and so they opened fire. I was running to save my life and later on I came to know that commercial flights are banned and only military flights are allowed,” said this person, who didn’t want to be identified for fear of persecution.India on Monday said it will take all steps for the security of Indians and its interests in Afghanistan and facilitate the repatriation of Sikhs and Hindus who wish to leave the war-torn country.“The security situation in Kabul has deteriorated significantly in the last few days. It is changing rapidly even as we speak. The Government of India has been closely monitoring all developments in Afghanistan,” said external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi.“We had circulated emergency contact numbers and had also been extending assistance to community members. We are aware that there are still some Indian nationals in Afghanistan who wish to return and we are in touch with them,” Bagchi added.While speaking to HT, sirens of police vehicles could be heard behind him. “Even the world’s best analysts couldn’t predict that they (Taliban) will take over so soon... we thought it would take weeks,’’ said this person.He said that he was in touch with several other Indians who were also stranded but they had not heard or got any response from the Indian embassy.“I was supposed to take the last flight out yesterday but couldn’t get a Covid negative report as mandated by the Indian authorities for taking a flight to India. So I booked today’s (Monday’s) flight,’’ he said.“From news reports, we got to know that C-17 flights have been sent by India for evacuation mission but we cannot enter the airport so the embassy needs to respond to our calls and messages... Our lives are in danger,” he said.India had kept C 17 Globemasters on standby for evacuation missions. One of them was sent to Afghanistan on Sunday and a second one took off from the Hindon air force station on the outskirts of Delhi on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-stuck-in-afghanistan-struggle-to-return-home-101629139046923.html
17-08-2021||India||Expert panel to review requests for 3 vaccines||Three significant Covid-19 vaccine-related reviews are expected in the forthcoming meetings of the subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Organisation (CDSCO) sometime this week, according to people familiar with the matter.On top of the review list will be Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila’s emergency use authorisation application for its Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D.The company made the application on July 1 for its three-dose DNA technology-based vaccine, and since then the government’s expert panel has been looking at the rolling review of the trials data that the company submitted as part of the approval process.The interim phase 3 data that the company has presented shows primary efficacy of 66.6%.“The expert panel that is considering the application had sought some more data from the company. It will be difficult to say whether the approval will be granted for sure in the next meeting or not as these are domain experts who follow a thorough process, and need to be convinced about the robustness of the data presented before them. Nothing can influence their decision, so people must rest assured that when approval is given, it is foolproof,” said an official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.If approved, it will be the second complete make-in-India Covid-19 vaccine to receive emergency use authorisation after Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, and the world’s first plasmid DNA vaccine for human use.The company had earlier announced that there was enough data to show that the two-dose ZyCov-D regimen also worked equally well as the three-dose regimen that it was originally meant to be. Relevant data was submitted to the regulator for scrutiny.What makes ZyCoV-D an important Covid-19 vaccine is that it has also been tried in about 1,000 children above the age of 12, who were enrolled along with 27,000 other participants at 50 sites across the country for the trial.“If the data supports the claim, it could be the first Indian vaccine allowed for use in children,” said the official.The company’s managing director, Sharvil Patel, last month announced that the company should have a production capacity of about 10-12 million doses per month.Another emergency use application that might be up for consideration with the expert panel is of Serum Institute of India (SII) that applied earlier this month to the national drugs regulator for approval of the Indian version of the American Novavax vaccine that will be manufactured locally under the brand name Covovax.The expert panel may look at the data, but the decision to launch could be hampered by the bottleneck that the vaccine’s developers are facing with the US’ Food and Drug Administration, SII”s chairman and managing director Dr. Cyrus Poonawalla had said last Friday.People familiar with the development said that the trial data could still be reviewed by the regulatory body even if the decision to launch the product is deferred.“Even if the launch of a vaccine is delayed for any technical reasons, the regulators can always look at the data from the trials — both local as well as global — to know about the safety and efficacy of the vaccine in general and review. Production process is different from regulatory processes,” said a government official on condition of anonymity.According to SII CEO Adar Poonawalla, the company began clinical trials of Covovax in March and the production of the the first batch began in June.“It is what is called stockpiling which SII also did for Covishield before the vaccine received emergency use approval in January. It is called production at risk,” said the second official.The subject expert committee might also deliberate on the Russian-made single-dose vaccine, Sputnik V, which is being called Sputnik Light. In July, while responding to their application, the CDSCO expert panel had asked the authorised distributors, Dr Reddy’s laboratories, to not go ahead with separate bridging trials for the lighter version and submit the phase 3 data from Russia instead. The data could also come up for review in the upcoming meeting.“The next meeting, whenever it happens, will have some important discussions. The approval process has been streamlined and fast-tracked keeping in mind the pandemic scenario,” said the first official cited above.Meanwhile, also to fast-track quality checks of Covid-19 vaccine batches, the Centre has approved another lab— Hyderabad’s National Institute of Animal Biotechnology— for batch-testing and release of vaccines. Currently, there is a central lab in Kasauli that alone conducts the quality checks.“The move is aimed to strengthen the vaccine supply chain and boost the largest vaccine drive,” said the Union health ministry in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-panel-to-review-requests-for-3-vaccines-101629138988893.html
17-08-2021||India||Worried over safety, 150 Sikh, Hindu families huddle up in Kabul gurdwara||AMRITSAR: Concerned over their safety in Afghanistan, particularly after the fall of Kabul to the Taliban, “nearly 50 Hindus and 270 Sikhs” have taken refuge at Gurdwara Karte Parwan in the national capital, making desperate efforts to be evacuated from the war-torn country. Talking over phone to HT, Narinder Pal Singh, a member of parliament in Afghanistan stranded at the Kabul gurdwara said, “Approximately 100 Sikh families are staying at the gurdwara. Though we are feeling safer here, we cannot say anything as the situation is uncertain. There are no flights for us to be evacuated out of the country but we are trying to make arrangements.” Singh is son of Avtar Singh Khalsa, a member of parliament, who along with other Afghan Sikh leaders and activists was killed in a suicide bomb attack in 2018 at Jalalabad. Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said, “I am in constant touch with the head of the Kabul gurdwara committee. We have been informed that more than 320 members of minority communities (nearly 50 Hindus and 270 Sikhs) have taken refuge in Karte Parwan Gurdwara Sahib in Kabul in wake of recent developments.”He said, “The Taliban leaders have met them and assured them of their safety. We are hopeful that Hindus and Sikhs would be able to live a safe life despite political churning in Afghanistan.” Hira Singh, a leader of Afghan Sikhs who migrated to India and now lives in Delhi, said, “There are a little more than 60 gurdwaras in Afghanistan. Sikh families were earlier staying at seven gurdwaras of Kabul, two in Jalalabad, two in Ghazni among others. But now, most of them are camping at Gurdwara Karte Parwan in Kabul.”  “I am in touch with our fellow community members in Afghanistan but they are not speaking to us for last two days. I tried calling them twice since today (Monday) morning, but they are declining my calls. We are also worried.” “As per my information, the Sikhs are safe at the Afghan gurdwara. Fortunately, no untoward incident has happened with them yet,” he said. He said, “The Sikhs left Jalalabad and travelled 150 km to the Kabul gurdwara. They are also carrying saroops of Guru Granth Sahib and sacred gutkas (handy books of gurbani) and pothis (gurbani scriptures) from historic Guru Nanak Darbar gurdwara and another Sikh shrine at Jalalabad.”  The men are guarding the foundry wall of the gurdwara, HT has learnt. On the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, some mischievous elements tried to open the gurdwara gate, but those guarding the shrine are learnt to have foiled the attempt. Former DSGMC chief Manjit Singh GK also met Delhi-based Afghan Sikh leaders. “We shall do our best to help our brethren there,” he said. “Though the Taliban have assured them of their safety, their evacuation is paramount in such a situation. We are establishing contact with the Centre as well as representatives of the Canada and UK governments to carry them to safety,” said Ravi Singh, founder head of the Khalsa Aid, a humanitarian organisation. Puneet Singh Chandok, president, Indian World Forum, said, “We are in constant touch with ministry of external affairs (MEA), Air India and some international agencies for early evacuation of Indians and Indian-origin people from Afghanistan.” Meanwhile, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi on Monday said India is also in touch with representatives of the Afghan Sikh and Hindu communities in Afghanistan and will facilitate the repatriation of those who wish to leave that country. “The situation in Afghanistan is being monitored on a constant basis at high levels. The government will take all steps to ensure the safety and security of Indian nationals and our interests in Afghanistan,” Bagchi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worried-over-safety-150-sikh-hindu-families-huddle-up-in-kabul-gurdwara-101629138686797.html
17-08-2021||NA||Buck stops with me, won't pass this on to another US prez: Biden||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:The buck stops with me: Joe BidenUS president Joe Biden says that four presidents oversaw the war in Afghanistan. He says he is ready to take in the criticism but will not pass on this war in Afghanistan to another President. Biden blamed Trump and Ghani during his speech. He said Trump made a 'bad deal' as it was unclear whether the ceasefire would continue after May 1 (the date set for withdrawal by Trump who brokered the deal with Taliban and Afghanistan) and accused Ashraf Ghani of cowardice. Will defend our people devastatingly if required: BidenBiden says US citizens, allies and Afghans who helped the US and its allies will be protected by the US. He says that the troop withdrawal will be completed successfully. Told Ghani to go for a political solution but he did not listen: BidenThe US president says that he asked Afghanistan president Ghani to go for a political solution but the latter disagreed and said the Afghanistan army would fight the fight against Taliban. "But they didn't," said US president. Biden also expressed his surprise on how quickly Taliban occupied Afghanistan. Stand squarely behind my decision, there was never a good time to withdraw our forces, says BidenBiden says Americans should not fight a war which Afghanistan armed forces are not willing to fight. The US president says Afghanistan leaders fled and their armymen received economic help, logistical help and even salaries but their armed forces crumbled in front of the Taliban.Biden says Mission Afghanistan was not meant for nation buildingUS President Biden says Mission Afghanistan was aimed to capture Osama Bin Laden and was never intended for nation building.Union health minister to visit Assam tomorrowUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya to visit Assam tomorrow to review the Covid-19 situation in North-Eastern states and also to review construction works at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Changsari.Pentagon says 'leadership was missing in Afghan govt'Pentagon blames Afghanistan over Taliban seizing power, says 'leadership was missing in Afghan government.'''All military and civilian flights halted at Kabul airport': PentagonAll military and civilian flights halted at Kabul airport, reports AFP quoting Pentagon.27 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, no deathDelhi reports 27 fresh COVID cases and 73 discharges in the last 24 hours. Active cases: 467Total discharges: 14,11,582 Death toll: 25,069 (no new deaths) pic.twitter.com/Knpihcf6W4Delhi logs 27 new Covid-19 cases, 73 recoveries and 0 deaths as total tally reaches 1,437,118.Museums, entertainment parts in Bengal to open from tomorrowWest Bengal govt allows museums, ASI protected monuments and entertainment parks to open from Tuesday at 50% capacity. IT and ITES sectors allowed to function with full employee strength after employees are vaccinated.Biden to speak on Afghanistan situationI will be addressing the nation on Afghanistan at 3:45 PM ET today."I will be addressing the nation on Afghanistan at 3:45 PM ET today," tweets US president Joe Biden.'Taliban not honouring promises': Afghan ambassador to UNTaliban is not honouring their promises and commitments made in their statements at Doha and at other international forums. People are living in absolute fear: Ghulam M Isaczai, ambassador and permanent representative of Afghanistan to UNOver 7.7 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered today: Health ministryMore than 7.7 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered today so far. A total of 550,520,038 vaccine doses administered have been administrated till now: Union health ministryMaharashtra logs 4145 new Covid-19 cases and 100 deathsMaharashtra reports 4145 new Covid-19 cases as against 100 on August 15. Daily deaths fall to 100 as against 130 on Sunday. Total cases at 6,396,805 including 135,139 deaths.Goa reports 62 new Covid-19 cases and 5 deathsGoa reports 62 new Covid-19 cases, 96 recoveries and 5 deaths in the last 24 hours. Total cases reach 172,568.‘In touch with representatives of Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan’: MEAWe’re in touch with representatives of Afghan Sikh and Hindu communities; we’ll facilitate repatriation of those who wish to leave Afghanistan: MEA spokespersonKerala logs 12,294 new Covid-19 cases and 142 deathsKerala logs 12,294 new Covid-19 cases, 18,542 new recoveries and 142 deaths. Test positivity rate at 14.03%.Afghan military plane crashes in Uzbekistan: ReportsAfghan military plane crashes in Uzbekistan, reports AFP citing defence ministry.US troops have temporarily halted evacuations from Kabul, says officialUS troops temporarily halt evacuations from Kabul to clear air field, reports Reuters quoting a senior defence officialWith 10 new patients, Delta Plus variant cases in Maharashtra at 7610 new cases of Delta Plus variant found in Maharashtra: six in Kolhapur, three in Ratnagiri and one in Sindhudurg, taking the total number of cases in the state to 76. Five of these 76 patients, have died: Health DepartmentMeghalaya orders judicial probe into HNLC leader's deathMeghalaya orders judicial probe into the death of former HNLC leader Cheristerfield Thangkhiew who was killed in an encounter last week.Court sends businessman Gautam Thapar to judicial custodyA Delhi court sends businessman Gautam Thapar to judicial custody in connection with an alleged bank loan fraud case. Thapar was recently arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).Over 550 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in IndiaIn record-breaking progress, India administers 55 crore #COVID19 vaccines.Let's strengthen India's fight against CoronavirusLet's get vaccinated!समस्त देशवासियों को 55 करोड़ वैक्सीनेशन पूर्ण होने की बधाई। आइए टीका लगवाएं और कोरोना से लड़ाई को और मज़बूत करें। pic.twitter.com/JZnS6R2gTO“In record-breaking progress, India administers 55 crore Covid-19 vaccines,” tweets Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.Punjab Police say arrested 2 alleged militantsPunjab Police last night arrested two militants allegedly associated with a UK-based terrorist entity, to avert a possible terrorist attack on or around Independence Day. The police also seized a huge cache of arms and ammunition, including 2 hand-grenades and a pistol: PoliceWilling to develop friendly ties with Taliban, says ChinaChina says willing to develop 'friendly relations' with the Taliban regime in Afghanistan.Sushmita Dev joins TMCFormer Congress leader Sushmita Dev joins TMC in Kolkata, in presence of party leaders Abhishek Banerjee and Derek O'Brien.‘Whatever Gandhiji said, he put into action’: Rahul GandhiThe powerful thing about Mahatma Gandhi was that whatever he said, he put into action. So, if he said India should be a tolerant country, then he behaved in a tolerant way. If he said India should treat its women with respect, he treated women with respect: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in Wayanad, KeralaUttarakhand extends Covid-19 curfew till August 24Covid-19 curfew to remain in force in the state from 6am on August 17 to 6am on August 24; vaccination exercise to continue during the curfew: Uttarakhand govtMeenakshi Lekhi kickstarts 'Jan Ashirvad Yatra' from a vaccination centre in DelhiUnion Minister Meenakshi Lekhi kickstarts 'Jan Ashirvad Yatra' from a vaccination centre in Delhi.Pakistan halt flights to AfghanistanPakistan's state-run airline says it has halted all flights to Afghanistan's capital of Kabul because of the “uncertain security situation” there.UN Security Council to meet on Monday to discuss Afghan situationWith Kabul falling into the hands of the Taliban, the UN Security Council under India’s current Presidency will hold an emergency meeting on the situation in Afghanistan on Monday, the second time in just over a week.At least five killed at Kabul airport: WitnessesAt least five people were killed in Kabul airport as hundreds of people tried to forcibly enter planes leaving the Afghan capital, witnesses told Reuters.Several dozen French nationals to be repatriated from AfghanistanSeveral dozen French citizens are to be repatriated by plane from Afghanistan, French Armed Forces minister Florence Parly told France Info radio on Monday, as Western nations scrambled to evacuate their citizens.Wholesale price-based inflation eases to 11.16 per cent in JulyWholesale price-based inflation eases to 11.16 per cent in July, against 12.07 per cent in June: Govt data.Ramanathaswamy Temple in Rameswaram opens for common devotees today after 15 days.Two devotees from Jalandhar, Punjab - Deepak and Aarti - say, "It is the last Monday of Sawan. We are very happy to have been able to come here for the Darshan. We feel fortunate."SC grants 4 weeks extension to Centre to frame guidelines on ex-gratia payment for persons who died due to Covid-19Supreme Court grants four weeks extension to Centre to frame guidelines on ex-gratia payment for persons who died due to Covid-19.Court has fixed matter after two weeks and has asked Government to file an affidavit on compliance of its other directions in June 30 order.Air India's AI 126 Chicago-Delhi flight diverted to Gulf airspaceAir India's AI 126 Chicago-Delhi flight diverted to Gulf airspace due to the closure of Afghan airspace.Afghanistan aviation authority advises transit aircraft to rerouteAfghanistan Civil Aviation Authority (ACAA) said on Monday that Kabul airspace had been released to the military and it advised transit aircraft to reroute, according to a notice to airmen on its website.Due to the closure of Afghan airspace flights can't operateDue to the closure of Afghan airspace flights can't operate, Air India confirms to ANI.Situation in Afghanistan is extremely alarming: Randeep SurjewalaSituation in Afghanistan is extremely alarming. India’s strategic interests are at stake.Safety & security of our embassy and its personnel and Indian Citizens is at stakeModi govt need to wakes up from its slumber and protects Indian citizens in Afghanistan: Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala.Supreme Court grants 10 days time to Centre to make appointments to TribunalsThe Supreme Court has granted 10 days time to the Centre, to make appointments to Tribunals despite recommendations by the selection committees.Union Govt tells SC it will set up a committee of experts to go into Pegasus scandalUnion Government files its reply before the Supreme Court, saying it will set up a committee of experts to go into Pegasus scandal. At the same time, the Government maintains the petitions are based on conjectures & there is no substance in the accusations.SC will hear the case shortly.Malaysia's cabinet has resigned : Science ministerMalaysia's cabinet led by Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin has tendered its resignation to the king, science minister Khairy Jamaluddin said in an Instagram post on Monday.Kinnaur Nigulsari landslide incident: Death toll rises to 25Kinnaur Nigulsari landslide incident: Death toll rises to 25 with the recovery of two more bodies, says State Disaster Management Authority.US troops fire shots in the air at Kabul airportUS troops fire shots in the air at Kabul airport as scores of Afghans crowd onto the tarmac, reports AFP.Centre tells Air India to put 2 aircraft on standby for emergency evacuations from KabulCentre tells Air India to put 2 aircraft on standby for emergency evacuations from Kabul, news agency ANI reports quoting sources.India logs 32,937 new Covid-19 cases and 417 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia reports 32,937 fresh Covid-19 cases and 417 deaths in last 24 hours.Sensex drops 93.74 points to 55,343.55 in opening sessionSensex drops 93.74 points to 55,343.55 in opening session; Nifty slips 26.10 points to 16,503.PM Modi greets nation on Parsi New YearParsi New Year greetings. Praying for a year filled with happiness, prosperity and good health. India cherishes the outstanding contributions of the Parsi community across different sectors.Navroz Mubarak!: PM Modi tweets.Congress leader Sushmita Dev submits resignation letter to Sonia GandhiCongress leader Sushmita Dev said she has quit party with her change in Twitter bio. She was head of mahila Congress.Dev identifies herself as "Former Member, Indian National Congress" in her Twitter bio.11,81,212 samples tested on August 15: ICMRA total of 49,48,05,652 samples tested up to August 15 of which 11,81,212 were tested on August 15, as per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Tokyo 2020 Olympians will be felicitated by PM ModI todayTokyo 2020 Olympians will be felicitated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his residence in Delhi today.Australia extends Covid-19 lockdown in Melbourne, reinstates night curfewAustralian authorities reinstated a night curfew and extended Covid-19 lockdown measures in Melbourne for another two weeks to contain an outbreak of the highly infectious Delta coronavirus variant.PM Modi pays floral tribute to Atal Bihari VajpayeePrime Minister Narendra Modi pays floral tribute on the samadhi of former prime minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee.President Kovind greets people on Parsi New YearOn the occasion of Parsi New Year, President Ram Nath Kovind extended his greetings and said people of the Parsi community have made an immense contribution to several aspects of India's growth and development.Unusual activity detected on the Twitter account of Afghan Embassy"Unusual activity detected on the Twitter account of Afghan Embassy," say Afghan Embassy Sources on recent tweets which were later deleted, reports ANI."I have lost access to Twitter handle of Afghan Embassy India, a friend sent a screenshot of this tweet, (this tweet is hidden from me.) I have tried to log in but can’t access it. Seems it is hacked," tweets Abdulhaq Azad, Press Secretary to Afghan Embassy in India.West Bengal to celebrate 'Khela Hobe Divas' todayWest Bengal will celebrate ‘Khela Hobe Divas’ on Monday, as announced by chief minister Mamata Banerjee last month.PM Modi arrives at 'Atal Samadhi Sthal' on former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee's death anniversaryPrime Minister Narendra Modi arrives at 'Atal Samadhi Sthal' on former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee's death anniversary, Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and other BJP leaders also represent.US military secures Kabul airport perimeterUS military secures Kabul airport perimeter: State Department, reports AFP.US to expand its security presence at Kabul airport to 6,000 troopsThe United States has said that it would deploy as many as 6,000 of its troops at the Kabul airport to ensure safe departure of its citizens and those from its friends and allies from Afghanistan which has now been taken over by the Taliban, in a sudden an unprecedented collapse of the elected regime led by President Ashraf Ghani.Union health minister Mandaviya to visit Kerala today as state battles surge in Covid-19 casesUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will be visiting Kerala on Monday to review the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the state, which has been reporting a surge in infections.US allies urge Taliban to let Afghans leave, warn of 'accountability'US allies urge Taliban to let Afghans leave, warn of 'accountability': Joint statement. "The United States joins the international community in affirming that Afghans and international citizens who wish to depart must be allowed to do so," Secretary of State Antony Blinken wrote on Twitter as the State Department released a statement signed by its close allies.Schools to reopen in Andhra Pradesh from todaySchools in Andhra Pradesh will open for the 2021-22 academic year on Monday. The decision to reopen schools was taken after a meeting with chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on July 23.Puri’s Jagannath temple to reopen for public in 2nd phase from todayJagannath Temple in Puri will be opened gradually for the general public from Monday in second phase in adherence to the Covid-19 guidelines, Covid appropriate behaviour, and physical distancing rules.Parliament session over: After break, fuel prices may begin rising once againState-run fuel retailers have kept automobile fuel rates frozen for almost a month in a departure from the policy of aligning petrol and diesel rates daily by tactically using minor gains of falling international oil prices to offset the need for raising pump rates, three people aware of the development said, reports HTDeath toll of powerful earthquake in Haiti soars to 1,297The death toll from a 7.2-magnitude earthquake in Haiti climbed to 1,297 on Sunday, a day after the powerful temblor turned thousands of structures into rubble and set off franctic rescue efforts ahead of a potential deluge from an approaching tropical storm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-16-2021-101629071112727.html
