18-08-2021||India||CPI minister seeks refugee status for all Afghans seeking relocation to India||A Communist Party of India parliamentarian urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to grant refugee to Afghans who would seek asylum to India, irrespective of their religion, in the wake of the evolving situation after the Taliban laid siege to the country."In light of India's international position and role in South Asia, it is imperative that we allow refugees regardless of their religion. I request the Centre to extend refugee status to all Afghan citizens who wish to relocate to India because of the resurgence of the Taliban," Rajya Sabha MP Binoy Viswam wrote in his letter to Modi, as he called the situation in Afghanistan a “humanitarian and security crisis”, according to news agency PTI.Viswam called upon the government to ensure the safe return of all Indian citizens stranded in Afghanistan. “Given the volatility of the situation, we must closely assess the on-ground conditions and escort these individuals out of Afghanistan as soon as there is a window of opportunity,” he wrote.The spokesperson for the Union ministry of external affairs, Arindam Bagchi, had on Monday said India would facilitate the repatriation of Sikhs and Hindus who wished to leave Afghanistan.India also activated a unit to coordinate repatriation and related matters in Afghanistan over reports of several and Hindu families taking refuge inside a gurdwara in Kabul.The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, the top gurdwara body, on Saturday urged the Centre to ensure the safety of Sikhs living in Afghanistan and make arrangements to bring back those who want to come to India.The CPI parliamentarian urged the Centre to grant visa extension to Afghan citizens residing in India at the moment."I would particularly like to stress this point for all Afghan students currently studying in various Indian institutions. These students are in a vulnerable and helpless situation, and we must offer a safe haven to them," Viswam wrote.The ministry of external affairs announced to introduce a special ‘e-Emergency X-Misc Visa' for Afghans for six months, initially. However, the new category of the visa covers Afghan citizens, irrespective of their religion, who want to visit India temporarily to escape the volatile situation there.The Centre said the special online visa had nothing to do with the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) which seeks to fast-track Indian citizenship for persecuted religious minority communities in the Muslim-majority nations of Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh who arrived in India before December 31, 2014.The Indian government is mulling to grant refuge to Afghan citizens, especially those facing threats or fearing persecution from the Taliban, against the backdrop of the rapid deterioration of the security situation in Afghanistan."Civilian life is of utmost importance and the Indian government must do everything in its capacity to protect the innocent who are victims in this conflict. On grounds of humanity and secularity, I humbly request the Indian government to consider a responsible and inclusive strategy to extend support to the innocent citizens of Afghanistan," he further wrote.India on Tuesday is brought back home its ambassador, Rudendra Tandon, and staff at the embassy in Kabul in a C-17 Globemaster transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-taliban-regime-afghan-refugees-india-asylum-afghanistan-crisis-101629310302480.html
18-08-2021||India||ITBP’s canine soldiers among personnel evacuated from Kabul||As India began repatriation of its personnel from Afghanistan, there were three special evacuees – Maya, Roobie and Bobby - highly trained sniffer dogs of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) who were to be brought back along with the embassy staff and 126 commandoes from the war-torn country following Taliban’s takeover.The director-general SS Deswal categorically told the second-in-command, Ravikant Gautam, in-charge of the security at the Indian embassy in Kabul that “at no cost the K9 soldiers should be left behind”.After all, Maya (female Labrador), Roobie (female Belgian Malinois) and Bobby (male Doberman), were the first responders to any threat faced by the Indian diplomats in the last three years from Pakistan-backed terror groups and thwarted many attempts.As soon as it was learnt that the second Indian Air Force (IAF) C-17 plane was on its way to Hamid Karzai airport for evacuating all the personnel on Tuesday, the handlers of Maya, Roobie and Bobby, made arrangements for the transportation of the canines who are all aged between 5 to 7 years. The first evacuation of around 40 staff of the Indian embassy was done on Monday.The flight reached Delhi on Tuesday late afternoon, following which the dogs were taken to ITBP’s Chhawla camp in South West Delhi, which has a special dog kennel. “They will rest and acclimatize with Indian weather for four to five weeks,” said an official at ITBP’s K9 unit.During their three years’ deployment, the canine soldiers played an important role in the security of the Indian embassy, which was considered to be the second most vulnerable establishment in Afghanistan after American bases.“They have been successfully carrying out anti-sabotage duties at Indian embassies at Kabul for past three years, checking every bag, parcel and article coming inside as well as sniffing any suspicious person. They detected several suspected IEDs (improvised explosive devices) during this time, saving lives of not only Indian diplomats and security personnel but also Afghan civilians working there for the Indian government,” said the officer cited above, without sharing specific details of the incidents.Raised and trained at elite National Training Centre for Dogs (NTCD) of ITBP at Bhanu in Panchkula, Maya, Roobie and Bobby will again be seen in action, this time for anti-Naxal operations in Chhattisgarh.The ITBP was deployed in Afghanistan in 2002 to secure the Indian embassies in Kabul and consulates at Jalalabad, Kandahar, Mazar-i-Sharif and Herat.Over 350 commandoes were responsible for the security of these assets and over the years, they thwarted many attacks on Indian diplomats.While the four consulates were shut on different dates over the last two months due to the Taliban’s advance, the embassy in Kabul was functional till Tuesday.One of the biggest attacks at the Indian embassy was carried out by Taliban’s Haqqani faction in association with Pakistan’s spy agency ISI on July 7, 2008, when a suicide bomber in a Toyota Corolla car tried to enter the premises of the embassy tailing the vehicle of Indian defence attaché Brigadier RD Mehta and Counsellor V Venkateshwara Rao. Two ITBP commandoes timely stopped the attacker’s car, saving many lives. The bombing killed 58 persons including Mehta, Rao and the two commandoes while 141 were wounded.Similarly, there have been many attempts by terrorists to breach the Indian embassy and consulates at Kabul, Mazar-e-Sharif, Jalalabad and Herat over the years but all have been thwarted by the ITBP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbps-canine-soldiers-among-personnel-evacuated-from-kabul-101629307601380.html
18-08-2021||India||‘Consider 1% reservation for transgenders in corporations’: Karnataka HC tells state||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday asked the state government to consider providing one percent reservation for transgender persons in state-owned corporations and statutory bodies. While hearing an intervention application (IA) moved by Bengaluru based organisation, Sangama, a division bench of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice NS Sanjay Gowda said, “The state government has taken an innovative step of providing 1% reservation to transgenders in the Karnataka Civil Services General Recruitment (Rules), 1977. The state government shall consider issuing direction through an advisory to all state-owned corporations and statutory bodies to provide for similar reservations. The state shall place on record appropriate action taken within 6 weeks.” On July 21, 2020, the Karnataka government had informed the Karnataka High Court that it has made provision for one percent horizontal reservation for transgender persons in government employment. “It is submitted that similar horizontal reservation also must be provided for transgender persons in State Boards and state corporations so that transgender persons have equal opportunity in public employment as well. Many of such public boards and corporations have their own statutory provisions for recruitment and do not have their own statutory provisions for recruitment and do not necessarily follow the Karnataka Civil Services (General Recruitment) Rules,” read the petition filed by Sangama. Submitting that there are around 75-80 different state-owned corporations, senior advocate Jayna Kothari, representing the intervenor asked the government to issue a circular to consider reserving 1% for transgender persons in jobs. “We can’t implead each one of them,” she said. The counsel appearing for the state government submitted that these corporations and boards have their own rules and regulations and that the state government can’t coerce them to do something. The matter will be next heard on September 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/consider-1-reservation-for-transgenders-in-corporations-karnataka-hc-tells-state-101629305261317.html
18-08-2021||India||India gave 2L vaccines for UN peacekeepers: Jaishankar at tech platform launch||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday the Indian government provided two lakh vaccines against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease for personnel of the United Nations’ Peacekeeping mission in March this year. Jaishankar, who chaired the UN Security Council's open debate on technology and peacekeeping, this was a reflection of the government’s deep commitment to ‘protecting the protectors’ as peacekeeping continued to play a crucial role in India’s vision for international peace and security.In collaboration with the UN, India launched UNITE AWARE, a technology platform for peacekeeping missions aimed at providing terrain-related information to peacekeepers. The launch came as India assumed the presidency of the 15-nation UN Security Council for August.“It gives me great pleasure to announce that India is supporting the UN in the rollout of the UNITE Aware Platform across select peacekeeping missions. It is based on the expectation that a peacekeeping operation can be visualized, coordinated and monitored on a real-time basis,” Jaishankar said in his address at the UN headquarters in New York.India has contributed $1.64 million towards the project and developed it in partnership with the UN Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the Department of Operational Support.He said UN peacekeeping “simply cannot” afford to cede the information advantage to actors determined to undermine prospects for peace by using modern technology to aid their violent cause, adding 21st-century peacekeeping must be anchored in a strong ecosystem of technology and innovation that can facilitate such operations in implementing their mandates in complex environments.He said the international community must focus on operationally proven, cost-effective, widely available, reliable and field-serviceable technologies that must also prioritise mobility, both in the sense of agile manoeuvrability of mission assets and in the sense of the use of mobile digital / IT platforms.He called for contributing to ensure that technological improvements are continuous and are available on the ground, in the gear that peacekeepers carry and the weapons and tools they use to enhance their mobility, performance, endurance, range, and load-carrying capabilities while guaranteeing their safety and security.A four-point framework to meet contemporary threats include operationally proven and cost-effective technologies, a sound intelligence foundation, continuous technological improvements, and consistent training and capacity-building of peacekeepers in the realm of technology, Jaishankar said.“We are pleased to inform that the council has adopted a resolution on ‘accountability of crimes against UN peacekeepers’ as well as a presidential statement on ‘technology for peacekeeping’, the first such UN Security Council document on this topic,” Jaishankar said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-provided-2l-covid-vaccines-for-un-peacekeepers-jaishankar-says-101629303526245.html
18-08-2021||India||Kerala reports over 21,000 new Covid-19 cases: 5 districts driving the surge||With 21,427 people testing positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19 in Kerala on Wednesday, the state’s total confirmed cases tally reached 3,745,457, a bulletin from the state government showed. Further, 179 people succumbed to the viral infection, taking the death toll to 19,049.Of the 14 districts in Kerala, Malappuram reported over 3,000 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, while three other districts reported over 2,000 new cases and six districts witnessed more than 1,000 new cases. Only four districts reported under 1,000 new cases on the day, however, there too, the count remained above at least 500, data from the bulletin showed.After reporting 12,294 cases on Monday (August 16), the state has seen two consecutive days when the single-day tally remained above the 20,000-mark. On Tuesday, it logged 21,613 new cases and 127 fatalities.Also read | Nadda slams Kerala govt over Covid crisisAs the daily infections in Kerala continue to remain high, here is a look at the districts that are driving the surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-over-21-000-new-covid-19-cases-5-districts-driving-the-surge-101629302144133.html
18-08-2021||India||Migrants trapped in Kabul fear Taliban threats as families worry for them||After the Taliban took over the capital of Afghanistan on Sunday, Sujit Maurya, a resident of Bhaishat village in Barhalganj block of Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur district, is concerned about the safety of his brother Ranjit Maurya who is trapped in a steel factory near Kabul.“I talked to Ranjit on his mobile on Tuesday evening. He told me that around 28 people from various districts of Uttar Pradesh were trapped in the factory. The owner of the factory, a resident of Afghanistan, assured them safety, food and lodging,” he said.“My brother panicked after a Talibani commander visited the factory along with fighters on Tuesday. The commander told my brother and other people from UP that Afghanistan was now under the control of the Taliban and Islamic law had been enforced in the country. Everyone had to follow the new law, else they should be ready to face the consequences,” Maurya said.“The passport of all the workers is with the factory owner, who assured them that once the work in the factory was completed he would make arrangements for their return home. Uncertainty prevails in Afghanistan and we cannot rely on the Taliban. All the workers have urged the Indian government to arrange for their safe return,” he said.The wife and three children of Ranjit staying in the village had urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath to arrange for the return of Ranjit and other people, he said.The family members of Nitish Kumar Gupta, a resident of Bhaluani village in Deoria district, are also praying for his safe return home. His father Srinand Gupta said, “We are in regular contact with Nitish on his mobile. The 28 people staying in the factory have been kept in separate rooms. The factory owner has told them not to venture out till the situation normalises”.“The factory owner said he did not have trained personnel to run the factory, so once the work was completed or he hired the local people, he would arrange for their return to India. Nitish as well as other workers want to leave Kabul as soon as possible,” he added.The anguish of the family members of Dinesh Chaudhary, a native of Rampur village and Jangbahadur, a resident of Shyamdeurwa in Maharajganj district is no different.Jangbahadur’’s wife Dharmawati said, “My husband called me on Tuesday. He said the situation in Kabul was deteriorating fast after the city fell to the Taliban. The threat issued by Taliban commanders has added to their agony. I along with my five daughters pray for his safe return home.”Anita, wife of Dinesh said, “Earlier my husband worked at Kandhar but around six months back he shifted to a factory in Kabul. I, my in-laws and two children stay in the village. The central government transported several people from Kabul on Tuesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi should also arrange a flight for the return of my husband and other Indian workers trapped in the factory,” she said.Harkhu Chauhan, father of Dharmendra Chauhan of Narau village in Azamgarh district, said, “My son is also staying with other workers in the factory in Kabul. He called me on Tuesday evening and told me that they were getting meals and other facilities in the factory, but the movement of the armed Taliban fighters around the factory had triggered panic among them.”Shailendra Shukla, a resident of Dubauli village near Chauri- Chaura town in Gorakhpur district, said in a WhatsApp call from Kabul, “I work as a welder in a steel factory near Kabul. I arrived on July 16 with the hope to earn for the family but after the withdrawal of the US army and the advent of the Taliban, the situation changed fast. Now I and other workers are praying for our safe return home. The threat issued by the Taliban commander has added to our agony. The owner of the factory has told us not to venture outside else we might be targeted by the Taliban fighters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-trapped-in-kabul-fear-taliban-threats-as-families-worry-for-them-101629302141532.html
18-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Maharashtra govt says Covid-19 second wave is under control and all the latest news||2nd Covid-19 wave in state under control, says Maharashtra govtThe Maharashtra government noted on Wednesday that the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in the state is under control. Read MoreOver 300 Dehradun residents stranded in Afghanistan, Uttarakhand CM assures helpAmid the crisis in war-torn Afghanistan following its capture by the Taliban, over 300 Dehradun residents who had gone for employment are stranded in the country while pleading with the government to evacuate them, HT has learnt. Read MoreUS, UK and EU nations call for protecting Afghan women's rights as fears riseAs many as 21 nations, including the United States and United Kingdom on Wednesday issued a joint statement wherein they expressed their concerns about the rights and freedom of Afghan women and girls following the recent takeover of the war-torn nation by the Taliban. Read More‘India’s opening pair find ways to score. Our top 3 seem to have no intention of scoring’: Lloyd slams England top-orderEngland openers Rory Burns and Dom Sibley are going through a tough phase in their respective Test careers. Read MoreRealme Book (Slim) laptop launched in India today, CEO calls it 'the most important part of our ‘1+5+T’ strategy'Realme hosted a special event today during which it launched its next-generation Realme GT 5G and the Realme GT Master Edition smartphones. In addition to these smartphones, Realme also introduced a new product category in India by launching its first-ever laptop called the Realme Book (Slim). Read MoreKatrina Kaif and Vicky Kaushal's fans celebrate reports of their roka; her team has this to sayFans of Katrina Kaif and Vicky Kaushal woke up on Wednesday to rumours and reports of the actors' roka. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-maharashtra-govt-says-covid-19-second-wave-is-under-control-and-all-the-latest-news-101629298428145.html
18-08-2021||India||Over 300 Dehradun residents stranded in Afghanistan, Uttarakhand CM assures help||Amid the crisis in war-torn Afghanistan following its capture by the Taliban, over 300 Dehradun residents who had gone for employment are stranded in the country while pleading with the government to evacuate them, HT has learnt. Among those stranded, the majority of them are ex-servicemen who used to work for private security agencies assisting the now collapsed elected government. They are stranded in major cities of the country including the capital Kabul, Kandhar and Herat. In Kabul alone, at least 300 people from Dehradun are stranded while waiting to get evacuated for India. Providing a glimpse of the sensitive situation in Afghanistan after the return of the Taliban, a group of men from Dehradun who were working for Kabul had sent a video to their families and relatives back home in which they could be seen pleading the Central government to evacuate them as soon as possible. One of them, shooting the video with his mobile phone, said, “We are 140 men stranded here in Kabul since last four days. We all are in a single room with nothing proper to eat. Nor have we slept for the last few days, but sitting in a cramped situation in one room.” “We are appealing to the government to evacuate us as soon as possible from here to India. We will be highly grateful as the situation outside is very dangerous,” said the man in the video whose name couldn’t be revealed due to security reasons. One of them, while speaking to HT over WhatsApp while describing the situation said, “After the regime change, our employer had abandoned us to our fate without helping us in leaving the country.” “The situation outside is very dangerous and uncertain. The Taliban are roaming and patrolling the streets outside and we don’t know what to do. We have asked for help from the ministry of external affairs for evacuation who have assured us of help. But, we don’t know how will it happen and when will it happen. We just want to go home,” said the man, a resident of Clement Town area of Dehradun. Another man from Dehradun who is stranded with at least 100 others in Kandhar shared similar fears“We all are here in a big hall of our office compound with the Taliban patrolling the streets instead of police. However, they haven’t done anything yet and assured us that they will let us go without any harm, once the situation normalises. We are getting proper food which is not a problem. The only thing that is bothering us right now is when will we be able to leave,” said the man on the condition of anonymity. He added that “About 90% of the men stranded in our group hail from Dehradun while the remaining are from Darjeeling.” While the men are stranded in Afghanistan waiting to get evacuated, their family members in Dehradun are spending tense days worrying about their safety. Ruchi Thakuri, the wife of a man stranded in Kabul, said, “Since the quick political developments on Sunday, I am very worried about my husband. I am just stuck to TV and mobile all the time to know when they would be evacuated.” “I was able to speak to him yesterday night and he said that they all are safe but worried for their evacuation. We appeal to the government to help them get back to India as soon as possible,” she said. Amid the reports of residents of the state stranded in Afghanistan, chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Wednesday said, “The state will do everything possible to get them back home.” “We have apprised the officials of the ministry of external affairs and are in constant touch with them for the evacuation of all the people of Uttarakhand who are stranded in Afghanistan. We will bring them back soon while ensuring their safety. The Centre is working on it,” said Dhami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-300-dehradun-residents-stranded-in-afghanistan-uttarakhand-cm-assures-help-101629295298564.html
18-08-2021||India||Woman receives serious burn injuries as husband pours hot water on her||A 32-year-old woman received serious burn injuries after her husband poured boiling water on her as she did not give birth to a boy, police said here on Wednesday.The couple has three daughters, the youngest of whom was born last year.Sanju’s husband Satyapal had also been pressuring her to bring ₹50,000 from her parents, Superintendent of Police (Rural) Sanjeev Bajpai, adding that both had married in 2013.Citing the police complaint, Bajpai said Satyapal used to harass his wife and did not give her food."On August 13, Satypal poured boiling water on Sanju, following which she was admitted to a hospital. The case was registered on Wednesday,” he said, adding that the complaint was lodged by Sanju’s father.The accused is absconding, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-receives-serious-burn-injuries-as-husband-pours-hot-water-on-her-101629293176128.html
18-08-2021||India||Govt scraps ₹30K cr private trains’ tender, railways to re-evaluate process||The Ministry of Railways has decided to put on hold the tender for running 151 private trains along 109 major routes with an estimated investment of ₹30,000 crore and will revaluate the process mainly due to tepid response on the bids from private players, according to officials aware of the development.“The tender for the private trains has been called off and the entire process will be revalued due to lower participation from private firms. Railways will issue a fresh tender for the same,” a senior ministry official said.Of the 12 clusters put up for bidding, only three saw any bid at all, the official said.The national carrier, on July 1, 2020, began the formal process of allowing private trains on 109 routes—a process that aimed to, for the first time, open up one of the government’s most prominent enterprises. However, only two bidders, the Indian Railway Catering & Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) and was Megha Engineering & Infrastructures evinced interest in the financial bidding stage where IRCTC majority-owned by the government was touted to get the contract after quoting a higher revenue share figure. This, officials said, raised questions on the purpose of running trains via private players.According to the ministry, the planned investment was estimated at around ₹30,000 crores, and a majority of the rakes (70%) will have to be manufactured in India; private entities cleared to run the train services shall be responsible for financing, procuring, operating and maintaining the trains. Winning bidders were to be provided a concession period of 35 years on a revenue.Indian Railways in July last year planned to introduce private trains on its network in phases, with the first dozen due to start running in the 2023-24 financial year and all 151 by 2027. According to the railway ministry’s projections, the transporter was supposed to will select the companies that will run the private trains by April 2021; the first 12 were expected to start plying by 2023-24, followed by 45 more in FY 2024-25, the next 50 in FY 2025-26 and the last 44 by 2026-27.The ministry last year issued what is known as a request for qualification (RFQ) private companies to run 151 trains spread over these routes, laying down specific conditions that will need to be met in a move that is meant to “introduce modern technologies and world-class services” for one of India’s most popular modes of transport.The government planned to run the trains along 12 clusters across the Indian Railways’ network. It has planned two clusters each in Delhi and Mumbai, and one cluster each in Secunderabad, Chennai, Howrah, Jaipur, Prayagraj, Chandigarh, Bengaluru, and Patna.In October last year, the Indian Railways has received a total of 120 applications from 15 firms including L&T, GMR and Welspun in response to its Request for Quotation inviting private players to run trains on key routesThe firms which made the applications for the clusters included Arvind Aviation, BHEL, Construcciones y Auxiliar de Ferrocarrriles, S.A, Cube Highways and Infrastructure III Pvt Ltd, Gateway Rail Freight Limited, GMR Highways Limited, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited, IRB Infrastructure Developers Limited.The others were L&T Infrastructure Development Projects Limited, Malempati Power Private Limited, Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Limited, PNC Infratech Ltd, RK Associates and Hoteliers Pvt Ltd, Sainath Sales and Services Pvt Ltd and Welspun Enterprises Limited. Overall, 14 Indian firms and one Spanish firm had evinced interest in the beginning to run private trains in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-scraps-rs-30k-cr-private-trains-tender-railways-to-re-evaluate-process-101629294521434.html
18-08-2021||India||Covid-19: 74% of Uttarakhand's eligible population vaccinated, says CM Dhami||Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said on Wednesday 99 per cent of the eligible population of Rudraprayag has been vaccinated against coronavirus (Covid-19) as reiterated his government’s target of inoculating all residents of the hill state within four months. Dhami further said all eligible beneficiaries of Bageshwar district and Khirsu block in Pauri Garhwal have received their first dose of the anti-virus vaccine.Overall, 74 per cent of the eligible population in Uttarakhand has been inoculated against the virus, the CM was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. “We have received 19 lakh doses in August,” he added.Dhami, who took over the reins following the resignation of Tirath Singh Rawat to become the youngest chief minister of the hill state, said one lakh people will be vaccinated in 100 wards of Dehradun on August 22. Earlier, Dhami had said the administration was setting up camps in all the remote parts of the hill state to meet its target of cent per cent inoculation in four months.According to latest updates from the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Uttarakhand has, so far, vaccinated 74,34,757 beneficiaries of whom 56,61,593 have received the first doses, while another 17,73,16 have received the second dose.Uttarakhand is also among states that have inoculated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries in the age group 18-44 years with the first dose of the vaccine, the ministry said.At present, the hill state 330 active Covid-19 cases of whom 31 were fresh infection detected till Monday along with one death. This took the total caseload to 3,42,637, while total fatalities stood at 7,373. As many as 3,28,885 have also been successfully treated for the disease taking the recovery rate to 95.99 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-74-of-uttarakhand-s-eligible-population-vaccinated-says-cm-dhami-101629291983342.html
18-08-2021||India||'You must visit Ayodhya': PM Modi tells PV Sindhu's coach Park Tae-Sung||Prime Minister Narendra Modi talked about the "special relation" between Korea and Ayodhya while interacting with PV Sindhu's coach Park Tae-sang.This happened on Monday when the Indian Tokyo Olympics contingent had gone to 7, Lok Kalyan Marg, the official residence of PM Modi to have breakfast with him.During the interaction, PM Modi asked the South Korean coach if he knew anything about Ayodhya."There is a special relation between Korea and Ayodhya. Last time, the first lady your president's wife she came to attend the function in Ayodhya. You must visit Ayodhya and you must know the history of Ayodhya. You will be proud," PM Modi told Park Tae-sang during the event.Ayodhya and Korea have a deep historical connection through the legendary Princess Suriratna of Ayodhya, who traveled to Korea in 48 CE and married Korean King Suro, according to an earlier PIB statement.South Korean first lady Kim-Jung Sook had attended the groundbreaking ceremony of the Queen Huh Memorial at Queen Huh Park in Ayodhya in November 2018.Meanwhile, PM Modi also fulfilled his promise and had ice cream with two-time Olympic medallist PV Sindhu when he hosted the Indian athletes at his residence.Mirabai Chanu had opened India's medals tally in Tokyo Olympics as she bagged a silver in the Women's 49kg category. After winning the medal, Chanu honoured the truck drivers who had given her a lift during her training days."When you honoured the drivers, these things can only be done by someone who has high moral values. I feel every citizen of the country will get inspired by this," said PM Modi while praising Chanu.PM Modi in his Independence Day speech on Sunday applauded the Indian Olympic athletes and said the country was proud of them for bringing glory to the nation and that their feat has inspired future generations.India recorded its best-ever medal haul at the recently concluded Olympics by bagging a total of seven medals - one Gold, two silver, and four bronze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-must-visit-ayodhya-pm-modi-tells-pv-sindhu-s-coach-park-taesung-101629292162078.html
18-08-2021||India||Cabinet nod for ₹11,040cr scheme to boost oil palm farming||To encourage palm oil production in India and decrease its import, the Centre has approved a plan named National Mission on Edible Oils – Oil Palm, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Wednesday, adding that the government has earmarked ₹11,040 crore for the plan. North Eastern Regional Agriculture Market Corporation Limited will also be getting a revival package of ₹70.45 crore.The decision comes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the new Central scheme on August 15 during his Independence Day speech at Red Fort.“India is dependent on imports of edible oil… we import edible oil in large quantities, 56% of which is palm oil… It has been seen that India can cultivate around 2,800,000 hectares of land for palm oil trees, especially in the northeast region, where over 900,000 hectares is feasible for such cultivation,” he said.Also Read | Centre cuts palm oil duties, eases imports to cushion pricesTomar was speaking at a press briefing in the national Capital; he was accompanied by information and broadcasting minister Anurag Singh Thakur.Tomar said the new scheme aims to cover palm oil tress in an additional area of 650,000 hectares by 2025-26 and thereby reaching the target of 1 million hectares.With this, the domestic production of crude palm oil (CPO) is expected to go up to 1.12 million tonnes by 2025-26 and up to 2.8 million tonnes by 2029-30.“The plan is aimed at increasing the cultivation of palm oil trees from current 350,000 hectares to 1 million hectares and oil production will also increase to 2.8 million tonnes by 2030,” he said, adding that this will also improve the economy of the northeastern regions.He said that most states have been working to increase the production of palm oil but are facing several challenges. “The plant of palm oil takes five years to bear fruit, and be profitable to farmers; prices of oil are also volatile… This causes fear among palm oil farmers,” he said.He added that in northeast India, the roads leading to the region are terraneous, thereby causing a dearth of processing industries there. “The farmers are motivated to cultivate only in the presence of processing industries, and industries too are set up only when there is good cultivation,” he said, adding that this plan has been introduced to address all these crises. Regarding farmers’ fear of price fluctuation, he said that the Centre will fix the cost of raw materials needed for palm oil production. “Like MSP (minimum support price) … we will fix the price of this raw material (cultivated by farmers)… This will motivate the farmers, and in case prices of the raw material crops drop, the government will pay the differential amount to farmers through DBT (direct bank transfer),” he said.The assistance to oil palm growers for planting material has been increased from ₹12,000 per hectare to ₹29,000 per hectare. Further, substantial increase has been made for maintenance and inter-cropping interventions, he said. “A special assistance at ₹250 per plant is being given to replant old gardens for rejuvenation of old gardens,” Tomar said.“Almost ₹11,000 crore will be spent by the Centre under this scheme. In most states, the Centre will give 60% of assistance and states will lend 40%, while in the northeast 90% of assistance will be given by the Centre,” he said.He added that there have also been arrangements by the government to assist such farmers by helping them with the improvement of land and constructing boundary walls of their farms. India meets about two-thirds of its edible oil demand through imports.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-nod-for-rs-11-040cr-scheme-to-boost-oil-palm-farming-101629291518605.html
18-08-2021||India||Staggered timetables, 50% attendance in TN government’s SOP for reopening schools from Sept 1||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday issued the standard operating procedure to be followed by the schools reopening in the state following the receding second wave of Covid-19. The measures suggested include proper sanitation facilities in the campus, maintaining six-feet distance while seating the students, staggering time tables and creating awareness among students and teachers.Earlier on August 6, the state government had said that the schools would be reopened for classes 9, 10, 11 and 12 following chief minister MK Stalin’s meeting with medical experts. The government had also asked schools to operate with 50% attendance at a time.According to the SOP released on Wednesday, said that all students and teachers would be screened in a week’s time by medical teams and symptomatic students or staff shall not be allowed inside school premises. Further, the government also said the authorities must ensure that sanitizers or soap along with water should be made available.Also read | Tamil Nadu survey shows Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy highest among elderlyIn its general guidelines, the government said that “sufficient quantities of Vitamin C, Multivitamin tablets and other immuno-boosters” would be given to the children. It also said that 100% vaccination of teachers and other staff working in the school, along with that of students who are in the eligible age group should be ensured.The government also asked the schools to ensure only 50% of the students are allowed at a time. “Health Inspectors/Block Health Supervisors/Non-medical Supervisors to be assigned to each and every school including private institutions to monitor the follow-up of SOPs,” the government order noted. It also said that the local body or the school management would be responsible for the creation of sufficient hand washing facilities.The SOP also said that the school premises should be thoroughly sanitised before reopening and enforced the usage of contactless infrared thermometers. In drawing the seating plans, the schools must ensure that there should be a distance of six feet maintained between students. It also suggested the usage of outdoor spaces in the case of “pleasant weather.”Placing emphasis on staggered timetables for enforcing physical distancing, the SOP suggested having 50% attendance rotationally on alternate days and also running the school in two shifts where the enrolment is higher. It also asked the schools to avoid any events or programs where enforcing the distancing rules is impossible.The schools have also been asked to sensitise the students and the staff about the disease. It also said that the teachers and students from containment zones shall not attend the classes. Ensuring physical distancing at entry and exit points of the schools, displaying messages and signages about distancing and safety protocols have also been suggested by the government to the schools in the SOP.As of Tuesday (August 17), 2,592,436 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in TN and 34,579 people have lost their lives. The active caseload was recorded at 20,225, according to a bulletin from the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/staggered-timetables-50-attendance-in-tn-government-s-sop-for-reopening-schools-from-sept-1-101629287170599.html
18-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Date of Netaji's death not proved, says TMC as Congress pays tribute and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Netaji death anniversary: TMC leader wants proof as Congress pays tributeThe newly reignited bonhomie between the TMC and the Congress in their bid to stitch a united opposition against the BJP hit a minor hurdle on Wednesday over the commemoration of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose’s death anniversary. Read moreCovid vaccine for children in India by September, says ICMR-NIV directorIndia is likely to have an indigenous Covid-19 vaccine for children by September, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s National Institute of Virology (Pune) director Priya Abraham has said. Read moreRajasthan: Relief in college admission for students loosing parents to CoronaStudents who have lost both or either of their parents to the Corona pandemic will be given admission in undergraduate courses in government colleges even if they have obtained the minimum passing marks set by their respective senior secondary school boards. Read moreZaheer lauds India and Shami-Bumrah's game-changing partnershipFormer India pacer Zaheer Khan said not many would have expected India to come back the way did on the final day against England and also credited Mohammed Shami and Jasprit Bumrah for their game-changing partnership. Read moreShilpa Shetty returns to Super Dancer set for the first time since Raj Kundra's arrest, watch videoPictures and visuals shared online showed Shilpa Shetty, wearing a saree, exiting her trailer and walking towards the set in silence. She also waved to the paparazzi. Read more'Years of Torture': Tharoor after being discharged in Sunanda Pushkar death caseA Delhi court on Wednesday discharged senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor in a case related to his wife Sunanda Pushkar's death in a luxury hotel. Special Judge Geetanjali Goel pronounced the order in a virtual hearing. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-date-of-netaji-s-death-not-proved-says-tmc-as-congress-pays-tribute-and-all-the-latest-news-101629282018907.html
18-08-2021||India||Uttarakhand announces ₹118.35 crore relief package for self-help groups||Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Wednesday announced a relief package of ₹118.35 crore for more than 7.54 lakh people associated with self-help groups and other self-employment schemes in the state, an official statement from his office stated.The announcement of the relief package follows a meeting between the chief minister and members of women self-help groups associated with the National Rural Livelihood Mission. During the meeting, Dhami praised the groups and assured full support from his government to strengthen these groups.Dhami also asked for their feedback on the government's policies. He also said that his government will make efforts to tie up these groups with big companies in order to get a good price for their products. Dhami also noted that there should be demand-based production.He further lauded the women self-help groups saying that they are doing a "good job."The programme was organised to discuss problems that are being faced by these groups and what the state government can do to resolve them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-announces-rs-118-35-crore-relief-package-for-self-help-groups-101629284478740.html
18-08-2021||India||Netaji death anniversary: TMC leader wants proof as Congress pays tribute||The newly reignited bonhomie between the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress and the grand old party in their bid to stitch a united opposition against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hit a minor hurdle on Wednesday over the commemoration of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose’s death anniversary.TMC spokesperson and former Rajya Sabha MP Kunal Ghosh hit out at the Congress for its tweet on Netaji’s death anniversary and said this was akin to playing with the emotions of Bengal and India as details of the legendary freedom fighter’s demise is yet to be made public. He said both the Congress and BJP governments did not make any effort to find out the facts regarding the last moments of Bose.Earlier in the day, the Congress paid tribute to Netaji with an image that had a famous quote of the revolutionary leader along with his birth and death dates (January 23, 1897 - August 18, 1947).Strongly object to this tweet. This date of death is not proved. Both Congress and BJP govt didn't try to find out the real facts regarding the last moments of Netaji. Don't play with emotions of Bengal and India. First prove the death. Publish the classified files. https://t.co/FmjSoZ3oudStating his objections to the tweet, Ghosh asked the grand old party to “first prove the death and publish (related) classified files”.Also read | Firebrand who shaped Bengal’s politics, cultureWhile the Congress has not made any further comment over the issue, a tweet of former Union minister and BJP leader Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on the same issue has now been removed after Ghosh trained his guns on him as well. He asked Pokhriyal to prove Netaji’s death before trying to rewrite history.All parties, including the BJP, have been trying to cash in on Bose’s legacy over the years with new politics emerging over the revolutionary leader’s 125th birthday celebrations. While the central government has announced that Netaji’s birth anniversary will be celebrated as Parakram Diwas, the Trinamool government in Bengal has said the day should be remembered as Desh Prem Diwas.Also read | A Delhi village that celebrates Subhas Chandra Bose like no otherHowever, a TMC spokesperson’s open attack on the Congress over the issue at a time when senior functionaries, including Banerjee, are trying to put a united front against the BJP ahead of the next general election, has come as a surprise to many.In 2016, the Narendra Modi government had declassified several files related to Bose and later said he had lost his life in a crash, while in 2019, the Press Information Bureau declared August 18 as the date of Netaji’s death. However, all of these continue to be contested by many, including some of his family members, amid several theories behind Netaji going missing and possible death. A PIB tweet in this regard also had to be withdrawn following protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/netaji-death-anniversary-tmc-leader-wants-proof-as-congress-pays-tribute-101629282010114.html
18-08-2021||India||Monsoon set to revive in North India from Thursday, says IMD||After a gap of nearly two weeks, the southwest monsoon is set to revive in north India from August 19, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday.Central and adjoining peninsular India will experience enhanced rainfall activities during the next 2-3 days, the weather department said in its forecast. There will be fairly widespread rainfall in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Odisha, Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal on Wednesday and Thursday, the IMD further said.The activity will continue over Madhya Pradesh on Friday too, according to the weather department. East Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are expected to witness isolated heavy rainfall starting Thursday which will continue till Saturday. Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and West Uttar Pradesh will get rainfall for two days - Friday and Saturday - the IMD said.The IMD has issued an orange alert for moderate rain in Delhi. The precipitation is expected to bring the maximum temperature down to 32 degrees Celsius in three to four days, it said.The Northeast India, meanwhile, will continue to receive widespread rainfall activity for the next two days, after which the IMD has predicted a decrease in intensity.Fairly widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls is very likely over Bihar from August 20 to 22, according to IMD.Weather experts said “good rainfall” in the last 10 days of the month is expected to cover the precipitation deficit in the national capital.Normally, Delhi gauges 247.7mm rainfall in August. The IMD had earlier predicted normal rainfall for Delhi this month.In July, the monsoon had entered the first break phase even before reaching most parts of northwest India, including Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-set-to-revive-in-north-india-from-thursday-says-imd-101629278921595.html
18-08-2021||India||21 Indians among passengers on France’s first evacuation flight from Kabul||Twenty-one Indian nationals were among passengers who boarded France’s first evacuation flight out of Kabul which took off on Tuesday, Emmanuel Lenain, the French ambassador to India, said in a tweet on Wednesday. The Indian passengers, Lenain said, were the “elite” Gurkha soldiers.Also Read | Biden speaks with Boris Johnson, agrees on virtual G7 summit over Afghanistan“The first French evacuation flight from Kabul yesterday included 21 Indian nationals: the elite Gurkhas who were ensuring the security of the French embassy. As discussed in call between ministers Jean-Yves Le Drian and S Jaishankar, France coordinated actively with India on Afghanistan, especially at the United Nations Security Council,” Lenain posted on his official Twitter account, tagging the French and Indian external affairs ministers.As discussed in call between Min @JY_LeDrian & Min @DrSJaishankar, France coordinates actively with India on #Afghanistan, especially at #UNSC.The French ambassador was responding to a tweet by president Emmanuel Macron, which informed about the arrival in Paris of the country’s first evacuation flight from the Afghan capital. “The first flight with French and foreign nationals has just arrived in Paris from Kabul via the United Arab Emirates. Once again, with courage and a sense of duty, our soldiers and diplomats are mobilising to protect people,” a rough translation of Macron’s tweet, posted in French, read.Also Read | ‘Urgently share details’: MEA asks Indians still stranded in AfghanistanWorld governments have scampered to evacuate their citizens working in Kabul which, on August 15, became the last major Afghan city to be captured by the Taliban, which led to the terrorist group seizing power in the country. This is for the first time in since 2001 that the Taliban is in power in Afghanistan, after the group was defeated by the US-led forces which arrived here following the 9/11 attacks in New York. In April this year, US president Joe Biden directed that the US troops will withdraw from Afghanistan.Also Read | Afghanistan’s Taliban takeover: jitters for LU’s Afghan students as fears for family, future riseOn Sunday, a C-17 aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) brought home 129 Indian citizens, including the ambassador to Afghanistan Rudrendra Tandon. The Kabul Airport is currently being secured by 6000 American troops as desperate Afghans have flooded it in hopes of getting out of their homeland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/21-indians-among-passengers-on-france-s-first-evacuation-flight-from-kabul-101629277820208.html
18-08-2021||India||Congress slams government over LPG price increase||The Congress on Wednesday lashed out at the government over ₹25 increase in LPG cylinder price and called it “anti-woman” while demanding an immediate reduction in the fuel prices.“The decision to hike LPG prices is a reflection of the government’s anti-women ideology. The high prices are forcing women to go back to cow dung cakes and firewood, which are not good for women’s health,” said Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate.The LPG cylinder price was raised on Tuesday. The cost of LPG cylinder in Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai and Chennai now is ₹860, ₹886, ₹860 and ₹875.Also Read | LPG cylinder price hiked by ₹25: Check latest rates hereShrinate cited the import parity price, which determines the LPG price in the country, and added the cylinders should not cost more than ₹600. He asked why consumers were paying extra.“When will the government realise that when people are going through an economic crisis, losing jobs, they cannot go ahead and distort their home budgets? Why is the government not doing anything to lower the prices?”She took a dig at the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana for the distribution of free LPG connections to the poor women. “How many people you have given LPG connections can actually afford a cylinder at ₹860?”An LPG cylinder cost ₹809 on June 1 and ₹834 on July 1.Between January 1 and August 17, the price of domestic LPG cylinders has gone up by ₹165.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-slams-government-over-lpg-price-increase-101629275497407.html
18-08-2021||India||Delhi court discharges Shashi Tharoor of all charges: What was Sunanda Pushkar death case||The Delhi court on Wednesday cleared senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor of all charges related to the case of his wife Sunanda Pushkar's death. The verdict was pronounced after the virtual hearing.Tharoor's advocate Vikas Pahwa sought the discharge order saying that there was no evidence that proves Tharoor had any involvement in the death of his wife. He also cited findings by the Special Investigation that already exonerated the politician of all the charges.The police have accused Tharoor of abetment to suicide and cruelty against Pushkar who was found dead in a luxury hotel in Delhi in 2014.Following the order, Tharoor said, the allegations meant "seven and a half years of absolute torture" for him. "I am so grateful, it had been seven and a half years and it was an absolute torture," he said moments after judge Geetanjali Goel pronounced him "discharged" from all charges.What is the Sunanda Pushkar death case?A businesswoman by profession, Pushkar was found dead at Delhi’s Leela Palace hotel under mysterious circumstances. She had moved with her husband Tharoor in the hotel as their house was under maintenance. At that time, the initial reports had suggested that Pushkar dies of suicide.Later, the reports stated the cause of death as "unnatural." In the autopsy report, the doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences found injury marks on her body. In the later stage of the investigation, the police found traces of Alprazolam, an anti-depressant, and Excedrin, a painkiller in her body.In July the same year, the doctor who was leading the panel that conducted the postmortem on Pushkar alleged that he was pressured to give a false report in the case, according to a media report.Following this, the Sub-Divisional Magistrate ordered an inquiry into the case to ascertain the cause of her death whether it was poisoning, murder or suicide.In 2015, the Delhi police filed an FIR claiming to say that it was a murder.During the investigation, Pushkar's domestic help alleged that she had often fought with Tharoor. The house help also claimed that days before her death she had threatened Tharoor that she would "disclose everything" and after which he would be "finished".In May 2018, Delhi police charged Tharoor with abetment to suicide of his wife and marital cruelty under sections 306 and 498A of the Indian Penal Code. However, Tharoor refuted all the charges.He was granted anticipatory bail in the matter by a Sessions Court in July 2018. Following that order, a magisterial court converted the anticipatory bail into regular bail after he appeared before it on July 7 in pursuance to the summons issued by the Metropolitan Magistrate in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-discharges-shashi-tharoor-of-all-charges-what-was-sunanda-pushkar-death-case-101629275145226.html
18-08-2021||India||Shiv Sena slams Maharashtra governor over delay in MLC nominations||Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Wednesday stepped up its attack on Maharashtra governor over the delay in nominating 12 people-- recommended by the state government-- to the upper house of the state legislature, and alleged that while Bhagat Singh Koshyari was acting like an “agent” of the Central government, Maharashtra’s ruling coalition will not “surrender” like former Afghanistan president Ashraf Ghani.The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government had submitted 12 names to be nominated to the Legislative Council from the governor’s quota to Koshyari on November 6 last year but despite repeated reminders, he hasn’t approved it.The Saamana editorial said the governor seems to have decided to sit on the file till a government of his choice comes to power in Maharashtra. “The governor says, forget the appointments of 12 members till the government of his (governor’s choice) takes oath in Maharashtra,” said the editorial. In a reference to Bombay high court’s recent remarks that “eight months seems to be beyond reasonable time” for the governor to decide on the recommendations of the state cabinet, the Saamana editorial said “the reluctance to abide by the constitution” could prove to be tricky for the governor.“If the governor breaks the framework of the constitution, then he will lose his dignity. His own people are playing with his dignity… Koshyari’s behaviour as the governor is unconstitutional and politically biased… There can be no change of guard using Raj Bhavan and no one surrenders like former Afghanistan president Ashraf Ghani. It was seen in West Bengal and Maharashtra,” the editorial said, also referring to power eluding the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Maharashtra and West Bengal after the last assembly elections in the two states.The Sena mouthpiece claimed that the governor was Centre’s “political agent”. “Even after a reminder, the file of appointment of 12 members does not move forward. It means [that] his [governor’s] mind is not clear and he is under pressure from the top...,” it added. “In which month, will the governor take the decision?” asked the editorial. The mouthpiece further claimed that senior Congress legislator Sharad Ranpise, during Independence Day celebration in Pune, asked the governor about the delay in the nominations. “The Governor responded by asking Ranpise why he was insisting on the appointments when the government was not? ... What does the governor mean by saying that the government should insist on it? Does it mean that one has to clap loudly or beat utensils and ring bells to attract his attention?” asked the editorial.Maharashtra BJP spokesperson said they do not comment on Saamana editorials as a matter of policy. The Raj Bhavan, too, has not responded to the allegations made in Saamana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-slams-maharashtra-governor-over-delay-in-mlc-nominations-101629273816767.html
18-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: J&K Police chief directs action against officer for thrashing journalists
and all the latest news||J&K Police chief directs action against officer for thrashing journalistsJammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh has directed action against the officer responsible for thrashing journalists covering a religious procession in Srinagar on Tuesday. Read MoreModerate Taliban is an oxymoronDelivering a lecture a month after 9/11 attacks, Jaswant Singh, then external affairs minister in Atal Bihari Vajpayee's cabinet, described a moderate Taliban an oxymoron. Read More'Seven and half years of absolute torture': What Tharoor said after relief in Sunanda Pushkar death caseCongress MP Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday thanked a Delhi court for discharging him in connection with the Sunanda Pushkar death case and said that the allegations meant "seven and a half years of absolute torture" for him. Read MoreKangana Ranaut claims Chinese hackers are after her Instagram, hints at 'big international conspiracy'. See messageActor Kangana Ranaut on Wednesday hinted at a 'very big international conspiracy' targeting her Instagram account. Read MoreMahindra XUV700 Freedom Drive, full review: One SUV to rule them all?Mahindra XUV700 SUV is one of the biggest launches of the calendar year for the Indian automotive industry and market. Read MoreMalaika Arora shows how to bend it right as she does Wild Thing Pose in new pic, see hereBollywood's OG yogini Malaika Arora is serving her fans some incredible fitness goals once again and pumping them up for a midweek workout session. Read MoreWatch | Taliban Resistance: Amrullah says he's Afghan President; reaches out for support||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-j-k-police-chief-directs-action-against-officer-for-thrashing-journalists-and-all-the-latest-news-101629271035202.html
18-08-2021||India||Supreme Court junks Maha govt plea challenging CBI probe against ex-home minister Anil Deshmukh||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea of the Maharashtra government seeking to set aside two paragraphs related to transfer and posting of police officers, reinstatement of an officer from the CBI’s FIR against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh.A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said that it is inclined to interfere with the July 22 order of the Bombay High Court and dismissed the petition. The top court said that it cannot dilute the direction of a constitutional court ordering a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe by drawing a line for the agency on which aspect the investigation should be done.“CBI has to investigate all aspects of the allegations and we cannot limit them. This will be like denuding the powers of a constitutional court,” the bench said.It said that an impression is being created that the state is trying to protect the former home minister by not allowing the probe on the aspect of transfer and posting of police officers and reinstatement of additional police inspector Sachin Waze.Advocate Rahul Chitnis, appearing for the Maharashtra government, said the state has withdrawn consent for the CBI probe and the High Court direction for a probe was limited to allegations of collection of money from bars and restaurants and not on transfer, posting of police officers, and reinstatement of Waje into the police force.On July 22, the High Court said the CBI can inquire into the transfer and postings of police personnel and the reinstatement of Waze in the Mumbai Police force "so far as this has a nexus with Maharashtra's former home minister Anil Deshmukh and his associates".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-junks-maha-govt-plea-challenging-cbi-probe-against-ex-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-101629270827927.html
18-08-2021||India||Supreme Court allows women to appear for NDA exam||The Supreme Court on Wednesday slammed the Indian Army, as its allowed female candidates to appear for the National Defence Academy (NDA) examination. The top court said that the Army's policy decision to not allow women to appear for the exam is based on "gender discrimination".The examination is slated to be held on September 5.The bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy said that admissions will be subject to the final orders of the court.The Supreme Court was hearing a petition filed by lawyer Kush Kalra which sought a direction to the concerned authorities to allow eligible female candidates to appear form examination and train at the NDA.Kalra said in his plea that the categorical exclusion of eligible female candidates from entering the National Defence Academy is not constitutionally justifiable and is simply done on the basis of their sex.He referred to the February last year landmark verdict in which the apex court had directed that women officers in the Army be granted permanent commission and command postings.The Centre, meanwhile, told the court on Tuesday that women are being granted equal opportunity in the armed forces and there is no violation of any fundamental right.In an affidavit, the Centre said that the NDA is only one of the various modes of entries for recruitment in the armed forces, pointing out that in the Army, on an average 1,470 officers are commissioned which includes 670 officers from Indian Military Academy (IMA) and NDA apart from Officers Training Academy (OTA) where both men and women officers are commissioned through UPSC and non-UPSC modes.Apart from this, on an average, 453 officers (men and women) are commissioned as Short Service Commissioned officers through SSC (Non-Technical) and SSC (Technical) through UPSC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-allows-women-to-appear-for-nda-exam-101629270687140.html
18-08-2021||India||'Seven and half years of absolute torture': What Tharoor said after relief in Sunanda Pushkar death case||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday thanked a Delhi court for discharging him in connection with the Sunanda Pushkar death case and said that the allegations meant "seven and a half years of absolute torture" for him. The former Union minister was accused of abetment after Pushkar, his wife, died of suicide in 2014. The Congress leader was also charge-sheeted by the Delhi Police under Sections 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Also Read | Chargesheet against Shashi Tharoor was without any base, says lawyer"I am so grateful, it had been seven and a half years and it was an absolute torture," the veteran Congress leader, who was present at the virtual hearing, said moments after the order was pronounced. The Rouse Avenue court in Delhi gave Tharoor a clean chit today, with judge Geetanjali Goel pronouncing, "The accused is discharged".Issuing a statement, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor expressed his gratitude to Judge Geetanjali Goel for her orders today, discharging him of the charges levied by the Delhi Police."This brings a significant conclusion to the long nightmare which had enveloped me after the tragic passing of my late wife Sunanda," Tharoor wrote. "I have weathered dozens of unfounded accusations and media vilification patiently, sustained by my faith in the Indian judiciary, which today stands vindicated."pic.twitter.com/7wQqAN3ZqF"In our justice system, the process is all too often the punishment," the Congress leader noted. "Nonetheless, the fact that justice has been done, at last, will allow all of us in the family to mourn Sunanda in peace. I am grateful to my lawyers, particularly Vikas Pahwa and Gaurav Gupta, for all that they have done to bring the case to this conclusion."Speaking on the verdict, Tharoor's counsel Vikas Pahwa later told reporters that it was a long battle of seven years but ultimately, "justice has prevailed". The senior advocate said that Tharoor had faith in the judicial system right from the beginning, which is why he challenged the "absurd and preposterous" charges of abetment to suicide and cruelty levelled by the police."It was a long battle of seven years but ultimately, justice has prevailed," said senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, counsel for Congress leader Shashi Tharoor. "He had faith in the judicial system right from the beginning. The charges levelled by the police for abetment to suicide and cruelty were absurd and preposterous."Also Read | 'Misguided Malayalis who joined Taliban': Tharoor's tweet sparks rowPahwa argues that the prosecution failed to ascertain the cause of Sunanda Pushkar's death between 2014 and 2017. It was also submitted that the doctors who conducted the preliminary post-mortem report went beyond their jurisdiction by relying on circumstantial evidence."Even the most essential ingredients of the offences were not present in this case," the advocate said. "All reports of various medical boards including psychological autopsy reports exonerated Dr Shashi Tharoor from charges of homicide or suicide. The charge sheet filed was without any basis."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seven-and-half-years-of-absolute-torture-what-tharoor-said-after-relief-in-sunanda-pushkar-death-case-101629265898224.html
18-08-2021||India||NGT asks Odisha government to notify 14 elephant corridors, ecologists cheer||The National Green Tribunal on Tuesday asked the Odisha government to notify 14 elephant corridors in the state within next two months, realising a long-standing demand of elephant conservationists.In an order passed by the Eastern Zonal bench of NGT, judicial member B Amit Sthalekar and expert member Saibal Dasgupta asked for notification of the 14 corridors identified by Asian Nature Conservation Foundation, a non-profit trust involved in conservation of Asian elephants in 13 of the 30 districts within two months.Wildlife conservationist Biswajit Mohanty, through his NGO Wildlife Society of Odisha, had moved the NGT alleging that though the principal chief conservator of forests (Wildlife) had submitted details of elephant corridors in Odisha to the forest and environment department in the state in 2012 for identification of 14 corridors with a total area of 870.61 sq. kms, no action was taken for their formal notification under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. He further stated that the state had spent ₹20 crores in improving the corridors, but it did not issue a formal notification to secure them legally.Mohanty submitted to the NGT that the elephant corridors, being a part of the elephant ecology, needed to be notified as ecological sensitive zones under Section 3 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, which empowers the government to keep industries out of a notified restricted area.Mohanty’s lawyer Sankar Pani said the NGT order will give legal sanctity to the elephant corridors, making their movement from one habitat to another safe. An elephant corridor also helps them intermingle and breed with elephants outside their gene pool. These corridors also reduce the scope of human-animal conflicts. However, such corridors face threats from poaching, agricultural activity, mining, vehicular traffic, development of resorts, electrical fencing, etc, an environmentalist said.The NGT order comes in the wake of rising elephant deaths in Odisha since 2001. As against 33 elephant deaths per year on an average between 1990 and 2000, 46 yearly deaths were reported on an average between 2001 and 2010, which further increased to 76 elephant deaths since 2010.The elephant landscape too has changed dramatically in the last two decades with Keonjhar district, which had 112 elephants in 2002, left with only 40 now due to large scale mining, and Dhenkanal district, which had 81 elephants in 2002, now has 169, due to green area fed by Rengali irrigation canals. Similarly, 70 odd elephants from the Chandaka sanctuary migrated to Ganjam, Nayagarh and Cuttack districts, and many of them were killed by trains and electrocution in Ganjam.Mining activities for coal, Iron Ore, Bauxite, Manganese etc in Keonjhar, Sundargarh, Jharsuguda and Angul have left little space for elephants, while illegal stone and morrum quarries too have disturbed the elephant habitats and movement paths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-asks-odisha-government-to-notify-14-elephant-corridors-ecologists-cheer-101629267336166.html
18-08-2021||India||J&K Police chief directs action against officer for thrashing journalists||Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh has directed action against the officer responsible for thrashing journalists covering a religious procession in Srinagar on Tuesday.In a tweet on Wednesday, the police said Singh has taken “a serious view of undesirable behaviour with some media men in Srinagar” and directed immediate action against the officer.The officer allegedly abused the journalists before assaulting them. Some photographers alleged their equipment was also damaged. “We were covering a Muharram (procession) when an officer along with policemen started abusing us and thrashed us despite knowing that we were doing our job,” said a photojournalist, who wished to remain anonymous.Also Read | Security remains a concern as another BJP leader is shot dead in KashmirNational Conference leader Omar Abdullah earlier sought lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha’s intervention. “Very unfortunate to see J&K police personnel mercilessly thrashing journalists in Srinagar. These people were simply doing their jobs - reporting the news. They don’t make the news & they don’t engineer events to create the story. I hope @OfficeOfLGJandK will ensure no repeat,” he tweeted.In a tweet, former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti said: “Media is spending hours debating the human tragedy & unfolding crisis in Afghanistan but will they speak up for their own community in Kashmir who were beaten to pulp today by security forces for doing their job?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jkpolice-chief-directs-action-against-officer-for-thrashing-journalists-101629266076105.html
18-08-2021||India||Chargesheet against Shashi Tharoor was without any base, says lawyer||A Delhi court on Wednesday discharged Congress MP Shashi Tharoor in the Sunanda Pushkar death case. Tharoor, former union minister, who is currently on bail in the case, was chargesheeted by Delhi Police under Sections 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Tharoor's wife Pushkar was found dead in the suite of a luxury hotel in the city on the night of January 17, 2014, following which the police had charged Tharoor with abetment to suicide, among other charges. The Congress MP was present at the court when the verdict was given. "It had been seven and half years and it was torture," Tharoor said, thanking the court.The order was pronounced by special judge Geetanjali Goel. The last hearing in this matter was on April 12 when the court reserved the orders.An FIR against Shashi Tharoor was filed in 2015 regarding Sunanda Pushkar's death. Apart from the charges of abetment to suicide, he was also accused of marital cruelty.Earlier, Public Prosecutor Atul Srivastava said Pushkar was subjected to mental cruelty which led to her deteriorating. It was not an accidental death, the public prosecutor contended relying on the post mortem report which suggests that the cause of death is poisoning which could be oral or injected.Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, who represented Tharoor argued that the prosecution failed to ascertain the cause of Sunanda Pushkar's death between 2014 and 2017. It was also submitted that the doctors who conducted the preliminary post mortem report went beyond their jurisdiction by relying on circumstantial evidence."If you cannot establish suicide, then there can be no sec. 306 case. First, you have to establish there has been a suicide. From 2014 to 2017, it has been 4 years. They have given their opinion, it's neither suicide nor homicide. Again a null in the investigation. Even when the report said there was no suicide, they registered a case under Section 302. They don't say it's suicide. Suicide cannot be without intent. I am not talking abetment at the moment. I am talking about suicide For suicide, there has to be intent," he submitted.The statement of Sunanda Pushkar's son also played a crucial role in the case. In his statement, he had said, "In the Mortuary of AIIMS, I asked the doctor who conducted the post mortem about the case of death, he (doctor) responded that there is no foul play or poisoning but the same doctor later went into the media and said that death is due to poisoning. Shashi can't harm even a fly."A day before Sunanda Pushkar's death, she engaged with Pakistani journalist Mehr Tarat in a Twitter spat over Tharoor's alleged affair with Mehr. Reports said doctors revealed that Pushkar had several injury marks on ger hands which led the sub-divisional mafistrate to conclude that it was a case of poisoning. There were reports of doctor claiming to be under pressure to alter the autopsy report. In 2015, the Delhi Police concluded that Pushkar was murdered. In 2018, the chargesheet was filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-discharges-shashi-tharoor-in-sunanda-pushkar-death-case-101629265669810.html
18-08-2021||India||'Ice creams, churma': PM Modi shares glimpses of interaction with Tokyo 2020 contingent||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday shared glimpses of his interaction with India's Tokyo 2020 Olympics contingent on Twitter. His tweet accompanying the video snippet talked about discussions around health and "inspiring anecdotes". Prime Minister Modi had met India's 2020 Tokyo Olympic contingent on Monday at his residence for breakfast."From having ice-creams and Churma to discussing good health and fitness, from inspiring anecdotes to lighter moments...watch what happened when I had the opportunity to host India's #Tokyo2020 contingent at 7, LKM," PM Modi said in his tweet.In the video, PM Modi can be seen talking to Tokyo Olympics gold medallist Neeraj Chopra, archer Deepika Kumari, silver medallist wrestler Ravi Dahiya and fencer Bhawani Devi among others.While interacting with Chopra, PM Modi said, "...I have seen that success doesn't get to your head and loss doesn't stay in your mind. When you attempted the second throw, you already entered into celebratory mode. One needs a lot of confidence to reach to this level, and a lot of knowledge about their game as well as the opponent's. How was this possible?" PM Modi asked Chopra. To this, the Javelin thrower said, "We had been training for a lot of years for this, so when you make the throw, the effort which was put into it sometimes tells you that it was your best throw. That confidence comes from regular training. My training was very good."PM Modi offered ice cream to Olympics medal winner PV Sindhu during his interaction with the Indian contingent. On an earlier occasion, the Prime Minister had told her that they will eat ice cream together after her return from Tokyo. Sindhu even shared the pictures of that moment on Twitter with the caption, "Glad to have got the opportunity to finally have an ice cream with our Hon’ble PM @narendramodi ji."PM Modi urged archer Deepika Kumari, who missed out on a podium finish at the Tokyo Olympics, not to be disheartened and said that a sportsperson should never lose hope.PM Modi showered praise on Bhawani Devi, who became the first fencer to represent India at Olympics. "Your contribution is that you have inspired young generation of the country to take up this sport (fencing)," PM Modi said.He also interacted with Olympics silver medalist Mirabai Chanu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ice-creams-churma-pm-modi-shares-glimpses-of-interaction-with-tokyo-2020-contingent-101629260502042.html
18-08-2021||India||Academics, activists, writers seek immediate release of Bhima Koregaon accused||Over 100 academics, activists, and writers issued a statement on Tuesday demanding immediate and unconditional release of all those arrested in connection with the violence at Maharashtra’s Bhima Koregaon in 2018 and the Elgar Parishad event before it. They condemned the continued incarceration.Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, 84, the oldest of 16 activists and lawyers arrested on charges of conspiring to foment violence at Bhima Koregaon under an anti-terror law, died in July after spending over eight months in jail awaiting trial.Those still in custody in the case include Anand Teltumbde, Hany Babu, Shoma Sen, Jyoti Jagtap, Ramesh Gaichor, Sagar Gorkhe, Sudhir Dhawale, Mahesh Raut, Arun Ferreira, Surendra Gadling, Sudha Bharadwaj, Gautam Navlakha, Rona Wilson, and Vernon Gonsalves.Also Read | Bhima Koregaon commission: Narrative of events disputed by Dalit’s testimonyThe National Investigation Agency has claimed the Bhima Koregaon violence was a “well-chalked-out strategy” for which the accused were in touch with Maoist leaders. In February, Wilson moved the Bombay high court seeking the quashing of criminal proceedings against him after an American digital forensics consulting company concluded that fabricated evidence was planted in the electronic evidence including a laptop and thumb drive. The devices were seized from his residence in April 2018, and he was arrested two months later over it.The statement said all the arrested have worked for the assertion of the most oppressed and marginalised in society and “spoken out against majoritarian Brahmanical Hindutva forces, Brahmanical patriarchy and upheld the right to life, land, livelihood and dignity.” It added Swamy died as an undertrial due to “apathy and sheer criminal neglect”.“Along with timely justice, it is imperative that his co-accused are guaranteed the fundamental right to a life with dignity.”The signatories to the statement include writer Amitav Ghosh, filmmaker Anand Patwardhan, and academic Zoya Hasan. They accused the government of “protecting” the perpetrators of violence against marginalised and oppressed communities. “These are the actions of a retributive regime, a regime that upholds Brahmanical Hindutva fascism beneath the veneer of a constitutional democracy.”The statement referred to the Pegasus snooping controversy and condemned the “use of digital surveillance as a weapon by the government”. It said digital surveillance “makes a mockery of the principles of democracy and exposes the vacuity of the claims of national security”.“The use of highly advanced and tailored digital attacks on human rights activists, journalists, judges, lawyers, politicians and a broad range of citizens of this country shows the desperation of a government teetering on the edges of the law and the manipulation of the state machinery to serve its ends.”The government has neither confirmed nor denied the use of Pegasus spyware to hack the phones of ministers, politicians, businessmen, activists, and journalists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/academics-activists-writers-seek-immediate-release-of-bhima-koregaon-accused-101629264035997.html
18-08-2021||India||India has administered at least 560 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 560 million Covid vaccine doses by Tuesday, August 17. The country on Monday administered at least 8.82 million doses under its nationwide vaccination drive, said Union ministry of health and family welfare, making it the highest ever number of vaccinations in a single day since the start of the drive on January 16 this year.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Tuesday, 560,094,581 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 4,948,965 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 3,713,567 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 1,235,398 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine.Also Read | Centre allocates ₹1,353 crore to NE as emergency Covid response packageIn the 18-45 age group, 2,745,272 were given the first dose while 533,586 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 205,008,400 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 16,657,465 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 10 million vaccine doses in the 18-45 years age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.On Wednesday, India reported 35,178 new cases in the last 24 hours, a government statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-560-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101629260735685.html
18-08-2021||India||India records 35,178 new Covid-19 cases, 440 fatalities in a day||The daily Covid-19 cases in India saw a steep rise on Wednesday as 35,178 people tested positive for the viral infection in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry data. On Tuesday, the number of cases registered in 24-hour span was 25,166.The fatalities also increased to 440 and the death toll now stands at 432,519. The country have a total caseload of 32,285,857 infections.The number of active cases is 367,415, which is the lowest in 148 days. It now comprises 1.14% of the total caseload. As many as 31,485,923 people have recovered from the disease over the last 24 hours, the health ministry data showed.On Wednesday, the daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.96 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 23 days. The weekly positivity rate is at 1.95 per cent. According to the health ministry, it has been below three per cent for the last 54 days.As many as 17,97,559 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 49,84,27,083.Cumulatively, 560.6 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered during the nationwide vaccination drive so far, as per the health ministry figures. India on Monday administered at least 8.82 million doses, the highest ever number of vaccinations in a single day since the start of the drive on January 16 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-35-178-new-covid-19-cases-440-fatalities-in-a-day-101629260360833.html
18-08-2021||India||'Taliban want to free their country': SP leader faces flak for remarks||A Samajwadi Party (SP) leader is in the eye of the storm for defending Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan, equating it with India's own freedom struggle. The comments from SP member of Parliament from Uttar Pradesh's Sambhal, Shafiqur Rahman Barq, drew sharp reaction from chief minister Yogi Adityanath.Barq made the comments while interacting with reporters on Monday, a day after the Taliban captured the presidential palace in Kabul. Barq said the Taliban want to free their country and it was Afghanistan's internal matter, according to news agency PTI.The Samajwadi Party leader called the Taliban a force that did not allow Russia or the United States to establish themselves in Afghanistan "and now they want to run their own country".He further said that when India was under British rule, the entire nation fought for Independence. "They want to be free. This is their personal matter. How can we interfere?" he added.Reacting to the comments, Adityanath said in state legislature, “He was shamelessly supporting the Taliban. It means supporting their barbaric act. We are a parliamentary democracy. Where are we heading? We are supporting people who are a blot on humanity."Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya compared Barq’s comments with Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan's remarks after Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan. Maurya said he had not personally heard the remark. "But if this type of statement has been given then there is no difference between that person and Imran Khan," he said.Khan had on Monday supported the Taliban takeover of Kabul, saying Afghanistan has broken the "shackles of slavery".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-want-to-free-their-country-sp-leader-faces-flak-for-remarks-101629257364189.html
18-08-2021||India||Who is justice BV Nagarathna—the judge poised to become 1st woman CJI in 2027||Justice BV Nagarathna is poised to become India’s first woman Chief Justice of India in 2027.Presently a judge in the Karnataka high court, justice Nagarathna is among the three women judges whose names were cleared by the Supreme Court collegium on Tuesday evening.Justice Nagarathna started as a lawyer in Bengaluru and was appointed as an additional judge in the Karnataka HC in February 2008. She was made a permanent judge two years later.Justice Nagarathna’s father, ES Venkataramiah, was the CJI for almost six months in 1989. If cleared by the Union government, justice Nagarathna will be the CJI for little over a month in 2027.Also Read | Nine names cleared, India may get 1st woman CJI in ’27In November 2009, she, along with two other judges of the Karnataka HC were locked in a court room by a group of protesting lawyers but she braved the situation in a dignified manner. She later said: “We are not angry, but we are sad that the Bar has done this to us. We have to hang our heads in shame.”In 2012, justice Nagarathna delivered a judgment emphasising on the need to regulate electronic media. “While truthful dissemination of information is an essential requirement of any broadcasting channel, sensationalism in the form of ‘Breaking News’, ‘Flash News’ or in any other form must be curbed,” she wrote in her judgment.While urging the Union government to consider setting up an autonomous and statutory mechanism to regulate broadcast media, justice Nagarathna clarified that the concept of regulation should not be understood to mean control by the government or the powers that be.In a 2019 judgment, she ruled that a temple is not a “commercial establishment” and hence, employees of a temple in Karnataka are not entitled to gratuity under Payments of Gratuity Act. She held that a temple employee will be entitled to gratuity benefits under the Karnataka Hindu Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowment Act, which is a special law enacted in the state and not under the Payments of Gratuity Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-justice-bv-nagarathna-the-judge-poised-to-become-1st-woman-cji-in-2027-101629256715532.html
18-08-2021||India||'Forefront of pioneering reforms': PM Modi greets finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on her birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday wished Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on her birthday and said that she is at the forefront of pioneering reforms aimed at "transforming the Indian economy and fulfilling the dream of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat". Taking to his official Twitter handle, the Prime Minister greeted Sitharaman and prayed for her long and healthy life.Greetings to Finance Minister @nsitharaman Ji on her birthday. She is at the forefront of pioneering reforms that are aimed at transforming the Indian economy and fulfilling the dream of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat. Praying for her long and healthy life.Acknowledging the Prime Minister's wishes on her birthday, Sitharaman thanked him for his blessings and guidance, which the finance minister said motivates her to continue to serve the nation."Thank you very much, the honourable Prime Minister of India," Sitharaman tweeted from her official handle on the microblogging website. "Your blessings and guidance give me strength and motivation to serve the nation."Thank you very much, Hon.@PMOIndia. Your blessings and guidance give me strength and motivation to serve the nation. 🙏🏽 https://t.co/V5Xz4AFiDlSeveral national-level politicians and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionaries also wished veteran party leader Sitharaman on her birthday. "Warm birthday wishes to Union finance minister Smt Nirmala Sitharaman-ji," tweeted former Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa. "Praying for your long and healthy life in the service of the nation."Nirmala Sitharaman, who held the defence portfolio in the previous term of the Narendra Modi-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre, was appointed as the finance and corporate affairs minister in 2019 for the second Modi cabinet. As the first full-time female finance minister of India, Sitharaman has led several important charges, including the central government's Covid-19 Economic Response Task Force during the pandemic. She also presented the Union Bidget 2020-21 on February 1 last year, her maiden budget in the Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-wishes-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-on-her-birthday-101629254437124.html
18-08-2021||India||Centre allocates ₹1,353 crore to NE as emergency Covid response package||The Centre on Tuesday allocated nearly ₹1,353 crore to northeastern states to fund their Covid-19 containment efforts after a review meeting with the health ministers of the region in Guwahati.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, the special package of ₹1,352.92 crore was meant to strengthen the public health infrastructure in the north eastern states to fight the pandemic effectively and aggressively.“The fund will assist states to procure medicines, maintain buffer stock of medicines and oxygen and addition of beds including in ICUs in hospitals,” an official release quoted the minister as saying.Mandaviya assured regular supply of vaccines to all states in northeast to ensure maximum residents get vaccinated within the next few months.During the meeting, health ministers of northeastern states briefed Mandaviya on Covid-19 situation in their states and also offered suggestions to combat the pandemic better and speed up the vaccination drive.Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted, “Apprised him (Mandaviya) on Assam’s proactive management of Covid-19 (and) updates on vaccination….we assured Hon’ble Union Health Minister of Assam’s firm resolve to provide best healthcare services to our people”.Nagaland health minister S Pangnyu Phom highlighted that hospitalisation and mortality rate has reduced in the state because of rising levels of vaccination and requested that the gap between the two doses be reduced to cover more people quickly.Phom also requested for a timeline to start vaccination of residents under 18 years of age.Nagaland has set up a Paediatric task force with experts drawn from both the private and public sector to oversee preparedness to protect children from the third wave.(With inputs from Alice Yhoshu in Kohima)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-allocates-rs-1-353-crore-to-ne-as-emergency-covid-response-package-101629256475222.html
18-08-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9am: Monsoon to pick up over central N-W India this week and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Monsoon to revive over central and northwest India this weekAfter a long dry spell of nearly two weeks, monsoon is likely to pick up over central, east and parts of northwest India according to India Meteorological Department. Read more'Misguided Malayalis who joined Taliban': Tharoor's tweet sparks rowCongress MP Shashi Tharoor sparked a massive row after he doubted that there were two Malayali Taliban in one of the celebratory videos of the group that emerged after the takeover of Kabul. Read moreAssam's revised Covid-19 guidelines come into effect from todayThe Assam government's new set of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in regard to Covid-19 pandemic will come into effect from Wednesday. Read moreMiyamagic: Mohammed Siraj and the new hashtag in Indian fast bowlingMohammed Siraj comes in many moods—there’s him shushing “haters” after yet another big wicket, or him streaming in to send yet another delivery that hits the spot, “tappe pe daalna”, as he likes to say, “intent” and intensity writ deep into his face. Read moreKareena Kapoor says son Jeh is part of romantic song with Aamir Khan in Laal Singh ChaddhaKareena Kapoor has spoken about her experience working on Laal Singh Chaddha while pregnant with her second baby. Kareena and her husband Saif Ali Khan welcomed their second baby Jeh Ali Khan in February this year. Read moreSonam Kapoor in couture anarkali is nothing short of phenomenal with Anand Ahuja in pics from Rhea Kapoor's weddingAnil Kapoor's daughter, Rhea Kapoor, married Karan Boolani in an intimate ceremony on Saturday night. The wedding was attended by the couple's close friends and family, including Bollywood actor and Rhea's elder sister Sonam Kapoor Ahuja and her husband, Anand Ahuja. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-monsoon-to-pick-up-over-central-n-w-india-this-week-and-all-the-latest-news-101629245924627.html
18-08-2021||India||Covid cases: With 4,408 fresh infections, Maharashtra crosses 6.4 million mark||With 4,408 fresh infections, Maharashtra crossed the 6.4 million mark of Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. The state’s tally stood at 6,401,213. The tally of active cases also dropped to 61,306 as 5,424 recoveries were also reported in the last 24 hours.The state also saw 116 casualties during the same period. Sangli reported the highest toll with 36 deaths. Of them, 29 were found in the district and the rest in the city. It was followed by Satara with 30 fatalities.Even as the decline in daily cases is slow, the Maharashtra government has granted relaxations in restrictions across the state from August 15. Officials said the impact of relaxations will be known in the next 15 days and further decisions will be taken after assessing the situation.Also Read | Despite travel curbs, no end to rash driving on highways connecting MumbaiOn the other hand, Delta plus variant cases are rising in the state. Till Monday, the state had 76 Delta plus cases, a concern for the state administration.Maharashtra is the state with highest number of Covid-19 cases. Now, it also has the maximum Delta plus variant cases.Significantly, it also achieved a milestone of administering 50 million doses on Monday. It vaccinated 677,974 people on Tuesday and has administered a total 50,710,698 doses till date, according to the data available on Co-Win portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-cases-maha-crosses-6-4-million-mark-101629255034952.html
18-08-2021||India||Assam's revised Covid-19 guidelines come into effect from today: Check details||The Assam government's new set of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in regard to Covid-19 pandemic will come into effect from Wednesday. The state revised its existing SOPs on Tuesday which was imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). This was done after reviewing the pandemic situation.“In exercise of the powers, conferred under Section 22(2) (h) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the undersigned, in his capacity as chairperson, state executive committee of the state disaster management authority, Assam, do hereby issues the following directives for both rural and urban areas which will remain in force w.e.f 5am of August 18 until further orders,” an official order stated.Assam on Tuesday recorded 741 fresh Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths in the last 24 hours, a health bulletin stated.Here's the latest guidelines:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assams-revised-covid-19-guidelines-come-into-effect-from-today-check-details-101629250978214.html
18-08-2021||India||'Misguided Malayalis who joined Taliban': Tharoor's tweet sparks row||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor sparked a massive row after he doubted that there were two Malayali Taliban in one of the celebratory videos of the group that emerged after the takeover of Kabul. "It sounds as if there are at least two Malayali Taliban here -- one who says "samsarikkette" around 9-second mark and another who understands him!" Tharoor wrote sharing a video that was originally shared on a Twitter account that goes by the name Ramiz. Ramiz later clarified that there are no Kerala-origin fighters in the rank and file of Taliban. "They are Baloch from Zabul province who speak Brahvi and Bravhi language is widely spokes among them. It is a Dravidian language which is very similar to Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam etc," Ramiz, who claims to be interested in conflict journalism, wrote.It sounds as if there are at least two Malayali Taliban here — one who says “samsarikkette” around the 8-second mark & another who understands him! https://t.co/SSdrhTLsBGTo Ramiz's explanation, Tharoor said that it is indeed interesting and only linguists can figure this out. "But there have indeed been misguided Malayalis who joined the Taliban, so that possibility cannot be ruled out entirely," the MP wrote drawing wrath on social media.Twitter users accused Tharoor of branding the entire Malayali community as terrorist sympathisers because of just one word. Such a statement should not come from the MP, one user said, as it would only fuel "right wing's hate campaign against Kerala". Tharoor said it's because he is the MP that he is aware of the situation. In past, he was approached by Kerala women whose daughters were stuck in Afghanistan after "having been taken there by their misguided husbands," Tharoor wrote adding that he had also arranged a meeting with then external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj on this issue. "Obviously, it's as an MP that I am aware of the situation," he wrote.I have been approached by Kerala mothers whose daughters are stuck in Afghanistan after having been taken there by their misguided husbands. I arranged a meeting w/ EAM SushmaSwaraj ji for a constituent to plead her case. Obviously it’s as an MP that I’m aware of the situation.Then Tharoor shared a news article about Nimisha Fathima, a Keralite woman who landed in Afghanistan jail following the killing of her IS husband a couple of years ago, and wrote, "I am sure all those who decried my tweet about the possibility of Malayalis in the Taliban will now notice the ones who were released from the government’s prisons today."The news article of Matrubhumi that Tharoor shared said that the Taliban released over 5,000 prisoners -- mostly belonging to Taliban and Al Qaeda -- from Kabul jails. According to the report, there were eight Keralites among those who were freed including Nimisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/misguided-malayalis-who-joined-taliban-shashi-tharoor-s-tweet-sparks-row-101629248182000.html
18-08-2021||India||India evacuates diplomatic staff amid Afghan turmoil||India on Tuesday withdrew its ambassador and diplomatic staff from Kabul, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a high-level meeting during which he directed officials to ensure all Indian nationals are evacuated safely from war-torn Afghanistan.Some 150 people, including India’s ambassador to Afghanistan Rudrendra Tandon, were brought back on a C-17 Globemaster heavy lift aircraft from the Afghanistan capital on Tuesday, a day after 45 diplomats and security personnel were flown in similarly as part of an extensive evacuation programme kept tightly under wraps and put into motion after Indian side received credible inputs about possible threats from rouge elements and Pakistani terror groups.PM Modi held a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) and, according to officials aware of the discussions, issued directions to ensure all Indian nationals are brought back safely, and that India is able to extend assistance to Afghan citizens requiring it.“In view of the prevailing situation in Kabul, it was decided that our embassy personnel would be immediately moved to India. This movement has been completed in two phases and the ambassador and all other India-based personnel have reached New Delhi [on Tuesday] afternoon,” the external affairs ministry said earlier in the day.India sent two C-17s, which flew into Kabul using a circuitous route through Iranian airspace and over the Arabian Sea in order to avoid flying over Pakistan or spending too much time in the uncontrolled Afghan airspace. As the Kabul airport is small and the aircraft were offered slots of limited duration, the C-17s halted in the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe till it was time for them to fly into Kabul, said people aware of the matter.The second of these flights landed in Gujarat’s Jamnagar on Tuesday afternoon.The withdrawal of the ambassador and other staff from Kabul reflected India’s misgivings about Taliban’s assurances that all embassies and diplomats would be provided security. Taliban spokesman Suhail Saheen had tweeted on Monday night that no problems will be created for diplomats, embassies and charitable workers but this failed to reassure the Indian side.Tandon, who had taken up his assignment in Kabul only in August last year, told reporters during an interaction at the Jamnagar airbase, where the C-17 jet halted to refuel, that some Indian citizens were still in Afghanistan and Air India would continue operating flights from Kabul as long as the airport there remains functional to bring them back.He added: “As you know, the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan no longer exists and the situation is quite fluid now.”Air India has temporarily suspended its flights to Kabul because of conditions at the airport, but the MEA has opened a help desk and will ensure that anyone stuck in Kabul is brought back, he said.According to another official aware of the evacuation efforts at Kabul, the Indian ministry of external affairs and security officials started bringing evacuees to the Kabul airport from Monday as negotiations were undertaken with Taliban and other terrorist groups manning 15 check posts that lay between the Indian mission in Kabul to the international airport.Other people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that at least 300 Indian nationals, including those working for Western firms and other professionals, were believed to be in Afghanistan. Flights by Air India to bring back these Indians are expected to resume once the civilian side of Kabul’s Hamid Karzai international airport reopens.The airport, currently under the control of US troops, was closed on Monday following chaotic scenes as thousands of Afghans seeking to flee the Taliban entered the facility and marched on to the tarmac.External affairs minister S Jaishankar was involved in efforts to oversee the departure of the evacuation flights. At almost 3 am on Tuesday, he tweeted about his discussions in this regard with US secretary of state Antony Blinken: “Discussed latest developments in Afghanistan with @SecBlinken. Underlined the urgency of restoring airport operations in Kabul.”On Tuesday evening, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security to assess the situation in Afghanistan. The meeting was attended by home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and Tandon.Meanwhile, the Union home ministry announced Tuesday it had reviewed visa provisions in view of the situation and introduced a new category of electronic visas called “e-Emergency X-Misc Visa” to fast-track applications by Afghan nationals.The people cited above said the Indian embassy in Kabul was technically not shut down as it is still being manned by local Afghan staff – an arrangement similar to the one made for the consulates in Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif, from where all Indian staff were pulled out in recently weeks. The local staff have been given specific assignments and are being paid their salaries.The decision regarding the withdrawal of India’s diplomatic personnel and other staff was based on two factors – the security of the personnel and ensuring that their departure was not perceived as abandonment by Afghan partners. An earlier Indian assessment had suggested the Taliban would continue negotiations in order to gain legitimacy, at least till August 31, when the US drawdown was to be completed, but the situation changed swiftly as the Taliban marched towards Kabul over the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-evacuates-diplomatic-staff-amid-afghan-turmoil-101629247203647.html
18-08-2021||India||Delhi Riots: HC to hear former AAP leader Tahir Hussain's bail pleas today||The Delhi high court is set to hear today the bail pleas of suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain in connection with the four separate instances of violence during the northeast Delhi riots in January last year. The court had on August 6 adjourned hearing the bail plea till August 18 (Wednesday), after Justice Yogesh Khanna noted that the status report filed by the Delhi Police in one case was on record while the reports filed in connection with the three other cases were not.Tahir Hussain was booked by the Delhi Police in connection with the communal violence that broke out in the northeastern part of the national capital last year. The cops registered four separate cases at the Dayalpur police station against the former AAP leader and others accused of offenses punishable under Sections 147, 148, 149, 427, 436, and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). In addition to this, Hussain was also named an accused in seven other FIRs filed by the Delhi Police and one complaint relating to money laundering charges being probed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).Tahir Hussain has also filed a petition challenging the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) charges raised against him in connection with the larger conspiracy involving the Delhi riots. The former AAP leader, represented in court by senior advocate Mohit Mathur along with lawyer Rizwan, urged the Delhi HC bench earlier this month to send the petition to the same bench which is already dealing with the bail application of Tahir Hussain.Notably, the Delhi Police had registered more than 750 cases in connection with the northeast Delhi violence, in which at least 53 people were killed and several others were injured. More than 250 charge sheets have also been filed in riot-related cases so far, in which many accused have also been charge-sheeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-hc-to-hear-former-aap-leader-tahir-hussain-s-bail-pleas-today-101629243851969.html
18-08-2021||India||‘No issues with Sonia, Rahul; joined TMC unconditionally’||Former Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev on Tuesday said she has “no grievances with Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi” and that she has joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) “without any preconditions”.Addressing a press briefing with senior party leader Derek O’Brien at the party office on Tuesday, Dev said,“Every journey in life has ups and downs...I have no grievances with Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi.”Dev resigned from the Congress and joined TMC in presence of senior party leaders Abhishek Banerjee and Derek O’Brien in Kolkata on Monday.“My association with the Congress has been 30 years long and I have listed reasons for resignation in my letter. Congress gave me many opportunities as an MP and as president of Mahila Congress too… I believe whatever responsibility was given to me, I worked on it fully. And if there have been some lacunae in my work, I hope its president will forgive me,” she said on Tuesday.Dev also added that while in Congress, Rahul Gandhi gave her ample opportunities to contest elections, to be a national spokesperson, and to be a part of the Mahila Congress. “Not even for a moment, I will be ungrateful for that,” she said.Dev said that joining the TMC will not, in any way, be “counterproductive” towards the goal that the Opposition was looking at in the future. “I have my full faith in Mamata didi. I have joined the TMC without any preconditions because a new relation sustains on trust (not preconditions),” she said.TMC denied that Dev joining the party was in anyway a betrayal to the Congress. “Poaching and breaking political parties not our style. However, always glad to welcome those who are committed to journey with us for a better India,” O’Brien said.Netta D’Souza is new interim Mahila Cong chiefThe Congress on Tuesday appointed Netta D’Souza as the new interim president of its women’s wing Mahila Congress.“The Congress has appointed Netta D’ Souza as the acting president of Mahila Congress with immediate effect till a full-time president is appointed,” Congress general secretary KC Venugopal said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-issues-with-sonia-rahul-joined-tmc-unconditionally-101629244251472.html
18-08-2021||India||‘Will sleep well tonight’: ITBP commander after Kabul contingent lands in Delhi||As India evacuated its embassy and all of its staff from Taliban-captured Afghanistan in IAF aircraft on Monday and Tuesday, a contingent of 99 commandos and three sniffer dogs of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) also landed at the Hindon IAF base in Delhi on the same day, officials said.The commandos also brought back their personal weapons and belongings, and will now undergo a week-long coronavirus disease (Covid-19 quarantine at the ITBP facility in Delhi, the officials added.The ITBP contingent commander Ravi Kant Gautam said that his men “didn’t sleep for the last three to four days” and that they will make for it now with “some good sleep tonight.”“It was a challenging operation as we were evacuating our people in a country where there was no reinforcement,” he pointed out, adding that the Indian government coordinated all the efforts “very well” and that his men conducted the same “nicely on the ground.”The commandos were transferred to the quarantine facility at the Hindon base on brown-coloured buses.“With this, our complete contingent deployed for securing the Embassy in Kabul, its four consulates in Afghanistan and diplomats have returned. The commandos came along with the Embassy staffers along with other Indian nationals," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said.The ITBP commandos and the sniffer dogs were among the nearly 200 diplomats, including Indian ambassador to Afghanistan Rudrendra Tandon that India repatriated on the C-17 Globemaster aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Tuesday. The aircraft made a brief halt at the Jamnagar base of Gujarat before landing in Delhi.As many as four journalists were present among the 21 civilians.An ITBP official told reporters in Jamnagar that the situation in Afghanistan was "very dangerous” to even be described.Also Read | Taliban were ‘catching and killing us’: Afghan intel officer who fled to Delhi on last flight from KabulThis comes after officials said on Monday that an armed contingent of ITBP is "actively" securing the diplomatic staff of the Indian embassy in Afghanistan's capital Kabul and will be there "till required".Also Read | ITBP to guard Indian diplomatic staff in Afghanistan till required: OfficialsThe ITBP was first deployed to secure the premises of the India embassy in Kabul, diplomats and staffers in November, 2002.Meanwhile, Tandon on Monday, during a brief interaction with reporters, said that India is “continuously monitoring the situation” in Afghanistan and since there are still some Indian national stranded in the war-torn country, national carrier Air India will “continue to run its commercial services to Kabul as long as the airport in Kabul functions.”Taliban took over Kabul on Sunday, and soon after former Afghan president Ashraf Ghani fled the country reportedly to Tajikistan. Several of his close aides also departed from the country while one of his advisors on public health affairs, R Ahmadzai, arrived in Delhi on Sunday.Speaking to reporters after landing in Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport, Ahmadzai said, “There was a lot of anxiety and depression over the last one month, but now there is not much fighting [in Afghanistan]. People are at peace now.”Also Read | Afghan president's advisor arrives in India, says all ministers left KabulHe added that the Taliban has promised to not be their old brutal self this time around, and assured more freedom to women and girls, including allowing them to work wearing a hijab.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-sleep-well-tonight-itbp-commander-after-kabul-contingent-lands-in-delhi-101629226542799.html
18-08-2021||India||Crossing dozens of check posts, relaying messages: Inside India’s evacuation plan in Kabul||As a convoy of 14 vehicles made its way from the Indian embassy in Shar-e-Naw area of Kabul to Hamid Karzai international airport, messages were relayed every minute to senior officials in New Delhi anxiously awaiting updates on the night-time journey by Indian diplomats and citizens through Taliban-controlled districts. The distance between the mission and the airport can usually be covered in about 20 minutes but the convoy with some 150 Indians, escorted by local Afghans known to the embassy staff, took nearly an hour to complete the journey on Monday night because of more than a dozen check posts set up by the Taliban. While the Afghans occupied the lead and last vehicles in the convoy, personnel from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) were present in all the bulletproof cars carrying diplomats and other staff from the mission and a small number of Indian nationals. The threat perception for the convoy was high, especially following reports that “rogue elements” and Pakistani terrorists from groups such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba and the Haqqani Network were present alongside the Taliban in Kabul. As the convoy travelled from Kabul’s “green zone”, the fortified diplomatic quarter with concrete blast walls and checkpoints that till recently housed many foreign missions, and passed key landmarks, messages were relayed to officials at the cabinet secretariat and external affairs ministry who were monitoring the evacuation of the ambassador and other diplomatic staff. Adding to the concerns were reports that the Taliban, who had assumed control of the Afghan capital on Sunday after the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government, had imposed a night curfew in Kabul. Despite these reports, the decision was made to drive to the airport at night because traffic would be thin and it would be easier for the convoy to move relatively faster. Also read: ‘Urgently share details’ - MEA asks Indians still stranded in AfghanistanThe convoy was stopped at a few Taliban check posts, where the local Afghans took care of formalities, and then made its way to the airport. It was only when all the vehicles were safely inside the military side of the airport, under the control of US troops, that officials overseeing the operation in Kabul and New Delhi heaved a sigh of relief. Any Indian nationals who made their way to the embassy were included in the convoy. Ambassador Rudrendra Tandon, speaking to reporters after his return, said, “There are a lot of Indian citizens who found themselves in distress because of the fast-changing situation. So, our policy was that anyone who reached the embassy was taken into the embassy. I don’t know how they managed inside the embassy but we were sure that they were safe and secure and there was an avenue for an exit.” The Indian mission in Kabul had 192 personnel, and everyone was evacuated “literally within three days”, Tandon added. India began planning for the possible withdrawal of its staff more than six months ago after the Taliban launched a major offensive in Afghanistan’s rural areas. Elaborate plans were put in place for all contingencies, with instructions from the top leadership in New Delhi that the security of all Indian personnel was paramount. These plans included “red lines” that would trigger the evacuation of personnel from the embassy and two functional consulates in Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. “The red lines included, for example, the capture of key districts near a consulate. The Taliban activity at Spin Boldak was a red line for the Kandahar consulate. The fall of Sheberghan was a red line for Mazar-e-Sharif. We made a call at the right time, and got out at the right time,” said a person. Once the Taliban entered Kabul on Sunday and the security situation became complicated, the decision was made to withdraw the diplomatic staff. However, the move was surrounded in secrecy even as the Indian side coordinated with the US and Afghan partners. One group of about 45 diplomats and security personnel were brought back in a C-17 Globemaster heavy lift aircraft that took off from Hindon airbase late on August 15 and flew back from Kabul the following day. The remaining diplomats and security personnel and some Indian nationals returned on Tuesday in another C-17. The C-17s flew over the Arabian Sea and Iranian airspace to avoid flying over Pakistan. Given the lack of space and chaos at Kabul airport, the C-17s halted at Dushanbe in Tajikistan till it was time for them to hop over to the Afghan capital to pick up their passengers. “The return flight to India was the easy part. The tougher job was getting from the embassy to the airport,” said the person cited above. Without giving details of the evacuation, external affairs minister S Jaishankar tweeted: “Movement of the Indian Ambassador and the Embassy staff from Kabul to India was a difficult and complicated exercise. Thank all those whose cooperation and facilitation made it possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crossing-dozens-of-check-posts-relaying-messages-inside-india-s-evacuation-plan-in-kabul-101629227201383.html
18-08-2021||India||Jaishankar, Blinken discuss Afghanistan||External affairs minister S Jaishankar spoke to US secretary of state Antony Blinken early on Tuesday to seek American assistance in getting Indians evacuated from Kabul, even as a second batch of members of the Indian mission including Ambassador Rudrendra Tandon left the Afghan capital in an Indian Air Force C-17.The first batch of 45 was evacuated on Monday, in another IAF C-17, but the second couldn’t amidst the chaos on the streets of Kabul and in the airport itself.After Turkey backed off from manning the Hamid Karzai International Airport, it is being technically manned by the US forces with air traffic control and perimeter under American security cover.The US secretary of state also assured Jaishankar, who is currently in New York, of full support in future evacuations through civilian flights. Later, on Tuesday, Jaishankar spoke with UNSC members to evolve a broader consensus on the Afghanistan issue. He was also expected to meet with UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres on the same issue. India’s foreign minister is chairing UNSC sessions on terrorism and peacekeeping for two days.Given the chaos in Kabul, EAM Jaishankar is working with the Americans to get the HKI airport ready to receive civilian flights so that Indians and others are evacuated from the strife-torn nation. “ Our priorities are Indians working in Afghanistan, Indians who went to Afghanistan despite our advisory, Indians who were employed by US and European contractors to work in Afghanistan, the civilian population of Indian origin and Afghan friends with traditional links with our country …. E-visas will be issued to those who don’t have documents to travel on application,” said an official who asked not to be named.Before Jaishankar spoke to Blinken, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval also talked to his US counterpart Jake Sullivan on phone to discuss the evacuation of second batch of Indian diplomats and officials from Kabul.The two also discussed ways to stabilise strife torn Afghanistan.The situation in Kabul continues to be precarious with Taliban fighters under no visible chain of command and various sundry terror outfits setting up security check posts to demand protection money. “It is free for all in Kabul with power flowing from the barrel of the gun,” said another official who too asked not to be named.Indian officials managed to get the second batch of evacuees to the HKI airport post-midnight on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-blinken-discuss-afghanistan-101629225978425.html
18-08-2021||India||‘Urgently share details’: MEA asks Indians still stranded in Afghanistan||Using the Air Force’s (IAF) C-17 transport aircraft, India on Monday and Tuesday withdrew its diplomatic staff from Afghanistan, including the Indian ambassador to the war-torn nation Rudrendra Tandon. However, several Indian nationals continue to be stranded in the country that witnessed the re-emergence of the Islamist extremist group Taliban on Sunday and the total collapse of the President Ashraf Ghani-led government.Addressing this matter, the ministry of external affairs on Tuesday requested the stranded Indians in Afghanistan and/or their ‘employers…to urgently share the relevant details with [the ministry’s] Special Afghanistan Cell.”“We understand that a number of Indians are stranded in that country, some of whom are employed by third country organisations. Our immediate priority is to obtain accurate information about all Indian nationals currently in Afghanistan,” the ministry said in a statement.Foreign ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi took to Twitter on Monday to announce that India has created a special Afghanistan cell to look into the issues pertaining to the repatriation of Indian nationals and other matters in Afghanistan. This development came after it was reported that several Sikh and Hindu Indian citizens have taken refuge at a gurdwara in Kabul, even as the panic-stricken Afghans resorted to every possible method to escape their home country.Also Read | India sets up Afghanistan cell to coordinate repatriation as Sikhs, Hindus huddle in Kabul gurdwaraUnion external affairs minister S Jaishankar, meanwhile, described the evacuation of the Indian embassy from Afghanistan to be a “difficult and complicated exercise.”"Movement of the Indian Ambassador and the embassy staff from Kabul to India was a difficult and complicated exercise. Thank all those whose cooperation and facilitation made it possible,” he tweeted on Tuesday.Also Read | How India brought back its ambassador, staff from embassy in KabulNotably, nearly 200 Indian officials and security personnel were flown out of Kabul in two batches – with the flights being operated in secrecy. One group of the diplomats faced problems reaching the airport from the embassy – located 10km from the former, as the Taliban had set up checkpoints on the way.Congress leader and Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday urged the MEA and Jaishankar to immediately make arrangements to repatriate Indians stranded in the country, including around 200 Sikhs. Following his appeal, Union cabinet minister Hardeep Singh Puri said that the MEA and all other concerned government departments would make all arrangements to bring back Indians from Afghanistan.The Taliban entered Kabul on Sunday facing minimal or no resistance from the US-backed Afghan troops. With paranoia and memories from their over half-a-decade long reign 20 years ago still afresh in the minds of Afghans, especially women and girls, they have been gathering at the Hamid Karzai International Airport in order to get to flights to flee the group’s reincarnation.Watch Here | Watch: 600 Afghans huddle onto US military plane to flee Taliban. Pic goes viralHowever, Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid on Tuesday said that the group are “committed to providing women their rights based on Islam.”“Women can work in the health sector and other sectors where they are needed. There will be no discrimination against women,” he was quoted as saying by Tolo News.Mujahid further said that the security of all embassies, missions, aid agencies, and international organisations in Kabul is of “crucial importance” to them. “We would like to assure all foreign countries that our forces are there to ensure the security of all,” he said.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/urgently-share-details-mea-asks-indians-still-stranded-in-afghanistan-101629225678309.html
18-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh issues notice to news portal over report citing minister||RAIPUR: Even as rumblings of a power struggle within the Chhattisgarh Congress continue over a reported power-sharing arrangement between chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and health minister TS Singh Deo, the latter has written to the state public relations department asking for action against a news portal that carried a report saying Baghel would resign on August 17 and attributed it to him.In the letter written to the department on Monday, Singh Deo called the piece a “planned conspiracy” to “pollute” the political environment of the state. CM Baghel heads the department of public relations. The report carried by portal TPC 24, said, “TS Singh Deo ka daava 17 ko mukhyamantri denge isteefa, idhar dabaav se beparvaah lambi paari khelne ke andaaz mein , le rahe hain kayee bade faisle…” (TS Singh Deo claimed CM will resign on 17, but CM instead of the pressure is taking big decisions). In response, the public relations department on Tuesday sent a notice to the portal citing Singh Deo’s contention and asking them to file a corrigendum or face legal action, an official said. Editor of TPC-24, Mahendra Sahu, however, said he has not received any notice from the public relations department so far. “We will give proper reply to the notice after we get it from a proper channel,” said Sahu. This is the latest in a series of developments that underline the fraught political atmosphere within the Congress, emanating from a reported power-sharing agreement between Baghel and Singh Deo after the party swept to power in December 2019. On June 17, the day when the Congress government completed two and a half years, Singh Deo called Baghel on the phone, congratulated for his term, and then reminded him about the post-sharing formula as well, people familiar with the matters said. In response to the near constant speculation, both leaders have taken the stance that decisions will be taken by the high command, and they will follow the instructions from Delhi. However, two months since June 17, Singh Deo is in Delhi apparently to meet the top Congress leaders seeking clarity on the post-sharing formula. When asked about his purpose of Delhi trip, Singh Deo told HT, “I don’t want to politicise my visit.” He further said that earlier this month, he was in Delhi for a health check-up and had stopped in the national capital while returning from Tripura, where he was sent by the party high command. On July 27, the differences within the party came on the fore when Singh Deo walked out of the state assembly demanding clarity from his own government over allegations that the minister’s relative was involved in an alleged attack on Congress legislator Brihaspat Singh. The issue began after Singh alleged that his convoy was attacked at the behest of Singh Deo in Surguja district, which is the health minister’s assembly constituency. Later, after the intervention of party’s state in-charge PL Punia, the issue was resolved, and Singh Deo returned to assembly after Singh apologised for his statements against the minister. Some within the party believe Singh Deo was also continuously ignored in some of the important meetings during Covid-19 pandemic despite him being the health minister, in the last 16 months, which further escalated tension between the two leaders. Last week, assembly speaker and senior Congress leader Charan Das Mahant, who was also seen as in the running for CM in 2018, added to the speculation when he told reporters that four senior leaders – Baghel, Singh Deo, home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu and himself – had played the semifinals for the CM post, and the final was in progress. “Semifinals were between four people, and only two remained. But one who wins the finals is eventually the winner. Rahul ji ( Rahul Gandhi) knows all about this formula and only Delhi can give more information about it,” Mahant added. The main opposition Bhartiya Janata Party claimed the issue of power-sharing between two leaders should be resolved for the benefit of the state. It, however, trained its guns on the Congress, and said the animosity was harming the state. “Although, the tiff is an internal issue of Congress, but as per the statements of party leaders, it seems that there was a formula for CM post-sharing. The senior leaders of Congress should resolve the issue as soon as possible. Secondly, the people of the state are suffering from this struggle. We all know that Singh Deo, who is also the health minister of the state, was ignored in important meetings of cabinet due to which people suffered,” said former CM and BJP vice-president Raman Singh. Political commentators in the state believe the Congress and its workers are hoping to see the issue resolved with a sense of finality. Parivesh Mishra, a political commentator in the state, said, “Any situation that forces the Congress worker to take sides is generally not acceptable. Except for a handful of those who aspire for office and stand a serious chance of achieving it, there is nothing at stake for the ordinary party worker at the ground level. The vast majority of the party workers would like to see the present controversy over as soon as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-issues-notice-to-news-portal-over-report-citing-minister-101629225881574.html
18-08-2021||India||Action against Opposition MPs for ruckus in RS unlikely soon||Punitive action being sought by the government against opposition MPs accused of creating pandemonium in the Rajya Sabha on August 11 could be some time away (if at all) not just on account of the lengthy process involved, but also because the final step requires the House to be in session.One Rajya Sabha official familiar with the matter said Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu has to go through the allegations carefully, consult experts and take legal opinion before he decides whether there is need to set up a panel that will, in turn, recommend the action that needs to be taken against the lawmakers.“But as any action against lawmakers has to be taken through a motion (proposal) in the Rajya Sabha to get the nod of the House, it can only happen during the next session,” said former Lok Sabha secretary general P Sreedharan.Naidu has started seeking legal consultation on possible action that can be taken against opposition MPs who allegedly disrupted House proceedings, damaged property and manhandled marshals on the last day of the monsoon session.If there’s prima facie proof of unruly conduct and other allegations of violence, the Rajya Sabha secretariat might set up a panel. The secretariat clarified that steps can be taken against a member even after the session is over. “The monsoon session might have ended, but the lawmakers continue to be a member of the House,” explained a top functionary who asked not to be named.Naidu, however, is personally averse to taking the extreme step of suspending members for the remainder of their terms in the House.On August 15, a delegation of seven ministers led by Leader of the House Piyush Goyal met Naidu and requested action against the members for what they called unprecedented, extreme and violent acts in the House. The government has already requested him to take exemplary action against lawmakers who were seen climbing tables in the Upper House, ripping papers, throwing the rule book and damaging property.The Rajya Sabha secretariat has further reported to Naidu that some Opposition leaders “threatened” deputy chairman Harivansh and even used “abusive language” while doing so.Fierce protests erupted in the Upper House on the last day of the monsoon session of parliament as the government tried to clear the general insurance amendment bill even as a section of the opposition opposed it, claiming it required scrutiny by a select committee.Amid speculation that some of the allies and friendly parties could also send a written complaint to the Rajya Sabha chairperson, a senior leader of the BJP said, “Some MPs had indicated that they could approach the Rajya Sabha chairperson to take action against the disruptions because it had also prevented them from raising issues in the house and obstructed their functioning...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/action-against-opposition-mps-for-ruckus-in-rs-unlikely-soon-101629225699711.html
18-08-2021||India||Daily shots hit record as case slide continues||With over 8.8 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines administered on Monday, India set a new record for the highest ever number of single-day vaccinations since the start of the drive on January 16, the Union health ministry said, even as national daily infections have again started dropping with the outbreak beginning to contract in the state of Kerala, the most recent infection hotspot.The central government attributed the increase in the pace of daily vaccination to the availability of shots, “advance visibility of supply” to states and Union territories which enabled them to plan better, as well as the “streamlining” of the overall supply chain.According to government data, 560 million doses have been administered to 435 million people across India till Tuesday evening. This translates to over 46% of all adults in the country having been administered at least one dose of the vaccine – 33% of India’s adults have been partially vaccinated, while another 13.3% have received both shots of the vaccine, data shows.On Monday, 8.8 million doses were administered across the country – the highest ever, according to government data. To be sure, this occurred a day after daily vaccinations dropped to just 2 million on Sunday. The drop on Sunday, however, was expected as vaccination numbers generally drop over weekends and holidays (Sunday was also Independence Day).“88 lakh India achieves the highest single-day record in #COVID19 vaccine doses. Yesterday will go down in the history of the world’s #LargestVaccineDrive. Congratulations [India],” tweeted Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.The previous record for single-day doses was set on June 21 when around 8.6 million jabs were administered after the new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced.To be sure, the seven-day average of daily dose administration still remains patchy. The current rate, despite Monday’s record numbers, remains much below peak capacity exhibited in the past – 5.7 million daily doses have been administered on average in the last seven days against a peak of 6.3 million daily doses for the week ended June 26, data shows. However, that this number is rising again is a good sign.Health ministry officials said they expect a further increase in inoculation rates in the coming weeks.“With vaccine supplies and logistical arrangements gradually improving, the daily numbers are going to go further up. It was expected. We have the capacity and capability to do more in a single day and it will see further increase in coming weeks,” a government official aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity.This rise in vaccinations is particularly significant as it comes at a time when cases have again started dropping. The seven-day average of new infections, which denotes a region’s Covid-19 case curve, has now dropped to 36,126 cases a day for the week ending August 16 – the lowest this has touched in the country since March 20, or in 149 days. At its peak during India’s brutal second wave, this number soared to 391,819 cases a day for the week ending May 9, according to HT’s dashboard.For two-and-a-half months after the May 9 peak, India’s Covid curve was witnessing a near-steady drop which was briefly halted in the last week of July by an abrupt rise of infections in Kerala. For the week ended July 25, average daily cases in India dropped to 38,007, but this number started rising and touched 40,817 for the week ended August 1 – a rise that was pushed almost entirely by numbers from Kerala, which still accounts for more than half of all new infections in the country.These findings were echoed in the epidemiological estimates conducted by epiforecasts.io, a website that assesses temporal variations in transmission in different countries, that showed that India’s overall effective reproduction number (Rt) has dropped to 0.92. An Rt of more than 1 means an outbreak is expanding in a region, while that below 1 denotes a contraction. Kerala had an Rt of 0.95.Government experts said an increase in vaccination rate may improve the chances of the country being able to avert a potential third Covid wave.“It depends on how many of our people are protected, and how many have been exposed to the virus. The vaccination drive is successfully progressing and we are hopeful that will soon be able to immunise a majority of our population that will be a big factor in determining that we don’t see a third wave. Also, even if we see a third wave, it is a small one,” Dr Himanshu Chauhan, joint director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), said in a video statement.Independent experts, however, stressed that vaccination may not immediately help in pandemic control but would prove beneficial in the long run.“Our expectations of pandemic control require revision and I don’t think we have done the distinction between healthcare expectation and public health expectation. The healthcare piece will be affected more by vaccination than pandemic control as defined by how we currently use indicators,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, one of country’s top vaccinologist from Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-shots-hit-record-as-case-slide-continues-101629225338505.html
18-08-2021||India||Govt cites national security, SC issues notice on Pegasus||The Union government told the Supreme Court it has nothing to add to its affidavit on the Pegasus snooping matter filed on Monday that neither confirmed nor denied the use of the spyware to hack phones of ministers, politicians, businessmen, activists and journalists, following which the bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, issued a formal notice to it on a clutch of petitions demanding a court-monitored independent investigation into the issue.The court observed that it is “not averse” to the creation of an expert committee to look into the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens using the Israeli spyware – as suggested by the government – but that it expected the Union government to bring sufficient facts on record regarding the interception regime in India.The government, however, maintained that any disclosure on its using or not using Pegasus spyware could affect national security, and reaffirmed its stand of divulging such information only to the proposed committee which, it added, can report to the top court.In line with its response a day ago, the government said that all interceptions were being done in accordance with the statutory procedure and it would not wish to put out in public domain details of software used for lawful surveillance by filing any additional affidavit.On Monday, the government filed a three-page affidavit offering to set up an expert committee to look into all aspects of the controversy and “dispel any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests”. It further contended that the petitions “are based on conjectures and surmises or on other unsubstantiated media reports or incomplete or uncorroborated material” and, hence, failed to make out any case to invoke writ jurisdiction.The bench, which included justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta to reconsider filing a detailed reply in 10 days while observing that the court will ponder over the future course of action in the meantime.“We are not averse to a fact-finding or investigating committee...We will issue notice and then we will take a call on whether a committee is to be appointed -- whether it is to be a committee of||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-cites-national-security-sc-issues-notice-on-pegasus-101629225279759.html
18-08-2021||India||Half-burnt body of 17-year-old girl retrieved from pyre in U.P||MEERUT: The Uttar Pradesh Police on Tuesday retrieved the half-burnt body of a 17-year-old girl, who was allegedly beaten to death by her family members for being in a relationship, from the funeral pyre in a Muzaffarnagar village, an official said.Police swung into action following a tip off from the watchman of Karheda village under the Bhopa police station area. “Control room received a telephone call on Tuesday about some suspected death of a teenage girl in village Karhera and a team rushed to the village. They retrieved the half-burnt body from the pyre and sent for post-mortem,” said superintendent of police (rural), Muzaffarnagar, Atul Srivastava. A case has been registered against the girl’s father and another family member based on the complaint of the watchman. “We are waiting for the postmortem report of the girl before issuing a conclusive statement in the incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/halfburnt-body-of-17-year-old-girl-retrieved-from-pyre-in-up-101629225279084.html
18-08-2021||India||Shahid Samman Yatra: MoS alleges arrest in Bengal, police deny||Union minister of state Shantanu Thakur said on Tuesday that he was among several Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and workers to be arrested for taking part in the Shahid Samman Yatra, in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district. However, the police denied Thakur’s charge.“I came to offer puja and was arrested by the police,” the Union minister of state for ports, shipping and waterways said.However, the police denied the charge. “Cars were kept at the airport for Thakur since he is a Union minister. BJP workers started a snap demonstration and we had to stop them. Thakur forcefully boarded the bus in which the BJP workers were being taken away... He was not arrested,” an officer of the airport police station said.The BJP has alleged that 36 of its workers have been killed in Bengal since the assembly poll results were announced on May 2. The state government has told the Calcutta high court - which asked the NHRC to probe the allegations of post-poll violence - that the report is biased and prepared with a political motive.“The BJP has no base in Bengal. Why will the police arrest a Union minister? This is a lie...,” said Trinamool Congress Lok Sabha MP Saugata Roy.Meanwhile, police said it arrested over 30 BJP workers in various districts across the state for violating Covid-19 restrictions, but later released them.However, Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “The TMC government was informed in advance that our programme would be held in compliance with Covid curbs and yet our workers and leaders were arrested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shahid-samman-yatra-mos-alleges-arrest-in-bengal-police-deny-101629225218528.html
18-08-2021||India||Nadda slams Kerala govt over Covid crisis||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J P Nadda on Tuesday came down heavily on Pinarayi Vijayan-led government in Kerala, accusing it of mishandling the Covid-19 pandemic situation, which, he said, led to the sorry state of affairs.Inaugurating the new party office in Kozhikode in north Kerala through a video conference, Nadda said Kerala has turned into “a model of mismanagement” under the Vijayan regime.“The government failed to tackle the pandemic. For more than a month, Kerala has been contributing half of the total cases in the country. This is nothing but gross mismanagement. It is reduced to a model of mismanagement,” he said, chiding the oft-repeated “Kerala model of development” by the left leaders.The BJP president also criticised the low testing rate and vaccination programme being hijacked by local CPI (M) leaders. “In the state, more than half of tests are still antigen. The real mode is RT-PCR. It ignored repeated warnings of experts and failed to raise its test rate. The state also ignored some of the proactive steps taken by the Union government,” he said, adding that the Centre was willing to help the state always. He cited the special scheme worth ₹267 crores announced by Union health minister M Mandaviya upon his visit to the state on Monday.“The government still finds refuge in some of its old records. It needs a sincere and pragmatic approach to come out of the present crisis. You can’t play politics everywhere,” he said, alleging that in some areas left workers hijacked the vaccination programme. He said like the left parties, the BJP never wanted to play politics during the pandemic.The CPI (M) is yet to react on the matter.Meanwhile, the state reported another surge in Covid-19 cases, reporting 21,613 cases with a test positivity rate of 15. 48 per cent after 139,623 samples were tested. It also recorded 126 deaths, taking total fatalities to 18,870. The active caseload is 175, 167. The state recorded a high caseload when the country reported the lowest total, 25,166, since March. Among districts, Malappuram recorded 3,193 coronavirus cases followed by Ernakulam (2,643), Thrissur (2,470), Kozhikode (2,322), Palakkad (2,134), Kollam (1,692), Kannur (1,306), Alappuzha (1,177), Kottayam (1,155) and Thiruvananthapuram (1,155).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-slams-govt-over-covid-crisis-101629224803271.html
18-08-2021||India||Fear, uncertainty haunt Afghan students in India||They are two thousand kilometres away from home, spread out across India, looking to study, to build for the future, for themselves, their families, their country. But in the course of one dramatic week, the futures of Afghan students in India, has become one of uncertainty and fear, and worry for what lies ahead. On Monday, 28-year-old Diana Farzan, a student in Bengaluru spoke to her family in Herat for all of five minutes. She wanted to check on her parents and her family, but had another question at the top of her mind, if she would be allowed to work. “I’m doing my masters in journalism because I want to pursue a career as a journalist or get back to teaching journalism. I don’t know what will happen now and what I will I do when I got back home. Sit at home as they (Taliban) wants, in a country where I don’t have the right to vote? I don’t want to do that,” said Farzan. But if Farzan has two more semesters left in India, for another student at Bangalore University, the concern is more immediate. An Afghan student, who ordinarily would have to return at the end of the academic session said that under the Taliban, Afghanistan would move backwards in time. “I don’t know what I must do...From what we have heard, Taliban rule was a time when a woman didn’t matter. I don’t want that. I will see how things are by the time my course is over,” said the Bangalore University student, who didn’t want to be named. Ever since the Taliban marched to Kabul, in Odisha’s Rourkela, a 23 year-old civil engineering student has been making frantic calls to his family, but despite a short conversation, has had no solace. His father, who works with the Afghan Election Commission and the family have locked themselves inside their home, despite a food shortage. “Our house is in the sururbs of Kabul. But no one is sure what is going to happen as we have seen how Taliban have tortured people over last two decades,” said the student who did not want to be named.The 23-year-old is among the 14 Afghanistan students sponsored by ICCR for scholarships in Odisha, and hoped that once he finished his degree, he would join the “reconstruction” of his country. “But now returning home seems to be dangerous forget working in Afghanistan.” Another 23 year-old student, Ehsanullah, who joined Utkal University in Bhubaneswar earlier this year, said that the Taliban had actually entered and searched his home, but thus far had done no harm. “My father retired from government job earlier this year and all my five brothers were employed in various wings of the Afghanistan government. Last week, my father’s pension and retirement benefits were cancelled, and brothers lost their jobs,” he said.For many, the worry is that the very act of choosing to study abroad, or what they are studying, may be enough for them to be considered a “traitor” under the Taliban regime. Ibrahim Akbari, a student at Goa University said. “Things may be okay now but they will soon be coming door to door. My family’s life is in danger if they know that I am studying here. If I go back I will definitely be killed especially if they know that I am studying political science,” Akbari told HT. Akbari said that a pressing concern now is the need for funds, particularly for those students that aren’t on scholarships. “Many have been funded by their parents back home who are now unsure of their financial situation and therefore cannot send more money here. Others have rent to pay.” In Uttarakhand, Hashmi, a PHD student from Kabul, one of the four Afghans studying at Pantnagar University under the Indo-Afghan joint fellowship programme, has a visa that expires in two weeks. “My visa terminates on August 30 and I wanted to return to Afghanistan as my research here is done. But the present turmoil makes that very uncertain. But here, I will face the problem of how I will remain without a visa if it is not extended”, he said. Brijesh Singh, Dean, student welfare in Pant varsity said that the University would stand with its Afghan students and take care of them on “humanitarian grounds.” “The matter is in the notice of the vice-chancellor. Since it is a policy matter, we will follow the instructions of the Central government in this regard.” With inputs from Gerard D Souza in Panaji and Mohan Raj in Dehradun||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fear-uncertainty-haunt-afghan-students-in-india-101629224618420.html
18-08-2021||India||Can’t continue extending ED chief’s term indefinitely: SC||The government cannot continue extending the tenure of the Directorate of Enforcement (ED) chief till the agency completes investigating all crucial cases, observed the Supreme Court on Tuesday after being told that the success achieved in crucial money laundering cases under the present ED director was one of the reasons to extend his tenure by a year.The court was hearing arguments on a petition filed by NGO Common Cause which has challenged the November 13, 2020 decision of the Government granting Enforcement Director Sanjay Kumar Mishra an extension till November 18, 2021. By an order of November 19, 2018, his tenure was fixed for two years. With just days remaining for the end of his tenure in November 2020, the Government retrospectively modified his tenure to three years in the original appointment order.Mishra reached his retirement age in May 2020.Hearing arguments on the petition, the bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai set out to examine whether the decision to grant three-year tenure was contrary to the 1997 judgment of the Supreme Court laying down a minimum tenure of two years for the heads of ED and Central Bureau of Investigation. The bench also considered whether an extension granted post-retirement would go against Rule 56 of the All India Service Rules which mandates that all government servants retire at 60.Appearing for the Government, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said that the Central Vigilance Commission Act was enacted in 2003 and the court’s 1997 decision was incorporated in Section 25(d) which said, “Notwithstanding anything contained in the Foreign Exchange Management Act 1999 or any other law for the time being in force….a Director of Enforcement shall continue to hold office for a period of not less than two years from the date on which he assumes office.”He pointed out that while the 1997 judgment provided for a minimum tenure, it did not weigh in on tenure beyond two years. Mehta also added that Section 25(d) of the CVC Act overrides Rule 56.The appointment was not “haphazard” or based on “whims and fancies of the Government” as projected by the petitioner, Mehta said, adding that a committee headed by the Central Vigilance Commissioner examined Mishra’s professional record of past 10 years before recommending his extension.“In the last two years (as Director), apart from investigating crucial money laundering cases, a sum of nearly ₹9,000 crore worth proceeds of crime stood deposited in the investigation of three cases involving Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi,” the Solicitor General said.The bench replied, “We appreciate that he is doing good work. But you cannot continue with him till all these cases are over. The task of Enforcement Directorate is very important. You cannot leave it to one individual to complete it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-continue-extending-ed-chief-s-term-indefinitely-sc-101629223959169.html
18-08-2021||India||Web portals to offer geospatial data||The Union government on Tuesday launched web portals to offer the geospatial data collected by the Survey of India and the National Atlas and Thematic Mapping Organization either free or at a nominal cost.The launch comes nearly six months after the government announced liberalisation of collection and dissemination of geospatial data, in February, allowing private companies to conduct surveying and mapping without government approvals, and to share data for various applications — from logistics and transport to road safety and e-commerce. Under the policy, geospatial data from government agencies such as the Survey of India and the Indian Space Research Organisation was to be made available to public.“The new geospatial policy launched erased all the regulations on surveying and mapping, thus removing a lot of cobwebs of the past in one sweep. By liberalising and democratising geospatial data, a direct impact of about 1 lakh crore will be created by 2030,” said professor Ashutosh Sharma, secretary, department of science and technology.ISRO’s satellite-based navigation data is already available for use by citizens free-to-air; the space agency’s new policy states that it will work on making the data interoperable with other navigation signals such as GPS and GLONASS to increase acceptance and better navigation signals for people in India subcontinent.The department of science also announced that India will be hosting the second United Nations World Geospatial Information Congress (UNWGIC) in Hyderabad in October 2022. “We are excited to host UNWGIC next year and looking forward to welcome all in Hyderabad next year for the event which would show a glimpse of India’s evolving geospatial ecosystem,” said Sharma.The online maps portal of Survey of India has over 4,000 maps with national, state, district, and tehsil level data that have been indexed for end users. The portal also lists various formats the information can be downloaded in. Online payment is enabled on the portal for easy payment. The prices of the maps range from ₹0 to ₹68,750, according to the portal.“With the launch of this online portal, the users will no longer have to visit the SOI offices, and they can easily purchase and download products online at their doorstep through Bharat Kosh payment gateway of Govt of India,” said the Surveyor General of India Naveen Tomar.In addition to that, the Survey of India has also developed a web geographic information system (GIS) called Sarthi that will help users in creating applications for geospatial data visualisation, manipulation, and analysis without a lot of resources at their end. A GIS connects location data to layers of other information such as where health facilities are located, type of vegetation found in a region, or water resources in the area. “The portal will allow a company or say the Maharashtra government to create an application with different types of geographical data instead of investing resources in creating such application on their own from the geospatial data available,” said Sunil Kumar, joint secretary, department of science.The third portal, called Manchitran, makes available thematic maps developed by NATMO. “NATMO works on creating various thematic maps such as the cultural map of India, the climactic map, or the economic map,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/web-portals-to-offer-geospatial-data-101629223838050.html
18-08-2021||India||National force for judges unfeasible, Centre tells SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday expressed distress over rising incidents of physical and verbal attacks on judges throughout the country, even as the Union government maintained that there is no need to have a national-level security force to protect judges and court precincts.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, was informed by the government that constituting a dedicated unit nationally for the protection of judges is “neither advisable nor practical”.The bench, which also included justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, was taking stock of the safety measures put in place and those being contemplated by the Centre and states for the protection of judges in the wake of the death of additional district and sessions judge Uttam Anand, who was fatally knocked down by a vehicle on July 28 in Jharkhand’s Dhanbad.A 2019 public interest litigation, filed by Karunakar Mahalik for a specialised force for security to all courts, judges, lawyers, litigants and witnesses in the country, was heard along with the case registered by the court suo motu (on its own motion) over the death of the Dhanbad judge. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, told the bench that there are guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) to all the states and Union Territories in 2007 and reiterated in 2020 for creating special units within the state police forces.“Public order and police are state subjects. The central government has already provided a broad mechanism. If the states were to adhere to the MHA guidelines in letter and spirit, much of the problems will be resolved. The security has to be state-specific. From coordination to efficacy, it is more advisable that states have special units. States have their own peculiar problems and they can deal with the specific issues relating to the safety of judges by having their own modules,” said the SG.The bench, however, pointed out that the issues are not with the guidelines but with their implementation. “Guidelines are fine but the question is whether these guidelines are followed or not, and if yes, to what extent. The Supreme Court has to bear the burden to see your guidelines are implemented. You are the central government. You can call their secretaries, DGPs and supervise the implementation,” it told Mehta.The court observed that the central government “is in the best position to ensure implementation of its guidelines” after resolving issues relating to funds, installation of CCTV cameras, manner of implementation, etc., with the state governments.“You have to think how things have to be effectively done... You have to take this forward with the states,” it told Mehta.The court also took umbrage at the failure of various states in not filing their reply affidavits to Mahalik’s petition despite the passage of more than a year and imposed a penalty of ₹1 lakh each on such defaulting states. These included Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Meghalaya and Mizoram. The bench clarified that it would be compelled to seek the presence of the chief secretaries of the states concerned if they fail to file affidavits within 10 days.About the states which filed their affidavits, the bench remarked: “We are very sorry to say that all states have tried to paint a rosy picture but the truth is that incidents are repeatedly occurring despite all the statements. That is why we want the SG to step in. We want the central government to ensure the safety of judicial officers.”The court underlined that some concrete steps are required to prevent the crimes. “States cannot make the excuse that they do not have funds. That is something for the Centre and states to resolve among themselves,” it said while asking Mehta what steps the Centre is willing to take.At this, the SG said that he would speak with the Union home secretary for calling a meeting with state home secretaries and directors general of police (DGPs) of all the states to discuss the extent of their implementation of the MHA guidelines and the roadblocks therein.The court then adjourned the matter for 10 days to await replies from the remaining states as well as the outcome of the meeting of the Union home secretary.The court had on July 30 registered a PIL on its own over Anand’s death in suspicious circumstances, emphasising that it is the state’s obligation to protect judges to ensure they can discharge their duties fearlessly.A day later, the Jharkhand government recommended a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-force-for-judges-unfeasible-centre-tells-sc-101629222819860.html
18-08-2021||India||Solar scam: CBI begins probe against Chandy, other leaders||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday took over the probe into allegations of sexual exploitation against former Kerala chief minister Oommen Chandy, former Union minister (of state) KC Venugopal, and others by the woman accused in the 2013 solar fraud case.Confirming the development, a CBI official in Delhi said the central agency has taken over six FIRs filed by the state crime branch and filed FIRs in the chief judicial magistrate’s court in Thiruvananthapuram.In 2018, the state crime branch registered cases against several senior Congress leaders after Saritha S Nair, an accused in the solar fraud case that happened when the UDF government was in power, accused them of sexually exploiting her in 2012. In her complaint in 2016, Nair alleged that she was subjected to sexual abuse by the accused in return for favours granted to her.Besides Chandy and AICC general secretary (organisation) Venugopal, MPs Hibi Eden and Adoor Prakash, former state minister A P Anil Kumar and BJP national vice-president AP Abdullakutty was also named in the cases. Kutty was in Congress when the allegations against him surfaced but later joined the BJP.The CPI(M)-led Kerala government formed a judicial commission and handed over the cases to the central agency in January. While Chandy welcomed CBI’s investigation, others called it “part of a witch-hunt to discredit them.” “I don’t have anything to hide. Let any agency probe it, I welcome it,” Chandy said. Eden, the MP from Kochi, said the CBI probe was a part of a sinister plan to discredit Congress leaders and that he will deal with the case legally. The CPI(M) said it was a routine affair as the case was handed over to the agency in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/solar-scam-cbi-begins-probe-into-sexual-exploitation-allegations-against-chandy-others-101629222581436.html
18-08-2021||India||India introduces emergency e-visas for Afghan nationals amid crisis||India on Tuesday introduced a new category of emergency electronic visas (e-visas) for Afghan nationals in view of the situation in Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover, with priority to be given to those who stood by India or are facing threats.All Afghans, irrespective of religion, will be eligible for the “e-Emergency X-Misc Visa” and applications will be processed in New Delhi since all Indian missions in Afghanistan are currently not operational, according to people familiar with matter. The visas will be valid for only six months for now, they said.“The ministry of home affairs reviews visa provisions in view of the current situation in Afghanistan. A new category of electronic visa called ‘e-Emergency X-Misc Visa’ introduced to fast-track visa applications for entry into India,” a home ministry spokesperson said in a tweet.The Indian government decided to provide visas to Afghan nationals keeping their “security in mind”, the people cited above said.“Those who wish to travel to India can apply for this visa online following which applications will be examined and processed in New Delhi,” said a government official who didn’t wish to be named.The development came two days after the government in Afghanistan collapsed, with President Ashraf Ghani fleeing and the Taliban entering the capital unopposed. Even before the Taliban takeover, the Indian mission in Kabul had been swamped by requests for visas.The people cited above said a policy decision was made nearly six months ago to help Afghans facing threats after the country was hit by a wave of targeted assassinations of officials and journalists. A decision was made recently to introduce the e-visa as it would be easier and more secure for Afghans to apply online. An elaborate system, involving the home ministry, is in place for vetting all applications, which must be accompanied by certain documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-introduces-emergency-e-visas-for-afghan-nationals-amid-crisis-101629219039733.html
18-08-2021||India||IIT Kanpur develops ‘Sanjeevani’ oxygen concentrator||To ensure a sufficient supply of oxygen and prevent future crisis amid the probable third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur (IIT-K), has developed an advanced oxygen concentrator named ‘Sanjeevani’, experts from the top institute said.Equipped with the pressure swing adsorption (PSA) technique, the technology has been transferred and licensed to a Bengaluru-based company Albot Technologies Private Limited. The oxygen concentrator works at a flow rate of 10 litres per minute (LPM) with an oxygen purity of 92% ±3. The concentrator has an adjustable capacity of 1 to 10 LPM which can be used for both medical as well as personal uses.The concentrator has been developed by a team involving professor J Ramkumar from the department of mechanical engineering; Siddhanth Srivastava, a PhD scholar, and Rupendra Aryal, an M Tech student. The advanced oxygen concentrator has been developed to maintain an adequate supply of oxygen, said IIT Kanpur director professor Abhay Karandikar.The memorandum of understanding (MoU) exchange ceremony, which took place virtually on Tuesday, began with a brief introduction from professor Abhay Karandikar, director, IIT-K, and Akash Singh, CEO of Albot Technologies. The ceremony was also joined by professor Amitabha Bandyopadhyay, professor AR Harish and Ravi Pandey from IIT Kanpur.Professor Amitabha Bandyopadhyay, in-charge of innovation at IIT Kanpur, said the incubator of IIT Kanpur was actively working with several stakeholders, including Yamuna expressway development authority and some international partners, for expediting the medical device development ecosystem in the country.Director, IIT Kanpur, professor Abhay Karandikar also apprised about the ongoing progress of the School of Medical Research and Technology at IIT Kanpur which will have a 400-bed hospital on the campus. He emphasised that the R&D activity of the school will promote research leading to the development of innovative and cost-effective medical devices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iit-kanpur-develops-sanjeevani-oxygen-concentrator-101629216817396.html
18-08-2021||India||Blood clotting may be root cause of long Covid syndrome? Here's what study says||Patients with long Covid syndrome continue to have higher measures of blood clotting, which may explain their persistent symptoms such as reduced physical fitness and fatigue, according to a study.The symptoms of long Covid syndrome, including breathlessness, fatigue and decreased exercise tolerance, can last weeks to months after the initial infection has resolved, and is estimated to affect millions of people worldwide.The researchers from RCSI University of Medicine and Health Sciences in Ireland examined 50 patients with symptoms of long Covid syndrome to better understand if abnormal blood clotting is involved.Their study, published in the Journal of Thrombosis and Haemostasis, found that clotting markers were significantly elevated in the blood of patients with long Covid syndrome compared with healthy controls.These clotting markers were higher in patients who required hospitalisation with their initial Covid-19 infection.However, the researchers also found that even those who were able to manage their illness at home still had persistently high clotting markers.They observed that higher clotting was directly related to other symptoms of long Covid syndrome, such as reduced physical fitness and fatigue.Even though markers of inflammation had all returned to normal levels, increased clotting potential was still present in long Covid patients."Because clotting markers were elevated while inflammation markers had returned to normal, our results suggest that the clotting system may be involved in the root cause of long Covid syndrome," said Helen Fogarty, the study's lead author, and PhD student at RCSI School of Pharmacy and Biomolecular Sciences.Professor James O'Donnell, Director of the Irish Centre for Vascular Biology, RCSI noted that understanding the root cause of a disease is the first step towards developing effective treatments."Millions of people are already dealing with the symptoms of long Covid syndrome, and more people will develop long Covid as the infections among the unvaccinated continue to occur," O'Donnell said."It is imperative that we continue to study this condition and develop effective treatments," he added.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lifestyle/health/blood-clotting-may-be-root-cause-of-long-covid-syndrome-here-s-what-study-says-101629208574991.html
18-08-2021||India||ED issues fresh summons to Anil Deshmukh in extortion and money laundering case||A day after the Supreme Court refused to grant any interim relief to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and his son Hrishikesh in a corruption-cum-extortion probe, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) asked him to appear at the agency’s South Mumbai office on Wednesday. This is the fifth summons issued to the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader.ED registered a money laundering case against Deshmukh after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed an FIR against him on April 21 following former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh’s allegation—levelled in March this year—that Deshmukh had directed a police officer to extort ₹100 crore a month from Mumbai’s hotels and bars. Deshmukh has denied all allegations against him multiple times.The ED has claimed that its probe suggests that Deshmukh misused his position as Maharashtra home minister, and through assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze—who has now been dismissed and is in Taloja jail for his alleged role in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases—collected ₹4.7 crore from Mumbai’s bars for their “smooth functioning”.The agency adds that this money was later, through hawala channels, sent to two brothers in Delhi who operated bogus companies and later diverted the money as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, an educational trust controlled by the Deshmukhs.ED has also claimed that while collecting money from the bar owners, Sachin Vaze told them that a part of the amount was to go to an entity—‘No 1’—as well as the crime and social service branches of the Mumbai Police.The anti-money laundering agency has also said that Vaze told ED that he was called to Deshmukh’s official residence and directed to collect ₹3 lakh from every bar and restaurant in the city. He was also given a list of the establishments.ED claims to have identified 24 private entities that are controlled by the Deshmukh family and says they made huge monetary transactions without much rationale.“From the analysis of the bank accounts of these companies, it is clear that there is no rationale for the transfers, and thus it can be said that these series of transactions were meant for inflating balance sheets and layering of money from one company to other,” ED had stated.The agency then arrested Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and assistant Kundan Shinde on June 26, claiming their role in laundering of money on Deshmukh’s directions.In mid-July, the anti-money laundering agency provisionally attached Deshmukh’s properties worth ₹4.2 crore. The attached assets include a residential flat in Worli valued at ₹1.54 crore and 25 land parcels of book value ₹2.67 crore at Dhutum village at Uran in the neighbouring Raigad district.ED said its investigation has revealed that the Worli flat was purchased by the NCP leader in 2004 by making cash payment. It was registered in the name of Deshmukh’s wife Aarti, but the sale deed for the flat was registered in February 2020 after he became the home minister.The other seized properties, too, are held in Aarti’s name as well as in the name of Premier Port Links Pvt Ltd. According to ED officers, the Deshmukhs acquired 50% ownership in M/s Premier Port Links Pvt Ltd, including its assets (land and shops) valued around ₹5.34 crore (book value) by merely paying ₹17.95 lakh, that too after a substantial gap.Deshmukh has, however, maintained that the case against him was a classic example of a political witch hunt. He has said that the allegations levelled by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh cropped up only after the cop was shunted out over his poor handling of the Antilia and the Hiran murder cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-issues-fresh-summons-to-anil-deshmukh-in-extortion-and-money-laundering-case-101629192514101.html
