19-08-2021||India||RJD’s Tej Pratap, state chief lock horns; Tejashwi downplays row||PATNA: The simmering tension between Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son and MLA Tej Pratap Yadav and the party’s state unit president Jagdanand Singh burst into the open on Thursday after the two leaders sparred over an appointment within the party.Tej Pratap threatened to register a case against Singh for “violating” the party’s constitution after the latter appointed Gagan Kumar as the RJD youth wing president, replacing Akash Yadav.Akash was appointed as the youth wing president in May last year by Tej Pratap Yadav.The decision by the state party chief was made following a closed door meeting with RJD leader and Leader of Opposition in Bihar Assembly Tejashwi Yadav on Wednesday. Taking a swipe at the state party chief, Tej Pratap tweeted: “The president forgot that the party runs by the constitution and the constitution of RJD says that without giving notice, you cannot removeany office-bearer of the party. What happened today was against the constitution of RJD.” “He owes an explanation for this,” he told a news channel later. Singh, a close aide of Lalu Prasad, shot back saying he is answerable only to the RJD chief. “Lalu Prasad is the president of RJD and no one else can ask him for clarification except him. Who is Tej Pratap?,” he said, adding that it was his responsibility to appoint the party’s student wing president. “When I did not appoint anybody (earlier), where does the question of removal arise? I have appointed Gagan Kumar to this post,” he told reporters as he returned to the RJD office here after a gap of several days. Hours later, Tej Pratap threatened to register a case against Singh and also demanded that the party initiate action against him. “There is a concerted effort to demoralize youths in the party,” he told reporters, adding that he will discuss the matter with his brother Tejashwi Yadav.“I will continue to fight unilateral decisions,” a visibly angry Tej Pratap said.Tejashwi, however, sought to play down the fight. “Everyone has their own opinion. When I am the leader of the opposition and the national president is Lalu ji, there is no problem. Everything will be fine soon,” he said. The resentment between Tej Pratap and Singh had been growing for a while with the former referring to the latter as “Hitler” at a recent meeting of the party’s student wing.“There can be no Hitler in RJD. Words like Hitler have no place in the party. That’s why whatever someone says, I don’t pay attention to it,” Singh said. “There are three people on constitutional posts in RJD, president Lalu Prasad, leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav and the state unit president (himself),” he added. Singh had stopped visiting the party office and had even skipped the Independence Day function.Reacting to the developments, Janata Dal (United) vice-president Sanjay Singh said: “Tej Pratap is hurt because nobody in his party gives importance to him. It is a fight for the chair between the two brothers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjds-tej-pratap-state-chief-lock-horns-tejashwi-downplays-row-101629397207973.html
19-08-2021||India||Without checks, government’s palm oil plan may spell disaster||A plan cleared by the Union Cabinet to expand domestic palm oil output in ecologically-sensitive regions could be environmentally perilous unless backed by a set of strong safeguards, experts have said, citing disastrous impacts in growers such as Malaysia and Indonesia. Palm oil is the cheapest edible oil, used in most foods items, from bread to pizzas. In recent months, global prices have surged to multi-year peaks, forcing the government to cut import duties to make the fats affordable. To cut India’s growing reliance on import of edible oils, the government on Wednesday approved the “National Mission on Edible Oils – Oil Palm (NMEO-OP)”, allocating ₹11,040 crore for it. The programme seeks to promote plantations in the northeastern regions, besides the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Prime Minister Narendra Modi called the programme a “game-changer” on Twitter. Edible oil plantations, as opposed to oilseeds crops, tend to replace natural tropical forests, depleting biodiversity. Environmental case studies in forested belts of Sumatra, Borneo and the Malay Peninsula -- which produce 90% of global palm oil – have found commercial cultivation had decimated swathes of pristine forests, wiping out wildlife, from orangutans to birds. Officials said they were “aware of” sustainability issues. “The non-financial aspects of the scheme will address them,” an official with knowledge of the matter said, but did not divulge details as these were being fine-tuned. A top expert on sustainable agriculture said it was possible to grow sustainable palm oil, but certain strict criteria will need to be followed, which he said he hoped to see in the government’s plan. India has become the world’s largest importer of vegetable oils, a base ingredient for cooking most common dishes. The country meets up to two-thirds of its domestic demand through imports. In 2020-21, India imported both crude and refined palm oil worth $5.8 billion. Edible oil is the country’s third most high-value import, after petroleum crude and gold. “The environmental impacts, especially in ecologically sensitive areas, are a huge concern,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury of the Centre for Science and Environment. “We don’t know yet how the plan will be put to implementation. It will need the same strong safeguards that are required and well recognised.” GV Ramanjaneyulu of the Centre for Sustainable Agriculture said India’s tropical climate was well suited to palm oil plantations, which thrive on peaty soils. The oil has healthy unsaturated fats and vitamins, although it does have its share of unhealthy saturated fats. Consumed as part of balanced diet, it should not be unhealthy for the heart. Palm oil, a perennial crop, yields more oil per acre, than say, coconut, but it requires three times the water. So, it must be grown in rainy areas to avoid groundwater extraction. “There are three or four ground rules. Rainforests should be absolutely no-go zones. Do field cultivation and soil management. Avoid weedicides and don’t allow monocropping. Grow other crops within the plantation,” Ramanjaneyulu said.“It can offer global advantages if grown sustainably, or else the country could face disaster.” The new scheme seeks to bring additional 0.65 million hectare under oil palm by 2025-26 to reach a targeted one million hectare, up from 0.3 million hectare at present. This would result in an increase in crude palm oil output to o 1.1 million tonne by 2025-26 and up to 2.8 million tonne by 2029-30, the official cited above said. The scheme also provides for viability gap funding to shield growers from international price volatility by paying directly to the farmers’ accounts in the form of direct benefit transfer. Environmental experts, such as Roy Chowdhury, cautioned about reckless expansion of palm oil in the Indian archipelago of Andaman. Ramanjaneyulu said humid and rainy Andaman was a good place to grow palm oil provided rainforests were not touched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/without-checks-government-s-palm-oil-plan-may-spell-disaster-101629397199084.html
19-08-2021||India||CBI, SIT to probe Bengal post-election violence: High court||The Calcutta high court on Thursday ordered separate probes by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the state police into alleged post-poll violence in West Bengal this year. A five-judge bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal said the CBI will probe the serious allegations of rape and murder and a three-member SIT those of arson and loot, under the court’s supervision. “All the cases where, as per the report of the committee, the allegations are about murder and crime against women regarding rape and attempt to rape, shall be transferred to CBI for investigation. It is made clear that it shall be a court-monitored investigation,” the order stated. The investigation of SIT, comprising three senior IPS officers Soumen Mitra (commissioner of Kolkata Police), Suman Bala Sahoo (DG communication) and Ranveer Kumar (ADG administration) will also be monitored by the court and overseen by a retired judge of the Supreme Court. The high court also directed the Mamata Banerjee government to pay compensation to the victims of violence directly into their bank accounts after due verification. The state has said it will appeal the verdict. “I don’t see it as a setback. It is a judgment passed. If the litigant, which in this case is the state, finds that the verdict is not in its interest or beyond law, we have the right to challenge. We are waiting for the order. We will definitely move the Supreme Court,” said Sanjay Basu, advocate who appeared for the DGP of West Bengal along with senior advocates including Abhishek Manu Singhvi. He added that the observations in the order are not correct.Soon after the results of the assembly elections were declared on May 2, the BJP made allegations of widespread post-poll violence from across the state. With petitions filed in the immediate aftermath, the high court took cognizance and in June, the court asked NHRC to form a seven member committee “considering the fact that there was blatant violation of human rights besides violation of other rights of the victims”. The committee submitted its final report on July 13 recommending a CBI probe, and that trials should be held outside the state. The committee said at least 1,934 complaints were lodged with the state police between May 2 and June 20. They included 29 complaints related to murder, 12 to rape and sexual assault, and 940 of loot and arson with the committee receiving around 1,979 reports covering 15,000 victims. The order quoted acting chief justice Bindal as saying: “In our opinion, the heinous crimes such as murder and rape deserve to be investigated by an independent agency which in circumstances can only be the Central Bureau of Investigation. It is for the reason that in a number of cases, the State had failed to register the FIRs and opined the same to not be cases of murder. In some cases, even after registration of FIR, the observation by the State is that these may result in ‘no case’. This shows a predetermined mind to take investigation into a particular direction.” The order comes as a setback to the ruling TMC, with party MP Saugata Roy saying that the handing over of cases to the CBI was a “transgression” on the rights of the state. “I am unhappy with the order. Law and order is a state subject and I think it’s a transgression on the state’s rights as it is not desirable that an external agency like CBI should be allowed to intervene in a state subject repeatedly. We had opposed when the NHRC team submitted its report because some of its members had BJP links. I hope and I expect that the state would go for an appeal against the order,” he said. According to officials, the CBI has formed four special teams, each headed by a Joint Director (JD) rank officer under overall supervision of an additional director (AD), to investigate the Bengal post-poll violence. The four teams have over two dozen officers and will meet on Friday morning before heading to Kolkata.The BJP attacked the TMC immediately after the order and said that the court had given a strong message, and that it would not be wrong to call Mamata Banerjee a failed chief minister. “The high court has given a strong message. It should be a milestone as the court has made it clear that anarchy has no place in India. It will not be wrong to call Mamata Banerjee a failed chief minister. A chief minister has to protect all citizens. The court has shown that when administration fails, the judiciary comes to people’s rescue,” BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said. In its counter affidavit, the state government argued that the committee was set up to spearhead a witch hunt against the Mamata Banerjee administration and was a concerted effort to discredit a democratically elected government. Justice Bindal however wrote, “Though the issue of bias of three members of the committee was sought to be raised, the argument just needs to be noticed and rejected. It seems to be an argument in frustration, where on the core issue the State has been found on a wrong foot.” In his comments, justice IP Mukerji said parts of the committee’s report that expressed opinion or made recommendations were “non-est” (beyond its jurisdiction) in the eye of the law. Mukerji was critical of the role of the Election Commission of India, saying that it was ECI’s duty to direct or advise the administration to register complaints “which it did not”. In his comments he added that “it is not established that the state has shown apathy to action”, and the investigation process, in his opinion, was at the initial stage. “Truth will prevail. The CBI probe will help people get justice,” said Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh. The CPI(M) also charged the state government with framing false charges against opposition leaders, but also charged the NHRC team of only talking to the BJP. “The state government has framed false charges against opposition leaders at random. I never killed a mosquito but there are two murder charges against me in Bengal,” said CPI(M) politburo member Hannan Mollah. CPI(M) central committee member Rabin Deb said, “Nobody visited the home of Kakali Khetrapal, one of our women activists who was murdered at Jamalpur in East Burdwan district on May 3.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-sit-to-probe-bengal-post-election-violence-high-court-101629397197978.html
19-08-2021||India||India highlights role of Pakterror groups in Afghanistan at UNSC||/New Delhi
19-08-2021||India||Start reopening schools for classes 6-8, Odisha’s child rights body to govt||Bhubaneswar: Odisha’s child rights body on Thursday asked the Naveen Patnaik government to resume offline classes for students of classes 6. 7 and 8 in a phased manner, a move that comes two days after a class 7 student fell from a boulder he had climbed on to get a stable internet connection to attend online classes.Andrea Jagaranga of Kandhapendaraguda village in Padmapur block of Rayagada district had gone to a hill with his friends due to poor network connectivity in the village when the accident took place. He died soon after due to the injuries sustained in the accident.The 13-year-old’s death spotlighted the digital divide in Odisha and beyond, particularly after schools turned to online classes due to the Covid pandemic.In her letter, Odisha State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (OSCPCR) chairperson Sandhyabati Pradhan did not refer to the death but welcomed the school and mass education department’s recent move to resume in-person teaching for students of classes 10 and 12, saying it was an appreciable step. The government should next allow students of classes 6, 7, and 8 to return to schools in a phased manner, she said.So far Odisha has started offline classes for students of class 9, 10, 11 and 12.“The department may issue necessary instruction to allocate one and half hour each day for two days in a week to each class and the school management committees must be consulted prior to reopening of schools,” Pradhan wrote in her letter.As per Odisha Economic Survey of 2018-19, more than 20% of the 51,311 villages in the state do not have mobile phone connectivity. And internet penetration in the state is 28.22% compared to the national average of 38.02. The school and mass education department of the state admitted that online education did not reach at least a third of 6 million school students last year.Earlier this month, the Union education ministry told Parliament that nearly 30 million children in India did not have a digital device to access education online. In Odisha, over 1.5 million children do not have access to a computer, tablet, or smartphone.Between May and June 2020, Oxfam India, an NGO surveyed close to 1,200 parents and 500 teachers across Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh and found that 80% parents said their children did not receive education during the lockdown. Four of five students said they didn’t receive textbooks for the 2020-21 academic year while more than one-third of the children had not received midday meals.A survey by Azim Premji University among 16,067 children from Classes 2-6 in 1,137 government schools across five states in January 2021 found on an average 92% of students had lost at least one specific language ability and 82% had lost at least one specific mathematical ability compared to previous years.Anil Pradhan, convenor of the Odisha Right to Education Forum, said the commission’s suggestion was a welcome step.“Online education is not feasible for primary school students due to lack of necessary infrastructure. Young minds can grasp education better in classrooms,” he said.Director of health services, Dr Bijay Kumar Mohapatra said there is no need to panic about Covid cases among the age group of 0-18 years. “Children were also getting affected in the first surge and second surge. However, there is the need of taking precautions as experts suggest that there are more chances of children getting affected in the third wave. The situation is being monitored on a daily basis and necessary steps are being taken,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/start-reopening-schools-for-classes-6-8-odisha-s-child-rights-body-to-govt-101629396363481.html
19-08-2021||India||Country in state of turmoil: Afghan embassy asks SC to defer hearing by 6 weeks||NEW DELHI: Afghanistan’s embassy on Thursday asked the Supreme Court to put off hearing a pending case in view of the regime change in Kabul and the mission’s inability to get instructions from the new regime under the Taliban.Lawyer Ejaz Maqbool, counsel for the Embassy of Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, sought six weeks. “There is a regime change in Afghanistan and the entire country is in a state of turmoil and I am not able to get further instructions from the Ambassador and from the embassy located in New Delhi. I will be requesting for an adjournment of six weeks,”Maqbool said in his request for an adjournment.His request was granted by a bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari but the court wondered if six weeks was a reasonable prayer to make at this juncture. “Do you think the situation will be resolved in six weeks.”Maqbool said: “We all pray that the situation improves soon….For now, let the matter be listed after six weeks.”Maqbool later said this is the only petition filed by the embassy pending in the Supreme Court.The case relate to a dispute with a Delhi-based firm initially contracted for the renovation of the mission in Delhi. The embassy engaged a different firm after 40% of the contracted work was completed on the grounds that the first firm had been unable to meet the laid-down quality standards and missed the 240 day deadline agreed.The firm subsequently initiated arbitration to get its payments. The matter reached the Supreme Court which allowed the firm to appoint a sole arbitrator, who ruled in the favour of the Delhi firm. For execution of the arbitrator’s award of November 2018, the firm went up against the embassy in the Delhi High Court where the question raised was whether an arbitration award can be enforced against a foreign country and if the consent of the central government was required to enforce it under the Code of Civil Procedure.On June 18 this year, the Delhi High Court held that prior consent of central government will not be necessary and ruled that “a foreign state cannot claim a sovereign immunity against enforcement of an arbitral award arising out of a commercial transaction.”The embassy approached the Supreme Court on August 10 against this ruling. The high court order required the embassy to deposit a sum of over ₹1.72 crore within four weeks with the high court registry. It was also required to file its affidavit of assets as on the date of the cause of action, date of the award and the date of the High Court judgment. The embassy claimed it was never agreed to the arbitration being done in Delhi since the seat of arbitration was Kabul, Afghanistan and thus no enforcement of the Arbitral Award was applicable to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/country-in-state-of-turmoil-afghan-embassy-asks-sc-to-defer-hearing-by-6-weeks-101629393241114.html
19-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Section 144 imposed in Rajasthan's Dholpur; all gatherings banned||The district magistrate (DM) of Rajasthan's Dholpur announced on Thursday that Section 144 is being imposed in the city due to the current situation of the coronavirus pandemic, according to news agency ANI. The order, DM RK Jaiswal said in a notification, will come into effect from August 20, and stay in force till further instructions."I am satisfied that prima facie Section 144 under the Code of Criminal Procedure needs to be imposed in Dholpur to keep people living here safe from Covid-19. Therefore, I announce a ban on all kinds of public, social, political, entertainment, educational cultural and religious gatherings, processions, or festivals," a rough translation of Jaiswal's order, issued in Hindi, read.Section 144 CrPC imposed in Dholpur district, Rajasthan in wake of #COVID19 situation. Organising of public, social, political, entertainment, educational, cultural & religious gatherings/processions/festivals will not be allowed. This will come into effect from 20th August. pic.twitter.com/W0UsU529dEViolators will be penalised under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Sections 51-60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, as well as relevant sections of the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020, the notification further warned.Section 144 empowers a district magistrate to ban gatherings of five or more people at one place.Meanwhile, Rajasthan logged 12 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, while there was no new addition to its related death toll, according to a health department bulletin. Thus far, 953,981 people have tested positive in Rajasthan, of whom 944,874 have recovered, while 8954 patients have succumbed to the virus. The number of active cases, meanwhile, has risen to 153, according to official data.Of the 12 new cases, Dholpur reported one, while four each were reported from Jaipur and Alwar. Bharatpur, Bikaner and Pali contributed one case each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-section-144-imposed-in-rajasthan-s-dholpur-all-gatherings-banned-101629389170467.html
19-08-2021||India||Union ministry notifies timeline to replace existing meters with smart prepaid meters. All you need to know||hThe ministry of power on Wednesday released a gazetted notification to notify the timeline for replacing the existing meters with smart prepaid meters. All power consumers, besides the agricultural users, would be given access to electricity if they have these meters which comes with a prepayment feature.Read the notification issued by the ministry below:(i) Block level government offices and industrial and commercial consumers will be fitted with smart meters which will run on a prepayment basis by December 2023. “Provided that the State Regulatory Commission may, by notification, extend the said period of implementation, giving reasons to do so, only twice but not more than six months at a time, for a class or classes of consumers or for such areas as may be specified in that notification,” the gazetted notification read.(ii) All other areas shall be metered with smart meters with prepayment mode by March 2025. Provided that in areas that do not have a communication network, installation of prepayment meters, conforming to relevant IS, may be allowed by the respective State Electricity Regulatory Commission.(iii) All consumer connections having current-carrying capacity beyond that specified in relevant IS, may be provided with meters with smart meters having AMR facility.2. All feeders and distribution transformers (DTS) shall be provided with meters having AMR facility or covered under AMI, as per the timelines specified below:(i) All feeders shall be metered by December 2022.(ii) All DTs in electrical divisions having more than 50% consumers in urban areas with AT&C losses more than 15% in financial year 2019-20, and in all other electrical divisions with AT&C losses more than 25% in financial year 2019-20, shall be metered by December 2023.(iii) All DTs in areas other than those mentioned in (ii) above, shall be metered by March, 2025.(iv) DTs and HVDS transformers having capacity less than 25 kVA may be excluded from the above timelines. This notification shall be effective from the date of publishing in the Gazette of India.The ministry has proposed to install 10 crore prepaid smart meters by December 2023 in the first phase under the Revamped Reforms-Based Results-Linked Scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-ministry-notifies-timeline-to-replace-existing-meters-with-smart-prepaid-meters-all-you-need-to-know-101629386740228.html
19-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: China calls Taliban more clear-headed, rational and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Taliban clear-headed, rational than two decades ago: ChinaThe Taliban appear to be more clear-headed and rational than two decades ago, China said on Thursday, adding that Beijing was in talks with the group and called international powers to be more objective in dealing with the fast-evolving situation in Afghanistan. Read MoreCovid-19: Nearly 40 million beneficiaries did not get second vaccine shot within stipulated time, govt data showsNearly 40 million beneficiaries did not receive their second dose of a coronavirus vaccine within stipulated time, news agency PTI has reported. Read MoreWill appear before ED, but…’: Former Maharashtra home minister on PMLA caseFormer Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Thursday said he would appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which had summoned him in connection with its probe into a money laundering case, "after the legal process is completed". Read MoreDravid came up to me and said 'Hi, I'm Rahul.' I was shocked and startled: India seamer Chetan SakariyaYoung India left-arm seamer Chetan Sakariya shared an interesting story of meeting the legendary Rahul Dravid for the first time during the Sri Lanka tour. Read MoreNine Perfect Strangers review: Nicole Kidman awakens her inner Osho in Hulu's hollow showIf the success of Big Little Lies proved one thing, it’s that the success of Big Little Lies cannot be replicated, no matter how hard anyone, including creator David E Kelley himself, tries. Read MoreDisney+ Hotstar plans set to change from Sept 1; Here’s everything you need to knowDisney+ Hotstar is one of the most popular OTT platforms in India. As of now, it offers all its content in one free tier and two paid tiers. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-china-calls-taliban-more-clear-headed-rational-and-all-the-latest-news-101629385390506.html
19-08-2021||India||J&K leader Ghulam Hassan Lone shot dead by terrorists; Abdullah, Mufti tweet condolence||Jammu and Kashmir leader Ghulam Hassan Lone was killed by terrorists on Thursday at his residence at Devsar in the Kulgam district. After terrorists shot Lone, the Apni Party leader was shifted to a hospital where he was declared brought dead.Ghulam Hassan Lone became the third politician from the Kulgam district to be killed in the last 10 days. Omar Abdullah and Mehabooba Mufti, former chief ministers of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, condemned the assassination.Taking to Twitter, National Conference leader Omar Abdullah expressed concern over the “renewed trend” of targeting mainstream politicians by terrorists.“Very sorry to hear about the assassination of Ghulam Hassan Lone in Devsar area of South Kashmir. This renewed trend of targeting mainstream politicians by militant outfits is very worrying & I condemn the same in the strongest possible terms. May Allah grant the departed Jannat,” Abdullah tweeted.Very sorry to hear about the assassination of Ghulam Hassan Lone in Devsar area of South Kashmir. This renewed trend of targeting mainstream politicians by militant outfits is very worrying & I condemn the same in the strongest possible terms. May Allah grant the departed Jannat.Condemning the murder, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Mehbooba Mufti said there seems to be “no end to the spree of political killings in Kashmir.”“Unreservedly condemn the killing of Apni party leader Ghulam Hassan Lone. My deepest condolences to the bereaved family,” she tweeted.Unfortunately there seems to be no end to the spree of political killings in Kashmir. Unreservedly condemn the killing of Apni party leader Ghulam Hassan Lone. My deepest condolences to the bereaved family.On Monday, terrorists killed a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district. Javeed Ahmad Dar, constituency president of Homshalibugh in Kulgam, succumbed to his injuries after militants fired at him at Brazloo-jagir in Kulgam.BJP sarpanch Ghulam Rasool Dar and his wife Jawhara Banoo were shot dead by two Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists last week in south Kashmir’s Anantnag town. Dar, 68, was the president of BJP Kisan Morcha of the Kulgam district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-leader-ghulam-hassan-lone-shot-dead-by-terrorists-abdullah-mufti-tweets-condolence-101629381631937.html
19-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Nearly 40 million beneficiaries did not get second vaccine shot within stipulated time, govt data shows||Nearly 40 million beneficiaries did not receive their second dose of a coronavirus vaccine within stipulated time, news agency PTI has reported citing the Union government’s response to a Right to Information (RTI) query. Activist Raman Sharma had filed the RTI query seeking information from the central government in this regard.“The total number of beneficiaries who got their first dose of Covishield but did not get their second within stipulated period of time as prescribed by the government as per the due report on the CoWIN portal is 34,072,993,” the Covid-19 vaccine administration cell of the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said in response to Sharma’s query. The corresponding figures for Covaxin, meanwhile, stood at 4,678,406, as per the ministry’s response. Together, the numbers add up to 38,751,399.The data provided to Sharma is according to figures as on August 17, 2021.“It is recommended that the beneficiaries who received their first dose of vaccine get their second in the stipulated period. There is no recommendation for those who do not take their second dose within stipulated period as prescribed by the Government of India, to get their first dose again,” the Union health ministry further said, noting that the gap between two doses of Covishield should be 84 to 112 days, while that between two shots of Covaxin should be 28-42 days.As per data available on the CoWIN portal, as of noon on Thursday, 442,285,854 beneficiaries had received their first dose, while 125,907,443 had taken both the doses.The national vaccination drive against Covid-19 began on January 16 this year, days after Covishield and Covaxin received clearance from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Since then, three other shots have also been approved. Thus far, Covaxin is India’s first and only home-made shot against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-nearly-40-million-beneficiaries-did-not-get-second-vaccine-shot-in-stipulated-time-govt-data-shows-101629380624285.html
19-08-2021||India||CBI submits progress report on Dhanbad judge death case to Jharkhand HC||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday submitted the progress report of the investigation into the death of Dhanbad additional session judge Uttam Anand to Jharkhand high court in a sealed cover, reported news agency ANI.The 49-year-old judge was mowed down by a vehicle while he was out for his morning jog on July 28. CCTV footage of the incident showed he was jogging on Randhir Verma Chowk when a vehicle veered towards him, hit him from behind and fled.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had handed over the case to CBI on July 31, and the central probe agency had dispatched a 20-member team under the additional superintendent of police, Vijay Kumar Shukla, to investigate the matter.CBI had recreated the scene of the accident while experts of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) collected samples from the spot, as a part of its probe. The investigative agency had also declared a reward of ₹5 lakh for anyone sharing "information of importance" pertaining to the judge's death.The Dhanbad police, which was in charge of the investigation before CBI took over, had arrested Lakhan Kumar Verma and Rahul Verma on July 29, the duo was allegedly riding the vehicle at the time of the accident. “Based on facts that came up during the investigation and the CCTV camera footage, two people and the auto involved in the crime were identified. Two persons, identified as Lakhan Kumar Verma and Rahul Verma have been arrested and the auto was seized from their possession. They have confessed to the crime. Further investigation will be done carefully,” Amol V Homkar, inspector general (operations), told Hindustan Times. The accused are currently in CBI's custody till August 21.On its part the Jharkhand high court asked the concerned authority of Forensic Science Laboratory, Ranchi, to appear before the court in the next hearing. The court issued this order after learning that the urine test of one of the accused could not be conducted due to the unavailability of a required facility, ANI also reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-submits-progress-report-on-dhanbad-judge-death-case-to-jharkhand-hc-101629374300921.html
19-08-2021||India||Monsoon begins to revive gradually in N-W India but spell likely to be short||The monsoon has started reviving in northwest India from Thursday with easterly winds bringing in moisture for the revival, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Its trough was along the Himalayan foothills during the first half of August that led to a “break” in the monsoon over the plains for over two weeks.“The monsoon trough has started moving to its normal position. It was to the north which is why we had a dry spell. Easterly winds have started penetrating northwest India. Our models are showing an increase in rainfall over the Haryana, Chandigarh region. In August, there was very little rainfall activity. The monsoon current has also weakened which is why for many days there was very little rain over the west coast also,” said K Sathi Devi, who heads IMD’s National Weather Forecasting Centre. “But there will not be a copious amount of rain because monsoon flow is not very strong.”The withdrawal of monsoon from northwest India begins around September 17 and it withdraws completely by October 15.Also Read | Delhi weather: Monsoon expected to revive from tomorrow nightThere has been a 9% rain deficiency during the monsoon season since June 1. The deficiency is 10% in northwest India, 11% in the east and northeast India, and 11% in central India. There has been 5% excess rain in the south peninsula.Punjab and Himachal Pradesh have a 22% rain deficiency, Chandigarh 39%, Uttarakhand 8%. Delhi and Haryana have recorded 6% and 13% excess rainfall. There has also been significant rainfall deficiency in Odisha (29%), Gujarat (48%), and Kerala (27%).The western end of the monsoon trough is now near its normal position and the eastern end is south of its normal position. The eastern end of the monsoon trough is very likely to shift gradually northward towards the foothills of the Himalayas on Friday and Saturday.A cyclonic circulation lying over south Bihar and neighbourhood is likely to move nearly westwards over the weekend.Due to these meteorological conditions, a gradual increase in rainfall activity is likely in northwest India and Bihar. Widespread rainfall, with isolated heavy rain, is very likely in Bihar, east Uttar Pradesh, and Uttarakhand from Thursday to Monday. Heavy to very heavy rain is also very likely in Uttarakhand on Thursday and Friday and east Uttar Pradesh on Thursday. Fairly widespread rainfall is very likely in west Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, and east Rajasthan from Friday to Monday with isolated heavy rainfall in these areas on Friday and Saturday.Enhanced rainfall activity is expected in Central and adjoining north Peninsular India on Friday and Saturday. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rain is very likely in Gujarat, Konkan, Goa, Madhya Maharashtra, and Madhya Pradesh on Thursday and Friday as well as Marathwada, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, and Gangetic West Bengal on Thursday. IMD said the rainfall activity is very likely to decrease thereafter in these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-begins-to-revive-gradually-in-n-w-india-but-spell-likely-to-be-short-101629375885616.html
19-08-2021||India||UP govt hikes DA to 28 per cent, will benefit 15 lakh employees||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday announced that the dearness allowance (DA) for all its employees will be increased to 28 per cent ahead of the festival season. Announcing the decision in state assembly, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that increase DA will come into effect from July 1, 2021.He also said that the provident fund (PF) contribution will also be increased. The government employees in Uttar Pradesh were so far getting 17 per cent DA.Since the UP government has announced an increase in the DA, the salaries of the employees will go up. The PF contribution is calculated based on the basic salary and the dearness allowance. Now, when the amount is increasing, the amount the employees can contribute to PF will also go up.The move will benefit at least 15 lakh state government employees in Uttar Pradesh. Along with this, the Adityanath government has also increased dearness relief (DR) amount, which will benefit the state's 12 lakh pensioners.The move will cost the state exchequer ₹6,500 crore extra.Uttar Pradesh government's decision comes weeks after the Nitish Kumar government announced an 11 per cent hike in DA for its employees and relief measures for pensioners.The Himachal Pradesh government too the DA by six per cent, while the Gujarat government has decided to pay the DA arrears of three months to more than nine lakh salaried employees and pensioners.Last month, the Union finance ministry issued an order to implement the Cabinet decision to hike DA for central government employees to 28 per cent from July 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-hikes-da-to-28-per-cent-will-benefit-15-lakh-employees-101629374676771.html
19-08-2021||India||Gujarat HC stays sections of anti-conversion law on interfaith marriages: All you need to know||The Gujarat high court on Thursday ordered an interim stay on the implementation of certain sections pertaining to interfaith marriages in the state’s new anti-conversion law. While delivering the judgment, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice Biren Vaishnav ruled that no First Information Report (FIR) will be registered unless it is proved that the union was solemnised through “coercion, pressure, or greed.”Here’s all you need to know about the legislation:(1.) The Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021, was passed by the state legislative assembly with a majority on June 15 this year. It was moved in the assembly on April 1 by Gujarat home minister Pradipsinh Jadeja.(2.) It aims to prevent marriages taking place through “forced or lured religious conversion.” It proposes imprisonment for a period of three to five years, along with a fine of up to ₹2 lakh fin such cases.(3.) However, both imprisonment and penalty are higher if the alleged victim is a minor, woman, Dalit or tribal. In such a case, if found guilty, an individual can be jailed for four to seven years, with a penalty of not less than ₹3 lakh.(4.) If an organisation is involved, the person heading it faces a jail term of up to 10 years, and a fine of up to ₹5 lakh.(5.) The act was challenged in the high court by a petitioner who argued that it allows “anyone to lodge a complaint” and “criminalises inter-religious marriages.” Responding to a notice by the high court, the Gujarat government said that the petitioner “is interpreting the provisions incorrectly.”(6.) Gujarat became the third Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled state to pass such a legislation. In February this year, Uttar Pradesh passed the Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Bill, 2021. In March, Madhya Pradesh passed the Freedom of Religion Bill, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-hc-stays-sections-of-anti-conversion-law-on-interfaith-marriages-all-you-need-to-know-101629373097569.html
19-08-2021||India||IMD forecasts heavy rain in 21 Madhya Pradesh districts, issues yellow alert||Twenty one districts of Madhya Pradesh are expected to receive heavy rainfall, as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday issued a yellow alert. These districts will also witness thunderstorm and lightning strikes, according to IMD forecast.The 21 districts which have been out under yellow alert by the IMD include Sagar, Chhatarpur, Damoh, Tikamgarh, Panna, Niwari, Rewa, Satna, Anuppur, Umaria, Dindori, Katni, Narsinghpur, Chhindwara, Seoni, Rajgarh, Vidisha, Raisen, Hoshangabad, Betul and Dhar.The alert is valid till Friday morning, senior meteorologist P K Saha of the IMD's Bhopal office said.At least eight districts in the state received heavy rainfall (64.5 mm to 115.5 mm), while Singrauli in eastern Madhya Pradesh recorded very heavy showers (123 mm) in the last 24 hours, ending 8.30 am on Thursday, according to IMD.The weather department has also forecast rain or thunder showers for most places in 10 divisions of the state, including Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior and Jabalpur.Earlier this month, 1,171 villages in the Gwalior-Chambal region of Madhya Pradesh were flooded due to heavy rainfall. Most of these areas are located in the Sheopur and Shivpuri districts.A massive rescue operation was launched, which included the Indian Army, state disaster response force (SDRF) and the national disaster response force (NDRF). THe Indian Air Force also pitched in, rescuing marooned people onboard choppers from far-off areas.The monsoon trough is now passing through Gwalior and Sidhi, bringing in moisture and causing rains, according to IMD. It further said that the wet spell is expected to continue for the next two to three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-forecasts-heavy-rain-in-21-madhya-pradesh-districts-issues-yellow-alert-101629373371557.html
19-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Centre recommends CBI probe on Delhi govt's purchase of 1,000 buses and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre asks CBI to probe Delhi govt’s purchase of 1,000 low floor busesThe Centre has recommended a CBI probe in the purchase of 1,000 air-conditioned low floor buses by the Delhi government, a matter which has been a bone of contention between ruling AAP and the state unit of BJP. Read more'They are 1-0 up and fully deserve it': David Gower hails 'passionate' India's 'stunning performance' on final dayFormer England captain David Gower was highly impressed with the way India defied the odds to script a memorable win at Lord’s against England on the fifth day of the second Test. Read moreKangana Ranaut cheers for Akshay Kumar's 'blockbuster' BellBottom, wishes the team for theatrical releaseKangana Ranaut has congratulated the team of BellBottom for its theatrical release. The actor took to her Instagram Stories and shared the poster of the movie, featuring Akshay Kumar, and called the team 'a winner'. Read morePiaggio launches Vespa limited edition scooters for 75th anniversaryPiaggio has announced the launch of the Vespa 75th edition scooters in the Indian market at ₹1.26 lakh (125) and ₹1.39 lakh (150). Both the prices, ex-showroom Pune. Bookings for both the new scooters have also commenced at the company's official website and authorised dealerships. Read moreMouni Roy is the quintessential diva in crop top and skirt at Maldives, Aly Goni reactsBollywood actor Mouni Roy turned into a quintessential diva for her latest pictures from the Maldives, and the internet cannot keep calm. The star took to Instagram to post several images of herself twirling and posing in a monotone ensemble. Read moreIs India engaging with the Taliban? Watch what EAM Jaishankar said | AfghanistanIndia’s foreign minister Dr. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar spoke on India engaging with the Taliban after Afghanistan takeover. Jaishankar was asked if India is in touch with the Taliban. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-recommends-cbi-probe-on-delhi-govt-s-purchase-of-1-000-buses-and-all-the-latest-news-101629372100456.html
19-08-2021||India||Kerala ramping up Covid-19 testing to identify ‘every single case’, says state health minister Veena George||Kerala health minister Veena George on Thursday said that the state was boosting the number of Covid-19 tests conducted to identify all positive cases. She also said that the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government started talks about producing Covid-19 vaccines in Kerala.The minister’s remarks came a few days after she met with Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya in Thiruvananthapuram, during his visit to the state earlier on Monday.“We are ramping up the testing to identify every single case. Our system is already on high alert and we are taking the best possible measures to contain the disease,” health minister George said, when asked about the high Covid-19 caseload in the state, news agency ANI reported.Also read | Kerala reports over 21,000 new Covid-19 cases: 5 districts driving the surgeShe also said that Mandaviya had agreed to provide more vaccines to Kerala as the state continued to battle a high number of daily infections in the state. She also noted that the Kerala government had asked for an additional 11 million doses of the vaccine by next month, to which Mandaviya had agreed during the meeting.“It was a very positive meeting. We asked for 1.11 crore more doses of Covid-19 vaccines by the end of September and he (the Union health minister) agreed to it. We are thankful to the Union government,” ANI quoted George as saying.The minister also said that the Kerala government has already begun talks on producing Covid-19 vaccines in the state. “Kerala government has already started talks regarding vaccine production in the state. We are trying to introduce fill-finish units. We have discussed the issue (with the Union health minister) and the Centre is very positive,” she further said.Earlier in the day, the minister said that the state is ready to immunise children against the Covid-19 pandemic and would take steps as soon as the Centre approves a vaccine for children. She also mentioned that the state government aims to vaccinate all people above 18 years of age in the state by the end of September. Further, over 52% of beneficiaries above 18 years have been inoculated with the first dose while over 19% have received their second dose too, the minister added.On Wednesday, Kerala reported 21,427 new Covid-19 cases and 179 more fatalities. With this, the state has so far reported 3,745,457 confirmed cases and 19,049 deaths, a bulletin from the health department showed.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-ramping-up-covid-19-testing-to-identify-every-single-case-says-state-health-minister-veena-george-101629370569215.html
19-08-2021||India||EMMRC Pune documentary bags second award at national science film festival||PUNE: A documentary titled “Kamala- The Swadeshi Nutri-Indian” produced by the Educational Multimedia Research Centre (EMMRC) of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has won the second award at the national-level science film festival held on August 15 to commemorate 75 years of independence. The award comprises Rs50,000 along with a certificate and memento.The award-winning film depicts the life and contributions of Dr Kamala Bhagwat Sohoni, the first Indian woman scientist to pursue a PhD in science from Cambridge university. A pioneer of nutrition research in the Indian context, she returned to her motherland with the aim to make her research available to the people here. The documentary has been directed by Dr Sameer Sahasrabudhe, director, EMMRC; with the able assistance of Milind Patil as editor and assistant director; and Ajita Deshmukh as scriptwriter.SPPU vice chancellor professor Nitin Karmalkar said, “This documentary on Dr Kamala Sohoni’s life presents her contributions to India in the field of science. The work done by EMMRC is commendable.”Sahasrabudhe said, “Senior experts in the field of education and science have contributed immensely in the making of this film. My colleagues have worked hard to make a good film in a very short period of time.”The national-level science film festival was organised by Vigyan Prasar of the science and technology department of the central government, which holds a competition every year on the occasion of Independence Day. This time, the competition was held online on August 13 and 14 in New Delhi and the results were declared on August 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/emmrc-pune-documentary-bags-second-award-at-national-science-film-festival-101629370364573.html
19-08-2021||India||Intel offers $250 to its employees globally, including India, to get vaccinated||Intel Inc, the computer chipmaker, on Wednesday announced an incentive of $250 for all its employees, including those in India, to overcome Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy and increase protection against the deadly virus that continues to mutate in various geographies, infecting millions and claiming hundreds of thousands of lives.Pat Gelsinger, the chief executive officer of Intel Corporation, in a mail that was sent out late last night (India time on August 18) said that the incentive would be extended to all its employees who get vaccinated before December 2021.Intel has around 110,000 employees globally and a sizeable chunk of it in India, where it has campuses in four sites in Bengaluru and one in Hyderabad.Though the company does not share geography-specific employee count, it is estimated that the India offices has around 7,000 employees.Also Read | Palm-oil mission could stoke disaster without sustainability checks“While Intel does not currently require employees to get a COVID-19 vaccination, we commend those of you who have already gotten vaccinated and want to encourage others to do so. Subject to local law, we will offer the following to thank those of you that are vaccinated before the end of the year,” wrote Gelsinger.Hindustan Times has confirmed the contents of the letter independently.The company is offering $250, which comes up to approximately ₹18,600 in India for those who will get vaccinated or have already been inoculated, said one person aware of the developments, requesting anonymity.Intel could not immediately be reached for comment.The company is also offering $100 (geo-adjusted) amount in food vouchers for its hourly employees, according to Gelsinger’s mail.The incentive is a shot in the arm for Karnataka, which has been trying to increase vaccination coverage with the support of private industry.The Karnataka government has also asked high net-worth individuals and large corporations to use their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds to procure vaccines and given them to the administration to increase the coverage and mitigate the impact of the imminent third wave of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intel-offers-250-to-its-employees-globally-including-india-to-get-vaccinated-101629369645141.html
19-08-2021||India||NK Singh succeeds Manmohan Singh as IEG president||The 15th Finance Commission chairman, NK Singh, has been elected as the president of the Institute of Economic Growth (IEG) Society on August 16. He succeeds former prime minister Dr Manmohan Singh who has been in the position since 1992. Dr Singh recommended his name for the consideration of the IEG’s general assembly, an official statement said.Dr Singh expressed his desire to step down from the position on health grounds. Quoting him, the statement said, “... in the light of my advanced age and indifferent health I am having to withdraw from several active duties. I am afraid I will have to ask you to continue your journey with another leader. With this in mind, I would propose the name of my trusted and able friend Shri N.K. Singh, to lead IEG Society as its President.” IEG is an autonomous, multidisciplinary centre for advanced research and training, founded in 1952 by the eminent economist VKRV Rao.Also Read | Palm-oil mission could stoke disaster without sustainability checksIEG’s research falls into nine broad themes -- agriculture and rural development, environment and resource economics; globalisation and trade; industry, labour and welfare; macro-economic policy and modelling; population and development; health policy; and social change and social structure.In addition, the Institute organises regular training programmes for the trainee officers of the Indian Economic Service (IES) and occasional courses for officers of the Indian Statistical Service, NABARD, and university teachers. The institute’s faculty members also supervise doctoral students from India and abroad, provide regular policy inputs, and engage with government, civil society and international organisations.Over the years, IEG has hosted many renowned international scholars, including Nobel Laureates Elinor Ostrom and Amartya Sen, and others such as Ronald Dore, Yujiro Hayami, Jan Breman and Nicolas Stern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nk-singh-succeeds-manmohan-singh-as-ieg-president-101629368867693.html
19-08-2021||India||President Ram Nath Kovind undergoes cataract surgery at Army hospital in Delhi||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday underwent a cataract surgery at the Army hospital here, a Rashtrapati Bhavan statement said.The surgery was successful and he has been discharged from the hospital, it said.Kovind, aged 75, took over as the 14th president of India on July 25, 2017."The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind underwent cataract surgery today morning (August 19, 2021) at the Army Hospital (Referral & Research), New Delhi. Surgery was successful and he has been discharged from the Hospital," the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-ram-nath-kovind-undergoes-cataract-surgery-at-army-hospital-in-delhi-101629368360750.html
19-08-2021||India||Now, traffic violations to be monitored electronically: All you need to know||In a bid to use technology to act against those violating traffic rules, the Union ministry of road transport and highways on Thursday issued a notification amending the Central Motor Vehicles Rule 1989 for what it called "Electronic Monitoring and Enforcement of Road Safety." As the name suggests, under these rules, "electronic enforcement devices" will be used for issuing challans.MoRT&H has issued a notification amending the Central Motor Vehicle Rules 1989 for “Electronic Monitoring and Enforcement of Road Safety”, wherein electronic enforcement devices will be used for issuing challan. These shall have an approval certificate of the State Government.Here's all you need to know about this new methodology:(1.) The "electronic enforcement devices" shall carry an approval certificate issued by the respective state government. The certificate will act as a confirmation of the device being "accurate" and will be renewed annually.(2.) Such devices include speed camera, closed-circuit television camera, speed gun, body wearable camera, dashboard camera, automatic number plate recognition (ANPR), weigh-in machine (WIM), as well as any other technology specified by the state government.(3.) State governments bear the responsibility to place these devices at high-risk, high-density corridors on national highways, state highways and at critical junctions. These are to be placed at least in all major cities with a population of more than 1 million, including 132 cities highlighted in the notification.(4.) However, care should be taken to ensure that the devices are placed in such a manner that these do not lead to any obstruction, line-of-sight issues, or interruption in traffic flow.(5.) For any offence committed, the notice has to be sent within a period of 15 days from the occurrence of the said offence. Also, the electronic record, collected through the electronic equipment, has to be stored till the disposal of challan.(6.) Footage captured by an electronic enforcement device can be used to issue challan for offences such as not driving within the prescribed speed limit, stopping or parking the vehicle at an unauthorised location, not wearing protective equipment, jumping red light, violating a stop sign, speaking on the phone while driving, overtaking other vehicles in a dangerous manner, and any other traffic violation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traffic-violations-to-be-monitored-electronically-all-you-need-to-know-101629362239859.html
19-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Online registration mandatory for people visiting Himachal||Online registration has again been made mandatory for the people visiting Himachal Pradesh."All inter-state movement to the state will be monitored through registration on Covid e-registration software” of the Himachal government, Chief Secretary-cum-Chairperson of State Executive Committee Ram Subhag Singh said in an order on Wednesday.The government, however, exempted certain categories of people from the provisions of this order.They include daily or weekend commuters such as “industrialists, traders, suppliers, factory workers, project proponents, service providers, government officials and people visiting the state on medical grounds”.“Children below 18 years of age, if accompanied by parents or guardians with vaccination certificate for both doses or negative RTPCR/RAT reports too are exempted from e-registration,” he added.Similarly, all goods carriers, whether loaded or unloaded and movement of goods or cargo for inland and exports are also exempted from any type of Covid restriction while entering or exiting the state, he added.Earlier in an order on August 10, the state government had made negative Covid-19 report or full vaccination mandatory for all people intending to visit the hill state from August 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-online-registration-mandatory-for-people-visiting-himachal-101629358046179.html
19-08-2021||India||Afghan nationals gather outside US embassy in Delhi, seek assistance from govt||Afghan nationals on Thursday gathered outside the embassy of the United States in Delhi as the situation continued to evolve in the neighbouring South Asian country after the Taliban takeover. They requested the Indian government to extend help to their family members stranded in Afghanistan. "My family back home is scared after the Taliban take over. We request support from India and the US. We don't have any jobs here and are facing financial troubles," news agency ANI quoted an Afghan national as saying.Afghanistan plunged into turmoil after the Taliban took over the capital city of Kabul over the weekend, leading to a humanitarian crisis in the war-torn country. The issue created massive turmoil in the country as mass exodus was triggered by people fearing the return of the brutal regime of the Taliban which had ended in 2001 with the US' entry.With most of the troops already withdrawn, the various foreign governments including India's are carrying out evacuation operations.On Tuesday, India withdrew its ambassador and diplomatic staff from Kabul. Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a high-level meeting during which he directed officials to ensure all Indian nationals are evacuated safely from war-torn Afghanistan.Almost 200 people including India’s ambassador to Afghanistan Rudrendra Tandon have been brought back to the country so far.Meanwhile, the head of the UN food agency in Afghanistan on Wednesday said that a humanitarian crisis is unfolding with 14 million people facing severe hunger following the Taliban takeover of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-nationals-gather-outside-us-embassy-in-delhi-seek-assistance-from-govt-101629360493343.html
19-08-2021||India||Terrorist, armyman killed in encounter in J&K’s Rajouri||A junior commissioned officer was killed during an encounter with armed terrorists in Thanamandi area of Rajouri district on Thursday.“Today [Thursday], during an encounter with terrorists in Thanamandi area of Rajouri, one JCO of Rashtriya Rifles suffered bullet injuries and one terrorist died. The JCO was immediately evacuated to the nearest medical facility but later succumbed to his injuries. A search operation is going on,” the defence spokesperson said.The operation at Thanamandi was launched by police, army and CRPF.In the initial exchange of fire, two army personnel were injured, of whom the JCO succumbed to his injuries, authorities said.Also Read | Parliamentary panel, on visit to J&K, meets representatives of local bodiesThe encounter broke out in the Karyote Kalas area, where a cordon and search operation was launched on Wednesday following reports of suspicious movement.“This morning, as the forces were zeroing in on the suspected hideout, terrorists fired upon the them,” they added.The martyred JCO hailed from Pauri, Garhwal, in Uttarakhand.On August 6, security forces killed two terrorists in Pangai area of Thanamandi and on August 10, Jammu and Kashmir Police identified one of the two slain terrorists as Ramees Ahmad Tantray of Ramnagri in Shopian districtIn the past few weeks, several encounters have taken place in Rajouri sector — Daddal in Nowshera, Sunderbani and Pangai in Thanamandi followed by Thursday’s encounter at Karyote.“All these were fresh groups, which had infiltrated the area recently,” DGP Dilbag Singh said.The DGP also said that infiltration of terrorists from launch pads across the border has resumed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armyman-killed-in-encounter-with-terrorists-in-j-k-s-rajouri-101629360044382.html
19-08-2021||India||Taliban stop imports, exports from India through Pakistan’s transit routes||The Federation of Indian Export Organisation (FIEO) said on Thursday that the Taliban have stopped all imports and exports from India through transit routes of Pakistan as they gained control over Afghanistan in recent days.“We keep a close watch on developments in Afghanistan. Imports from there come through the transit route of Pakistan. As of now, Taliban has stopped movement of cargo to Pakistan, so virtually imports have been stopped,”Ajay Sahai, FIEO’s director general, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The FIEO said that prices of dry fruits in India might increase in the near future as the country imports about 85 per cent of these commodities from Afghanistan.Also Read| Focus on safe return of Indians from Afghanistan: JaishankarWith regard to exports, Sahai said some goods were being exported through the international North-South Corridor and other goods were going through the Dubai route. Pointing out that India has healthy trade-relations with Afghanistan, Sahai said that exports to the latter were worth around $835 million for 2021.Also Watch| Taliban targets India, stops export, import; dry fruit prices rise | Afghanistan“We imported goods worth around USD 510 million. But besides the trade, we have a sizeable investment in Afghanistan. We have invested around USD 3 billion in Afghanistan and there are 400-odd projects in Afghanistan some of which are currently going on,” he further told ANI and was optimistic about the trade relations despite the worsening crisis in Afghanistan.On Wednesday, foreign minister Dr S Jaishankar said that the government is closely monitoring developments in Afghanistan, adding that the focus is on ensuring security and safe return of Indian nationals who are still there.Scores of Indian nationals are still stuck in Afghanistan with officials saying that they will be repatriated once commercial flights resume in Kabul airport. “The Government of India is committed to the safe return of all Indian nationals and will institute flight arrangements once Kabul airport is open for commercial operations,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-stop-imports-exports-from-india-through-pakistan-s-transit-routes-101629358189040.html
19-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Nitish Kumar to meet PM Modi on Monday to discuss caste-based census issue
and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nitish Kumar to meet PM Modi on Monday to discuss caste-based census issueBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday said that he will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday (August 23) to discuss the issue of conducting a caste-based census. Read MoreCalcutta high court orders CBI probe into West Bengal post-poll violenceIn what comes as a major setback for the Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government, the Calcutta high court on Thursday ordered a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the allegations of post-poll violence in the state. Read MoreNitish Kumar to meet PM Modi on Monday to discuss caste-based census issueBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday said that he will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday (August 23) to discuss the issue of conducting a caste-based census. Read More'Need to frustrate him': Panesar suggests how Kohli can cause troubles for RootWithout a shred of a doubt, England captain Joe Root has been India's biggest hurdle in the ongoing five-match Test series. Read MoreShilpa Shetty returns with her trademark praises in new Super Dancer 4 promo, dabs with contestantFans of Super Dancer 4 are happy to see Shilpa Shetty return to the show after several weeks. The actor stepped back from the show after her husband, businessman Raj Kundra was arrested in a pornography case in Mumbai. Read MoreHonda CB200X ADV launched in India at ₹1.44 lakhHonda on Thursday announced the launch of the new ADV in the Indian market at ₹1.44 lakh (ex-showroom). The new motorcycle comes based on the Hornet 2.0 and borrows the engine and platform from the naked roadster. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-nitish-kumar-to-meet-pm-modi-on-monday-to-discuss-caste-based-census-issue-and-all-the-latest-news-101629357678364.html
19-08-2021||India||Nitish Kumar to meet PM Modi on Monday to discuss caste-based census issue||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday said that he will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday (August 23) to discuss the issue of conducting a caste-based census. Kumar's party Janata Dal (United) is an ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Bihar and is in favour of caste-based census."I had sought an appointment with the PM to meet him along with a delegation from Bihar to conduct the caste-based census. I thank him for giving us time on August 23," said Kumar's tweet translated from Hindi.जाति आधारित जनगणना करने के लिए बिहार के प्रतिनिधि मंडल के साथ आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री से मिलने का समय मांगा था। आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री का बहुत बहुत धन्यवाद कि 23 अगस्त को मिलने का उन्होंने समय दिया। @narendramodiOn Monday, during an interaction with mediapersons, Kumar said that he had been advocating the need for caste-based census across the country for a long time. “It was done separately between 2011-13, but the report did not come out. We want it to be with the Census at least once to have a clear picture, as it will help in planning and policy-making for they weaker sections,” the chief minister said.The issueHolding a caste-based census is a sensitive issue for the government in view of the assembly elections due in seven states next year. Many political parties have come together demanding a caste-based census.During the recently-concluded monsoon session of Parliament, the Congress asked the government why was it "quiet" and "running away" from a caste-based census.Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi raised the issue in the Rajya Sabha. The party said that such a census is required to assess the exact ground situation because in at least 30 states and Union territories, the reservation for backward classes has crossed the upper limit.The parties in support of caste-based censusBJP allies such as the JD-U, Apna Dal and Republican Party of India-Athawale have raised the demand for holding a caste-based census. Many opposition parties such as the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party, Rashtriya Janata Dal and Samajwadi Party are also demanding that the exercise should be held.Other parties such as the Biju Janata Dal have asked for a caste census, as have some BJP leaders, including Badaun MP Sanghamitra Maurya and national secretary Pankaja Munde.What is the ruling BJP's stand on the issueThe BJP is carefully treading the path on the issue of caste-based census. People aware of the developments said that in view of the upcoming state polls, the BJP wants to prevent caste census from snowballing into an election issue.The party is also keeping a watchful eye on the impact this demand will have with its allies, the people cited above said.Officially, BJP spokesperson Bizay Sonkar Shastri downplayed the entire issue, saying that the party did not believe in caste-based politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-to-meet-pm-modi-on-monday-to-discuss-caste-based-census-issue-101629356197363.html
19-08-2021||India||Union minister draws flak for comments on Tagore’s ‘dark complexion’||Union minister Subhas Sarkar has drawn flak for his comments on Rabindranath Tagore’s “dark complexion”, which he claimed on Wednesday was the reason why his family members did not cradle him as a child.“Rabindranath Tagore had a dark complexion. Because of this, people in his family did not cradle him when he was a child. But later in life, he won the Nobel Prize and brought laurels to the nation,” said Sarkar at Visva Bharati, the university Tagore founded in 1921 in Bengal’s Birbhum district.Also Read | Calcutta high court orders CBI probe into West Bengal post-poll violenceFormer Rabindra Bharati University (Kolkata) vice-chancellor Pabitra Sarkar called the minister’s remarks racist. “It is true that Tagore was not as fair as other members of his family. But he was not dark. Moreover, children in the Tagore family used to be looked after by maids. Cradling children was not a common practice among members of the Tagore family back in those days,” said Pabitra Sarkar.Udayan Bandopadhyay, a political science professor, said Tagore’s complexion cannot be a subject of discussion. “I heard an academician refuting the minister and claiming that Tagore was extremely fair. How can anyone, be it the minister or academicians, discuss Tagore’s complexion? Can that be a topic at all? We should be talking only about Tagore’s works and his life,” said Bandopadhyay.The minister was unavailable for comments on the controversy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-draws-flak-for-comments-on-tagore-s-dark-complexion-101629356504240.html
19-08-2021||India||Haryana govt bans use of expression ‘Gorakh Dhanda’ in state||The Haryana government on Wednesday banned the usage of “gorakh dhanda”, a colloquial expression to describe unethical practices.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar took the decision after meeting a delegation of the Gorakhnath community. The delegation urged him to ban the phrase as it hurts the sentiments of the followers of Saint Gorakhnath.“The delegation representing the Gorakhnath community met the chief minister and urged him to ban the use of the expression, saying it hurts the sentiments of the followers of Saint Gorakhnath. The CM agreed,” a government spokesperson said.Also Read | Panchkula MC turns forest land into garbage dumpAssistant professor of sociology at Miranda House, Binu Somdas, said every word has a different meaning in different contexts and banning a word after reading it in isolation is not appropriate-- it is invalidating the heritage factor of culture. “However, considering the current political climate of the country, where religious sentiments are very sensitive, banning a word which might hurt a community is acceptable,” he added. Gorakhnath was an 11th century Hindu yogi, considered to be the founder of the Nath Hindu monastic movement in India. The Gorakhnath Math and Gorakhpur city in Uttar Pradesh are named after him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-bans-phrase-gorakh-dhanda-to-avoid-hurting-religious-sentiments-101629354704495.html
19-08-2021||India||DRDO develops advanced chaff technology for IAF jets: All you need to know||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has developed an advanced chaff technology to safeguard Indian Air Force (IAF) fighter jets against hostile radar threats.This come a few months after the DRDO developed a similar technology for naval ships to protect them from missile attacks.The technology was developed in three variants. The Indian Navy conducted trials of all three variants in the Arabian Sea on Indian Naval Ship and found the performance satisfactory.Where has the technology been developed?The advanced chaff technology has been developed by DRDO's defence laboratory situated in Rajasthan's Jodhpur.It was developed in collaboration with high energy materials research laboratory in Pune to meet qualitative requirements of the IAF. The Air Force has started the process of induction of this technology after completion of successful user trials, according to DRDO.What is the advanced chaff technology?It is an electronic countermeasure technology used by militaries worldwide to protect their assets, like naval vessels and aircraft. It protects the assets from radar and radio frequency.In case of naval ships, chaff rockets are deployed in the air, which act as multiple targets for missile guidance system.The importance of this development lies in the fact that very less quantity of chaff material deployed in the air acts as decoy to deflect enemy’s missiles for safety of the ships, the defence ministry said in a release.Difference between chaff and flaresBoth are used to as defensive countermeasure to confuse the radar from detecting a vessel, or deflect the missiles from the target.But there is a major difference between the two. While flares, when fired, generate a strong infrared source to attract heat-seeking missiles, chaff is used to misguide radar-tracking weapons.Chaff is composed of many small aluminium or zinc coated fibres. It will be stored on-board the aircraft as cartridges.What were the three variants of chaff technology developed by DRDO to Indian navy?Defence Laboratory Jodhpur indigenously developed three variants of the critical technology, namely Short Range Chaff Rocket (SRCR), Medium Range Chaff Rocket (MRCR) and Long Range Chaff Rocket (LRCR) to meet the navy's qualitative requirements, according to the defence ministry.The successful development of Advanced Chaff Technology by DLJ is another step towards Atmanirbhar Bharat, the minuistry further said in a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-develops-advanced-chaff-technology-for-iaf-jets-all-you-need-to-know-101629353449306.html
19-08-2021||India||Separate civil services exam centre to be set up in Ladakh||Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh announced on Wednesday that the government would be setting up a separate Civil Services Exam (CSE) centre for Ladakh. The centre will be located in Leh.The announcement came after lieutenant governor of Ladakh RK Mathur called on the union minister in New Delhi to discuss the placement of IAS officers and other service-related matters.According to an official handout issued after the meeting, the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) will have an examination centre at Leh from this year, which will operate for the first time for the Civil Services (Preliminary) Examination 2021, scheduled to be held on October 10.Also Read | School in J&K’s Kupwara renamed after rifleman who died fighting terrorists“This will address a long pending demand of the youth from the Ladakh region whose grievance was that they found it difficult to reach examination centres in other parts of the country because of the constraints of affordability of air fare and uncertain weather conditions,” the ministry of personnel said in a statement.Singh also said that the Staff Selection Commission is conducting a computer-based examination for selection to Group B and C posts in the government of Ladakh. He said this arrangement will streamline free and fair selection on merit. The Lamdone Online Assessment Institute, Leh, is facilitating the SSC examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/separate-civil-services-exam-centre-to-be-set-up-in-ladakh-101629353684082.html
19-08-2021||India||Instead of rakhis, Bengal govt to distribute masks this Raksha Bandhan||Amid apprehensions of a third wave of Covid-19, the West Bengal government has decided to distribute face masks on Raksha Bandhan this year instead of rakhis. “This year the government would distribute face masks on Raksha Bandhan day instead of rakhis. The state youth services and sports department would be purchasing around 635,000 rakhis for this purpose. The police and other departments would also be distributing masks,” said a senior official of the department. Even though West Bengal had reported more than 20,000 Covid-19 cases on a single day in mid-May, the number of daily cases has come down to 600 – 800 at present. On Wednesday, 646 new cases were reported from the state,and seven people lost their lives to the infection. “There are apprehensions that a third wave could hit sometime around September. The festive season is coming too. We need to be on guard,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said. The state health department is planning to speed up the vaccination process in the adjoining districts of Kolkata so that local trains could be resumed. Local suburban trains connect Kolkata and Howrah with the villages and towns of the adjoining districts and thus form a major lifeline for the people coming to Kolkata for work every day. Howrah and Sealdah stations cater to more than two million passengers every day. “The government is targeting districts such as South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, Nadia and parts of Bardhaman where 50% of the people need to be vaccinated with at least one dose before local trains resume,” said another official. In Kolkata, while around 3.86 million people have received the first dose, around 1.38 million people have received their second dose as well. The city has a population of around 4.5 million, as per the 2011 census. Compared to this, North 24 Parganas, which is the second most densely populated district in India, and has a population of more than 10 million, received around 2.7 million first doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/instead-of-rakhis-bengal-govt-to-distribute-masks-this-raksha-bandhan-101629352003936.html
19-08-2021||India||Army to expand goodwill initiative for students of J&K and Ladakh||To “integrate” youth of the union territories (UTs) of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh with other parts of the country, the Army has decided to expand its ongoing goodwill initiative -- operation Sadbhavana. The Army will now sponsor the education of youths from the UTs at its residential schools and colleges across the country starting this academic year.Under operation Sadbhavana, the Army has established 46 “goodwill schools” in the UTs and also provided assistance to over 1900 state-run schools as of now. Over 14,000 students are enrolled in these schools.For the first time now, 110 students from the UTs will get to study in Army-run colleges and schools every year as a part of the initiative.Also Read | School in J&K’s Kupwara renamed after rifleman who died fighting terroristsInitially, 100 seats (50 each) have been earmarked for students of classes eighth and ninth in Army schools at Beas in Punjab and Pithoragarh in Uttarakhand for the current academic year. From the next academic session, 100 seats will also be reserved in Army Public Schools in Dhaula Kuan (New Delhi), Noida (Uttar Pradesh), and Dagshai (Himachal Pradesh).“Till now the Army was helping the youth of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh through the schools within the territories of these UTs under Sadbhavana. But now the Indian Army will be sponsoring undergraduate courses and school education to selected children and youth from the UTs of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh in residential schools and colleges functioning under the Army Welfare Education Society (AWES) across the country. This will help them explore the various career opportunities available in the country and also integrate them with the rest of the country,” a senior defence official said.Seats will also be reserved in undergraduate courses in some Army-run colleges. For instance, this year, two seats each will be earmarked in Army Institute of Hotel Management and Catering Technology and Army Institute of Fashion Design in Bengaluru, Army Colleges of Nursing in Guwahati, and Jalandhar. While colleges will offer undergraduate degrees in hospitality to both girls and boys, seats in courses like fashion designing and nursing will be available only for girls.“From academic session 2022-23 onwards, two additional seats each will be provided in Army’s Management institutions at Kolkata and Greater Noida and Army Institute of Education (only girls) at Greater Noida. The students will be offered MBA and B Ed/B Ed special education (only girls) courses in these colleges,” said a statement issued by the Army on Tuesday.All domiciled residents of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh will be eligible for admission. The Army will conduct an admission test for these seats from the next academic session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-to-expand-goodwill-initiative-for-students-of-j-k-and-ladakh-101629351583762.html
19-08-2021||India||Covid booster dose will definitely be recommended in India, says National Institute of Virology director||As the United States has okayed the booster dose of the Covid vaccine which will start rolling out from September, National Institute of Virology director Dr Priya Abraham said the booster dose will definitely be recommended in India in future. The official stand of the government regarding booster dose is that the issue is being closely studied.In an interview with India Science, the OTT channel of the department of science and technology, Dr Abraham said, "Studies on booster dose have been going on overseas and at least seven different vaccines have been tried out for booster dose. Now, the WHO has put a stop to it till more countries catch up with vaccination. This is because there is an alarming vaccine gap between high-income and low-income countries. But, in future, recommendations for boosters will definitely come."Covid vaccine for children in India by September, says ICMR-NIV directorA booster dose is an additional dose to augment the antibody level which may lower after a certain period of time following the second dose of the vaccine. AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria earlier said that booster doses might become a necessity because of the emerging variants of the virus. The jury is out on whether this will be a yearly requirement or not or whether everybody will require a booster shot against Covid. The World Health Organization has opposed booster doses at present as many poor countries are still without vaccines. WHO chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan has recently said that available data do not indicate that boosters are needed.In India, Pune's Serum Institute has reportedly administered booster doses to its employees. Chairman Cyrus Poonawalla himself has taken a booster dose, he has recently said. "After six months, the antibodies go down and that is why I have taken the third dose. We have given the third dose to our seven to eight thousand SII employees. For those who have completed the second dose, it is my request to take a booster dose (third dose) after six months," he said, as reported by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-booster-dose-will-definitely-be-recommended-in-india-says-national-institute-of-virology-director-101629346844788.html
19-08-2021||India||Muharram holiday: These are the dates announced by state governments||Muharram marks the beginning of the Islamic calendar. It marks the first day of the Islamic new year according to the Hirji calendar. The Hirji calendar is based on the lunar cycle due to which it is different from the Gregorian calendar followed by the West.The word Muharram means 'not permitted' or 'forbidden' hence, Muslims are prohibited from taking part in activities like warfare and use it as a period of prayer and reflection.Also Read | Muharram 2021: This is why Shia and Sunni Muslims fast on AshuraMuharram is observed across India with processions (tazia) being taken out. But this year, there are restrictions on public gatherings due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), so states have not granted permission to take out Muharram processions.Also Read | Muharram 2021: Date of Ashura in India, Saudi Arabia and other countriesHere is a look at dates announced by various state governments to mark Muharram:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muharram-holiday-these-are-the-dates-announced-by-state-governments-101629346646247.html
19-08-2021||India||India has administered at least 565 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 565 million Covid vaccine doses by Wednesday, August 18. Meanwhile, vaccines for children may be available by September and the trials for inoculating those between 2 and 18 years are underway, said Priya Abraham, director of the National Institute of Virology.In an interview to India Science, an OTT platform of the department of science and technology, Abraham said phase 2/3 clinical trials are in process for those between 2 and 18 years of age. “Hopefully the results will be available soon and they will be presented to regulators. Probably by September or just after September, we may have a vaccine for children… this is Covaxin,” she said.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Wednesday, 565,732,128 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 4,881,588 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 3,585,420 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 1,296,168 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine.Also Read | Sharp decline in Covid testing puts question on actual countIn the 18-45 age group, 2,593,571 were given the first dose while 577,183 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 208,043,061 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 17,281,211 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 10 million vaccine doses in the 18-45 years age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.On Thursday, India reported 36,401 new Covid cases in the past 24 hours, said the government statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-565-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101629346543338.html
19-08-2021||India||Sarpanch arrested in south Kashmir for brandishing pistol at patrolling party||Police arrested a sarpanch in south Kashmir for brandishing a pistol at a patrolling party. According to police, a joint patrolling party of 1 RR and police apprehended two suspicious persons from Khudwani on a motorcycle on Wednesday evening. Also Read | J&K Police chief directs action against officer for thrashing journalists“The riders, who were signalled to stop, brandished a pistol and tried to flee from the patrolling party. However, due to the quick and timely action of the security forces, both the individuals were apprehended. From their possession, one pistol, two magazines and 12 rounds were recovered,” the police spokesman said in a statement. Police identified the arrested persons as Aqib Shafi Badder of Badderpora Qaimoh and Mohammad Amin Hajam of Hangalgund Kokernag. Badder is a sarpanch. Locals said that he is affiliated with the Bharatiya Janata Party. Police have registered a case against the sarpanch and his associate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sarpanch-arrested-in-south-kashmir-for-brandishing-pistol-at-patrolling-party-101629344203412.html
19-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Monsoon likely to revive over northwest India from today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Monsoon likely to revive over N-W India from todayMonsoon is likely to revive over northwest India from Thursday with widespread rain likely over Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Haryana in the next 3-4 days ,according to India Meteorological Department. Read moreUP schools to reopen for classes 1 to 5 from September 1. Details hereThe Yogi Adityanath-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh has issued a slew of orders regarding the reopening of schools in the state, in view of the existing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) conditions. Read moreCovid-19: Fewer than 10 active cases in 6 districts of MaharashtraThere are fewer than 10 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Dhule, Washim, Yavatmal, Bhandara, Wardha and Gondia districts of Maharashtra while only seven districts, including Pune and Ahmednagar, account for most of the infections in the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his cabinet were informed on Wednesday. Read moreHow Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube are struggling to keep Taliban at baySilicon Valley has a tough job at hand. For the first time in over two decades, social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube have to come up with ways to balance a response against the Taliban, a conservative terrorist-affiliated group now in control of the state apparatus in Afghanistan. Read moreVishal Dadlani's message to those who call Bachpan Ka Pyar boy bad singer: 'Usko neecha dikhake what are you achieving'Singer-music composer Vishal Dadlani has shared a video, defending viral sensation Sahdev Dirdo. The 10-year-old boy went viral recently after an old video of him singing the song Bachpan Ka Pyaar was rediscovered. Read moreKhushi Kapoor in ₹95k beauteous lehenga looks like a dream for Antara Marwah’s baby showerIt is celebration time in the Kapoor family, and the whole clan has been serving good looks in their impeccable ensembles. After celebrating Rhea Kapoor and Karan Boolani's wedding, the whole Kapoor family got together to celebrate Mohit Marwah's wife Antara Marwah's baby shower in Mumbai. Read more‘His heroes are Sachin, Dravid’: KP lauds Kohli’s passion for Test cricketFormer England captain Kevin Pietersen has commended Virat Kohli’s fondness for the longest format of the game. The Indian captain on Monday led his team to a terrific 151-run win over England in the second Test match at Lord’s to go up 1-0 in the series. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-monsoon-likely-to-revive-over-northwest-india-from-today-101629341879621.html
19-08-2021||India||No evidence of lasting lung damage in Covid-19 survivors: Study||None of the Covid-19 survivors included in a Loyola University Medical Centre and University of Chicago Medicine study had any lasting lung damage directly attributable to the disease. The study published in the Annals of Thoracic Surgery on July 31 said the finding fills an important gap in the understanding of the Covid-19 pandemic, especially in the survivorship phase.“Clinicians and patients alike now have observational evidence that once the patient recovers from their disease, it is unlikely to have permanent lung parenchymal sequelae at least up to four months from their infection, which was the maximal duration of this study.”India currently has the second-highest caseload of Covid-19 cases after the US. The disease attacks the lungs and progresses fast in some patients making it difficult for them to breathe.Also Read | Second Covid wave in check, but not over: Maharashtra CM appeals for caution“The lungs of patients who recover fully also recover as the disease regresses,” said Mumbai-based physician Hemant Gupta. “Commonly, patients who have some underlying ailments like Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease or a history of tuberculosis have a lasting impact on their lungs when they contract Covid-19. Other patients who become critical and spend several days in the intensive care unit also show signs of severe lungs damage, many of them require oxygen support even after discharge.”Radiologist Jignesh Thakker said the long-lasting impact of Covid is commonly seen in patients who become critical.In addition to underlying ailments, Indian patients may have compromised lungs due to the additional impact of air pollution, say experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-evidence-of-lasting-lung-damage-in-covid-19-survivors-study-101629342643691.html
19-08-2021||India||Second Covid wave in check, but not over: Maharashtra CM appeals for caution||The second Covid-19 wave in Maharashtra is under control for now, claimed the state government on Wednesday, even as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray appealed to citizens to adopt Covid-19-appropriate behaviour to prevent a third wave, especially during the upcoming festive season. Thackeray cautioned that the second wave is not over yet.Also Read | Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to inaugurate new district HQ at Palghar todayThe state on Wednesday witnessed 5,132 fresh cases and 158 deaths. In a release post the meeting of the state Cabinet, the government said the average weekly positivity rate has now dropped to 2.4 %. In addition, it reported that of its 36 districts, zero patients were reported in Nandurbar district, less than 10 patients in six districts and less than 100 in eight districts. The state government also said that about 50% citizens above 45 have been given at least one dose of the vaccine, while in the 18-45 age group, it is 25%. Overall, over 50 million citizens have been given one dose, while 13,307,000 were fully vaccinated, as of Wednesday.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said the figures indicated the declining trend. “When positivity rate dips below 5%, it indicates that the virus has been controlled,” said Dr Awate. “The authorities apart from their standard practices of testing, contact tracing and medication also took into account the local factors to combat the virus,” he added. Positivity rate is the percentage of people testing positive out of total tests conducted for an infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-covid-wave-in-check-but-not-over-maharashtra-cm-appeals-for-caution-101629341563246.html
19-08-2021||India||Monsoon likely to revive over N-W India from today||Monsoon is likely to revive over northwest India from Thursday with widespread rain likely over Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Haryana in the next 3-4 days ,according to India Meteorological Department.There was a dry spell over many parts of northwest India in the first couple of weeks of August due to “break” monsoon conditions, which occur when the monsoon trough moves closer to the foothills bringing little rain to the plains.Also Read | Monsoon mingling: Sun romances Delhi skyA cyclonic circulation is lying over Jharkhand and its neighbourhood. It is likely to move west northwestwards in the next 48 hours across northeast Madhya Pradesh. The western end of monsoon trough is near its normal position and the eastern end is south of its normal position. Strong southerly winds from Bay of Bengal to northeast India will continue to prevail till August 19. Due to these meteorological conditions, enhanced rainfall activity is likely over central and adjoining north peninsular India during the next 2-3 days. Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rain is very likely over Gujarat region, Maharashtra, Odisha, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal on August 18 and 19; widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is very likely to continue over northeast India and sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during the next 2 days. There is likely to be increased rainfall activity over northwest India from Thursday-- August 19. Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rainfall is likely over east Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand from August 19 to 21; over Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and West Uttar Pradesh on August 20 and 21. Isolated heavy to very heavy rain is also very likely over Uttarakhand on August 19 and 20. Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rainfall is very likely over Bihar from August 20 to 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-revive-over-n-w-india-from-today-101629341022942.html
19-08-2021||India||Not expressed any view on Taliban or Afghanistan, clarifies AIMPLB||The All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) on Wednesday distanced from secretary Maulana Umrain Mahfuz Rahmani and national spokesperson Maulana Sajjad Nomani's reported comments apparently praising the Taliban for its success in the capture of Afghanistan. "All India Muslim Personal Law Board has neither expressed any view nor given any statement on Taliban and the recent political situation of Afghanistan. Opinion of some Board members has been portrayed as Board's stand by few media channels and wrong things are being attributed to the Board," tweeted AIMPLB.All India Muslim Personal Law Board has neither expressed any view nor given any statement on Taliban and recent political situation of Afghanistan. (1/3)Reports said Sajjad Nomani had praised the Taliban and termed the outfit as 'history-makers'. Maulana Umrain Mahfuz, on the other hand, tweeted that the Taliban conquered Afghanistan with the "eternal wealth of faith and belief". He also praised the general amnesty that the Taliban declared after completing the takeover of the country.This comes at a time when a sedition case has been filed against Samajwadi Party leader Shafiqur Rahman Barq's alleged remarks comparing the Taliban to India's freedom fighters. “They want to be free. This is their personal matter. How can we interfere?” Barq said.The charges against the Samajwadi Party MP include Sections 124A (Sedition), 153A (Promoting enmity between groups) and 295A (outraging religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code.One Rajesh Singhal filed a complaint against the MP based on which he was booked. "Taliban have been declared a terrorist organisation by the Indian government. These statements come under sedition. The police will take strict actions against the people making such statements," Sambhal SP Chakresh Mishra said.The comment has evoked a sharp response and Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said if such statements are given, then there is no difference between that person and Imran Khan.Burq, however, said his statement was misinterpreted and he never supported the Taliban. "I did not make any such statement. My statement has been misinterpreted. I am a citizen of India, not of Afghanistan, so I have no business with what is happening there. I support my government's policies," the Samajwadi Party MP said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-expressed-any-view-on-taliban-or-afghanistan-clarifies-aimplb-101629338074469.html
19-08-2021||NA||Breaking news: Kerala Governor condoles death of PT Usha's coach Om Nambiar||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Today's top news:> Calcutta HC orders CBI probe into alleged post-poll violence in Bengal> Earthquake of 4.5 magnitude jolts Afghanistan> Encounter breaks out in J-K's Rajouri district> India records 36,401 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload lowest in 149 days> Monsoon likely to revive over northwest India from today> Over 500 million Covid-19 tests conducted in India so farFollow all the updates here:Kerala Governor condoles death of PT Usha's coach Om NambiarHon'ble Governor Shri Arif Mohammed Khan condoled the sad demise of PadmaShri #OMNambiar, famous coach who mentored noted athletes like #PTUsha."His services to Indian sport will be long remembered. My heartfelt condolences. May his soul attain Mukti",he said:PRO, KeralaRajBhavan pic.twitter.com/WeXplTj5ryKuwait to resume commercial flights with India, EgyptKuwait to resume commercial flights with India, Egypt https://t.co/7TUdH3u6Tt pic.twitter.com/FV9AlqioAhSection 144 imposed in Rajasthan's Dholpur due to Covid-19In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic Section 144 has been imposed in Rajasthan's Dholpur district. This is slated to come into effect from August 20, and bars public, social, political, entertainment, educational, cultural & religious gatherings/processions/festivals from being held.US police investigating bomb threat after suspicious vehicle is found near Capitol building #UPDATE US police said Thursday a suspicious vehicle near the #Capitol building and Library of Congress in Washington was being investigated for possible explosives and that people were told to leave the area pic.twitter.com/HtA26GLaHKMaharashtra records 5,225 cases of Covid-19, 154 deathsMaharashtra recorded 5,225 cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, pushing the tally of cases to 6,411,570. In the last 24 hours 154 deaths have also been reported, the death toll now stands at 135,567, according to the state health bulletin.J&K leader Ghulam Hassan Lone dead shot by terroristsJammu and Kashmir politician Ghulam Hassan Lone was shot dead by terrorist in Kulgam district on Wednesday. Lone is the third political leader from Kulgam to be killed in the last 10 days.Taliban fighters open fire on people in Asadabad, several killedSeveral people were killed in the Afghan city of Asadabad when Taliban fighters fired on people waving the national flag at an Independence Day rally, a witness said https://t.co/T41C3byRy6 pic.twitter.com/s2AdjfvGUpCBI submits progress report on Dhanbad judge death case to Jharkhand HC in sealed coverThe Central Bureau of Investigation submitted the progress report on Dhanbad judge Uttam Anand's death in a sealed cover to Jharkhand high court, reported news agency ANI on Wednesday.Assam govt renames detention centres as 'transit camps'Assam government has said that detention centres, which house 'foreigners' in Assam, will now be called 'Transit camps'. pic.twitter.com/D675HlZLkCKerala govt starts talks on vaccine production in the stateKerala government has started talks on vaccine production in the state. "We are trying to introduce fill-finish units. We have discussed the issue (with the Union health minister) and the Centre is very positive," said state health minister Veena George to ANI.One terrorist killed by security forces in Thanamandi encounterOne terrorist killed by security forces in Thanamandi encounter, say J&K police.Nations must respect the rule of law, not violence: Afghanistan's caretaker President tweetsNations must respect the rule of law, not violence. Afghanistan is too big for Pakistan to swallow and too big for Talibs to govern. Don't let your histories have a chapter on humiliation and bowing to terror groups, tweets Amrullah Saleh, acting president of Afghanistan.Days after deadly earthquake, fresh tremors strike city in HaitiHaitian city of Les Cayes was shaken by tremors late on Wednesday, news agency Reuters reported. This comes a few days after a devastating earthquake killed almost 2,189 people across the Caribbean nation, according to its civil protection agency. Read moreEarthquake of 4.5 magnitude jolts AfghanistanThe National Center for Seismology (NCS) said on Thursday that an earthquake of 4.5 magnitude hit Afghanistan at 11:22 hours. Calcutta HC orders CBI probe into alleged post-poll violence in BengalThe Calcutta high court on Thursday ordered a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the alleged post-poll violence in the state of West Bengal.Encounter breaks out in J-K's Rajouri districtAn encounter has broken out between terrorists and security forces in the Thanamandi area of Rajouri district, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. Two terrorists were shot down by police in the same area on August 6, ANI further reported. With cakes, Tamil Nadu's Coimbatore raises awareness about Covid-19In Coimbatore, authorities are holding a month-long Covid-19 awareness drive, where cakes are being displayed to inform people to stick to Covid-19 guidelines. "We have organised this exhibition with 40 varieties of cakes based on different themes. These themes include gratitude to doctors, creating awareness regarding common precautionary measures like washing hands and maintaining social distancing and the most important one is urging people to get vaccinated," Vijayalakshmi, the organiser of the show told news agency ANI. India has administered at least 565 million Covid vaccine doses till nowIndia had administered at least 565 million Covid vaccine doses by Wednesday, August 18. Meanwhile, vaccines for children may be available by September and the trials for inoculating those between 2 and 18 years are underway, said Priya Abraham, director of the National Institute of Virology. Read moreIndia records 36,401 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload lowest in 149 daysIndia's caseload of the coronavirus disease climbed to 32,322,258 on Thursday after 36,401 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry's update. As many as 530 patients succumbed and 39,157 recovered from the viral disease in the said period, taking the cumulative count of death and recoveries to 433,049 and 31,525,080 respectively. The active cases have come down to 364,129, lowest in 149 days. Over 500 million Covid-19 tests conducted in India so farCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/5Wr4ZOpBzxThe Indian Council of Medical Research said on Thursday that over 500 million samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far in the country. Monsoon likely to revive over N-W India from todayMonsoon is likely to revive over northwest India from Thursday with widespread rain likely over Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Haryana in the next 3-4 days ,according to India Meteorological Department. Read moreCovid-19: Fewer than 10 active cases in 6 districts of MaharashtraThere are fewer than 10 active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Dhule, Washim, Yavatmal, Bhandara, Wardha and Gondia districts of Maharashtra while only seven districts, including Pune and Ahmednagar, account for most of the infections in the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his cabinet were informed on Wednesday. Read moreMaharashtra CM to inaugurate new district headquarters at PalgarhMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will on Thursday inaugurate a new administrative complex at the Palgarh district of the state. The building, set up by the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO), is touted to be the largest administrative complex not only in Maharashtra and but also across India. Read moreBrazil's Covid-19 caseload crosses 20.45 millionBrazil's caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed 20.45 million on Wednesday as 41,714 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the national ministry of health. As many as 1,064 more patients succumbed to the viral disease, taking the death toll to 571,662.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-19-2021-101629332047940.html
19-08-2021||India||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to inaugurate new district headquarters at Palghar today||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is all set on Thursday, August 19, to inaugurate a new administrative complex at Palghar. The building, set up by the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO), is touted to be the largest administrative complex not only in the state and but also in the entire country. The Maharashtra government had entrusted CIDCO with the task of accelerating the Palghar district, which was formed in 2014 after bifurcating the Thane district."CIDCO has developed the new district headquarters of Palghar over 103 hectares of land," wrote Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, the vice-chairman and managing director of the city-planning agency from his official Twitter handle on Wednesday. "This is being inaugurated tomorrow by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, along with a galaxy of luminaries..."This link would enable all of you to watch the #inaugral live, from your laptops, tabs or smartphoneshttps://t.co/wDDULiT6Jp#Palghar #Maharashtra #CIDCO #WeBuildCities @CIDCO_Ltd @CMOMaharashtraThe CIDCO vice-chairman also provided a link for everyone to watch the inaugural ceremony live from mobile devices since only the invited guests and registered media persons are allowed to physically attend the inaugural ceremony, where the chief minister will be present for the opening of the new administrative complex.According to reports, the construction for the new administrative complex at Palghar started in 2017 and was initially set to be completed by 2019, but the project kept getting delayed until it was completed in April this year. For the purpose of the new administrative complex at Kolgaon in Palghar, a 103-hectare plot was allotted to CIDCO, reports note. The complex is being built for streamlining the administration of the district; the new building will accommodate most of the government offices like that of the Zilla Parishad, the district collector, and the superintendent of police (SP), all of which earlier used to work out of rented premises.The new administrative complex in Palghar, set to be followed by two more within the next month, is reportedly a part of measures that the Maharashtra government is taking with the aim to make Palghar a commercial hub with proper industrial growth and all-round development of the tribal areas within the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-to-inaugurate-new-district-headquarters-at-palghar-today-101629330046203.html
19-08-2021||India||How region-wise contradictions are pulling Cong apart||Sushmita Dev’s exit from the Congress may be the latest entry in an exodus that began after the party lost the 2021 elections, but it is also different. Instead of joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is where most Congress leaders have gone, Dev, one of the party’s tallest leaders from Assam, has joined the All India Trinamool Congress (TMC), a party which has no base in the state, but secured a thumping victory in neighbouring West Bengal. In a way, this shows more desperation than opportunism on the part of Dev. The episode highlights the challenge facing the Congress party, which is increasingly finding it difficult to reconcile its national positions with realpolitik at the state-level.Sushmita Dev’s core support-group has been deserting the Congress graduallySushmita Dev carries the legacy of her father Santosh Mohan Dev, among the most important Bengali leaders of the Congress in Assam. It is no surprise that both father and daughter have been contestants from the Silchar Lok Sabha constituency from the Barak valley in Assam, which has a large share of Bengali-speaking population. According to the 2011 census, 81% of the region’s population is Bengali-speaking and the region has a roughly equal share of Hindus (50%) and Muslims (48%). Census data does not give break-up of mother tongue by religion.Dev’s political fortunes had been facing a squeeze, which is evident from the Congress’s vote share from 2014 onwards.This could not have happened without the Bengali Hindus – a constituency which was the bedrock of Santosh Mohan Dev’s political fortunes – deserting the Congress and moving towards the BJP. If the 2021 assembly election results are any indication, there was little probability of Dev being elected from Silchar to the Lok Sabha in the 2024 elections.Congress’s anti-CAA stance may have been the reason for alienation among Bengali HindusOpposition to the Citizenship (Amendment) Act or CAA was among the most important planks of the Congress in the Assam elections. The reason CAA is relevant in Assam is that it provides for granting of retrospective citizenship to Hindus who are found ineligible in the final list of National Register of Citizens (NRC). Enactment of the CAA, which has still not been implemented, will create a difference between Hindu and Muslim Bengalis – traditionally the outsider charge was religion agnostic in Assam – who are found ineligible in the NRC.The fact that CAA creates the legal ground for conferring citizenship on a large number of Bengali Hindus (the CAA excludes Muslims from this benefit) found ineligible in the NRC has drawn criticism from sections of the indigenous Assamese population. The Congress, when it allied with the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) – a party with its main support base among Bengali Muslims – and adopted a vocal anti-CAA stance, was looking to build an alliance of Muslims and Assamese Hindus. One constituency which it risked alienating by this decision were the Bengali Hindus. The CSDS-Lokniti post-poll survey shows that Bengali Hindus and Muslims had very different attitudes to CAA.If the CSDS-Lokniti post-poll numbers are any indication, neither Assamese nor Bengali Hindus voted for the Congress-AIUDF alliance in greater numbers in the latest elections. Leaders who have been leaving the Congress after the elections are from these communities.Congress erred on the other side in Kerala polls…If Assam is an example of the Congress losing out because of mechanically championing a national-level issue (liberal opposition to CAA) at the state level, the recent Kerala elections offer a completely opposite example. The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) seems to have overinvested in the Sabarimala issue which led to the rout of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. With the Supreme Court effectively staying its decision to allow women of all ages to enter Sabarimala in November 2019 and the LDF government using this tactical route to bail itself out of the problem, the Sabarimala issue lost its political relevance. This can be clearly seen from the rise in share of LDF voters even among those who were opposed to the Sabarimala judgment....which may have cost it minority votes in Kerala﻿While the Congress was banking on the Sabarimala issue to get Hindu support, exactly what the BJP has been doing, it seemed to have erred on norms of secular propriety in attacking the CPI(M) in the state.“They (Left) do same division that BJP does, they spread same hatred. It’s interesting to me, the PM spends every single day saying ‘Congressmukt Bharat’, I have never heard him say ‘CPM Left Front Mukt Bharat or Kerala,” Rahul Gandhi said on April 4, while campaigning in Thiruvananthapuram.While both Christians and Muslims have voted in greater numbers for the Congress than the CPI(M) in Kerala, it does not mean that the state’s religious minorities would be comfortable with the idea of the BJP destroying the Left, something Gandhi suggested when he made this statement. It is no wonder that the LDF made significant gains among religious minorities at the cost of the UDF in the Kerala elections.To be sure, balancing regional and national issues is not an easy task. It is even more difficult when a party is not in power, limiting its ability to placate various sections both within and outside its fold. What is also true, however, is the fact that the current Congress leadership has no option but to learn to manage these contradictions better, failing which the grand old party will continue to atrophy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-region-wise-contradictions-are-pulling-cong-apart-101629326866202.html
19-08-2021||India||Cabinet nod to pact on cutting down of HFCs||The Union Cabinet has approved the ratification of Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, the ministry of environment said in a press statement on Wednesday.The Kigali Amendment aims to phase-down hydrofluorocarbons(HFCs) by curbing both their production and consumption. Though HFCs don’t impact the ozone layer, they are powerful greenhouse gases. HFCs are used as replacements for hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) and chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), which are ozone-depleting gases.“With the Kigali Amendment, the Montreal Protocol will be an even more powerful instrument against global warming,” says the United Nations Industrial Development Organization. The amendment aims to achieve over 80% reduction in HFC consumption by 2047, which will curb a global increase of temperature by up to 0.5 degrees Celsius by the end of the century.According to a statement by the environment ministry on HFC phasedown, a national strategy will be developed after consultations with all stakeholders by 2023. Amendments to the existing legislation framework, the Ozone Depleting Substances (Regulation and Control) Rules to allow appropriate control of the production and consumption of HFCs to ensure compliance with the Kigali Amendment will be done by mid-2024.Following a massive growth in the use of HFCs, especially in the refrigeration and air-conditioning sector, the parties to the Montreal Protocol reached an agreement at their 28th meeting of the parties in October 2016 in Kigali, Rwanda, to add HFCs to the list of controlled substances and approved a timeline for their gradual reduction by 80-85% by the late 2040s. India will complete its phase-down in four steps with a cumulative reduction of 10% in 2032, 20% in 2037, 30% in 2042 and 80% in 2047, as per a statement by the ministry.The industry producing and consuming HFCs will be phasing them out as agreed and transition to non-HFC and low global warming potential technologies.“The success of the Montreal Protocol is a role model for multilateral action on climate change. It shows clear targets and policies by the government can prompt industry to switch technologies,” said Ulka Kelkar, director of climate programme at World Resources Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-nod-to-pact-on-cutting-down-of-hfcs-101629318728553.html
19-08-2021||India||Govt puts ₹30k-cr pvt trains’ tender on hold||The railway ministry has decided to put on hold the tender for running 151 private trains along 109 major routes with an estimated investment of ₹30,000 crore and will revaluate the process mainly due to tepid response from private firms, according to officials aware of the development.“The tender for the private trains has been put on hold and the entire process will be re-evaluated due to lower participation from private firms. Railways will issue a fresh tender,” a senior ministry official said on condition of anonymity.Of the 12 clusters put up for bidding, only three received any bids at all, the official added.An India Railways spokesperson would only say that “the evaluation process is on”.The national carrier, on July 1, 2020, began the formal process of allowing private trains on 109 routes — a process that aimed to, for the first time, open up one of the government’s most prominent enterprises to private participation. However, only two bidders, the Indian Railway Catering & Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) and Megha Engineering & Infrastructures evinced interest in the financial bidding stage. IRCTC, majority-owned by government, was touted to get the contract after quoting a higher revenue share figure. This, officials said, raised questions on the purpose of running trains via private firms.According to the ministry, the planned investment was estimated around ₹30,000 crore, and a majority of the rakes (70%) required will have to be manufactured in India; private entities cleared to run the train services shall be responsible for financing, procuring, operating and maintaining the trains. Winning bidders were to be provided a concession period of 35 years.The first dozen private trains were due to start running in the 2023-24 financial year and all 151 were to be operational by 2027. According to the railway ministry’s projections, the transporter was supposed to select companies by April . The schedule for operations was: the first 12 by 2023-24; 45 more in FY 2024-25; the next 50 in FY 2025-26; and the last 44 by 2026-27.The ministry last year issued what is known as a request for qualification (RFQ) for private companies to run 151 trains spread over these routes, laying down specific conditions that will need to be met in a move that it hoped would “introduce modern technologies and world class services”.Of the 12 clusters across Indian Railways’s network where the plan was to be put in motion, there are two clusters each in Delhi and Mumbai, and one cluster each in Secunderabad, Chennai, Howrah, Jaipur, Prayagraj, Chandigarh, Bengaluru, and Patna.In October last year, the Indian Railways received a total of 120 applications from 15 firms including L&T, GMR and Welspun in response to its Request for Quotation.The firms which made the applications for the clusters included Arvind Aviation, BHEL, Construcciones y Auxiliar de Ferrocarrriles, S.A, Cube Highways and Infrastructure III Pvt Ltd and Gateway Rail Freight Limited among others||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-puts-30k-cr-pvt-trains-tender-on-hold-101629317826460.html
19-08-2021||India||SC publishes 9 names shortlisted by collegium for appointments||The Supreme Court administration on Wednesday evening published the nine names recommended by the collegium for appointment in the apex court.As reported by HT on Wednesday morning, these nine names include justice BV Nagarathna from the Karnataka high court (HC), who, if elevated now, could become the first woman Chief Justice of India in 2027. She is the daughter of former CJI Engalaguppe Seetharamiah Venkataramiah, and will become the CJI in September 2027 for little over a month after her appointment.A one-page statement, published on the Supreme Court website, has listed out the nine names shortlisted by the collegium in the meeting held on Tuesday evening. HT reported the nine names.Besides justice Nagarathna, those recommended included justices Abhay Shreeniwas Oka (CJ of Karnataka HC), Vikram Nath (CJ of Gujarat HC), Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari (CJ of Sikkim HC), Hima Kohli (CJ of Telangana HC), CT Ravikumar (judge in Kerala HC), MM Sundresh (judge in Madras HC) and PS Narasimha (senior advocate and former additional solicitor general).According to people familiar with the development, the Union law ministry is yet to receive files from the Supreme Court on the recommendations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-publishes-9-names-shortlisted-by-collegium-for-appointments-101629317289594.html
19-08-2021||India||ICMR study in Chennai shows Delta variant infects both vaccinated, unvaccinated||An Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) study conducted in Chennai has found that the Delta variant of the Covid-19 virus has the potential to infect both vaccinated and unvaccinated people, but it reduces mortality among the former group.The study was approved by the Institutional Ethics Committee of ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai and published in the Journal of Infection on August 17.The study findings indicate that the prevalence of the Delta variant or B.1.617.2 was not different between the vaccinated and unvaccinated groups. The high transmissible Delta variant is the dominant strain circulating across the world and is one of the primary drivers for the second wave of SARS-CoV-2 in India.The report quoted other studies that have documented a reduction in neutralisation titres among Covishield and Covaxin vaccine recipients after infection with the Delta variant. “This might be the reason for the breakthrough infections observed in the fully vaccinated individuals,” the published paper said.Jeromie Thangaraj, a scientist at the National Institute of Epidemiology who was involved in the study said that since the sample size was low, they did not include re-infections as it was very few and have not further classified whether those who were infected post-vaccination had taken Covishield or Covaxin. “But the proportion of patients progressing to severe illness and mortality was lower in the vaccinated group which is the case globally,” said Jeromie.The proportion of patients with moderate and severe illness was significantly lower in the fully vaccinated group than in the unvaccinated group. “No deaths were reported in the fully vaccinated group, whereas three partially vaccinated (patients) and seven unvaccinated patients died,” the report said.After completing the study in May, the data was shared with Tamil Nadu’s health department. The report suggested that non-pharmaceutical interventions must continue to slow down the transmission combined with speedy vaccination coverage.Chennai was one of the worst affected cities during the second wave of Covid-19 in India with nearly 6000 cases reported daily during the first three weeks of May 2021, despite a high seroprevalence of around 45% estimated during October-November 2020. The study group selected patients from three triaging centres in the city.Of the 3,790 people who visited the triage centres between the first week of May, 373 reported receiving at least one dose of vaccine 14 days prior to their Covid-19 positive diagnosis. The remaining 3,417 were unvaccinated. The study enrolled 354 (94.9%) of the 373 in the vaccinated group. Of this 241 people had taken one dose or were partially vaccinated and 113 had taken two doses or were fully vaccinated. As many as 185 (5.4%) of the 3417 unvaccinated individuals were included in the study. The median age of the individuals who were unvaccinated, partially vaccinated and fully vaccinated were 47 years, 53 years and 54 years respectively.After retrieving genomic sequences from 414 of the 539 samples it was found that the delta variant was the predominant variant of concern in Chennai. About 72.4% in the unvaccinated group and 68% and 74% among the partially and fully vaccinated groups were found. Among the fully vaccinated, a majority that is 85% had IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 whereas 63.9% were partially vaccinated and 14.6% in the unvaccinated group were seropositive. “We also found the delta plus variant in five participants,” said Thangaraj. One out of the five infected with delta plus (AY.1) required hospitalisation with oxygen support but the rest had mild disease.Dr K Kolandaswamy, the former director of the directorate of public health in Tamil Nadu said that the objective for vaccination is threefold prevention: from infection, from the severity of disease and mortality.“The study isn’t able to measure how much prevention from infection has been achieved but it does clearly indicate that the other two objectives are working,” Kolandaswamy said.“And it shows with evidence what we have been repeatedly saying that no matter what variant is in transmission, we have to continue with Covid-19 appropriate behaviour like masking, hand washing social distancing and increase vaccine coverage,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-study-in-chennai-shows-delta-variant-infects-both-vaccinated-unvaccinated-people-101629315163336.html
19-08-2021||India||Babulal Marandi’s aide booked for rape: Police||RANCHI: The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) on Wednesday exchanged barbs after Ranchi police booked a close aide of BJP legislator Babulal Marandi for allegedly raping his domestic help at his home last year.While Marandi said the case against his political advisor Sunil Tiwari was a result of political vendetta and demanded probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said the former chief minister should not deliver verdicts even before the police complete their probe.A case has been filed against Tiwari at Argora police station in Ranchi on the complaint of a 20-year-old woman, who has accused him of rape, physical assault and threat to life, police said, adding that sections of SC/ST Atrocities Prevention Act have also been invoked.According to the FIR, the incident took place between March and September last year and the complaint was filed on August 16, 2021.“I demand an independent probe in this case, be it by CBI or judicial probe headed by a High Court justice. We will also take up this issue with the Governor once he returns from New Delhi,” Marandi said.Marandi alleged that Tiwari was framed as he became an intervener in a rape case against chief minister Hemant Soren. The case against Soren is likely to come up for hearing next week.“The case has a long background as it started in December 2020 when a girl filed a petition in the Bombay high court regarding her previous complaint of rape charges against the CM. Later, she posted a video on social media claiming she was facing life threat from me, Sunil Tiwari, Nishikant Dubey (BJP MP) and one other person from Mumbai whom I don’t know. That is when I had asked him (Sunil Tiwari) to become an intervener in that case and later also to file a writ petition in the Supreme Court, demanding CBI probe in that case,” Marandi told reporters on Wednesday.The BJP legislator added that he had then written to the Maharashtra DGP and Mumbai police commissioner to conduct a probe and provide security to the woman.Bhattacharya, however, said the rape allegation against Soren was fabricated and a defamation case has been filed with a lower court in Ranchi.“Ever since he has joined back the BJP, he has been issuing certificates well before the police complete their investigation. It seems he has taken annular maintenance contract of defending wrong elements in the BJP. He is a former chief minister and has considerable influence. He should not create un necessary pressure on police when probe is still on, especially in cases related to tribal girls who are often exploited due to their vulnerability,” said Bhattacharya.Tiwari said he was being framed by the Soren government as he has filed a writ petition against the chief minister.“I have filed a writ petition in Supreme Court in the rape allegation against chief minister Hemant Soren by a Mumbai girl, seeking CBI investigation in the incident. The case is to come up for hearing on August 23. The case against me is a result of that. I had written to the chief secretary, home secretary, Ranchi police as well as government of India on June 19 itself seeking protection. I had clearly mentioned in the letter that I was getting threats from different quarters threatening not to pursue the case,” said Tiwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babulal-marandi-s-aide-booked-for-rape-police-101629313899659.html
19-08-2021||India||‘Peacekeeping must be anchored in strong ecosystem of technology, innovation’: EAM at UNSC debate||The United Nations Security Council on Wednesday unanimously adopted a resolution on ensuring accountability for crimes against UN peacekeepers for the first time during a meeting held under the Indian presidency.The resolution, adopted at an open debate chaired by external affairs minister S Jaishankar, calls for prevention, investigation and prosecution to bring to justice perpetrators of crimes against UN peacekeepers. It was initiated by India in the Security Council earlier this year and co-sponsored by all 15 permanent and non-permanent members of the body.The Security Council also adopted the first technology-related presidential statement on peacekeeping — “Technology for Peacekeeping” — which called for recognising that “technology has the potential to act as a force multiplier”.India, which holds the rotating presidency of the Security Council for August, is one of the largest troop contributors for UN peacekeeping missions. It has provided more than 250,000 personnel for 49 missions over the decades, and 174 of its troops have died during these deployments. Currently, more than 5,000 Indian personnel are deployed in nine missions.The open debate with the theme “Protecting the protectors” was one of three signature events being hosted by India as part of its presidency of the Security Council. Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a virtual open debate on global cooperation for maritime security on August 9, while Jaishankar will chair a briefing on counter-terrorism on August 19 that is expected to discuss the situation in Afghanistan following the takeover of the country by the Taliban.Jaishankar told the meeting that UN peacekeeping operations “must be anchored in a strong ecosystem of technology and innovation” to adapt to changing conflict dynamics. He proposed a four-point framework that lays out an architecture for securing UN peacekeepers from contemporary threats. This framework, Jaishankar said, should focus on technologies that are “operationally proven, cost-effective, widely available, reliable and field-serviceable”. It should establish a sound information and intelligence foundation for ensuring early warning and mobilising a coherent and early response.The framework should ensure regular technological improvements that are readily available in gear, weapons and tools for peacekeepers, and there should be attention and investment to consistent training and capacity building of peacekeepers in the field of technology, he added.In this regard, Jaishankar said, India is backing the UN in rolling out the “UNITE Aware” platform in selected peacekeeping missions. “This initiative is based on the expectation that an entire peacekeeping operation can be visualised, coordinated and monitored on a real-time basis. We should ensure that any attack on a peacekeeper or a civilian is predictable, preventable or responded to immediately,” he said.India contributed $1.64 million for the UNITE Aware platform that is being used by four peacekeeping missions in Somalia, South Sudan, Mali and Cyprus. The platform is a situational awareness software programme that uses modern surveillance technology and provides real-time threat assessment to improve the overall security of UN peacekeepers.The platform records data on critical incidents and events and tracks daily operational activities. It also provides access to live video and satellite imagery and early warnings in a volatile environment.The first presidential statement in the Security Council focused on using technology to help peacekeepers. It also encourages the use of modern technology to improve the performance, safety and security of peacekeepers operating in increasingly complex and risky environments.As part of India’s initiatives for the training and capacity building of peacekeepers in the realm of technology, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between India and UN to support the “Partnership for Technology in Peacekeeping” initiative and the UN Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) Academy for Peace Operations based in Entebbe, Uganda.Jaishankar said 21st-century peacekeeping “must be anchored in a strong ecosystem of technology and innovation” that can facilitate missions to implement their mandates in complex environments. “After all, it helps them to adapt to changing conflict dynamics and take advantage of increased efficiencies. This is also in line with the Strategy for Digital Transformation of UN peacekeeping which seeks to advance the use of technology across the Action for Peacekeeping themes, including performance, safety and security, politics, protection and peace-building,” he said.UN Secretary-General António Guterres said digital tools, such as long-range cameras, unmanned aerial vehicles and ground surveillance radars, help peacekeepers protect civilians and themselves. However, new technologies also pose profound threats, reflected by the online proliferation of violent extremist ideologies, cyber-attacks and deadly vaccine misinformation.“Anonymous actors are able to target critical infrastructure such as power stations, hospitals, government facilities and the IT systems crucial to running our societies,” he said. “We are also seeing the increased use of autonomous weapon systems. On this rapidly emerging issue, governments must work together to ensure that sufficient human control and judgement is retained in the use of force.”Before the debate, Jaishankar participated in a ceremony held at the UN Peacekeepers Memorial that was also attended by Guterres and all council members. The event was held to pay tribute to UN peacekeepers who sacrificed their lives in the line of duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peacekeeping-must-be-anchored-in-strong-ecosystem-of-technology-innovation-eam-at-unsc-debate-101629313721725.html
19-08-2021||India||Odisha: 13-year-old dies as boulder he sat on for online class rolls down||A 13-year-old tribal student in Odisha’s backward Rayagada block died when the boulder he was sitting on to attend his online classes rolled down on Tuesday evening, police said.Officials said Andrea Jagaranga(13) of Kandhapendaraguda village in Padmapur block of Rayagada district had gone to the nearby hill with his friends to attend online class due to poor network connectivity in the village.Police sub-inspector of Padmapur police station, Hiren Bhati, said Jagaranga was attending his class sitting on a big boulder at around 5 p.m. yesterday when it suddenly started rolling down following heavy rain. “The boy then hit a tree stump which tore through his right leg, critically injuring him. The boy was first admitted to a local hospital. But he died while being shifted to MKCG Medical College and Hospital in Berhampur town,” said Bhati.Jagaranga was a student of Cuttack Missionary School , but was back at his village after physical classes were suspended due to Covid-19. Like other students in the locality with poor connectivity he used to climb a hill near the village to attend online classes.Jagaranga’s father, Narahari Jagaranga, said his son was forced to climb the hill in search of mobile signal.Students in rural area of Odisha have been at the receiving end of a digital divide. As per Odisha Economic Survey, 2018-19, report, more than 20% of the 51,311 villages in the state did not have mobile phone connectivity. And internet penetration in the state is 28.22% compared to the national average of 38.02. The school and mass education department of the state admitted that online education did not reach at least a third of 6 million school students last year.In Koraput district, students have been forced to access mobile networks from towers in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh by sitting on roads, while in Sundargarh district, they cross into Jharkhand border. Last month, Kavita Nisika, a Kondh tribal girl in Rayagada, rented a one-room house on rent in the district headquarters, so as to get on the grid.The Odisha government has been live-streaming lessons for Classes 1 to 10 on YouTube and now plans to start online classes for higher secondary students through YouTube.Last month, the Odisha state commission for protection of child rights asked the district administration of Kandhamal, Kalahandi, Koraput, Nabarangpur and Rayagada to ensure mobile connectivity for students to take online classes.“Students are facing immense problem in tribal-dominated areas due to poor mobile connectivity. Children are preparing for different entrance exams and are heavily dependent on online classes. They often trek to nearby hills or climb trees to access mobile network. In the Covid-19 scenario, with schools closed, children are struggling for good education. But in this case, they can’t as mobile network has come up as an issue which is affecting online classes in districts,” the commission wrote to the collectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-13-year-old-dies-as-boulder-he-sat-on-for-online-class-rolls-down-101629313722133.html
19-08-2021||India||Cabinet nod to Kigali Amendment on cutting down of HFCs||New Delhi: The Union Cabinet has approved the ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, the ministry of environment said in a press statement on Wednesday. The Kigali Amendment aims to phase-down hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) by curbing both their production and consumption. Though HFCs do not impact the ozone layer, they are powerful greenhouse gases. HFCs are currently used as replacements for hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) and chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), which were ozone-depleting gases. “With the Kigali Amendment, the Montreal Protocol will be an even more powerful instrument against global warming,” says the United Nations Industrial Development Organization. The goal of the amendment is to achieve over 80% reduction in HFC consumption by 2047, which will curb a global increase of temperature by up to 0.5 degrees Celsius by the end of the century. According to a statement by the environment ministry on HFC phasedown, a national strategy will be developed after consultations with all industry stakeholders by 2023. Amendments to the existing legislation framework, the Ozone Depleting Substances (Regulation and Control) Rules to allow appropriate control of the production and consumption of HFCs to ensure compliance with the Kigali Amendment will be done by mid-2024. Following a massive growth in the use of HFCs, especially in the refrigeration and air-conditioning sector the, parties to the Montreal Protocol reached an agreement at their 28th Meeting of the Parties (MOP) held in October 2016 in Kigali, Rwanda, to add HFCs to the list of controlled substances and approved a timeline for their gradual reduction by 80-85% by the late 2040s. India will complete its phase-down in four steps from 2032 onwards with a cumulative reduction of 10% in 2032, 20% in 2037, 30% in 2042 and 80% in 2047, according to a statement by the ministry. The industry producing and consuming HFCs will be phasing them out as agreed and transition to non-HFC and low global warming potential technologies. “HFCs are entirely man-made. They are primarily produced for use in refrigeration, air-conditioning, insulating foams and aerosol propellants, with minor uses as solvents and for fire protection. Most HFCs are contained within equipment, so emissions are the result of wear, faulty maintenance, or leakage at the end of a product’s lifetime,” according to Climate and Clean Air Coalition of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). The Montreal Protocol (1987) is one of the world’s most successful environmental treaties, and since its adoption, it has encouraged countries to commit to phasing out the production and consumption of ozone-depleting substances, according to the UNEP. The Protocol has been successful in reducing ozone-depleting substances and reactive chlorine and bromine in the stratosphere. As a result, the ozone layer is showing the first signs of recovery, UNEP has said. “The success of the Montreal Protocol is a role model for multilateral action on climate change. It shows that clear targets and policies by the government can prompt industry to switch technologies,” said Ulka Kelkar, director of climate programme at World Resources Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-nod-to-kigali-amendment-on-cutting-down-of-hfcs-101629313539647.html
19-08-2021||India||Pegasus row: SC to hear plea against Bengal’s probe move||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to examine a petition for disbanding the two-member Commission of Inquiry, headed by retired judge Madan B Lokur, that has been set up by the West Bengal government to probe into the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens using Israeli Pegasus spyware.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, issued notices to the Centre and the West Bengal government, seeking their response to the plea which has sought quashing of the state government’s July 27 notification appointing the commission.The bench, which also included justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, said that the interim plea for suspending the proceedings of the commission will be considered on August 25, when the petition by NGO Global Village Foundation Public Charitable Trust will be heard next.Representing the NGO, advocate Saurabh Mishra pointed out that since the bench, in a clutch of other petitions, is already contemplating an expert committee to examine all aspects of the Pegasus controversy, the proceedings before justice Lokur’s commission ought to be stayed to avoid any parallel inquiry.“We will see. It is just a preliminary exercise. We will examine this on the next date,” responded the bench.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union government, said he will be assisting the court on issues of constitutionality and legality of the subject involved.The Mamata Banerjee-led government recently set up the two-member commission, comprising justice Lokur and former acting chief justice of the Calcutta high court Jyotirmay Bhattacharya, to inquire into the snooping row.The NGO, in its petition, has said the Pegasus controversy has cross-border ramifications with footprints in India, and hence must be dealt with from a national perspective. “Considering the seriousness of the issue and its implications on the citizenry of the country as well as its cross-border implications, the Pegasus controversy warrants an in-depth investigation. This cannot be carried out in a truncated and unconstitutional manner as is sought to be done by the West Bengal government,” it added.The Supreme Court is already seized of a bunch of petitions filed by politicians, journalists and activists, demanding a court-monitored independent probe into the alleged surveillance using Pegasus. Responding to these petitions, the Union government has offered setting up an expert committee to look into the row while maintaining that a “false narrative” is being spun over the use of Pegasus. The Centre has, however, refused to disclose whether it used Pegasus for tracking individuals, citing concerns of national security and defence of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-row-sc-to-hear-plea-against-bengal-s-probe-move-101629313481281.html
19-08-2021||India||State govt appoints IAS officer for safe return of residents from Afghanistan||The Karnataka government on Wednesday appointed a senior IPS official as nodal officer to coordinate with the Centre to bring back residents of the state from Afghanistan. “As there is a conflict situation in Afghanistan, to bring back Indians stranded there, the central government has already started a helpline. To coordinate with the central government and bring back Kannadigas safely from there, Umesh Kumar, IPS, additional director general of police CID, Bengaluru, has been appointed as nodal officer,” an official notification said on Wednesday. The government also released helpline numbers for people to contact if they require assistance. According to the government order, people can send in their information at 080-22094498, 080-22942628, 9480800187 or afghan_kar@ksp.gov.in. India on Tuesday had brought back home the Indian ambassador and its staff at the embassy in Kabul in a military transport aircraft in view of the deteriorating security situation in the Afghan capital, two days after its takeover by the Taliban. Earlier on Wednesday, state home minister Araga Jnanendra said there are 339 Afghans in Karnataka. Out of them 192 are students, and the Basavaraj Bommai administration will talk to the Centre on renewing their visas and will provide them protection. Talking to media, Jnanendra said that the government is extending all necessary assistance to the Afghan students studying in the state and to take steps to address their grievances following the political developments in their country. “The state government will extend all help to those of the students from Afghanistan, studying in Karnataka, in addressing their grievances arising out of the strife, if any, in their nation,” Jnanendra told reporters here. He noted that there are about 300 Afghan nationals, including students presently residing in the state. “The state government will interact with the Union government relating to any issues on extending visa of the Afghan students residing in Karnataka”, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-govt-appoints-ias-officer-for-safe-return-of-residents-from-afghanistan-101629313420399.html
19-08-2021||India||Govt puts ₹30,000-crore private trains’ tender on hold||New Delhi: The railway ministry has decided to put on hold the tender for running 151 private trains along 109 major routes with an estimated investment of ₹30,000 crore and will revaluate the process mainly due to tepid response from private firms, according to officials aware of the development.“The tender for the private trains has been put on hold and the entire process will be re-evaluated due to lower participation from private firms. Railways will issue a fresh tender,” a senior ministry official said on condition of anonymity.Of the 12 clusters put up for bidding, only three received any bids at all, the official added. An India Railways spokesperson would only say that “the evaluation process is on”.The national carrier, on July 1, 2020, began the formal process of allowing private trains on 109 routes — a process that aimed to, for the first time, open up one of the government’s most prominent enterprises to private participation. However, only two bidders, the Indian Railway Catering & Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) and Megha Engineering & Infrastructures evinced interest in the financial bidding stage. IRCTC, majority-owned by government, was touted to get the contract after quoting a higher revenue share figure. This, officials said, raised questions on the purpose of running trains via private firms.According to the ministry, the planned investment was estimated around ₹30,000 crore, and a majority of the rakes (70%) required will have to be manufactured in India; private entities cleared to run the train services shall be responsible for financing, procuring, operating and maintaining the trains. Winning bidders were to be provided a concession period of 35 years.The first dozen private trains were due to start running in the 2023-24 financial year and all 151 were to be operational by 2027. According to the railway ministry’s projections, the transporter was supposed to select companies by April . The schedule for operations was: the first 12 by 2023-24; 45 more in FY 2024-25; the next 50 in FY 2025-26; and the last 44 by 2026-27.The ministry last year issued what is known as a request for qualification (RFQ) for private companies to run 151 trains spread over these routes, laying down specific conditions that will need to be met in a move that it hoped would “introduce modern technologies and world class services”.Of the 12 clusters across Indian Railways’s network where the plan was to be put in motion, there are two clusters each in Delhi and Mumbai, and one cluster each in Secunderabad, Chennai, Howrah, Jaipur, Prayagraj, Chandigarh, Bengaluru, and Patna.In October last year, the Indian Railways received a total of 120 applications from 15 firms including L&T, GMR and Welspun in response to its Request for Quotation.The firms which made the applications for the clusters included Arvind Aviation, BHEL, Construcciones y Auxiliar de Ferrocarrriles, S.A, Cube Highways and Infrastructure III Pvt Ltd, Gateway Rail Freight Limited, GMR Highways Limited, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited, IRB Infrastructure Developers Limited, L&T Infrastructure Development Projects Limited, Malempati Power Private Limited, Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Limited, PNC Infratech Ltd, RK Associates and Hoteliers Pvt Ltd, and Sainath Sales and Services Pvt Ltd and Welspun Enterprises Limited. Overall, 14 Indian firms and one Spanish firm had evinced interest in the beginning to run private trains in India. But all but two dropped out by the financial bids stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-puts-30-000-crore-private-trains-tender-on-hold-101629313361442.html
19-08-2021||India||Parliament meant for discussions, not disruptions: Naidu||Expressing anguish over disruptions in Parliament, vice president Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday said that assemblies and Parliaments are meant for discussions, debates and not for disruptions.Naidu was in Bengaluru on Wednesday to present the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry’s (FKCCI) Sir M Visvesvaraya Memorial Award to Dr M R Jayaram, Chairman GEF and Ramaiah Group of Institutions.“You might have seen some time back, what happened in Parliament, a lot of youngsters called me and told me, Sir! you are the vice president of India, why are you so sad? I said I’m sad because of the bad behaviour of some people and the new low the Parliament had gone,” Naidu said.He was referring to the commotion and ruckus which took place in the Rajya Sabha in the just concluded session of the Parliament.He reminded elected representatives that they should focus on improving the standards of living of the people “by rising to the need of the occasion”.Naidu said that there were similar ruckus and commotion in the state legislatures too, including Karnataka and added that the elected representatives should improve their contribution by caliber, character, capacity and conduct.“You (elected representatives) are the role model for the people, if you behave like this then what is the inspiration the people and the youngsters will get?” Naidu said.He added that these platforms are not meant to be disrupted which goes against the cause of the country.“There may be some tension, but you must pay attention,” Naidu said.The vice president also hinted at taking action against the perpetrators involved in the ruckus in Rajya Sabha.“I can take action, if necessary I will take also, but the point is people of the country when they see such things on TV, they will become sad.”He said that protest and dissent is a right in a democracy but to agree or disagree cannot be enforced with physical force.He said that in a democracy the majority should be respected and that they should also take the minority (parties) along.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-meant-for-discussions-not-disruptions-naidu-101629313301928.html
19-08-2021||India||Justice Navin Sinha stresses on need to train young lawyers||Justice Navin Sinha on Wednesday emphasised on the quality training of young lawyers as he retired from the Supreme Court after a tenure of four-and-half years.“Today’s lawyers will be tomorrow’s judges… They (young lawyers) must be taught manners and demeanour of a lawyer. When the lawyer appears, a judge should be able to trust him,” justice Sinha said in his farewell address.“Humility lies in recognising one’s own shortcoming and addressing it. In today’s time, when competition is stiff and laws are tough, I believe the younger generation of lawyers need to be trained,” he added as he urged the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) to train the young lawyers.Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, who also addressed the event, said that judges must make a conscious effort to keep aside their biases and prejudices while delivering judgments and must not be swayed by external pressures.“We often carry our individual baggage of biases and prejudices which can unconsciously affect the decision-making process. Our social conditions, upbringing and life experiences often colour our opinions and notions. But, when we adorn the robe of a judge, we must make a conscious effort to cast aside our biases and prejudices. After all, equality, objectivity and even-handedness form crucial aspects of fairness,” he said.Justice Sinha is the grandson of first advocate general of Bihar, Babu Baldev Sahay. He practised before the Patna High Court for 23 years and was appointed as a permanent judge there on February 11, 2004. He was the chief Justice of high courts of Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan before being elevated as a judge of the apex court.In the apex court, he was part of several important judgments, including the landmark verdict in January 2019 upholding the constitutional validity of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code in its entirety.He was a part of the bench which, in 2020, held that the right to default bail on account of delay in filing chargesheet is not a mere statutory right but is part of the procedure established by law under Article 21 (right to life and liberty).He was also a part of a bench that ruled that “courts are guardians of the rights and liberties of the citizen and they shall fail in their responsibility if they abdicate their solemn duty towards the citizens.”In a 2018 judgment, justice Sinha had held: “A criminal trial is but a quest for truth. The nature of inquiry and evidence required will depend on the facts of each case. The presumption of innocence will have to be balanced with the rights of the victim, and above all the societal interest for preservation of the rule of law. Neither the accused nor the victim can be permitted to subvert a criminal trial by stating falsehood and resort to contrivances, so as to make it the theatre of the absurd.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-navin-sinha-stresses-on-need-to-train-young-lawyers-101629313179636.html
19-08-2021||India||2 elephants run over by train, herd blocks tracks in U’khand||Rudrapur: An elephant herd blocked rail traffic in Udham Singh Nagar district on Wednesday after two pachyderms — a female and its male offspring — were run over by a train on the Lalkuan-Kashipur route in the morning. The area falls within the Peepal Parao forest range. While the railway authorities had to arrange for buses to send passengers to their destination, forest officials had to wait for the enraged herd to calm down before driving them back to the forest. “We rushed to the spot and saw an adult and a baby elephant lying dead on the railway tracks. The elephant herd there was very angry. We waited for a while and then drove them away from the tracks,” said Harish Pandey, ranger, Peepal Parao forest range under Terai-Central Forest division in Kumaon. Pandey said the train was on its way to Ramnagar from Lalkuan around 5am on Wednesday. “When it reached the Peepal Parao forest range, 4km away from the SIDCUL halt, a herd of elephants was crossing the track. The speeding train hit both elephants and they died on the spot. After this, the rest of the elephants in the herd surrounded the carcasses, resulting in a blockade of rail traffic”, he said. Railway officials brought the train back to the SIDCUL halt and arranged for buses to Bazpur, Kashipur, and Ramnagar to send the passengers to their destinations and also halted the Kashipur-Kasganj train heading towards Lalkuan at Gularbhoj and sent it back to Kashipur. Some other trains were also cancelled on this route until noon. “The female elephant was around 40 years old while her baby was two to three months old. We informed our seniors and removed the carcasses from the tracks,” said Pandey. Pandey said the forest department would write to the railway authorities, asking them to drive trains at slower speeds in the forested stretch to avoid these incidents in the future. AG Ansari, a Kumaon-based wildlife activist, blamed “human error” for the incident. “An early warning system is needed to avoid such incidents in the future. The forest department should take the initiative in this regard and the railways, too, should control the speed of the trains.” There have been several such incidents in the past in Uttarakhand, especially in the state’s Tarai area. In July 2020, a three-year-old elephant was killed in Nakraunda area of the Dehradun forest division when struck by a moving train. In November last year, a 35-year-old female elephant was killed while in May 2018, a five-year-old female elephant died on the Lalkuan-Bareilly railway line in Nainital district. In March 2018 an elephant had died in a similar incident near the Nagla bypass on the Lalkuan-Bareilly railway line while in April 2017 two elephant calves were killed near Haldi railway station in Kumaon. The state has recorded a 29.9% increase in elephant numbers since 2015, and an elephant census held last year estimated the total elephant population in the state to be 2,026.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-elephants-run-over-by-train-herd-blocks-tracks-in-ukhand-101629313120760.html
19-08-2021||India||SC publishes 9 names shortlisted by collegium for appointments to apex court||New Delhi The Supreme Court administration on Wednesday evening published the nine names recommended by the collegium for appointment in the apex court. As reported by HT on Wednesday morning, these nine names include justice BV Nagarathna from the Karnataka high court (HC), who, if elevated now, could become the first woman Chief Justice of India in 2027. She is the daughter of former CJI Engalaguppe Seetharamiah Venkataramiah, and will become the CJI in September 2027 for little over a month after her appointment.A one-page statement, published on the Supreme Court website, has listed out the nine names shortlisted by the collegium in the meeting held on Tuesday evening. HT reported the nine names.Apart from justice Nagarathna, those recommended included justices Abhay Shreeniwas Oka (chief justice of Karnataka HC), Vikram Nath (chief justice of Gujarat HC), Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari (chief justice of Sikkim HC), Hima Kohli (chief justice of Telangana HC), CT Ravikumar (judge in Kerala HC), MM Sundresh (judge in Madras HC) and PS Narasimha (senior advocate and former additional solicitor general). According to people familiar with the development, the Union law ministry is yet to receive files from the Supreme Court on the recommendations. The ministry has the option of sending the recommendations back to the collegium for review, but if the collegium resubmits them, it has to approve the names. The collegium in the Supreme Court comprised CJI NV Ramana, and justices Uday U Lalit, AM Khanwilkar, Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao. It was the first collegium in the last 21 months when the five most senior judges could arrive at a consensus in forwarding names to the Union government for appointments in the top court. Since the retirement of Justice Ranjan Gogoi as the CJI in November 2019, the collegium had not sent a single recommendation for appointments in the top court, which currently has nine vacancies after justice Rohinton F Nariman’s exit on August 12. Additionally, justice Navin Sinha retired on Wednesday, leaving the Supreme Court with 10 vacancies out of 34. Out of these 10 vacancies, names for nine vacancies have now been recommended by the collegium. The Supreme Court currently has only one woman judge, justice Indira Banerjee, who is set to retire in September 2022. Senior advocate Narasimha, if appointed, will be only the ninth lawyer ever to be appointed directly from the bar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-publishes-9-names-shortlisted-by-collegium-for-appointments-to-apex-court-101629313120261.html
19-08-2021||India||Assemblies, Parliament meant for debates, not disruptions, says V-P||Vice-president Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday said that assemblies and Parliament are meant for discussions and debates, and not for disruptions.While referring to the recent torrid monsoon session of Parliament, Naidu said that elected representatives should focus on improving the lives of the people by “rising to the need of the occasion”. “You (elected representatives) are the role model for the people, if you behave like this then what is the inspiration the people and the youngsters will get?” he said at an award ceremony of the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry’s (FKCCI) here.The vice-president also said that disruptions in these (assemblies and Parliament) platforms are against the cause of the country. “Assemblies and parliament are meant for debate, discussion and decision. Debate, discuss and decide, but do not disrupt... There may be some tension but you must come back to attention,” he said.Naidu’s remarks came after the monsoon session of Parliament witnessed a premature end on August 11, a day after Opposition lawmakers protesting the contentious farm laws stormed the Well of the Upper House, sat on a table there and threw a file at the Chair.A visibly upset Naidu didn’t deliver his customary valedictory address -- the first time this happened in the 11 sessions he has chaired.“You might have seen some time back, what happened in the Parliament, a lot of youngsters called me and told me, Sir! you are the Vice President of India, why are you so sad? I said I’m sad because of the bad behaviour of some people, to the new low the Indian Parliament had gone,” Naidu said.While referring to a similar ruckus and commotion in the state legislatures, including Karnataka, Naidu said every elected representative should make efforts to increase the standard of the institution he or she is representing and improve their contribution by caliber, character, capacity and conduct.The vice-president said that he was not afraid of taking action against those involved in the ruckus in the Rajya Sabha.“I can take action, if necessary I will take also, but the point is people of the country when they see such things on TV, they will become sad,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assemblies-parliament-meant-for-debates-not-disruptions-says-vp-101629313062128.html
19-08-2021||India||NDA infra, curriculum may change for women’s entry||The Supreme Court’s landmark interim order on Wednesday directing the government to allow women to take the next entrance exam for the National Defence Academy (NDA), thus far a male preserve, has opened the doors of the premier training institution to women, but their entry into the academy will require the creation of new infrastructure and separate physical training standards, people familiar with the matter said.The apex court’s order making women eligible to join NDA, which was formally inaugurated 66 years ago, comes almost three decades after women were allowed to serve in select branches of the three services as short-service commission (SSC) officers, and 18 months after the top court ruled that women officers who joined the Indian Army through SSC, were entitled to permanent commission and command roles.“ NDA was never meant to train women. New infrastructure will have to be created to address practical issues such as a separate squadron with segregated accommodation for women,” said former navy chief Admiral Arun Prakash (retd), who served as the NDA commandant during 1997-99.The training standards will also have to be readjusted for women, Prakash added.Students become eligible to take the NDA and Naval Academy Examination, conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), while they are in the 12th standard.Those who clear the entrance exam have to face the Services Selection Board (a rigorous personality and intelligence test spread over five days); candidates accepted by SSB undergo a medical examination before UPSC releases the final merit list. After training at NDA for three years, split into six terms, cadets head for further training at different academies depending on their choice of service before being commissioned as officers.“A new squadron will definitely be required in the initial years. After they settle down in the academy, the possibility of mixed squadrons can be explored with women being assigned segregated wings with toilets. That’s how they will develop squadron spirit,” said another former NDA commandant, who asked not to be named.He said that based on biological factors, the academy would have to come up with a fresh physical curriculum for women as the same qualitative requirements for training can’t apply to both men and women. “It is absolutely doable. As far as creating new infrastructure in concerned, things will also depend on how many women end up joining NDA every year.”After joining NDA, cadets are assigned to one of the 18 squadrons that form part of five battalions. Each squadron has 100 to 120 cadets from senior and junior courses training at the academy.“I think NDA should start its preparations now to avoid teething troubles. Teams should be sent to the Officer’s Training Academy in Chennai, the Air Force Academy at Dundigal and the Indian Naval Academy at Ezhimala to study their models as they have been training women for years. The proposed induction of women into NDA is a watershed in India’s military history. It’s important to get things right,” said a senior officer who did not want to be named.There was disappointment in some quarters about the new development. Some people HT spoke to said the armed forces should be left alone to make their own decisions.“The armed forces are in the business of national security and can’t be used as a laboratory for social experiments. Why don’t they push for more representation of women in Parliament and judiciary? They are being unfair to the armed forces,” a former senior commander said on the condition of anonymity.The headcount of women in the military has increased almost three-fold over the last six years, with more avenues being opened to them at a steady pace. As of February 2021, there were 9,118 women serving in the army, navy and air force.“It’s critical to give women equal opportunities in this day and age. I believe opening the doors of NDA to women will encourage them to take up a career in the military. I also feel that the physical training standards should not be reworked for women. They are quite capable of meeting the existing standards for male cadets,” said Captain Shalini Singh (retd), a former SSC officer whose husband , Major Avinash Singh Bhadauria, was posthumously awarded the Kirti Chakra in 2001.One of the turning points for women in the military came in 2015 when IAF decided to induct them into the fighter stream. Earlier this year, the Indian Navy deployed four women officers on warships after a hiatus of almost 25 years. India’s only aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya and fleet tanker INS Shakti are the warships that have been assigned their first women crews since the late 1990s.In May 2021, the army inducted the first batch of women into the Corps of Military Police, the first time that women joined the military in the non-officer cadre. In June 2021, two women army officers were for the first time selected to train as helicopter pilots at the force’s premier Combat Army Aviation Training School at Nashik in Maharashtra.But tanks and combat positions in infantry are still no-go zones for women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-infra-curriculum-may-change-for-women-s-entry-101629312999540.html
19-08-2021||India||HC: Consider 1% reservation for transgenders in Corporations||Bengaluru: The Karnataka high court on Wednesday asked the state government to consider issuing directions to state-owned corporations and statutory bodies to provide 1% reservation in recruitments for transgenders. While hearing an intervention application (IA) moved by Bengaluru-based organisation, Sangama, a division bench of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice NS Sanjay Gowda said: “The state government has taken an innovative step of providing 1% reservation to transgenders in the Karnataka Civil Services General Recruitment (Rules), 1977. The state government shall consider issuing direction through advisory to all state-owned corporations and statutory bodies to provide for similar reservation. State shall place on record appropriate action taken within 6 weeks.” On July 21 this year, the Karnataka government informed the high court that it has made the provision for 1% horizontal reservation for transgenders in government employment. “It is submitted that similar horizontal reservation also must be provided for transgender persons in State Boards and State corporations, so that Transgender persons have equal opportunity in public employment as well. Many of such public boards and corporations have their own statutory provisions for recruitment and do not have their own statutory provisions for recruitment and do not necessarily follow the Karnataka Civil Services (General Recruitment) Rules,” read the petition filed by Sangama. Submitting that there are around 75-80 different state-owned corporations, senior advocate Jayna Kothari, representing the intervener, asked the government to issue a circular to consider reserving 1% for transgender persons in jobs. “We can’t implead each one of them,” she said. The counsel appearing for the state government submitted that these corporations and boards have their own their rules and regulations and that the state government could not coerce them into doing something. The matter will be next heard on September 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-consider-1-reservation-for-transgenders-in-corporations-101629313000134.html
19-08-2021||India||HC seeks Centre, UP replies on pleas against ASI survey of Gyanvapi mosque||The Allahabad high court on Wednesday granted three weeks to the central and state governments to file counter-affidavits (replies) in petitions seeking a stay on the April 8 order of a local court in Varanasi that had directed an archaeological survey of the entire complex of Gyanvapi Mosque by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).Justice Prakash Padia passed the order on two petitions filed by UP Sunni Waqf Board and Anjuman Intezamia Masjid Committee, the management committee of the Gyanvapi Mosque, while fixing September 28 as the next date of hearing in the case.According to the petitioners, the April 8 order directing the ASI to conduct the survey of the land was passed illegally and without jurisdiction.The petitioners further said the local court’s ruling came even as the Allahabad high court reserved its judgment on the maintainability of the suit pending in the former. “The high court had reserved the verdict on the issue of maintainability of the suit. The court below should not have passed any order in the suit till the issue of maintainability of the suit was decided by the high court,” said senior counsel SFA Naqvi.On April 8, the Varanasi court of the civil judge (senior division) Ashutosh Tiwari ordered a five-member committee comprising two Hindus, two Muslims, and an archaeological expert to oversee the “comprehensive physical survey” of the centuries-old Gyanvapi Mosque complex. The plea in the case contended that the mosque in Varanasi was part of a temple. The suit was filed in 1991 seeking restoration of the ancient temple at the site where the Gyanvapi mosque currently stands. On March 15, the Allahabad high court reserved its judgment in various pleas that challenged the maintainability of the 1991 suit before the Varanasi trial court.In 1991, the government passed a law, Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, that maintained status quo in all places of worship as of 1947, except the disputed site at Ayodhya. In 2019, the Supreme Court finally ruled in favour of the Hindu parties in the Ayodhya dispute, ordering the creation of a trust to build a temple at the Ram Janmabhoomi site. In 2021, the Supreme Court asked the Union government to respond to a petition that challenges the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act. Analysts saw this as a move that created the possibility of litigation over other disputed religious sites, including the one at Varanasi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-seeks-centre-up-replies-on-pleas-against-asi-survey-of-gyanvapi-mosque-101629312942980.html
19-08-2021||India||Sharp decline in Covid testing puts question on actual count||Since June, Karnataka has seen a sharp fluctuation in Covid-19 tests conducted across the state, as per government data, thereby indicating if the stabilising number of new infections reflects the actual ground reality of the situation in the southern state. In the first three weeks of August, Karnataka conducted 2,682,882 Covid-19 (RT-PCR & RAT) tests across all districts of the state, as against a declining trend of 4,379,771 in July that was lower than 4,532,767 in June, according to the state health department.“You can test only the contacts, the symptomatic and a certain percentage of random (population),” Dr Arundhathi Chandrasekhar, the mission director of the National Health Mission said on Wednesday.She said that since the cases were low, the number of contacts will also come down, resulting in possible less number of tests.However, she said that barring Monday and Tuesday, Karnataka has been testing around 105,000 to 106,000 per day. “Random testing accounts for 20-30%,” she added.With most of the restrictions lifted in cities like Bengaluru, which is home to nearly a quarter of the state’s over 70 million population, markets and other areas have been operating with heavy footfalls in recently.Most of the testing, around 50,000 to 60,000 are being conducted in Bengaluru alone, data shows, which raises the possibility that there could be lower testing numbers in other districts.For instance, there were just 439 tests conducted in Bagalkote district as against 66,289 in Bengaluru on August 16, according to the state Covid-19 war room data. On the same day, there were just 7,575 tests done in Dakshina Kannada district which has just as many, if not more cases than Bengaluru and is among the highest contributors of new infections in the southern state.To make matters worse, the state government and law enforcement officials have unearthed a few rackets of issuing fake Covid-19 certificates for a bribe, adding to the challenges in the containing of the virus.Chandrashekar said that the government is currently discussing increasing testing in the state and is expected to take a decision on it in the next couple of days.However, free movement of people and gathering of large crowds, some by eminent political leaders, have become a huge cause for concern.Siddaramaiah, the Congress’ leader of the opposition, was welcomed by hundreds and thousands of people in Raichur on Tuesday. A day earlier, Siddaramaiah attended an event in Vijayanagar locality in Bengaluru, which was attended by a large number of people, ironically to distribute Covid-19 relief material.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ministers and legislators too have been part of huge crowds and gatherings, adding to the problems of a state that has been recently hit with droughts, floods and is staring at the resurgence of the pandemic.The upcoming festivals like Ganesh Chaturthi, Varamahalaxmi Puja, Muharram and Durga Puja among others only add to the challenges,The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Wednesday said that it will take all possible steps to prevent crowding in market areas before the festivals.“We will take all possible steps to promote Covid appropriate behaviour. BBMP health officers must raise awareness regarding Covid preventive measures issued by headquarters amongst public and vendors on the previous day and on the day of the festival via loud speakers,” the BBMP said in a statement.“A fine of ₹250 per person will be imposed on public and merchants for not wearing masks at major market areas in BBMP limits,” it added.“No matter what festivals are coming up, they should be celebrated in a cautious manner,” Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the BBMP said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharp-decline-in-covid-testing-puts-question-on-actual-count-101629312940196.html
19-08-2021||India||Woman suffers 60% burns in Nalanda acid attack||PATNA: A 19-year-old woman suffered critical burn injuries after an unidentified man attacked her with acid in Bihar’s Nalanda districton Wednesday, police said. Police said that the incident took place when victim was going to a shopping complex with her cousin. As soon as they reached between a park and the Nalanda circuit house, two men came from opposite direction and one of them poured acid on her face and fled the spot, police added.“The victim’s cousin told the police that one of the two accusedsuddenly came towards them and hurled acid on her sister and fled the spot,” said Sadar deputy superintendent of police, Shibli Nomani, adding that two passersby were also injured in the incident. Police said locals in the area shifted the woman to the nearby Sadar hospitalfor treatment and informed them. The injured were discharged from the hospital. The woman was later shifted to the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) for better treatment, the police added. The victim has received around 60% burn injuries on her head, face and back, said the DSP.Nalanda Superintendent of Police Hariprasath S said, “While scanning the CCTV footage in and around the spot, they found two suspects moving near the park and one of them threw a liquid on the victim and fled from the spot.”Police are waiting to record the woman’s statement to establish the identity of the suspects. “We are working on leads and soon the accused will be nabbed,” the SP claimed. A case has been registered under sections 320, 322, 325 and 326 of the Indian Penal Code, police said. Section 320 deals with grievous hurt. Police teams are on the lookout for the culprits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-suffers-60-burns-in-nalanda-acid-attack-101629312880635.html
19-08-2021||India||Cong plans rejig with eye on state elections||The Congress party is likely to reshuffle its organisation soon, a move that has been widely anticipated after its poor performance in the latest round of assembly elections in April and May, and which has led to speculation about the likelihood of a larger role for general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and the induction of election strategist Prashant Kishor into the party.Party leaders who spoke on condition of anonymity said the changes could see the elevation of some young leaders to important posts, and also find proper roles for senior leaders such as Ghulam Nabi Azad, Ramesh Chennithala or Sachin Pilot who currently don’t have any.With the election for a new president unlikely to happen anytime soon, the leaders said that a reshuffle could balance equations and get the party ready for immediate challenges, including important state elections next year.As many as seven states are scheduled to hold elections next year: Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Himachal Pradesh.One of the leaders said that the process could accelerate after Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s return to Delhi, and party president Sonia Gandhi’s meeting with Opposition leaders.A section of the party wants Priyanka Gandhi, general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, to take wider responsibility and handle the affairs of the party’s frontal organisations such as NSUI and the Youth Congress. Rahul Gandhi had joined the organization as general secretary in charge of these two organizations.The reshuffle will also address the question of Kishor. The strategist, who helped in the Trinamool Congress’ emphatic victory against the BJP in West Bengal, met Rahul Gandhi last month with what some said was a plan on the party’s revival. In return, the Congress is believed to have invited him to join the party. With several elections around the corner, Kishor, who quit as advisor to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh recently , may be a valuable asset for the party that has been struggling to win elections since 2014. Kishor said he is not aware of any such developments.“While a section of the party wants Kishor to join Congress now and handle assignments for the upcoming elections, another feels he should work independently with the Congress for a few months to get accustomed with our style of political management before taking the plunge,” said a senior functionary of the party.The final decision on Kishor, and the roles for former Rajya Sabha Leader of Opposition Azad, former Kerala party unit president Ramesh Chennithala, former deputy PM of Rajasthan Pilot and others will be decided by Sonia and Rahul Gandhi.“At least three new general secretaries are expected to be inducted in the party. It will be a mix of young leaders and veterans,” said another senior Congress leader.On Wednesday, the party appointed Ajoy Kumar as in-charge of Sikkim, Nagaland and Tripura. Kumar’s appointment came even as the Congress alleged that the Union government has “pushed the entire North-East into chaos and there is complete breakdown of law & order and constitutional machinery in multiple states”. Its reference is to the clash between Assam and Mizoram and the violence in Meghalaya, all in recent weeks.“Uncertainty, conflict, violent clashes and unchecked lawlessness have marred a large part of India’s North East. The situation is beyond alarming. Multiple States of North East are being pushed into an unprecedented cycle of lawlessness with complete breakdown of law and order and Constitutional machinery,” said the Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala. He alleged that Home Minister Amit Shah remained “oblivious” to the developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-plans-rejig-with-eye-on-state-elections-101629312881044.html
19-08-2021||India||ICMR: Delta variant can infect vaccinated||An ICMR study conducted in Chennai has found that the Delta variant has the potential to infect both vaccinated and unvaccinated people, but it reduces mortality among the former group.The study was approved by the Institutional Ethics Committee of ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai and published in the Journal of Infection on August 17. The study findings indicate that the prevalence of the Delta variant or B.1.617.2 was not different between the vaccinated and unvaccinated groups. The high transmissible delta variant is the dominant strain circulating across the world and is one of the primary drivers for the second wave of SARS-CoV-2 in India. The report quoted other studies that have documented a reduction in neutralisation titres among Covishield and Covaxin recipients after infection with the delta variant. “This might be the reason for the breakthrough infections observed in the fully vaccinated individuals,” the published paper said. Jeromie Thangaraj, a scientist at the National Institute of Epidemiology who was involved in the study said that since the sample size was low they did not include re-infections as it was very few and have not further classified whether those who were infected post-vaccination had taken Covishield or Covaxin. “But the proportion of patients progressing to severe illness and mortality was lower in the vaccinated group, which is the case globally,” said Jeromie. The proportion of patients with moderate and severe illness was significantly lower in the fully vaccinated group than in the unvaccinated group. “No deaths were reported in the fully vaccinated group, whereas three partially vaccinated (patients) and seven unvaccinated patients died,” the report said.After completing the study in May, the data was shared with Tamil Nadu’s health department. The report suggested that non-pharmaceutical interventions must continue to slow down the transmission combined with speedy vaccination coverage.Chennai was one of the worst affected cities during the second wave of Covid-19 in India with nearly 6000 cases reported daily during the first three weeks of May 2021, despite a high seroprevalence of around 45% estimated during October -November 2020. The study group selected patients from three triaging centres in Chennai. Of the 3,790 people who visited the triage centres between the first week of May, 373 reported receiving at least one dose of vaccine 14 days before their Covid-19 positive diagnosis. The remaining 3,417 were unvaccinated. The study enrolled 354 (94.9%) of the 373 in the vaccinated group. Of this 241 people had taken one dose or were partially vaccinated, and 113 had taken two doses or were fully vaccinated. As many as 185 (5.4%) of the 3417 unvaccinated individuals were included in the study. The median age of the individuals who were unvaccinated, partially vaccinated and fully vaccinated were 47 years, 53 years and 54 years respectively. After retrieving genomic sequences from 414 of the 539 samples it was found that the delta variant was the predominant variant of concern in Chennai. About 72.4% in the unvaccinated group and 68% and 74% among the partially and fully vaccinated groups were found. Among the fully vaccinated, a majority that is 85 per cent had IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, whereas 63.9% were partially vaccinated, and 14.6% in the unvaccinated group were seropositive. “We also found the delta plus variant in five participants,” said Thangaraj. One out of the five infected with delta plus (AY.1) required hospitalisation with oxygen support but the rest had mild disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-delta-variant-can-infect-vaccinated-101629312820139.html
19-08-2021||India||Centre, US work together to ensure safe return of Indians||The Indian government is coordinating closely with the United States, which currently controls the airport in Afghanistan’s capital Kabul and decides slots for all flights, for repatriating all Indian nationals who are still in the war-torn country.There was close cooperation between India and the US for the evacuation of some 200 Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and citizens on two military aircraft on Monday and Tuesday, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity on Wednesday.The evacuation was done in two phases against the backdrop of serious security concerns, including intelligence reports that elements of the Lashkar-e-Taiba and Haqqani Network, both Pakistan-based terror groups, had entered Kabul along with the Taliban fighters that took over the capital following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government on Sunday.The evacuation of Indians figured when US secretary of state Antony Blinken spoke to external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday as part of his conversations with several counterparts across the region. Besides the contact between the two foreign ministers, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval coordinated with his US counterpart Jake Sullivan while foreign secretary Harsh Shringla spoke with US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman to ensure that the evacuation of some 150 diplomats, security personnel and citizens could be done smoothly, the people cited above said.Only military evacuation flights are currently operating from Kabul airport though commercial flights by airlines, including Air India, are expected to resume later this week. The Hamid Karzai international airport was closed after chaotic scenes on Monday, when thousands of Afghans marched on to the tarmac in a desperate effort to flee the country.The people said the US will play a crucial role when commercial flights resume as it will decide slots for airlines.The people acknowledged that problems had arisen in repatriating Indian citizens as many of them didn’t heed several security advisories issued by the Indian embassy in Kabul asking Indians to register with the mission and to make immediate arrangements to return home while commercial flights were still available.Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed officials on Tuesday to ensure that all Indian nationals are safely repatriated from Afghanistan.“No Indian will be left behind and the repatriation will begin as soon as commercial flights resume. There are also plans for chartered flights. However, the situation is complicated as many of these citizens never registered with the embassy,” one of the people cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-us-work-together-to-ensure-safe-return-of-indians-101629312764619.html
19-08-2021||India||Will pass legislation in assembly to exempt TN from NEET: Stalin||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin Wednesday announced, in the Assembly, that the government will table draft legislation to get an exemption for the state from the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). Stalin said the government was studying the legal aspects of the recommendations made by Justice A K Rajan in his report on the impact of NEET on students from economically weaker sections of the state.“The report submitted by Justice A K Rajan is being examined legally, and a draft legislation will be brought in the ongoing budget session,” Stalin said. The common national entrance exam for medical college admissions became a reality in Tamil Nadu in 2017 following a Supreme Court order that the state has to follow the rest of the country. Until then, Tamil Nadu was admitting students based on class 12 marks. Since the introduction of NEET, more than a dozen students in the state, who belong to rural and poor backgrounds and could not access resources to crack the competitive exam, died by suicide either due to failure or fear of failing.This is the second time that the Tamil Nadu Assembly will pass a Bill seeking exemption from NEET. The President did not give his assent to legislation passed by the previous AIADMK government in 2017. “Stalin wants to build a watertight case, and a good group of legal experts are assisting us,” a senior DMK leader said on condition of anonymity. This year, NEET is scheduled for September 12, and students have been asked to be prepared for it. “The CM doesn’t want to rush, and we don’t want to cause any confusion for repeaters this year,” the leader said. Last year, the AIADMK brought in a horizontal reservation of 7.5% in undergraduate medical colleges for government school students who clear NEET. It ensured that government school students got 405 seats in the 2020-2021 academic year as opposed to six seats previously.Stalin urged all political parties in Tamil Nadu to be on the same page to oppose NEET. Except for the AIADMK’s ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), all parties in the state have opposed the exam.The A K Rajan committee received more than 87,000 representations from stakeholders, including students, parents, academicians, doctors, and the majority have rejected the conduct of NEET. The government has kept this report confidential and is expected to use the data collected to back its argument that NEET is discriminatory against rural and poor students pitted against urban and rich students. NEET offers unlimited attempts, and 70% of those taking the test are repeaters, and those against NEET have argued that this gives undue advantage to those who can afford coaching classes and repeat the annually conducted test.The committee received representations from students, parents, academicians, doctors, and others on the impact of NEET among students from rural areas and those belonging to financially weaker sections of the society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-pass-legislation-in-assembly-to-exempt-tn-from-neetstalin-101629312764066.html
19-08-2021||India||AIADMK opposes Kodanad case probe||The four-year-old heist cum murder case at late chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s Kodanad Estate has come back to haunt Tamil Nadu’s principal opposition AIADMK. The AIADMK on Wednesday decided to boycott the ongoing assembly for the next two days after the DMK furthered investigations with police quizzing the prime accused, Sayan in the case. After AIADMK legislators walked out alleging political vendetta for not being allowed to raise the issue in the House, former chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami told reporters that the DMK was trying to frame him and a few other party functionaries in the case. Soon after the demise of J Jayalalithaa in December 2016, ten people were accused of breaking into and murdering a security guard of the Kodanad estate in the Nilgiris hills which was Jayalalithaa’s summer retreat. Since Jayalalithaa’s death led to a battle over assets and legacy, the crime at this bungalow has remained in the spotlight if there is a political motivation. Palaniswami said that while his regime had undertaken a probe and the case in the Madras high court was coming to a close with a hearing on August 27, the DMK government deliberately schemed to probe Sayan. “Media reports say that a secret statement was taken from Sayan,” Palaniswami said. “In that report, my name and other functionaries’ names have been added. The Stalin-led DMK government is doing this purposefully to foist cases on AIADMK leaders and instil fear for political mileage. But this will not happen.” Palaniswami also questioned why the lawyers associated with the DMK appeared on behalf of the accused in the case. “DMK leaders applied for bail for the accused. What is the connection?” he asked. Responding to charges by the AIADMK and its allies PMK and BJP, Stalin responded in the assembly that the investigation was taking place with permission from the court. “This is not a political vendetta,” Stalin said. “The DMK promised in its election manifesto to send the real culprits to jail. We will ensure that justice is served in the case. No one needs to fear.”The sprawling bungalow at Kodanad was what Jayalalithaa had bought along with her close aide V K Sasikala in the 1990s. In the early stages of the investigation, the police had then alleged that a former driver of Jayalalithaa’s C Kanagaraj plotted the crime with Sayan.Subsequently, Kanagaraj, Sayan’s wife and their daughter died in separate road accidents. An independent investigation conducted by the former managing editor of Tehelka, Mathew Samuel alleged that Palaniswami was behind the break-in. But Palaniswami, who took over following Jayalalithaa’s death defended that vested interests were trying to defame him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-opposes-kodanad-case-probe-101629312761535.html
19-08-2021||India||Focus on safe return of Indians from Afghanistan: Jaishankar||India’s focus in Afghanistan is the safety and repatriation of its nationals and the Afghan people will be central to New Delhi’s approach to the war-torn country following the takeover by the Taliban, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday. Jaishankar was the first senior Indian leader to publicly speak on the situation in Afghanistan since the Taliban marched into Kabul on Sunday after President Ashraf Ghani fled the country. India withdrew its envoy and all diplomatic staff from Kabul on Tuesday because of the deteriorating security situation. “At the moment, we are – like everybody else – very carefully following developments in Afghanistan. I think our focus is on ensuring the security, in Afghanistan, and the safe return of Indian nationals who are there,” he said during a media stakeout at the United Nations in New York. “So, that is really what has been very much the focus of my own engagements here, talking to the UN secretary-general, to other colleagues who are here, as well as with the US secretary of state a few days ago,” he added. Though Jaishankar didn’t give details, hundreds of Indian nationals – most of them professionals and workers – are still in Afghanistan. Officials have said they will be repatriated once commercial flights resume from Kabul airport, which was closed on Monday amid chaos as thousands of people entered the tarmac while attempting to flee from the Taliban. Asked if India, which was the largest regional donor in Afghanistan with investments of almost $3 billion, will continue to be engaged with the country, Jaishankar said, “First of all, while you used the word investment, for us, it reflected what was a historical relationship with the Afghan people. I think that relationship with the Afghan people, obviously, continues and that will guide our approach to Afghanistan in the coming days.” However, he reiterated that India’s focus is on ensuring the safety and security of Indian nationals still in Afghanistan. Jaishankar ducked a question on whether India has been in contact with the Taliban in recent days, and said: “I think at this point of time, we are looking at what is the evolving situation in Kabul. Obviously, the Taliban and its representatives have come to Kabul. So, I think we need to take it on from there.” Jaishankar arrived in New York on Monday as the UN Security Council held an emergency meeting on the situation in Afghanistan, the second time in 10 days that the body met under India’s presidency for August to discuss the issue. Earlier, the United Nations Security Council unanimously adopted a resolution on ensuring accountability for crimes against UN peacekeepers for the first time during a meeting held under the Indian presidency. The resolution, adopted at an open debate chaired by external affairs minister S Jaishankar, calls for prevention, investigation and prosecution to bring to justice perpetrators of crimes against UN peacekeepers. It was initiated by India in the Security Council earlier this year and co-sponsored by all 15 permanent and non-permanent members of the body. The Security Council also adopted the first technology-related presidential statement on peacekeeping — “Technology for Peacekeeping” — which called for recognising that “technology has the potential to act as a force multiplier”. India, which holds the rotating presidency of the Security Council for August, is one of the largest troop contributors for UN peacekeeping missions. It has provided more than 250,000 personnel for 49 missions over the decades, and 174 of its troops have died during these deployments. Currently, more than 5,000 Indian personnel are deployed in nine missions. The open debate with the theme “Protecting the protectors” was one of three signature events being hosted by India as part of its presidency of the Security Council. Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a virtual open debate on global cooperation for maritime security on August 9, while Jaishankar will chair a briefing on counter-terrorism on August 19 that is expected to discuss the situation in Afghanistan following the takeover of the country by the Taliban. Jaishankar told the meeting that UN peacekeeping operations “must be anchored in a strong ecosystem of technology and innovation” to adapt to changing conflict dynamics. He proposed a four-point framework that lays out an architecture for securing UN peacekeepers from contemporary threats. This framework, Jaishankar said, should focus on technologies that are “operationally proven, cost-effective, widely available, reliable and field-serviceable”. It should establish a sound information and intelligence foundation for ensuring early warning and mobilising a coherent and early response. The framework should ensure regular technological improvements that are readily available in gear, weapons and tools for peacekeepers, and there should be attention and investment to consistent training and capacity building of peacekeepers in the field of technology, he added. In this regard, Jaishankar said, India is backing the UN in rolling out the “UNITE Aware” platform in selected peacekeeping missions. “This initiative is based on the expectation that an entire peacekeeping operation can be visualised, coordinated and monitored on a real-time basis. We should ensure that any attack on a peacekeeper or a civilian is predictable, preventable or responded to immediately,” he said. India contributed $1.64 million for the UNITE Aware platform that is being used by four peacekeeping missions in Somalia, South Sudan, Mali and Cyprus. The platform is a situational awareness software programme that uses modern surveillance technology and provides real-time threat assessment to improve the overall security of UN peacekeepers. The platform records data on critical incidents and events and tracks daily operational activities. It also provides access to live video and satellite imagery and early warnings in a volatile environment. The first presidential statement in the Security Council focused on using technology to help peacekeepers. It also encourages the use of modern technology to improve the performance, safety and security of peacekeepers operating in increasingly complex and risky environments. As part of India’s initiatives for the training and capacity building of peacekeepers in the realm of technology, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between India and UN to support the “Partnership for Technology in Peacekeeping” initiative and the UN Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) Academy for Peace Operations based in Entebbe, Uganda. Jaishankar said 21st century peacekeeping “must be anchored in a strong ecosystem of technology and innovation” that can facilitate missions to implement their mandates in complex environments. “After all, it helps them to adapt to changing conflict dynamics and take advantage of increased efficiencies. This is also in line with the Strategy for Digital Transformation of UN peacekeeping which seeks to advance the use of technology across the Action for Peacekeeping themes, including performance, safety and security, politics, protection and peace-building,” he said. UN Secretary-General António Guterres said digital tools, such as long-range cameras, unmanned aerial vehicles and ground surveillance radars, help peacekeepers protect civilians and themselves. However, new technologies also pose profound threats, reflected by the online proliferation of violent extremist ideologies, cyber-attacks and deadly vaccine misinformation. “Anonymous actors are able to target critical infrastructure such as power stations, hospitals, government facilities and the IT systems crucial to running our societies,” he said. “We are also seeing the increased use of autonomous weapon systems. On this rapidly emerging issue, governments must work together to ensure that sufficient human control and judgement is retained in the use of force.” Before the debate, Jaishankar participated in a ceremony held at the UN Peacekeepers Memorial that was also attended by Guterres and all council members. The event was held to pay tribute to UN peacekeepers who sacrificed their lives in the line of duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-safe-return-of-indians-from-afghanistan-jaishankar-101629312762071.html
19-08-2021||India||Are UPA’s oil bonds to blame for high fuel prices?||Fuel prices continue to be at record levels in the country. The fact that the government has not reduced the additional taxes it imposed during the pandemic is an important reason for prices being at their current levels. While speaking about rising input prices across manufacturing and service sectors even in face of weak demand, RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee in its latest resolution urged central and state governments to reduce taxes on petrol and diesel. “With crude oil prices at elevated levels, a calibrated reduction of the indirect tax component of pump prices by the Centre and states can help to substantially lessen cost pressures”, the MPC resolution said. The Tamil Nadu government reduced its taxes to slash the price of petrol by ₹three per litre in its budget which was presented last week. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has blamed the fiscal burden of oil bonds issued during the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government’s term for the inability to provide relief from high petrol-diesel prices. “We’ll still have to pay interest of ₹37,000 crores by 2026. Despite interest payments, principal outstanding of over 1.30 lakh crores is still pending. If I didn’t have the burden of oil bonds, I would have been in a position to reduce excise duty on fuel”, she said in an interaction on August 16. Is there merit in the finance minister’s claims? What are oil bonds? Oil bonds are special debt instruments that were issued by the UPA government to oil marketing companies (OMCs) in place of a cash subsidy between 2005 and 2010. Since the oil companies were not free to fix their own price for petrol (before 2010) and diesel (before 2014), they were at times selling fuel below the international market price. To compensate for this loss, the companies received cash subsidies from the government. In view of rising international crude prices between 2005 and 2010, the UPA government issued total oil bonds worth around 1.44 lakh crores in order to subsidise retail fuel prices. The annual average price of India’s crude oil basket (COB) increased from $55.72 per barrel in 2005-06 to $ 62.46 (2006-07), $ 79.25 (2007-08) and 83.57 (2008-09) before falling to $69.76 in 2009-10. In three out of these five years, the COB price was higher than what it is currently ($68.92 per barrel according to data from petroleum ministry on 17 August,2021). However, retail prices of petrol and diesel were much lower than what they are today. The maximum price per litre of petrol and diesel in Delhi in 2005-06 was ₹43.49 and ₹30.45 respectively. This changed to 47.43 for petrol and 35.47 for diesel in the year 2009-10. To be sure, the rupee price of COB has been increasing because of the depreciation of the rupee, which was 44.27 per dollar(average) in 2005-06, fell to 47.44 per dollar in 2009-10 and is at 74.28 per dollar at the moment (as on 17 August). What is the current fiscal burden of oil bonds? As admitted by the finance minister, the central government has to pay around ₹1.7 lakh crore for these accumulated liabilities. However, the 2021-22 union budget shows that the government does not intend to pay all of them in the current fiscal year. Budgetary allocation for oil bonds in the current fiscal year is just ₹9989.96 crore in interest payments. This is only a fraction of the windfall gain to the union government from the additional petroleum taxes. Union excise duties, which comprise the bulk of petroleum taxes increased from ₹2,39,452 crores in 2019-20 to ₹3,89,677 crores in 2020-21 (provisional numbers) and are expected to be ₹3,35,000 crores in 2021-22, as per Budget Estimates. If the government wanted, it could have used last year’s proceeds to settle almost all of the pending liabilities from oil bonds. As soon as the principal component is paid, interest liabilities will automatically cease to exist. This increase in union excise duties happened as the central government increased excise duty on petrol by 65% to Rs32.98 per litre and diesel by 101% to Rs31.83 per litre between March 2020 and May 2020 in view of falling crude oil prices. Can the current government claim high moral ground on petrol-diesel prices? It is a fact that the UPA incurred liabilities to provide relief from petrol-diesel prices. Reduction of petrol-diesel prices is something the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) consistently demanded when it was in the opposition. Also, given the fact that both petrol-diesel prices are now deregulated (at least in principle), the government does not even have to incur a subsidy burden to bring down prices. What it will take to reduce petrol-diesel prices is the union government sacrificing its windfall tax gains. With its revenue under pressure, it may be hesitant to do so. That, not oil bonds, would appear to be the problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-upa-s-oil-bonds-to-blame-for-high-fuel-prices-101629312640185.html
19-08-2021||India||Deployed at India’s embassy in Kabul, 3 dogs brought back home||As India began repatriation of its personnel from Afghanistan, there were three special evacuees, Maya, Roobie and Bobby, highly trained sniffer dogs of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) who were brought back along with embassy staff and 126 commandos from the war-torn country following Taliban’s takeover.The director general of the force, SS Deswal, categorically told Ravikant Gautam, who was in-charge of security at Indian embassy in Kabul that “at no cost should the K9 soldiers be left behind”. For three years now, Maya (a female Labrador), Roobie (a female Belgian Malinois) and Bobby (a male Doberman), have been the first responders to any threat faced by the Indian diplomats and averted several incidents.As soon as it was learnt that the second Indian Air Force (IAF) C-17 plane was on its way to Hamid Karzai airport for evacuating all personnel on Tuesday, the handlers of Maya, Roobie and Bobby, all aged between 5 to 7 years, made arrangements for the transportation of the canines. The flight reached Delhi late on Tuesday, after first landing at Jamnagar, following which the dogs were taken to ITBP’s Chhawla camp in South West Delhi, which has a special dog kennel.“They will rest and acclimatise themselves with Indian weather for four to five weeks,” said an official at ITBP’s K9 unit.During the three years for which they were deployed, the canine soldiers played an important role in the security of Indian embassy, the second most vulnerable establishment in Afghanistan after US bases.“They have been successfully carrying out anti-sabotage duties at the Indian embassy at Kabul for the past three years, checking every bag, parcel and article coming inside as well as keeping an eye on people. They detected several suspected IEDs (improvised explosive devices) during this time, saving lives of not only Indian diplomats and security personnel but also Afghan civilians working there for the Indian government,” said the officer cited above.Raised and trained at elite National Training Centre for Dogs (NTCD) of ITBP at Bhanu in Panchkula, Maya, Roobie and Bobby will soon be redeployed, with anti-Naxal operations in Chhattisgarh their likely next posting.ITBP has been deployed in Afghanistan since 2002 to secure the Indian embassy in Kabul and consulates at Jalalabad, Kandahar, Mazar-i-Sharif and Herat.While the four consulates were closed on different dates over the last two months due to Taliban’s advance, the embassy at Kabul was functional till Tuesday. There have been many attempts by terrorists to breach the security of the Indian embassy and consulates but all have been thwarted by the ITBP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deployed-at-india-s-embassy-in-kabul-3-dogs-brought-back-home-101629312399507.html
19-08-2021||India||SC junks Maharashtra govt, Deshmukh’s plea against CBI probe||The Supreme Court on Wednesday rapped the Maharashtra government for standing in the way of a probe ordered by the Bombay high court into allegations of bribery and extortion against its former home minister, Anil Deshmukh. It also dismissed separate petitions filed by the state and Deshmukh challenging the HC order allowing the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to investigate the matter.The bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah wondered why the state had filed an appeal when the investigation was directed against its former minister. “An impression is being given that your government is trying to protect this person (Deshmukh). Investigation is not against the state but against your home minister. At every stage you seem to stultify the investigation. Why does the state have to oppose? It should rather come forward and allow full and fair investigation,” the court said.The charges against Deshmukh stemmed from a letter written in March 2021 by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in which he alleged that the minister ran a corruption ring in the police department. The allegations against him pertained to extorting money from bars and restaurants on a monthly basis, exerting undue influence in pending investigations in high-profile cases, and using his position to effect transfers and postings of police officers. With these allegations as a basis, one Jaishree Patil wrote to the police seeking an investigation. When nothing moved, she approached the Bombay High Court demanding action against Deshmukh.Incidentally, the state was not prepared to argue its own appeal on Wednesday. Advocate Rahul Chitnis appearing for the state had moved a letter for adjournment late Tuesday night after the senior counsel engaged by the state returned the case file. But the bench turned down his request as they had already spent considerable time reading the files and noted that Chitnis was a seasoned lawyer capable of arguing the matter.Chitnis submitted that the HC order of April 5, 2021, ordered a preliminary enquiry based on Patil’s letter, which did not contain allegations of transfer or posting but of extortion from bars and restaurants. He further stated that in October 2020, the state had withdrawn consent under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act, 1946, preventing CBI from taking up any investigation in the state.Deshmukh also moved the top court, asking for the quashing of the FIR lodged by CBI on April 21. Senior advocate Amit Desai appeared for the former home minister and said his client enjoyed the protection of Section 17A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (amendment introduced in 2018), which offers public servants protection from any enquiry or investigation into any offence relatable to any decision taken by them in the discharge of their official duties. Such a probe could be possible only upon the approval of the competent authority, in this case the state government.The bench said, “Which government will order a CBI probe or grant sanction against its own home minister? This is the reason why the high court has proceeded in the matter and ordered an enquiry so that justice is not just done but seen to be done.”The bench further noted that sections 6 and 17A only offer protection from unjust prosecution of innocent public servants. “Here the high court has taken on itself the decision to refer the matter to CBI because the home minister is himself involved. If your argument is accepted that consent of state will be required, the very purpose of the high court order will get defeated. It will denude the courts of their constitutional power.”Deshmukh’s lawyer had also challenged a July 22 HC judgment that refused to quash the CBI case lodged against him. Desai argued that HC made certain conclusions that were not part of the letter written by Param Bir Singh or Jaishree Patil.Even in CBI’s preliminary enquiry report, no cognisable offence was made out as the issue was of transfers and postings. It was for this purpose, Desai argued, that HC ordered a preliminary enquiry and did not direct CBI to straightaway register a case.The bench discarded this view: “Transfer is only an incidental thing. The manner in which transfers were made for oblique purposes and illegal gratification is in question here….The high court was satisfied that prima facie a cognisable offence is made out. But bearing in mind the Supreme Court decision in Lalitha Kumari case (2013) mandating a preliminary enquiry, and the fact that allegations were against the home minister of the state, the high court ordered a preliminary enquiry by CBI.”The bench noted that the requirement under both Section 6 and Section 17A of the Prevention of Corruption Act applies at the threshold. This stood “obviated” by the HC coming to the conclusion that public interest requires the ordering of an enquiry. This also protects the accused as the HC held that upon completion of enquiry, the CBI director shall apply his mind and proceed in accordance with the law, added the bench.The top court dismissed Deshmukh’s petition finding “no error in the high court judgment”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-junks-maharashtra-govt-deshmukh-s-plea-against-cbi-probe-101629312340072.html
19-08-2021||India||SC allows women to appear in NDA exam||Breaking the glass ceiling that endured for 65 years, the Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered that women can also sit for the upcoming National Defence Academy (NDA) examination and held that the policy that restricts their entry into the elite institution is based on “gender discrimination”. It also came down hard on what it termed the army’s mindset in providing equal opportunities to women.A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy threw open the doors of the joint defence service training institute of the Indian armed forces to women cadets, directing the Union Public Services Commission (UPSC) to give wide publicity to the new advertisement on admissions so that intent of the order is translated into effect and more women apply.In its interim order, the bench said women candidates will be permitted to sit for exam scheduled for September 5 (now rescheduled for November 14) and added that their admission will be subject to the final orders of the court. The court will hear the matter next on September 8.The court’s ruling comes days before the service chiefs of the army, navy and the air force are set to visit the NDA in Pune to review facilities and arrangements for women cadets. The visit was planned earlier this month, a senior army officer said on the condition of anonymity.Rejecting an argument by the Union government that the restriction against women from training at the Pune-based NDA was a policy decision, the court recorded in its order: “This is a policy decision based on gender discrimination. We expect the army and the government to take a more constructive view of the matter...”Hearing a petition filed by lawyer Kush Kalra for equal opportunity for women at NDA and the Indian Naval Academy , the bench expressed its disgruntlement over the “mindset” of the Indian Army when it comes to equal service opportunities for men and women in the country’s armed forces.“We keep passing orders after orders but the army will not change its mindset. I am finding it absurd now. It is like the army will act only when judicial orders are passed. Air force and navy are far more liberal but army does not believe in taking voluntary decision till the courts pass orders... There is a relevant bias in the army not to implement even the orders,” justice Kaul told additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, who appeared for the Centre and the department of defence.Bhati, on her part, argued that some amount of leeway will have to be given to the defence ministry in framing its policies regarding training institutes and other branches because the issues pertained to national security.To this, the bench replied: “We will also normally like to leave it to you to decide the manner of implementation but we cannot let you create a bar against women. Don’t make judiciary intervene every time. Do it yourself rather than inviting orders from the court. You must accept the broad principles of gender neutrality and then structure it in your peculiar set up.”The senior army officer cited above said that the discussion on induction of women through NDA had been ongoing. “The service chiefs from the army, navy and air force had planned a visit to the NDA in Pune on August 20 to review the training and administrative arrangements for women cadets. Additional infrastructure to provide for women cadets has been approved earlier and should come up in time bound manner. Gender equality has been an issue which has been actively debated and found positive response in the services.”As per the revised calendar of the UPSC, which conducts the exam for NDA, the entrance exam has been rescheduled from September 5 to November 14. Under the current eligibility criteria, only male candidates who have cleared class 12 level or its equivalent education and were in the age group of 16-and-a-half and 19 were eligible to apply.Those who clear the NDA exam are called for interview by the Service Selection Board (SSB) and following a medical exam, candidates are recruited in the Indian Army, navy, and air force wings of NDA, and for the INA course for pre-commission training. NDA was commissioned in 1955.On Wednesday, appearing for the petitioner, senior counsel Chinmoy Pradip Sharma and advocate Mohit Paul, cited the Centre’s affidavit to question the rationale behind prohibiting women from entry at NDA when they could be recruited through Officers Training Academy (OTA) and Short Service Commission (SSC).While ASG Bhati argued that the prohibition at NDA is premised on a policy decision, the bench replied: “You yourself said that as a matter of policy you are allowing entry of women from two sources.. why close a third mode of entry? It appears to be largely discriminatory.”The law officer tried to persuade the bench that the army is not against women and that it is now granting permanent commission to women as well. The court was quick to point out that this too was courtesy a Supreme Court judgement. “No thanks to you for giving permanent commission to women because you kept fighting till this court passed its orders. I was unsuccessful in the high court to persuade the army to give them permanent commission. In the Supreme Court also, you were given many opportunities before justice Chandrachud had to finally pass a judgement expanding the horizons and extending permanent commission in the army to women,” said justice Kaul.As Bhati said that the issue of permanent commission is behind the army, the bench retorted: “It is not behind you because it is the question of mindset. Mindset is not changing; we could not persuade you. Instead of army taking its own call, it has come through judicial orders.”The bench also heard another petition for admission of girls into the Dehradun-based Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC) and asked Bhati how long it will take for the government to bring gender equality in such institutions. The court posted this petition, filed by advocate Kailash More, along with Kalra’s plea.Kalra’s petition argued that the categorical exclusion of eligible female candidates from NDA was unconstitutional and done entirely on the basis of their sex.In its affidavit filed a day ago, the Union government resisted the entry of women cadets, stating: “Training at NDA does not give any automatic advantage to male cadets over their counterparts from other training establishments / institutions. It has no bearing on the future career advancement prospects.” It suggested that choice of training at any equivalent training academy cannot be a violation amounting to discrimination based on gender under the Constitution.Referring to the Supreme Court judgment of February 2020 allowing women short service commission officers equal opportunities as male counterparts for getting permanent commission in 10 army branches, the affidavit said, “The issue of discrimination against women in the recruitment policies of the Indian Army, has attained finality and nothing survives….There is no denial of right or opportunity to women who desire to become officers in the Indian Army and who fulfil the necessary requirements and are found suitable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scallows-women-to-appear-in-nda-exam-101629312220792.html
19-08-2021||India||‘Centre compromising national security, territorial integrity: Cong over conflict in NE states||In the wake of violence erupting in several northeastern states, Congress on Wednesday accused the Centre of compromising the national security and territorial integrity of the country and asked why is the government not taking an action to stabilize the situation.“The entire northeast is in chaos. There is a complete breakdown of law and order and constitutional machinery in multiple states. Prime Minister and Home Minister are guilty of criminal culpability by compromising internal security and India’s territorial integrity,” said Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewaala in a press conference.The responsibility lies at the door of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, he added.The Congress spokesperson was referring to the Mizo-Assam conflict, the extreme militancy that emerged in Shillong after the killing of former militant Chesterfield Thangkhiew, the centre’s failure to convert the Framework Agreement signed six years ago on August 3 to a final settlement and China’s invasion into Arunachal Pradesh earlier this year.Surjewaala said that the Modi government is “oblivious” to the violence brimming in the 5 of the seven northeastern states. It said, “This wholly indifferent, criminally aloof, hands-off approach of the Modi government emanates often from its illegal and divisive user-patients of power in many states of northeast adding a blind lust to illegitimately latch onto that power without thinking of the consequences for the country.”After the militant uprising on August 15, fresh violence broke out in Shillong on Tuesday when an unidentified individual attacked the carcade of Governor Satya Pal Malik with stones on its return from Assam after dropping him at an airport there.Earlier this year, media had reported that China had built a new village, consisting of 101 homes, in Arunachal Pradesh, about 4.5 km “within Indian territory of the de facto border”, on the banks of Tsari Chu river in Upper Subansiri district, an area along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). This was the same area where five people were detained by Chinese troops last September.In response, China had said construction of the village in Arunachal Pradesh was “beyond reproach” because it had “never recognised” Arunachal as a part of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-compromising-national-security-territorial-integrity-cong-over-conflict-in-ne-states-101629311980101.html
19-08-2021||India||BJP to focus on govt schemes, OBC outreach||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is making a concerted effort to ensure that awareness about and implementation of the Union government’s welfare schemes and outreach among other backward classes (OBC) drowns out a growing chorus -- from the Opposition, allies and even within the party fold -- for a caste census.People aware of developments said that the party is not only concerned about the controversial demand snowballing into an election issue ahead of crucial polls in seven states but also its impact on ties with allies, especially the Janata Dal-United with which it runs a coalition government in Bihar.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has been leading the charge for a caste census and all parties apart from the BJP have come together to push for caste-based enumeration in the state where OBCs are a decisive vote bank.BJP allies such as the JD-U, Apna Dal and Republican Party of India - Athawale have joined the Opposition parties such as the Nationalist Congress Party, Nationalist Congress Party, Rashtriya Janata Dal and Samajwadi Party in demanding a caste census.Other parties such as the Biju Janata Dal have asked for a caste census, as have some BJP leaders, including Badaun MP Sanghamitra Maurya and national secretary Pankaja Munde.OBCs form an influential voting bloc in several states and were instrumental to the rise of the BJP in recent years. They are electorally important in the heartland states, especially in Uttar Pradesh where the party was able to stitch together a rainbow Hindu coalition with OBC groups at its core when it grabbed power with an unprecedented majority in 2017.Hence, to pre-empt any adverse impact of the caste census demand, the party has begun outreach to elucidate how its central schemes and interventions at the state level helped marginalised sections, said people aware of developments. Party cadre have been instructed to list the benefits that socially and educationally marginalised sections have accrued over the past seven years, the people quoted above added.In recent months, the BJP has sought to publicise its decisions to extend more representation to OBCs in the Union cabinet, grant OBC reservation in medical and dental education and restore the right of states to enumerate OBCs as helping the backward classes.BJP spokesperson and former MP, Bizay Sonkar Shastri, downplayed the caste census demand as “a political ploy” by the Opposition. He said the BJP did not believe in “caste-based politics”.A second BJP leader declined to comment on the demand from the allies, but said, “For decades, regional parties that promised social justice and ensuring equity and equality failed to do so. They spoke of social inclusion but ended up promoting just one or two castes.”He said schemes such as the Ujjwala Yojana, Har Ghar Jal, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana benefited people across castes.“These schemes have benefited people on the margins whether they come from scheduled caste, scheduled tribe or OBC categories. These schemes are an indicator of how the Modi government has walked the talk on social inclusion and parity for all even in the absence of caste-based census,” said the leader quoted above.The demand for a caste census is an old and sensitive one. Castes begun to be officially enumerated in the British era and the last caste census was conducted in 1931. Independent India limited the practice to only counting scheduled castes and tribes -- for extending reservation.Though the Mandal commission report in 1990 extended quotas in government jobs and education to OBCs, the Centre didn’t conduct a census, instead relying on extrapolations and smaller surveys to estimate OBC numbers. Based on various sources, the Mandal commission estimated OBCs constituted about 52% of the population.The demand for a caste census was first raised by activist groups who pointed to the importance of accurate data to extend quotas. It was quickly taken up by political parties such as the RJD and SP that count large OBC groups as key support bases. The Centre conducted a separate Socio-Economic Caste Census in 2011 but its caste data was never made public. Experts say caste enumeration can also fuel growing quota demands from dominant groups -- Jats, Patels, Gujjars, Marathas, among others.Opposition parties say the BJP does not want clarity about caste numbers as it could hamper its social engineering.Javed Ali Khan former MP of the Samajwadi Party said, “Our party has been asking for caste-based census so that we know the exact percentage of OBCs and SCs and the reservation policy can become more transparent. Right now, there is a lot of uncertainty and people often make claims that a handful of castes have cornered the benefits of reservations.”He said the BJP did not want to disrupt the existing quota formula or upset the upper castes.Given the sensitivity of the issue, the BJP has chosen not to explicitly state its stance.“The state governments of Maharashtra and Odisha have requested to collect caste details in the forthcoming census. The government of India has decided as a matter of policy not to enumerate caste wise populations other than SC and ST in the census,” minister of state for home Nityanand Rai told Lok Sabha in July.However, in an interview this week to HT, Union labour minister Bhupender Yadav, who is also an OBC leader, said the matter was still under consideration and the ministry incharge of carrying out the census exercise will take a call based on feedback from experts.Party leaders at the Centre also indicated that states were free to carry out census on the basis of caste. “States have the provisions to do so, the Centre has not stopped them. They will have to. however, take a view on how the demand for revisit the existing quotas will have to be dealt with in view of the Supreme Court’s 50% cap on reservation,” said Shastri.The party is also worried about its partnership with the JD-U, which also broke ranks in the National Democratic Alliance when Kumar called for a probe into the Pegasus snooping controversy last month.“There is a lot of internal pressure. Since the BJP was part of resolutions passed in the assembly in 2019 and 2020 seeking caste-based enumeration, it is now being pushed to take a stand with the other parties,” said a BJP leader from Bihar on condition of anonymity.Kumar has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a meeting with all parties from Bihar to discuss the issue. “The BJP will have to clarify its stand. We still haven’t heard from the PMO on the meeting, but our party will continue with the demand,” said a JD-U leader, requesting to not be named.BJP lawmaker Sanjay Paswan said his party opposed caste-based census for ideological reasons. “There is no doubt it is an electoral issue, but it does not fit in with the ideology of the BJP which believes in Sabka Saath Sab Ka Vikas (development for all)…” he said.Political commentator AK Jha said the Opposition is unlikely to pin the BJP down on caste-based enumeration. “For the BJP, it is a win-win situation; not only has it taken steps such as giving greater representation to OBCs in the Union Cabinet, reserving 27% seats for OBC children in schools and providing quota for them in NEET exams, it is a party whose leadership is from the OBC communities so they can claim to have already worked for the benefit of these communities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-caste-census-demand-grows-bjp-to-focus-on-government-schemes-obc-outreach-101629310899463.html
19-08-2021||India||India stresses on ‘flexibility’ in climate goals for developing world||Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav on Wednesday said India will advocate principles of “differentiation” and operationalisation of “flexibility” provided in the Paris Agreement for developing countries, at the upcoming United Nations Climate Change conference (COP26) in November -- reiterating the country’s position at a time when there are demands in some quarters for it to commit to so-called net-zero emissions.Yadav met COP26 president Alok Sharma, following which he said “differentiation” and “flexibility” should be at the core of decision-making at COP 26.“India believes that climate actions must be nationally determined and strongly advocates that the differentiation and operationalisation of flexibility provided in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Paris Agreement for developing countries should be at the core of decision-making,” said Yadav, emphasising the importance of climate justice. Among other factors, climate justice incorporates an understanding of historical responsibility for the climate crisis and equality.The Paris Agreement is a legally binding international treaty on climate crisis. The agreement, which has a goal of limiting global warming to well below 2°C, preferably to 1.5°C, compared to pre-industrial levels is guided by principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities, in the light of different national circumstances.Article 13 of the agreement says its transparency framework shall provide flexibility to developing countries that need it in the light of their capacities. The transparency framework covers all substantive aspects of the Paris deal, including the tracking progress and achievement of nationally determined contributions (NDCs).IPCC flagged earlier this month that the planet has a very short window to prevent catastrophic climate change. The 1.5°C global warming-threshold is likely to be breached in the next 10 to 20 years and by 2040 in all scenarios, it said in its report.Sharma in an interview to HT on Monday said: “We want every country to plan for net-zero by the middle of the century.”But India has said earlier that pushing developing countries with extremely low per capita emissions to commit to a net-zero goal will undermine their right to develop. “We have noted the pledges made by some countries to achieve Net Zero GHG (green house gas) emissions or carbon neutrality by or around mid-century. However, this may not be adequate... Therefore, and keeping in view the legitimate need of developing countries to grow, we urge G20 countries to commit to bringing down per capita emissions to the global average by 2030,” India said in its statement at a G20 ministerial meeting.On Tuesday, Sharma met RK Singh, the power and renewable energy minister; PK Mishra, PM Narendra Modi’s principal secretary; and Piyush Goyal, minister of commerce and industry and textiles. The power ministry on Wednesday said India has already retired 16,369 MW of inefficient coal fired power plants -- an issue Sharma raised during the meeting.Sharma said on Wednesday: “I leave India hopeful. I’ve had a set of very constructive discussions here... In the context of India, it is worth pointing out that India is already on track to overachieve its current NDC...”Experts said all countries must do more. “We should be proactive; push for hard action by 2030 by top polluters; not net-zero by 2050. Currently, countries are not on track. We must run the talk; no doubt our actions today are comparable with our contribution, but this is not enough. We can and must do more,” said Sunita Narain, director general, Centre for Science and Environment.“Every country’s circumstance and capacities are different so flexibility is important from the perspective of both implementation and reporting, but overall, our actions collectively need to be circumscribed by the constraints set by science. We have a small window of opportunity, and everything to lose given our vulnerable population,” said Apurba Mitra, head, Climate Policy, WRI India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-cop-26-india-stresses-on-flexibility-in-climate-goals-for-developing-world-101629310839479.html
19-08-2021||India||India working closely with US to repatriate citizens from Afghanistan||The Indian government is coordinating closely with the United States, which currently controls the airport in Afghanistan’s capital Kabul and decides slots for all flights, for repatriating all Indian nationals who are still in the war-torn country.There was close cooperation between India and the US for the evacuation of some 200 Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and citizens on two military aircraft on Monday and Tuesday, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity on Wednesday.The evacuation was done in two phases against the backdrop of serious security concerns, including intelligence reports that elements of the Lashkar-e-Taiba and Haqqani Network, both Pakistan-based terror groups, had entered Kabul along with the Taliban fighters that took over the capital following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government on Sunday.The evacuation of Indians figured when US secretary of state Antony Blinken spoke to external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday as part of his conversations with several counterparts across the region. At the time of the conversation, the second batch of Indian diplomats and citizens were waiting to be flown out of the Hamid Karzai international airport in Kabul.“Underlined the urgency of restoring airport operations in Kabul. Deeply appreciate the American efforts underway in this regard,” Jaishankar tweeted after the phone conversation with Blinken.Besides the contact between the two foreign ministers, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval coordinated with his US counterpart Jake Sullivan while foreign secretary Harsh Shringla spoke with US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman to ensure that the evacuation of some 150 diplomats, security personnel and citizens could be done smoothly, the people cited above said.Only military evacuation flights are currently operating from Kabul airport though commercial flights by airlines, including Air India, are expected to resume later this week. The airport was closed after chaotic scenes on Monday when thousands of Afghans marched onto the tarmac as part of desperate efforts to flee the country. Dozens of people clung to the sides of US military aircraft and at least three of them plunged to their death.The people said the US will play a crucial role when commercial flights resume as it will decide slots airlines.The people acknowledged that problems had arisen in repatriating Indian citizens as many of them didn’t heed several security advisories issued by the Indian embassy in Kabul asking Indians to register with the mission and to make immediate arrangements to return home while commercial flights were still available.Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed officials on Tuesday to ensure that all Indian nationals are safely repatriated from Afghanistan.“No Indian will be left behind and the repatriation will begin as soon as commercial flights resume. There are also plans for chartered flights. However, the situation is complicated as many of these citizens never registered with the embassy,” one of the people cited above said.A statement issued by the external affairs ministry on Tuesday asked Indian nationals in Afghanistan to contact the Special Afghanistan Cell at phone numbers +91-11-49016783, +91-11-49016784, +91-11-49016785, WhatsApp number +91 80106 11290 or the email ID SituationRoom@mea.gov.in.“We have been issuing periodic travel and security advisories for all Indian nationals in Afghanistan, given the deteriorating security situation there. Those already in Afghanistan were urged to return immediately while others were advised not to travel there. Nevertheless, we understand that a number of Indians are stranded in that country, some of whom are employed by third country organizations,” the statement said....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-working-closely-with-us-to-repatriate-citizens-from-afghanistan-101629308202617.html
19-08-2021||India||Covid vaccine for children in India by September, says ICMR-NIV director||A coronavirus inoculation for children is likely to be approved by September, according to two officials involved in the development of the vaccines, including Bharat Biotech’s managing director Krishna Ella, who said the trial phase of the clinical studies in volunteers in the 2-18 age group has been completed.Also Read | Bengal avoids wastage of Covid vaccine but faces shortage of syringes nowThere are two vaccine candidates that have been tested among children in India: Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-D. The Covaxin trial includes 525 volunteers while ZyCov-D’s trials – as part of the phase II/III clinical studies – includes 1,000 volunteers in the 12-18 age group.“Our clinical trial final phase is over. We are hoping that by either by month end or by next month we should get the license for vaccine in children. This is the only vaccine in the world that can be given to children between 2 and 18 years,” Ella said in an interview to DD News on Wednesday.A senior official from Indian Council of Medical Research’s National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune, which collaborated with Bharat Biotech for Covaxin, said she expected the results from the studies to be out soon and an approval to follow shortly after.“Hopefully, the results (of the trials) are going to be available very soon. These will be presented to the regulators. So, by September or just after it, we may have Covid-19 vaccines for children,” said Priya Abraham, director of NIV, Pune, in an interview to India Science, a web channel of the government’s Department of Science and Technology.“...Zydus Cadila’s vaccine trial is also going on. This can also be applied for children and will be made available,” added Abraham.Experts at India’s drug regulator are assessing ZyCov-D’s data for approval. The company has said its assessment of the clinical trials showed an efficacy rate of 66.6%.An expert aware of the process said early data has shown some promise. “There are a few promising data sets that the experts are examining that includes the vaccine candidate of Zydus Cadila, which has been tried in around 1,000 children. Then there is data from Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin trial in children that people are anticipating,” this person said, asking not to be named.The expert, who works with the central government, indicated the assessment of Covaxin may be easier since it is already in use and has established efficacy rates. “There are high hopes because Covaxin has already received the necessary approval for adults, so it will be examined for safety and immunogenicity in children.”Ella and Abraham also spoke on booster doses, which they both said will eventually become necessary.According to Abraham, studies on booster doses have been going on overseas and at least seven vaccines have been tried for it. “Now, WHO (World Health Organization) has put a stop to it till more countries catch up with vaccination. This is because there is an alarming vaccine [supply] gap between high-income and low-income countries. But, in future, recommendations for boosters will definitely come,” she said.Ella took a similar position. “It is a fact; I can’t lie about it that booster dose will be required. However, our priority will be to vaccinate all adults first. We are also doing trials for our nasal vaccine candidate against Covid-19, and instead of a booster dose of Covaxin we may even have the option of taking one dose of Covaxin and second dose of the nasal vaccine. It is too early to say anything conclusively at the moment; research is on,” he said.The NIV Pune director said there were no safety concerns in mixing different Covid-19 vaccines and the institute was carrying out further studies that will lead to more details in the coming days.Abraham reiterated that vaccination is a must and the studies at NIV show the vaccines in use work against variants of the coronavirus, citing the levels of antibodies produced in the bodies of vaccinated people.She said that while levels were reduced in case of some variants, “yet, the vaccines are still protective against the variants. They may show a little less efficacy, but vaccines are very important to prevent serious forms of disease due to which patients may get hospitalised and even die. So, whatever the variant, vaccine is till now protective against all, including the Delta variant. So, there should not be any hesitancy at all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccine-for-children-in-india-by-september-says-icmr-niv-director-101629284019229.html
19-08-2021||India||Madras high court issues directions to ‘release caged parrot CBI’||The Madras high court on Tuesday asked the Centre to consider enacting a law giving statutory status to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to ensure its autonomy without the government’s administrative control. It was part of a slew of directions the court issued for improving the CBI functioning as part of an attempt to “release the caged parrot”. The Supreme Court described the CBI as “caged parrot” and “its master’s voice” in May 2013 while citing evidence of interference in the federal agency’s inquiry into alleged irregularities in the allocation of coalfield licences. The comments triggered a debate on political interference in the CBI’s functioning when the then Congress-led government faced a series of corruption charges.The high court said the autonomy would be ensured only when the agency is given statutory status on the lines of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), and Election Commission (EC). It noted CAG is only accountable to Parliament and that there should be independence for CBI like the EC. Also Read | CBI not entitled to documents till they show relevance to probe: Maharashtra govtThe CBI, which is mandated to probe corruption and major crimes, comes under the administrative control of the Department of Personnel and Training (DOPT) under the Prime Minister’s Office.The high court also sought more powers and jurisdiction for the CBI at the earliest as well as separate budgetary allocation for it. The court said the CBI director should be given powers as that of the secretary to the government and should directly report to the Prime Minister. It said the agency should get modern facilities on par with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (the US) and Scotland Yard (the UK). The court asked the CBI for a policy within six weeks for permanently recruiting cyber forensic and financial audit experts so that all its wings can have dedicated experts instead of having them on case-to-case basis. The court also gave a timeline for clearing pending cases. It posted the matter for hearing next six weeks later and asked the CBI to file a compliance report or for the director of CBI to appear in the court.Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi of the high court’s Madurai bench issued the directions while refusing to grant relief in response to a Public Interest litigation seeking a CBI probe in a chit fund scam. “This order is an attempt to release the ‘Caged Parrot’ (CBI),” the bench said.The bench said there is a clamour for a CBI probe because of an “aura of reverence” whenever a heinous crime is committed and there is no proper investigation by the local police. “When such is the trust and faith of the people, very sadly CBI is dragging its feet, whenever there is a demand for CBI enquiry on the ground that resources and manpower available with CBI are very restricted and therefore, it cannot conduct investigations,” the bench said. It added this is a standard response of the CBI that it “often parrots’ before the courts.The court, in an earlier order, asked 15 questions regarding the resources, manpower, investigating skills and infrastructure facilities available with the CBI. After the CBI submitted its response, the court issued the directions on Tuesday.A CBI officer, who did not want to be named, said this is a policy matter and only the government or the DoPT will be able to comment..A person aware of the matter, who did not want to be named, said top CBI officers met on Wednesday and took note of the observations for a comprehensive proposal. “This will have to be done within six weeks...”K Chandru, a retired Madras high court judge, said in a federal system, state police forces need to be strengthened to get better results. “Without the state police being involved in any local efforts, it will be difficult for the CBI...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-high-court-issues-directions-to-release-caged-parrot-cbi-101629274896943.html
19-08-2021||India||Samajwadi Party MP, 2 others booked for sedition in UP||Opposition Samajwadi Party Parliament member Shafiqur Rehman Barq and two others have been booked for sedition, promoting enmity between religions and deliberately outraging religious feelings following a complaint against them that they allegedly supported the Taliban and likened them to Indian freedom fighters.Also Read | Half-burnt body of 17-year-old girl retrieved from pyre in UPA police officer said a First Information Report (FIR) was registered against the three in Sambhal district of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday night after one Rajesh Singhal filed the complaint. “Police have slapped charges under Indian Penal Code (IPC)’s Section 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity between two religions) and 295A (outraging religious feelings of others),” the officer said, requesting anonymity. He added Mohd Muqeem and Chowdhary Faizan are the other two people named in the FIR.Barq on Monday said the Taliban wanted to free their country. He said Taliban taking over power in Afghanistan is that country’s internal matter.Barq said his statement has been twisted out of context. “I stand with my country,” he said in a statement to news agency ANI.Barq, who represents Sambhal in Parliament, was also named as an accused in an arson and violence case during an anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protest in December 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samajwadi-party-mp-2-others-booked-for-sedition-in-up-101629273456659.html
19-08-2021||India||BJP seeks more security amid increase in attacks on workers in Valley||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday sought security cover for grassroots representatives and workers in Jammu and Kashmir after two party leaders were shot dead by terrorists in a week, triggering panic among its members in the region.Acknowledging that the attacks created a sense of fear among party workers, BJP state spokesperson Altaf Thakur said, “Their lives have been reduced to changing their residences to dodge militant attacks in the absence of security.”Other party leaders added that many BJP members were holed up in secure locations, unable to visit their hometowns or villages, where they are likely to face hostile local crowds that see the BJP as the main catalyst for the controversial scrapping of the region’s special status and statehood two years ago.On Tuesday, Javeed Ahmad Dar, the party’s incharge of Homeshalibugh assembly constituency, was shot dead by terrorists outside his residence. This was the second killing of a BJP leader in south Kashmir and the third attack on a party functionary in the Union territory in the last one week.On August 12, a two-year-old boy was killed and six others injured after terrorists lobbed a grenade at the residence of BJP functionary Jasbir Singh in Jammu’s Rajouri district. A clash also erupted in Rajouri town after an angry mob burnt tyres and shouted slogans, blaming the police and civil administration for the attack.On August 9, BJP village chief Ghulam Rasool Dar and his wife Jawahira Bano were gunned down by terrorists in their rented accommodation in Anantnag town. Dar was the president of BJP Kisan Morcha of Kulgam district and was also serving as the sarpanch of Redwani village in the district. His wife was a member of the panchayat from the same village.According to Thakur, the party has 530,000 members in J&K but only 200 of them have security. He added that at least 500 of those working at the district level as well as in Srinagar were provided safer accommodation by the government.“Our hopes are higher than the Himalayas and stronger than rocks. Despite the attacks, our political activities are going on and will continue,” Thakur said.In Dar’s case, police maintained that the BJP leader never asked for security. “Even the local BJP leader did not share his name in the list of PPs (protected persons),” a police officer said on condition of anonymity.Another BJP worker, who did not wish to be named, said the government had offered him and his family a secured accommodation of a single room to be shared with another BJP worker. “This has become a pattern across Kashmir,” he said.BJP leader Rajesh Pandita, who was killed in Pulwama in June this year, was allotted two personal security officers besides a secured accommodation in Srinagar. Pandita was at a friend’s place without his security guards when he was shot dead by terrorists in the city. A woman was also critically injured in the incident.Sajjad Raina, the party’s Pulwama district president, said he was waiting for a bulletproof vehicle to move around safely. “It has been months that I have sought it. I am hardly able to visit my home town.”“Pulwama is most hit by militancy and despite so many attacks on our workers across Kashmir, no one from my team of 60 members has resigned yet,” the BJP leader, who is residing in a secured government accommodation in Pampore near Srinagar, with almost 50 party workers, said.The Pulwama unit chief also said that it is not just him or his party workers who are under threat. “They can target anyone from our family. Neither do I nor do any of the BJP workers have any security for our families,” he said.While inspector general of police (Kashmir range) Vijay Kumar did not comment on the provision of safe accommodation for families of BJP workers, he said the allotment of bulletproof vehicles is solely under the purview of director general of police (DGP) Dilbagh Singh.HT tried to reach out to the DGP but could not get a response immediately.BJP leaders claimed that at least 22 of workers have been killed in the Valley in various terrorist attacks ever since the Centre revoked Jammu & Kashmir’s special status in 2019. Nine BJP workers were killed in Kulgam district alone in the past one year, they said.“On August 5, (second anniversary of the revocation of semi-autonomous status) BJP workers unfurled the national flag everywhere in the Valley as they did on August 15. This has caused frustration among the militants,” Thakur said.The spokesperson also linked the attacks to the local body elections held last year and developmental work in the Valley. “Since in a peaceful atmosphere, terrorism cannot flourish, this has unnerved the militants and they are on a killing spree,” he said.Explaining the surge in attacks, political analyst Noor Mohammad Baba said the workers are victims of a larger hate perception that has developed against the BJP in the Valley. “The reason they have (selectively) become a target is because the BJP is seen as the biggest adversary in Kashmir,” he said.(With inputs from Mir Ehsan in Srinagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-party-workers-killed-in-kashmir-since-2019bjp-101629265476331.html
19-08-2021||NA||Former PM Ghani who fled Afghanistan, in talks to return||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:West Bengal logs 646 new Covid-19 cases and 7 deathsWest Bengal reports 646 new Covid-19 cases, 660 recoveries and seven deaths. Total cases rise to 1,540,258.Ahead of festivals, Maharashtra CM's request to peopleMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urges people to not violate Covid-19 protocols in the state.36 new Covid-19 cases and 4 deaths in DelhiDelhi logs 36 new Covid-19 cases, four deaths and 76 recoveries. Total cases at 1,437,192 including 1,411,688 recoveries, 25,077 deaths and 427 active cases. Positivity rate at 0.05%.Fresh Covid-19 cases rise in Maharashtra and MumbaiMaharashtra records 5132 new Covid-19 cases after three straight days of less than 5000 fresh infections. 285 people test positive in Mumbai, up from 196 on August 17.US authorises Covid-19 booster shots for all Americans from September 20US authorises Covid-19 booster shots for all Americans from September 20, warns of reducing vaccine efficacy.NATO foreign ministers to meet on Friday to discuss AfghanistanI have convened an extraordinary virtual meeting of #NATO Foreign Ministers this Friday 20 August to continue our close coordination & discuss our common approach on #Afghanistan."I have convened an extraordinary virtual meeting of NATO foreign ministers this Friday to continue our close coordination and discuss our common approach on Afghanistan," tweets NATO secretary general Jens Stoltenberg.Himachal announces easing of Covid-19 curbsCOVID restrictions eased in Himachal Pradesh for "all goods carriers, daily/weekend commuters or people who intend to commute for medical purpose. Children below 18 accompanied by parents with vaccination certificates (double doses) or negative RT-PCR report are also excluded." pic.twitter.com/cShC0b8AsxCovid-19 restrictions eased for "all goods carriers, daily/weekend commuters or people who intend to commute for medical purpose. Children below 18 accompanied by parents with vaccination certificates (double doses) or negative RT-PCR report are also excluded": Himachal Pradesh govtAfghan president Ashraf Ghani taken in by UAE: ReportAfghan president Ashraf Ghani and family taken in by UAE on "humanitarian grounds", reports APNo vaccination in Mumbai on Aug 19 and 20, says BMCDue to shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, there will be no vaccination in government and municipal corporation-run centres in Mumbai on August 19 and 20. Vaccination will resume from August 21: Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)'Deeply worried about Afghan women': Joint statementWe're deeply worried about Afghan women and girls, their rights to education, work and freedom of movement. We call on those in positions of power and authority across Afghanistan to guarantee their protection. We stand ready to assist them with humanitarian aid. We will monitor closely how any future govt ensures rights and freedoms that have become an integral part of the life of women and girls in Afghanistan during the last 20 years: 21 countries including the US, UK and Canada in a joint statement.'2nd Covid-19 wave under control': Maharashtra govt"Zero patient in Nandurbar while less than 10 in six districts. Less than 100 in eight districts. Positivity rate 2.4. About 50 percent citizens above 45 have been given at least one dose of vaccine. As also, 25 percent in 18-45 age group," says Maharashtra govt in press release after meeting of state cabinet.Kerala logs 21,427 new Covid-19 cases and 179 deathsKerala reports 21,427 new Covid-19 cases, 179 deaths and 18,731 recoveries. Positivity rate at 15.5%.'Maintain branch-wise list of vacant lockers': RBI tells banksBanks to maintain a branch-wise list of vacant lockers as well as a wait-list for the purpose of allotment of lockers and ensure transparency in allotment of lockers. Revised instructions will come into effect from January 1, 2022: Reserve Bank of India (RBI)Cong appoints Dr Ajoy Kumar as in-charge of 3 northeastern statesCongress appoints Dr Ajoy Kumar as All India Congress Committee (AICC) incharge of Sikkim, Nagaland and Tripura.Tsunami alert issued after quake off VanuatuTsunami alert issued after 6.8-magnitude earthquake off Vanuatu, reports AFP.Local trains suspended on Mumbai's Harbour LineLocal train services suspended on the Harbour Line between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Vadala due to technical issues. Trains are operating between Kurla and Panvel railway stations.Cabinet approves implementation of National Mission on Edible Oils"Union Cabinet has approved the implementation of National Mission on Edible Oils–oil palm with a financial outlay of ₹11,040 crores. The focus is on increasing area and productivity of oilseeds and oil palm," announces Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar.UNHRC to hold special session on Afghanistan on August 24UNHRC to hold one-day special session on August 24 to address "Serious Human Rights Concerns and Situation in Afghanistan." Session to be convened with the support of 60 observer states so far, including India, France, UK, Japan and Pakistan.Cong MPs break down while addressing media over RS ruckus#WATCH | Raipur, Chhattisgarh: Congress Rajya Sabha MPs Chhaya Verma & Phulo Devi Netam break down while addressing the media on August 11 ruckus in the House pic.twitter.com/mHFp0MUrFqCongress MPs Chhaya Verma and Phulo Devi Netam break down in Raipur while addressing the media on the August 11 ruckus in Rajya Sabha.'21 Indians onboard France's first evacuation flight from Kabul'The first French evacuation flight from #Kabul yesterday included 21 Indian nationals: the elite Gurkhas who were ensuring security of the French Embassy. 🇫🇷🤝🇮🇳 https://t.co/OxzUYMimTV"The first French evacuation flight from Kabul yesterday included 21 Indian nationals," tweets Emmanuel Lenain, the French ambassador to India.Taliban Ring Kabul Airport With CheckpointsTaliban fighters have ringed Kabul’s international airport with security checkpoints, raising concerns the group will prevent hundreds of Afghans from leaving the country after the US-backed government collapsed.Taliban destroy statue of Shiite foe from 1990s civil warThe Taliban have blown up the statue of a Shiite militia leader who had fought against them during Afghanistan's civil war in the 1990s, according to photos circulating on social media Wednesday.Gujarat: 2 killed, 5 injured in road accident; 2 drown during religious eventTwo people were killed and five others injured when a car hit them in Gujarat's Banaskantha district on Wednesday, police said. Besides, two persons drowned in a river during a religious programme in Anand district, they said.Bombay HC grants interim relief to businessman Raj Kundra in pornography caseBombay High Court grants interim relief to businessman and Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra and keeps his anticipatory bail application for hearing next Wednesday, 25th August.Over 56 crore Covid-19 vaccines administered in IndiaIndia achieved a landmark of administrating over 56 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses till date under the Nationwide Vaccination Drive, the Union Ministry of Health informed on Wednesday.Supreme Court directs women can sit for National Defence Academy entrance examsSupreme Court directs women can sit for exams for entry in the National Defence Academy (NDA). The exam is slated for Sep 5. Admissions etc will be subjected to the final orders of the court.UK inflation slows in July: Official dataBritain's annual inflation rate slowed sharply last month on falling prices for clothing, footwear and recreational goods and services, official data showed Wednesday.SC dismisses Maha govt plea challenging CBI probe against ex-HM Anil DeshmukhSC dismisses petition filed by Maharashtra government challenging CBI probe against former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. The Court said, “An impression is being given that the state is trying to protect this man….investigation is not against state but your Home Minister”.Delhi Court discharges Congress leader Shashi Tharoor in connection with Sunanda Pushkar death case.Delhi court discharges Congress leader Shashi Tharoor in connection with Sunanda Pushkar death case.First batch of Indian athletes leaves for Tokyo Paralympics amid warm send-offThe first batch of Indian athletes for the upcoming Tokyo Paralympics, including flag bearer Thangavelu Mariyappan left for the Games on Wednesday amid a warm send-off.Haryana CM asks Neeraj Chopra to head a centre off excellenceI have asked Olympic gold medallist javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra to head a centre of excellence to groom athletes for the Olympics. We want to make Haryana a hub of sports: Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Over 2,200 people evacuated on Kabul military flights: Security officialOver 2,200 diplomats and other civilians have so far been evacuated on military flights out of Kabul, a Western security official in the Afghan capital told Reuters on Wednesday.India records 35,178 fresh Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursIndia reports 35,178 new Covid-19 cases, 37,169 recoveries and 440 deaths in the last 24 hrs, as per Health Ministry.Total cases: 3,22,85,857Total recoveries: 3,14,85,923Active cases: 3,67,415Death toll: 4,32,519Sydney warned worse to come as Delta cases surgeSydney's Delta outbreak has not peaked and residents must brace for more deaths, authorities said on Wednesday, as Australia's largest city continued to break records for new daily infections despite a nearly two-month lockdown.New Zealand PM announces lockdown over single suspected Delta variant caseNew Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has announced a nationwide lockdown after the country confirmed the first locally transmitted Covid-19 since February.Japan extends Covid-19 emergency lockdown as cases surgeJapan on Tuesday extended its state of emergency in Tokyo and other regions and announced new measures covering seven more prefectures to counter a spike in Covid-19 infections that is threatening the medical system.Assam's revised Covid-19 guidelines comes into effect from todayThe Assam government's new set of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in regard to Covid-19 pandemic will come into effect from Wednesday.US military has evacuated 3,200 people from Afghanistan so farUS military has evacuated 3,200 people from Afghanistan so far: AFP news agency quoting official.FM Jaishankar, Estonia counterpart exchange views on Afghan crisisExternal Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday met Estonia counterpart Eva Maria Liimets and exchanged views on the developments in Afghanistan.Iran to make efforts to stabilise Afghanistan: President RaisiIranian President Ebrahim Raisi on Monday said that his country would make serious efforts to stabilise Afghanistan as the country's government fell on Sunday and the Taliban took over the control, a media report said.Delhi Riots: HC to hear former AAP leader Tahir Hussain's bail pleas todayThe Delhi high court is set to hear today the bail pleas of suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain in connection with the four separate instances of violence during the northeast Delhi riots in January last year.Haiti earthquake death count rises to 1,941: OfficialsThe death toll from a 7.2 magnitude earthquake that struck Haiti has risen to 1,941, the Caribbean nation's civil protection agency said Tuesday, as a tropical storm brought torrential downpours on survivors already coping with catastrophe.Belur Math in Kolkata to re-open for public from todayBelur Math, the global headquarters of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, will be open for devotees and visitors for about five hours from today, a spokesman had said on August 11.UK plans to welcome thousands of Afghans in new refugee planBritain on Tuesday announced plans to welcome up to 5,000 Afghans fleeing the Taliban during the first year of a new resettlement programme that will prioritise women, girls and religious and other minorities.California to review 2009 fatal shooting at train stationCalifornia's attorney general said Tuesday that his office will conduct its own review of a transit officer's involvement in the shooting death of a 22-year-old Black man at a San Francisco Bay Area train station in 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-18-2021-101629243344103.html
