20-08-2021||India||Meghalaya: Over 2000 IEDs and 4000 gelatin sticks seized by police from vehicle||GUWAHATI: Police in Meghalaya seized over 2,000 aluminium improvised electrical detonators (IEDs) and more than 4,000 gelatin sticks from a vehicle early on Friday. According to the police, based on specific information the vehicle bearing an Assam registration number was intercepted at 1:10 am near Byrnihat police outpost while it was on its way to Guwahati. “The vehicle was initially signaled to stop at Umsning, but the driver of the vehicle evaded the police by speeding, following which a police team pursued the vehicle and it was finally detained at Byrnihat,” said a police statement. A search of the vehicle led to recovery of 2,044 IEDs and 4,027 gelatin sticks. The vehicle and the explosives have been seized and the driver arrested under provisions of Explosive Substances Act. A case has been lodged at Nongpoh police station and further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-over-2000-ieds-and-4000-gelatin-sticks-seized-by-police-from-vehicle-101629481265726.html
20-08-2021||India||6 held in murder case of DMK functionary hacked in public in Chennai||Six men have been held in connection with the murder of a DMK functionary, Sampath Kumar, who was brutally hacked in full public view in Chennai on Wednesday night, officials said.The CCTV footage of the crime from around 9.15 pm at one of the busiest localities in Chennai’s Anna Nagar showed two men on a bike colliding with Kumar and attacking him with machetes. What’s even more bizarre is that almost immediately more men joined and attacked Kumar multiple times while he was lying motionless on the arterial road even as cars and two wheelers continued to pass them in the two-way road. Kumar was lying in a pool of blood and eventually a passerby informed the police. The video of the attack went viral on Friday. According to police officials, the Anna Nagar police reached the scene and found Kumar dead. His body was sent for postmortem. A case was registered based on a complaint by Kumar’s son, Gopinath. The 51-year-old DMK functionary was involved in drinking water delivery business. Explaining the motive of the crime from preliminary enquiries, police said that Kumar had given a tip off to police about a criminal named Lenin in his locality. Lenin reportedly often took refuge in Kumar’s neighbour Vinayagam’s house. The police said that this had driven Vinayagam to plan Kumar’s murder with his wife. City police said that they arrested the couple, Vinayagam (47) and Karpagam (41), adding that four people have surrendered in the case- Hari Kumar (21), Sridharan (25), Mohanavel (21) and Naveen Kumar (24). The police have seized weapons including two machetes from them. The police are also on the lookout for Lenin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-held-in-murder-case-of-dmk-functionary-hacked-in-public-in-chennai-101629481026343.html
20-08-2021||India||'Momentous feat': PM Modi on Zydus Cadila’s Covid vaccine getting approval||Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter on Friday to credit Indian scientists for developing Zydus Cadila’s Covid-19 vaccine ZyCov-D, the second India-made vaccine to be granted emergency use approval (EUA) by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI). “India is fighting COVID-19 with full vigour. The approval for world’s first DNA based ‘ZyCov-D’ vaccine of @ZydusUniverse is a testimony to the innovative zeal of India’s scientists. A momentous feat indeed,” PM Modi tweeted.India is fighting COVID-19 with full vigour. The approval for world’s first DNA based ‘ZyCov-D’ vaccine of @ZydusUniverse is a testimony to the innovative zeal of India’s scientists. A momentous feat indeed. https://t.co/kD3t7c3WazZydus Cadila’s Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D, is the world's first DNA-based vaccine against the coronavirus which when injected produces the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and elicits an immune response, and helps the body fight infection. It is a needle-free intradermal vaccine administered using ‘PharmaJet’, an applicator that ensures painless inoculation, the manufacturer said in a statement. After DCGI’s nod for emergency use, it will join the leagues of Covishield, Covaxin, Sputnik V, Moderna, and Johnson and Johnson, adding more ammunition to India’s vaccine arsenal. It is also the first vaccine India approved for children above the age of 12.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya also took to Twitter to spread the word, adding that the ZyCov-D can be used to inoculate children above 12 years of age since trials have been carried out on 1,000 children in 50 centres all over the country. “Double good news for the nation!CDSCO approves the 1st DNA-based, needle-free #COVID19 vaccine in the world - ‘ZyCov-D’ of @ZydusUniverse. Making children of India COVID-safe, this vaccine can be used for individuals aged 12 and above,” the minister tweeted.Double good news for the nation!@CDSCO_INDIA_INF approves the 1st DNA-based, needle-free #COVID19 vaccine in the world - ‘ZyCov-D’ of @ZydusUniverseMaking children of India COVID-safe, this vaccine can be used for individuals aged 12 and above. (1/2) https://t.co/YP0ZZylOS7'ZyCov-D' is the 6th approved #COVID19 vaccine in India, and the 2nd indigenously developed one. PM NarendraModi ji's vision of AatmanirbharBharat and Make in India deliver another significant accomplishment! “ he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/momentous-feat-pm-modi-on-zydus-cadila-s-covid-vaccine-getting-approval-101629478884374.html
20-08-2021||India||Opposition wants either Sonia or Rahul to chair the core group: Sharad Yadav||Veteran politician Sharad Yadav of Loktantrik Janata Dal party (LJD) said on Friday that all opposition leaders who took part in the virtual meeting suggested that Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi should chair the opposition parties core committee. "Congress is the largest party (in opposition) and it's obvious that either Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi will chair the core group (for opposition unity against BJP). I believe this will be everyone's suggestion who participated in today's meeting," Yadav told news agency ANI.Yadav further said that Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee suggested that a core group of opposition parties should be formed, which should meet every three to-four days. "Mamata Banerjee floated the idea of forming a core group for opposition unity against BJP, whose meeting should be held every three-four days," he said, adding that "Concerns were raised over how all institutions are supporting one party,".Friday's virtual meeting of 19 opposition parties, which is being touted as one of the biggest gatherings of opposition leaders in recent times, was attended by Nationalist Congress Party's (NCP) Sharad Pawar, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam's (DMK) M K Stalin, Shiv Sena's Uddhav Thackeray, Communist Party of India (Marxist) Sitaram Yechury, Communist Party of India’s D Raja and others. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) were not invited while the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) did not attend the meeting.Gandhi, who chaired the meeting, asked opposition leaders to rise above individual compulsions "in the interest of the nation", and reminded them that the "ultimate goal is the 2024 Lok Sabha elections" for which they need to start planning "systematically". “Of course, the ultimate goal is the 2024 Lok Sabha elections for which we have to begin to plan systematically with the single-minded objective of giving to our country a government that believes in the values of the Freedom Movement and the principles and provisions of our Constitution,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-wants-either-sonia-or-rahul-to-chair-the-core-group-says-sharad-yadav-101629473920414.html
20-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Union minister replies to Owaisi's remarks on women's safety in India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Send him to Afghanistan to protect women’: Union minister on Owaisi’s remarksUnion minister Shobha Karandlaje on Friday took a jibe at All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi for his comment on crimes against women in India, saying that he should be sent to Afghanistan. Read moreAfghanistan crisis: Biden to address amid mounting criticismUS president Joe Biden will make an address on Friday amid massive criticism over his administration's rushed withdrawal of troops, being blamed for the crisis the country has plunged into. Read moreThose who want to save democratic principles should work together: Sharad Pawar after opposition meetNationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Friday called for like-minded parties to come together to save the “democratic principles” of the country, following a meeting with leaders of many opposition parties convened by Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Read moreIndia repatriates 3 minors to PoJK who crossed Line of Control while fishingThe Indian Army on Friday repatriated three minors aged between nine and 17 to Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir (PoJK) after they crossed the Line of Control and came to the Indian side two days before, an official statement issued by the defence wing said. Read more'Should've never listened to Dravid and instead gone after you': Murali reveals Sehwag's words after missing 300Legendary Sri Lanka off-spinner Muthiah Muralitharan recalled what Virender Shewag had told him after missing out on a triple hundred in the India vs Sri Lanka Test match at the Brabourne Stadium in Mumbai in 2009. Read moreShilpa Shetty, back on Super Dancer 4, says 'a woman still has to fight after her husband is gone'Shilpa Shetty has said women still have to fight for their rights, identity and for their children. The actor opened up about women's struggle in the society on Super Dancer 4, after watching a performance inspired by Rani Laxmi Bai. Read moreTwitter update: Now, share the same Tweet in up to 20 different DM convos, seperatelyTwitter is making a slew of changes to its Direct Messages feature. The company via a thread on its Twitter Support account has shared a long list of updates that the company is bringing to the feature. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-union-minister-replies-to-owaisi-s-remarks-on-women-safety-in-india-and-all-the-latest-news-101629472281556.html
20-08-2021||India||India repatriates 3 minors to PoJK who crossed Line of Control while fishing||The Indian Army on Friday repatriated three minors aged between nine and 17 to Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir (PoJK) after they crossed the Line of Control and came to the Indian side two days before, an official statement issued by the defence wing said.“The Indian troops deployed along the Line of Control in Poonch sector through their well-coordinated and effective surveillance network observed a suspicious movement on the Indian side of the [LoC],” the statement added.In the incident that occurred on August 18, the three minors were immediately cordoned by the soldiers and were also apprehended. The statement by the government mentioned that there was a fourth individual who had also crossed over to the Indian side, but that person “managed to run away from the Line of Control.”Also Read | Pak’s I-Day: Indian, Pak troops exchange sweets along LoCThe Indian soldiers refrained from opening fire on the fourth person while he or she was attempting to run back to PoJK as the former noticed that the person was a child.“On interaction, the [three apprehended] children revealed that they belong to Chhatra and Troti Dharmshal across the Line of Control. They claim to be labourers excavating sand from river and nallah beds and [said] they crossed the [LoC] for fishing,” the government statement further stated.The three children were treated “very humanely” and “compassionately” beholding the “finest traditions of the Indian Army,” the statement said.A similar incident had happened in December last year when the Indian troops repatriated three girls to PoJK. Referring to the 2020 incident, the statement by the defence wing added, “Indian Army is not only ever alert for our safety, but treats innocent [people] with compassion and care [as well].”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-repatriates-3-minors-to-pojk-who-crossed-line-of-control-while-fishing-101629470257461.html
20-08-2021||India||Upgraded Vande Bharat trains with new features to be ready by 2022||The next lot of Vande Bharat trains. with upgraded amenities, upgraded seating, security and surveillance systems and features designed for emergencies, is expected to be commercially available from June 2022 onward, officials aware of the development informed HT.“The first prototype rake is tentatively planned to be dispatched in March 2022 which will be put for commercial service tentatively by June 2022,” a senior official said.The new passenger amenities/safety features planned to be added, in addition to existing features available in the present Vande Bharat Express, include four emergency windows for easy evacuation of passengers in case of emergency; disaster lights in all coaches that will be used in the event of failure of all other lights in a disaster situation; emergency push buttons increased to four per coach.The coaches will also have a Centralized Coach Monitoring System for all electrical, climate control and functioning of other vital systems of the train.An important upgrade in the new coaches will also include push back arrangement for reclining of seats. In the first two rakes of the Vande Bharat trains, issues regarding the seating comfort level had been raised.The new trains will have fire survival cables in door circuits.The coaches will also have the availability of ventilation for three hours in case of failure of power supply to roof-mounted AC package unit.“It will also have better availability, more reliable and bacteria-free air conditioning system and a higher flood protection of underframe equipment to ensure reliability during monsoons,” the official quoted above said.This comes following PM Narendra Modi’s announcement on Independence Day for rolling out 75 new Vande Bharat Express trains that will be launched to connect different parts of the country in 75 weeks to mark the ongoing ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav.’The Indian Railways in September last year floated a revised tender for procuring 44 semi-high speed 44 Vande Bharat trains mandating 75% domestic component making it a domestic tender. The government had earlier scrapped three global tenders for the ambitious project.Hyderabad-based engineering firm Medha, which in February secured the contract to supply the electrical systems for 44 Vande Bharat trains, has now been told to advance its production plan so that at least two prototypes can be rolled out by next March following all trials.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had flagged off the maiden run of a Vande Bharat train on the New Delhi-Varanasi route on February 15, 2019. The second such train service between New Delhi and Shri Mata Vaishnodevi Katra was flagged off by home minister Amit Shah on October 3, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upgraded-vande-bharat-trains-with-new-features-to-be-ready-by-2022-101629472505038.html
20-08-2021||India||Those who want to save democratic principles should work together: Sharad Pawar after opposition meet||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Friday called for like-minded parties to come together to save the “democratic principles” of the country, following a meeting with leaders of many opposition parties convened by Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Pawar also said that the opposition parties must prioritise working together for a better future.In a series of tweets following the virtual meeting, the NCP leader expressed his appreciation for the initiative to arrange a meeting of all the like-minded parties in the opposition, in the country’s present circumstances.Also read | ‘In interest of nation’: Sonia Gandhi asks Opposition to plan ‘systematically’ for 2024 LS polls“The present scenario in India appears to be very gloomy,” Pawar tweeted, adding that the country is facing many issues like economic slowdown and the Covid-19 pandemic. “Farmers have been protesting for many months, it is a painful picture for a democratic country like India. The nation is facing many issues today like economic slowdown, covid pandemic, unemployment, border dispute, issue of minority communities etc,” he further said.किसान कई महीनों से विरोध कर रहे हैं, यह भारत जैसे लोकतांत्रिक देश के लिए एक दर्दनाक तस्वीर है। आर्थिक मंदी, कोविड महामारी, बेरोजगारी, सीमा विवाद, अल्पसंख्यक समुदायों का मुद्दा आदि कई मुद्दों का राष्ट्र आज सामना कर रहा है।Pawar then said that the Union government has failed to address the issues. “Those who believe in democracy and secularism, those who want to work together to save the democratic principles of our country, should come together. This is my call,” he said in a subsequent tweet.वर्तमान सरकार इन सभी मुद्दों को हल करने में विफल रही है। जो लोकतंत्र और धर्मनिरपेक्षता में विश्वास करते हैं; जो लोग हमारे देश के लोकतांत्रिक सिद्धांतों को बचाने के लिए मिलकर काम करना चाहते हैं, उन्हें एक साथ आना चाहिए, ऐसा मेरा आवाहन है।Briefing his plan for a united opposition, Pawar suggested that the parties should collectively work towards solving these problems and towards a better future. “There is a need to start a time-bound program collectively and I suggest that instead of tackling all these issues together, we should make a priority to solve these issues collectively,” he added. He also said that they should work towards giving the country a better present and a future.The virtual meeting was attended by 19 parties from the opposition including the Congress. The Shiv Sena, the Trinamool Congress (TMC), the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and the two Communist parties were among the other major parties to take part.Many parties have expressed their support for a united opposition front against the ruling BJP. In June, Pawar met some opposition leaders at his residence. However, NCP leaders had dismissed speculations about the anti-BJP discussion. Pawar had also met twice with poll strategist Prashant Kishor in the same month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-who-want-to-save-democratic-principles-should-work-together-sharad-pawar-after-opposition-meet-101629471596622.html
20-08-2021||India||‘Send him to Afghanistan to protect women’: Union minister on Owaisi’s remarks||Union minister Shobha Karandlaje on Friday took a jibe at All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi for his comment on crimes against women in India, saying that he should be sent to Afghanistan. “It is better to send Owaisi to Afghanistan to protect their women and their community,” Karandlaje was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Her remarks come after the AIMIM chief slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central dispensation on the Afghanistan crisis. “As per a report, one out of nine female children dies before the age of five years in India. There are atrocities and crimes against women here. But, they (Centre) are worried about what is happening to women in Afghanistan. Isn’t it happening here,” he said, while addressing an event on Thursday.Referring to the recent takeover of Afghanistan by the Islamist extremist group Taliban, Owaisi said that Pakistan – that has long been blamed of providing the group with logistics, arms and medical aid, has “gained the most” from the ongoing crisis in the country.“Experts are saying that Al Qaeda and Daesh have reached some areas in Afghanistan. ISI is an enemy of India. You must remember that ISI controls the Taliban and uses it like a puppet,” he added, according to ANI.Owaisi also spoke about the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) taking over the probe into the post-poll violence in West Bengal, saying that there is a “need for investigation.” “In West Bengal, they acted like Talibanis, so a need for enquiry is there. Our workers should get justice,” the AIMIM chief further stated.Meanwhile, several Afghan women, working in government and non-government organisations, including the human rights activists, have said that the Taliban have to take them into account when they form the new regime in Afghanistan. This comes amid the Islamist group projecting a more moderate outlook this time around, assuring that women will be allowed to go to educational institutions for receiving education as well as work. However, they have also emphasised that all these will be permitted as per the ‘Islamic Law.’Taliban spokesperson, Zabihullah Mujahid said that Afghan women would be “happy within the framework of Sharia.” “Taliban are committed to providing women with their rights based on Islam. Women can work in the health sector and other sectors where they are needed. There will be no discrimination against women."Also Read | Afghan women protest, say haven’t been allowed to work by TalibanTalking about women working in the media industry, Mujahid said that it would depend on the laws introduced by the new government in the country.Despite the Taliban's assurance, many Afghan women journalists have said that they were not allowed to work by the extremist group. According to TOLOnews, Shabnam Khan Dawran, an anchor of Radio Television Afghanistan (RTA) said that she couldn’t enter her office after the Taliban captured Kabul and that she was told the changed regime is the reason behind the same.Recent photos and videos that emerged from the Kabul airport also claimed Taliban fighters using sharp objects to beat women and children, who are trying to flee Afghanistan and the rule of the group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/send-him-to-afghanistan-to-protect-women-union-minister-on-owaisi-s-remarks-101629467677400.html
20-08-2021||India||‘In interest of nation’: Sonia Gandhi asks Opposition to plan ‘systematically’ for 2024 LS polls||Congress president Sonia Gandhi urged top Opposition leaders to rise above individual compulsions “in the interest of the nation” and start planning “systematically” for the “ultimate goal is the 2024 Lok Sabha elections” with “the single-minded objective” of giving India a government that “believes in the values of the Freedom Movement and in the principles and provisions of our Constitution.”Addressing a virtual meeting of 19 Opposition parties in the national capital on Friday, Gandhi also expressed confidence that the newfound unity of Opposition in Parliament “will be sustained in future sessions” as well. But reminded that “the larger political battle has to be fought outside it.”“This is a challenge, but together we can and must rise to it because there is simply no alternative to working cohesively together. We all have our compulsions, but clearly, a time has come when the interests of our nation demand that we rise above them,” said Gandhi, ahead of a daunting task of bringing various regional outfits with conflicting interests to form a grand coalition to take on a formidable Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the next elections. “Of course, the ultimate goal is the 2024 Lok Sabha elections for which we have to begin to plan systematically with the single-minded objective of giving to our country a government that believes in the values of the Freedom Movement and the principles and provisions of our Constitution,” she said, in the first such meeting of top Opposition leaders in a year. Maharashtra chief minister Udhav Thackeray, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, Communist Party of India (Marxist) Sitaram Yechury, Communist Party of India’s D Raja and others were present. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) were not invited while the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) skipped the meeting. Gandhi recalled suggestions made by the Congress to amend the vaccination policy which was later accepted by the Centre. “Some crucial changes were introduced in the procurement system of vaccines following our intervention. Needless to say, as always, somebody else has taken the credit. This does not matter really, as long as the people of the country have benefitted,” she said. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-interest-of-nation-sonia-gandhi-asks-opposition-to-plan-systematically-for-2024-ls-polls-101629466205423.html
20-08-2021||India||Zydus Cadila's 3-dose vaccine gets approval, 1st jab for children in India||Indian central drug regulator's subject expert committee (SEC) has recommended granting emergency use approval (EUA) to Zydus Cadila's three-dose Covid-19 vaccine, the ministry of science and technology said on Friday. The expert committee has also asked the manufacturer to submit additional data for the 2-dose regimen of its vaccine.Cadila Healthcare Ltd, an Ahmedabad-based generic drug maker, had applied for EUA of its vaccine ZyCoV-D on July 1, based on an efficacy rate of 66.6% in a late-stage trial conducted on more than 27,000 volunteers nationwide, in over 50 trial centres. This vaccine has also been tested on 1,000 children above the age of 12. The company had said earlier that the two-dose regime works as well as the three-dose regime, and has submitted relevant data on this for further scrutiny.ZyCoV-D is a first of its kind DNA vaccine that produces the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 to elicit an immune response. It is an intradermal vaccine that has to be applied using a ‘needle-free injector’, which the manufacturer says will help in reducing side effects.Also Read: Covid vaccine for children in India by September, says ICMR-NIV directorIf approved, ZyCoV-D will be India’s second indigenous coronavirus vaccine after Covaxin, and the sixth vaccine to be approved in the country so far, joining the leagues of Serum Institute's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Russia's Sputnik V and the US-made Moderna and Johnson & Johnson. Sharvil Patel, managing director, Cadila Healthcare, said that if approved the vaccine can be used to inoculate not only adults but also adolescents between the ages of 12-18.The SEC might also deliberate on the Russian-made single-dose vaccine, Sputnik V, called Sputnik Light, Hindustan Times had reported on August 17. To fast-track quality checks of Covid-19 vaccine batches, the Centre has approved the setting up of another lab National Institute of Animal Biotechnology in Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-s-3-dose-vaccine-gets-approval-1st-jab-for-children-in-india-101629463495505.html
20-08-2021||India||Night curfew from 11pm to 6am to be in place in Andhra Pradesh until Sep 4||The Andhra Pradesh state government on Friday said that the Covid-19 night curfew in the state would be in place between 11pm and 6am until September 4, according to an order from the state medical and health department. The government has also warned that action would be taken against people who violate the norms.The announcement came as the total confirmed cases in Andhra Pradesh crossed the two-million mark on Friday and was recorded at 2,000,038, news agency PTI reported citing health department data. Currently, 15,472 active cases of the disease are present in the state, the report also showed.Earlier on Thursday, the state had reported 1,501 new Covid-19 cases and ten related deaths in the 24 hours ending 9am, a health bulletin showed.Also read | Andhra Pradesh extends night curfew as Covid-19 cases continue uptickOn August 15, the state government had extended the Covid-19 restrictions in the state until August 21. At least half of the districts in the state were reporting a high number of daily infections, the government had noted.Anil Kumar Singhal, the principal health secretary of the state had also said that the night curfew between 10pm and 6am was also extended due to the number of people testing positive for the coronavirus disease. The government had announced the extension following a review meeting of the Covid-19 situation in the state.Currently, the government has capped the number of people allowed at weddings and other religious events at 150, to check the transmission of the infection. Further, prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC would be enforced even during the non curfew hours, the health secretary had said earlier. He had also warned that Covid appropriate behaviour must be followed by the people at all gatherings and congregations and said that the violation of the norms would be considered for action under the Disaster Management Act. He had also asked the collectors, commissioners and superintendents of police to ensure that the restrictions were properly followed.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-from-11pm-to-6am-to-be-in-place-in-andhra-pradesh-until-sep-4-101629462841213.html
20-08-2021||India||India’s biggest oil, gas reserve sees 40% dip in production, officials blame Covid||Oil and gas production in Rajasthan witnessed a 40% dip in the past two years due to less extraction, primarily due to Covid-19, officials said, even as the government plans to further expand oil exploration in the region. Oil prices in the country have been on the rise for the past few months due to an increase in crude oil prices in the international market. In some places in Rajasthan, such as Sri Ganganagar, not very far from oil producing Barmer, the price of petrol is close to ₹110 per litre.Barmer is the country’s biggest source of oil and natural gas, and contributed ₹1,904.79 crore to state revenue in 2020-21, down from ₹3,883.22 in 2018-19. This means that oil fields contributed ₹10 crore a day to the state government, whose other big revenue sources are mines, excise, and stamp and registration. “The state revenue from oil declined majorly due to less extraction of oil, affecting the production and crude oil prices, and partly Covid-19,” an official said, talking about the reasons for the dip in the revenue. Also Read | Without checks, government’s palm oil plan may spell disasterBarmer’s Gudamalani area has reserves of 10 billion cubic metres of gas, of which only 30% has been explored. India’s total oil and gas reserves are 28.1 billion cubic metes, according to the petroleum ministry website.The official said that in April, May and June 2020, crude oil prices witnessed a huge fall in the international market. But despite the pandemic, in 2021-22, as the prices and production were stable and crude oil prices improved in July 2021, theexpected revenue was received. “The petroleum reserves are on a natural decline, which is slowing down production,” the official quoted above said.The government, till July this year, has received a revenue of ₹1,193 crore. It has set a target of ₹3,500. The official said the demand for oil has started increasing and the price of crude oil has also improved. He added that enhanced oil recovery techniques are being used to maintain production--all these factors have led to an increase in revenue.However, despite the fluctuation in state revenue, the one-and-a-half decade of oil exploration in Barmer has changed the small nondescript town. Barmer has transformed from a small hamlet into a glitzy city, said Rakesh Sharma, a local political activist.The discovery of crude oil and coal in early 2004 fuelled Barmer’s growth, as oil majors Cairn India and Raj West Power invested heavily, generating thousands of new jobs in a city of 1.5 million people, about 540km from Jaipur. The companies acquired huge chunks of land, jacking up land prices by five to 10 times in a short period. Now, an upcoming oil refinery worth ₹43,129 crore is expected to further hike land prices and bring another round of development in the town. Commercial production will start from the Barmer Refinery by March 2023. The refinery will process 9 million tonnes of crude oil annually. A work order of ₹37,464 crore has been issued for the refinery project till July 2021. Additional chief secretary, mines and petroleum, Dr Subodh Agarwal, said inMarch 2021 the western region of the state received impetus for further development as the third gas plant of the state Rageshwari Deep Gas Plant was ready. “It would provide thousands of new jobs and boost economy of the region further in western region, which was earlier considered backward,” he said.Due to the plant, operational now, the total production of natural gas has increased to 3.8 million cubic metres (mcm) per day (in July 2021) from 2.9mcm per day in March 2021. This would be five percent of total gas production in the country, according to the petroleum ministry website.Agarwal said a refinery and petrochemical complex is also being set up in Pachpadra, Barmer, on 4.813 acres of land which is scheduled to start commercial production by March 2023.“The second wave of the pandemic reduced the pace of refinery work. Till June 2021, work orders worth ₹37,347 crore were issued. Of this amount, ₹8,041.66 crore has been spent,” he said on Monday in Jaipur.“Commercial production will start from Barmer Refinery by March 2023,” he added.n the next few days, he said, Oil India will invest about ₹95 crore to explore mineral oil and natural gas in Barmer. “And upon commencement of production, the state will generate revenue at the rate of 12.5% on mineral oil and 10% on natural gas production,” he said. The petroleum basin in the state is spread over an area of 1.5 lakh square kilometres in Barmer, Jalore, Jaisalmer, Nagaur, Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh and Churu districts. Around 1.20 lakh to 1.22 lakh barrels of crude oil and about 33 to 35 lakh cubic metres of natural gas are produced in the state every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-biggest-oil-gas-reserve-sees-40-dip-in-production-officials-blame-covid-101629460804425.html
20-08-2021||India||Breakthrough Covid infections expected in India; reproduction rate drops below 1||The reproduction rate of Covid infection in India has dropped below 1 implying that 100 infected people are spreading the infection to less than 100 people, to 89 people as the R-value at present stands at 0.89. The Covid-19 situation in the country is improving with the active cases declined to around 3.6 lakh, the lowest in 150 days.However, the country is witnessing a considerable number of breakthrough infections and a very high proportion of the Delta variant is responsible for breakthrough infection after either one of two doses of vaccination, the Indian SARS-CoV2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) said. But the present vaccination drive continues to be effective in reducing severe disease and death, the INSACOG said.Also Read: India has administered at least 571 million Covid vaccine doses till now"Delta variant is the major VOC in India at this time. Continuing outbreaks across India are attributable to Delta, a susceptible population, reduced vaccine effectiveness in blocking transmission, and opportunities for transmission," the INSACOG said.Kerala, which is still a cause for concern with over 20,000 cases, reported thousands of breakthrough infections. This triggered apprehension whether any new variant is active in the state. While investigations for any new variant is on, the experts have said that so far it is Delta that is still driving the Covid cases in India. Delta Plus resulted in a few deaths in Maharashtra but the strain is not worrying as there are around 61 sampled detected with Delta Plus since the time the variant was detected in the country.Citing the examples of the United Kingdom, which witnessed 1.2 lakh breakthrough cases since April, the expert group said that vaccination breakthroughs are expected in India as well as they are common during Delta outbreaks.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breakthrough-covid-infections-expected-in-india-reproduction-rate-drops-below-1-101629458711386.html
20-08-2021||India||Nadda holds back-to-back meetings in Uttarakhand; focus on 2022 election strategy||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda on Friday arrived in poll-bound Uttarakhand for a two-day visit as the party seeks to retain power in the state. He first held closed-door meetings with state unit office bearers, chiefs of all 13 districts, and state youth wing presidents and general secretaries. Nadda later met parliamentarians and legislators for close to an hour before meeting state Cabinet ministers and chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami.People aware of the matter said the major focus was on ensuring the BJP retains its 50 plus seats in the 70-member state assembly. The party won 56 seats in 2017. The BJP faces a challenge from the Congress as well as the Aam Aadmi Party, which is trying to make inroads into the state.Also Read | FIRs against BJP workers for violating Covid norms at Rane’s Mumbai rallyNadda was expected to evaluate the performance of legislators and issue directives on addressing their shortcomings. “(Nadda) will (hold) eight meetings during his two-day stay in Haridwar. On Saturday, he will meet ex-servicemen at Raiwala... and saints. Prior to this, he will chair a meeting of the state BJP core group,” said BJP state general secretary Kuldeep Kumar.Congress leader Dhirendra Pratap said there is a sense of urgency and disappointment among the BJP cadre. “Lacklustre performance in the past five years and three chief ministers have put the BJP on the back foot. Congress is set to gain from this and return in power.”BJP state chief Madan Kaushik said Nadda’s visit will boost the party’s morale as it gets into election mode under his guidance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-arrives-in-uttarakhand-holds-back-to-back-meetings-101629458764359.html
20-08-2021||India||477 children rescued from Maha railway stations reunited with parents||Railway Protection Force (RPF) rescued 477 runaway children from railway platforms at stations on Central Railway across Maharashtra over the past seven months and reunited them with their parents.As per information shared by Central Railways, those rescued include 310 boys and 167 girls and were reunited with their guardians with the help of non-governmental organisations like Childline."Most of these children came to the railway stations without informing their families due to some fight or some family issues or in search of better life or glamour. They were found loitering on the platforms or near the railway stations by trained RPF personnel or sometimes in trains also. Many of the parents express their deep gratitude and thankfulness for this noble service of the Railways," read the statement.These children were rescued over the period of January to July 2021 from Mumbai, Bhusawal, Nagpur, Pune and Solapur divisions of Central Railways.Central Railways shared an incident where a 17 year-old-girl of Patna, who had run away from her home to make a career in modelling and acting in Mumbai without informing anyone, was rescued. In another incident, a 14 year-old-girl, who ran away from her home in Telangana after being scolded by her mother, was rescued.General Manager Anil Kumar Lahoti said that the Railways play its role of social responsibility by connecting with the runaway children, understanding their problems and counselling them to go with their family. He also appreciated the RPF and frontline staff who play an important role by identifying such cases with their innate sense and taking immediate action as a counsellor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/477-children-rescued-from-maha-railway-stations-reunited-with-parents-101629457089362.html
20-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Air India Captain Devi Sharan remembers Kandahar hijack and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Seems nothing has changed..': Captain Devi Sharan remembers 1999's Kandahar hijackAir India Captain Devi Sharan was 37 years old when five masked men hijacked the airbus he was flying from Kathmandu to Delhi carrying 176 passengers in 1999. Read MoreFacebook, Instagram remove Rahul Gandhi's post with Delhi rape victim's kinContent posted by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi that revealed the identity of the family of a minor gangrape victim from northwest Delhi have been removed by Facebook and the photo-sharing app Instagram owned by it. Read MoreChina passes law to curb, regulate collection of private dataChina on Friday passed a new legislation to curb and regulate online data collection by private companies, official media reported. Read MoreRafael Nadal ends 2021 season prematurely over foot issue, to miss US OpenSpaniard Rafael Nadal said on Friday that he will end his 2021 season early due to a foot injury that has been troubling him for a year. Read MoreStep inside Jacqueline Fernandez's new apartment, which was home to Priyanka Chopra during her weddingActor Jacqueline Fernandez has shared a couple of new vlogs on her YouTube channel, giving fans a good look inside her apartment. Read MoreTaliban kill journalist's kin; Hunt Door-to-Door for Afghan Forces, US AlliesDespite Taliban's repeated claims of pardoning their opponents in Afghanistan, shocking reports of the insurgents brutality have emerged. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-air-india-captain-devi-sharan-remembers-kandahar-hijack-and-all-the-latest-news-101629457239559.html
20-08-2021||India||Facebook, Instagram remove Rahul Gandhi's post with Delhi rape victim's kin||Content posted by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi that revealed the identity of the family of a minor gangrape victim from northwest Delhi have been removed by Facebook and the photo-sharing app Instagram owned by it. The move came days after microblogging platform Twitter took similar steps as child rights body National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) intensified its glare on the issue.Facebook said the posts violated its policies. “We have taken action to remove the content as it was in violation of our policies,” a spokesperson of the platform said on Friday.Also read | BJP slams Rahul over photo of Dalit rape victim’s familyFacebook has reportedly informed Gandhi and NCPCR about the removal of the posts from both the platforms.Earlier this week, Facebook had written to Gandhi urging him to remove the said post from Instagram.After issuing a notice to Twitter over Gandhi’s post, NCPCR had asked Facebook, last week, to take appropriate action against the Wayanad MP’s Instagram profile over violation of provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and the Indian Penal Code. It further demanded the removal of the video from the platform.Following the communication from Facebook to Gandhi earlier this week, NCPCR withdrew its direction to the company to appear before the commission with an explanation over non-action regarding Gandhi's post.Gandhi had stirred a controversy after sharing an image of his meeting with the parents of the nine-year-old girl earlier this month on social media. Along with the photo, he had written he was with them on the path to justice and "will not back down even an inch".Soon after, NCPCR took up the matter and BJP leaders accused him of politicising the tragedy.Twitter had locked accounts of Gandhi as well as many other Congress leaders who tweeted the controversial post. Gandhi then took to Instagram and said he was guilty if fighting for justice for a rape and murder victim is a crime. “If showing compassion and empathy is a crime. I am guilty.”On August 14, Twitter restored Gandhi's account after the Congress leader submitted a consent letter from the family of the victim.Twitter, however, continues to withhold the tweets that contain the images saying they violate Indian laws."As part of the appeal process, @RahulGandhi (the official Twitter handle of Rahul Gandhi) has submitted a copy of the formal consent/authorisation letter to use the referenced image via our India Grievance Channel," Twitter spokesperson had said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-instagram-remove-rahul-gandhi-s-post-with-delhi-rape-victim-s-kin-101629456481686.html
20-08-2021||India||'Seems nothing has changed..': Captain Devi Sharan remembers 1999's Kandahar hijack||Air India Captain Devi Sharan was 37 years old when five masked men hijacked the airbus he was flying from Kathmandu to Delhi carrying 176 passengers in 1999. From Amritsar to Lahore to Dubai and then finally in Kandahar -- the captain was asked to take the plane to Taliban heartland. The hostage crisis lasted for seven days and after India agreed to release three terrorists -- Mushtaq Ahmed Zargar, Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh, and Masood Azhar.At that time, the Taliban were ruling Afghanistan and the Taliban fighters surrounded the Air India airbus when it was force-landed in Kandahar airport. With the fall of Kabul on August 15, the country is again in the grip of the Taliban. The gap of 20 years in which the group surreptitiously gained power has led to a narrative that Taliban 2.0 may not be as ruthless as the Taliban which reigned between 1996 and 2001. But for Captain Devi Sharan who had a first-hand experience in the land of the Taliban as a hostage, it is all the same. "People who have surrounded our aircraft weren't polished," he said to news agency ANI remembering the Kandahar hijack.Also Read | Taliban conduct raids at closed Indian embassies in 2 cities: Intel"I don't think there is any difference between old and new Taliban. The only difference is that maybe now they are a little educated," the captain said."The kind of behaviour we faced 20 years ago, it is difficult to believe how the future will be. But definitely, we had a very bad time in Kandahar... That time they were not listening to us. Their only motive was that their demands were fulfilled. We knew that we cannot come out of the situation without accepting their demands," he said.In 1999, the hijacked plane and people on board are the only people at Kandahar, but now one can see a crowd at the Kabul airport, Devi Sharan said. "Definitely, these people are desperate to come out just like we wanted to come out," he told news agency PTI."They are roaming around in open jeeps with rocket launchers on Kabul streets, just like they did when they were surrounding our aircraft in Kandahar. It was as if nothing has changed," Devi Sharan said.Since their takeover of the country, the Taliban have been attempting an image makeover. As they reached Kabul onAugust 15, they announced that they would not capture Kabul by force. The Taliban have addressed a press conference early this week and said they want peaceful ties with all countries. There will be no revenge, women will have their rights in the new regime etc.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seems-nothing-has-changed-captain-devi-sharan-remembers-1999-s-kandahar-hijack-101629454317239.html
20-08-2021||India||Former UP CM Kalyan Singh on life support, Yogi Adityanath pays visit||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, 89, who is admitted to a hospital in Lucknow, is said to be in a critical condition and is on life-saving support system. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath paid a visit to the hospital to enquire about the veteran leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday.Adityanath came to the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in the morning. He was accompanied by medical education minister Suresh Khanna, the hospital said in a statement.“Kalyan Singh's health status is critical and is on life-saving support system,” the hospital said, adding he is under close observation of the doctors.“The senior faculty of Critical Care Medicine, Cardiology, Nephrology, Neurology and Endocrinology are keeping a close watch on all the aspects related to his health," the hospital said.Hospital director professor RK Dhiman is supervising his treatment on a daily basis, it added.The former UP CM was admitted to the hospital's intensive care unit on July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness level.Earlier, he was undergoing treatment at the Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences here. The 89-year-old veteran leader had served as the governor of Rajasthan as well.On August 1, Union home minister Amit Shah had visited the ailing leader at the hospital.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kalyan-singh-critical-cm-yogi-adityanath-pays-visit-101629453351141.html
20-08-2021||India||Afghan man who stayed in Nagpur for 10 years might have joined Taliban, say cops||Afghan man Noor Mohammad who had stayed in Nagpur illegally for 10 years before being deported to his country in June this year might have joined the Taliban, a senior police official of Nagpur has told news agency PTI. A photo of the man carrying an assault rifle has surfaced on social media following which such speculations have been rife. The possibility is not ruled out, police said but have not confirmed whether the image that is being circulated after the fall of Kabul on August 15 is that of Noor Mohammad. The photo reached the police through his friends in Nagpur, who are claiming that the man in the photograph is Noor."The man, Noor Mohammad Ajiz Mohammad, 30, was found staying in Nagpur for the last 10 years illegally. He was living in a rented place in the Dighori area of the city. Acting on a tip-off, the police had started keeping a watch on his activities. He was finally nabbed and deported to Afghanistan on June 23," the official said.'Seems nothing has changed..': Captain Devi Sharan remembers Kandahar hijackReports said the man had come to India in 2010 on a six-month tourist visa and was staying in Nagpur. After his visa expired, he applied to the United Nations Human Rights Council seeking refugee status, but his application was rejected. Since then, he has stayed in Nagpur illegally.In Nagpur Police's earlier probe, it was revealed that Noor Mohammad's original name is Abdul Haque and his brother was working with the Taliban. He was active on social media and had posted a photo carrying a sharp-edged weapon. The account that he used to handle was following some terrorists, police claimed. Police said deporting him was a better option as registering an offence against him would have prolonged his stay in India.After he was nabbed, police found "entry and exit wounds" from a gunshot near Noor's left shoulder. "He was in the business of selling blankets and was unmarried. Police conducted searches at his rented accommodation, but did not find anything suspicious," the senior official said.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-man-who-stayed-in-nagpur-for-10-years-might-have-joined-taiban-say-cops-101629450081980.html
20-08-2021||India||On Muharram, PM Modi, Kejriwal remember Imam Hussain’s sacrifice||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday remembered the sacrifice of Hazrat Imam Hussain, the grandson of Prophet Muhammad, on the occasion of Muharram. "We remember the sacrifices of Hazrat Imam Hussain (AS) and recall his courage as well as a commitment to justice. He devoted great importance to peace and social equality," PM Modi said in a tweet.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also tweeted his message on Muharram. “The martyrdom of Hazrat Imam Hussain, who sacrificed for truth and justice, will always be remembered. His life is an example of simplicity and struggle,” Kejriwal posted on Twitter.Muharram is the first month of the Islamic calendar. It is one of the four sacred months of the year and is considered the second holiest after the Ramazan month.Hussain and his followers were martyred at the Battle of Karbala that took place more than 14 centuries ago. The place is now situated in Iraq. Every year on the tenth day of Muharram, Muslims across the world mourn the martyrdom of Hazrat Imam Hussain, the son of Hazrat Ali.The mourning period begins from the first night of Muharram and continues for 10 nights, concluding on the 10th of Muharram, which is known as the Day of Ashura. Muslims are also prohibited from taking part in activities like warfare and use it as a period of prayer and reflection.This year, the crescent for Muharram was sighted on August 9 in Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Kuwait, Iraq, Qatar, Bahrain, Oman and other Arab states, which marked the first day of Muharram on August 10. Hence, Ashura in these countries was observed on August 19 while the ninth fast fell on August 18, 2021.In India, the Markazi Ruyat e Hilal Committee under Imarat e Shariah New Delhi confirmed the start of the Islamic New Year 1443 AH on Wednesday (August 11) hence, Muslims in the country observed their Ashura fasting on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-muharram-pm-modi-kejriwal-remember-imam-hussain-s-sacrifice-101629447970764.html
20-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Assam renames foreigner detention centres to transit camps and all the latest news||Assam govt renames ‘foreigner’ detention centres to ‘transit camps’The Assam government has renamed detention centres, which house persons declared foreigners or suspected to be illegal immigrants, as transit camps. A notification in this regard, issued on August 17 by Niraj Verma, principal secretary, home and political department, mentioned that the “nomenclature of detention centre is changed to transit camp for detention purpose”. Read moreFIRs against BJP workers for violating Covid norms at Rane’s Mumbai rallyThe Mumbai Police on Thursday registered 19 First Information Reports (FIRs) against Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and organisers of Union minister Narayan Rane’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra for allegedly violating Covid norms. Read moreJohnson & Johnson submits plea for study of Covid-19 vaccine on adolescentsJohnson & Johnson has submitted an application to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) to conduct a study of its vaccine against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in India among adolescents aged 12-17 years. Read moreRelative of DW journalist in Afghanistan killed by Taliban: broadcasterTaliban fighters in Afghanistan have shot and killed a relative of a Deutsche Welle journalist while hunting for him, the German public broadcaster said. The militants were conducting a house-to-house search for the journalist, who now works in Germany, DW said Thursday. Read moreTesla AI Day: EV-maker shows improved self-driving tech for AutopilotTesla has showcased improvements in its self-driving technology Autopilot on the first day of the Tesla AI Day event held in US. The technology used in the US-based electric vehicle manufacturer's autonomous cars have been under the scanner in recent times due to series of road accidents. Read moreRhea Kapoor, Karan Boolani sent a card explaining why some Bollywood friends couldn't be invited to wedding, see picNewlyweds Rhea Kapoor and Karan Boolani sent a special card announcing their wedding to their industry friends. Ayesha Shroff, the wife of actor Jackie Shroff, shared a glimpse of the card on Instagram. Read more'Records are only for media and fans': Gautam Gambhir says India-New Zealand clash at T20 World Cup is '50-50' contestFormer India cricketer Gautam Gambhir believes that the upcoming clash between India and New Zealand at the T20 World Cup will be an evenly-contested battle, even though the recent results between the two teams leaning towards the Kiwis. Read moreOla CEO Bhavish Aggarwal posts about the ‘best way to do meetings’. WatchA post shared by Ola CEO Bhavish Aggarwal is making people smile online. Shared on Twitter, there is a chance that his post will have the same effect on you too. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-assam-renames-foreigner-detention-centres-to-transit-camps-101629442914044.html
20-08-2021||India||PM Modi lays foundation stone for Parvati temple in Somnath; inaugurates multiple other projects||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday inaugurated several projects in Gujarat’s Somnath and laid the foundation stone for Parvati Temple, which is proposed to be constructed with a total outlay of ₹30 crore. PM Modi also inaugurated other projects including the Somnath Promenade, Somnath Exhibition Centre, and the reconstructed temple precinct of Old (Juna) Somnath virtually."We need to strengthen religious tourism," PM Modi said after the inauguration. He also praised the projects and said, "this will also provide employment to youth. They (youth) will also get knowledge about our past."Union home minister Amit Shah also joined the event virtually and Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani participated from Somnath. “The developments at the Somnath will attract tourists at the temple,” Amit Shah said.According to a statement from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), Somnath Promenade has been developed under the Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual, Heritage Augmentation Drive (PRASHAD) Scheme at a cost of over ₹47 crore.The reconstructed temple precinct of Old (Juna) Somnath, also referred to as Ahilyabai Temple, has been completed by Shree Somnath Trust with a total outlay of ₹3.5 crore.The temple was built by Indore' queen Ahilyabai after she found that the old temple was in ruins. The old temple complex has been holistically redeveloped for the safety of pilgrims and with augmented capacity, officials have said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lays-foundation-stone-for-parvati-temple-in-somnath-inaugurates-multiple-other-projects-101629443368423.html
20-08-2021||India||Amarinder, Sidhu form 'strategic group' for coordination between party and govt||A ‘strategic policy group’, headed by Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and comprising state Congress president Navjot Singh Sighu among others, would be formed to ensure better coordination between the two arms of the ruling regime and “expedite implementation of various government programmes and reform initiatives”.Accompanied by senior party functionaries Kuljit Nagra and Pargat Singh, Sidhu met the chief minister earlier in the day Friday to discuss coordination between the government and party, the CM's media in-charge advisor shared in a series of tweets. Also read | Congress infighting: Not ‘fully satisfied’ with situation, Harish Rawat to visit Punjab next weekThe announcement of formation of a 10-member group that would meet on a weekly basis was made after the meeting. Besides Singh and Sindhu, both of whom had been on a warpath till recently, the team would have ministers Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Singh Badal and Aruna Chaudhary, four Congress working presidents -- Kuljit Singh Nagra, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Sangat Singh Gilzian and Arun Goel -- and Pargat Singh, who took charge as the state unit's general secretary earlier in the week.The CM further assigned cabinet ministers to meet Congress MLAs and functionaries by rotation every morning during the week to address their grievances and discuss issues related to their constituencies and areas. He also posted a list of the roster on Twitter. There have been frequent complaints of the CM and his team being unavailable to party workers at the grassroots level.He further urged his party and cabinet colleagues to check facts before issuing statements.'I advise all cabinet & party colleagues to check facts before issuing statements. I suggest they should discuss all issues, especially sensitive ones, either with me or on @INCPunjab platform before going public': @capt_amarinder in response to remarks by @Sukhjinder_INC pic.twitter.com/t6YlMJbMEmPunjab is scheduled for its next election early next year and months-long factionalism within the state Congress has the central leadership deeply worried.Also read | Punjab: As Congress factionalism persists, Opposition smells an opportunity The CM had earlier made all effort to stop Sidhu from becoming the state Congress unit chief as the latter repeatedly criticised him over his handling of several issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-sidhu-form-strategic-group-for-coordination-between-party-and-govt-101629442259981.html
20-08-2021||India||Two members of Hizbul hit squad killed in Kashmir||Two members of the “hit squad” of Jammu and Kashmir’s (J&K)’s largest indigenous insurgent group Hizbul Mujahideen were killed in an exchange of fire with security forces at Khrew in Pulwama district on Friday, police said.A police spokesman said the squad was involved in the killing of a school peon last month and many other incidents of violence in the Pulwama district.The two were killed amid a spike in violence in the Valley that has left 10 people including a policeman dead this month. A worker of the Apni Party, which was floated after the revocation of J&K’s semi-autonomous status in 2019, was killed in Kulgam on Thursday. As many as 23 workers and functionaries belonging to the Bharatiya Janata Party, including three this month, have been killed in the Valley over the last two years. In a statement, the J&K Police identified the slain as Musaib Mushtaq and Muzamil Ahmad Rather. “An AK rifle and pistol was recovered from the slain militants.”This was the latest in a series of gunfights as security forces have intensified counter-insurgency operations in the Valley and killed 91 militants in Kashmir so far this year. This month, five militants have been killed in separate operations.Défense ministry spokesman Emran Mosavi said that operation in Khrew was launched at 1:00 am. “They (security forces) drew a heavy volume of fire from terrorists hiding in the village. The forces quickly isolated the house(where they were holed up), ensuring that other innocent civilians were not caught in the crossfire. The terrorists were asked to surrender time and again but refused. Intermittent exchange of fire continued throughout the night.”He said that around 6:30 am, one of the two tried to escape from the house by firing on the troops, but he was soon neutralised. “The second terrorist was contained in the house by the troops on the ground and was later neutralised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-militants-killed-in-an-encounter-in-kashmir-s-pulwama-101629442743231.html
20-08-2021||India||Dry fruit supplies hit badly as Taliban halt trade with India||Dry fruit supplies in the country have been hit badly after the Taliban halted trade with India after taking power in the country last week. India imported 85% of dry fruits from Afghanistan in the last financial year. Imports worth $550 million from that country largely included apples and dry fruits in 2020-21.“As of now, the Taliban have stopped movement of cargo to Pakistan, so virtually imports have been stopped,” said Federation of Indian Export Organisation director-general Ajay Sahai.Rajinder Shah, a dry fruits trader in Mumbai, said since the Taliban took over, not even one truck of dry fruits arrived at the Wagah border (Amritsar) via Pakistan. Dry fruits to India from Afghanistan are also imported via Iran’s Chabahar.Shah said nearly 200 trucks that were to arrive have been halted and caused a loss of lakhs of rupees to importers.The dry fruit rates have been fluctuating since the Taliban began closing in on Kabul. Traders said there has been an increase of ₹200 per kilogram of almonds, figs, apricots, and raisins. Pistachio prices have risen by ₹250 per kilogram.“Not just supply but sentiments decide the prices too,” said another importer Sunil Chabbria. He added it is too premature to discuss how the situation will unfold. “Our suppliers in Afghanistan are saying that hopefully everything will be normally exported soon.”Vijay Kumar Bhuta, president, Dry Fruit Traders Association, Mumbai, said the closure of banks in Afghanistan has also added to their woes. He added Afghan exporters say the stocks are available in abundance, but they are waiting for the deadlock to end. “(Limited) stocks are available in India right now... By September beginning, new stocks arrive. With this thought, everyone was trying to self-off their old stock to buy the new one.”Bhuta said normally in winter dry fruits sales increase and if the ban stays, the loss will be enormous for India as well as Afghanistan. “It is only India which imports so much dry fruits from them.” Bhuta said Mumbai alone has 40 big companies importing dry fruits from Afghanistan. He added almost 38,000 metric tonnes of dry fruits are imported annually from Afghanistan worst almost $650 million.Another Mumbai importer, who identified himself as Raj, said Afghan suppliers have told them the Taliban have assured them that there would be “no disturbance” to trade. “No one wants to transport cargo through roads governed by them (Taliban) right now...” Raj added like many traders he has paid advance money to suppliers in Afghanistan.Jitender Ashar, a trader, said there has been a 15% increase in dry fruit prices ahead of major festivals such as Diwali when their sales go up.Shah said the current stock is not going last beyond 15 days. “There might even be an increase of 40% (in prices) and this too would not come down immediately even if the trade is restored. It is a journey of 8 to 10 days from here to Afghanistan and even after trade revival, it will take time to replenish the stocks.”Shah said they do not know whatever the export document the Taliban will issue will be accepted here or not. He added over 30,000 trucks of dry fruits come to India each year. “Besides this, fresh fruits like pomegranate, cherry also come in around 20,000 trucks. This too is halted,” he said. “Much of this includes perishable items.”The Union commerce ministry officials did not also respond to calls from HT for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dry-fruit-supplies-hit-badly-as-taliban-halt-trade-with-india-101629440223013.html
20-08-2021||India||Johnson & Johnson submits plea for study of Covid-19 vaccine on adolescents||Johnson & Johnson has submitted an application to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) to conduct a study of its vaccine against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in India among adolescents aged 12-17 years.In a statement released on Friday, the American pharmaceuticals company reportedly said it had submitted its application to the Indian drug regulator on Tuesday. It further said it was "imperative" to ensure all sections of the population, including children, were vaccinated against the virus at the earliest."To ultimately achieve herd immunity it is imperative that COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials continue to move forward in this population, and we remain deeply committed to the critical work needed to make our COVID-19 vaccine equitably accessible for all age groups," the statement added.Johnson & Johnson’s single-dose vaccine was granted approval for emergency use in India on August 7 after applying for approval from CDSCO on August 5. It had made the submission based on "topline efficacy and safety data from the Phase 3 ENSEMBLE clinical trial". The trials had showed the single-shot vaccine was 85 per cent effective in preventing severe cases of coronavirus disease across all the regions that were studied.The vaccine also demonstrated protection against coronavirus-related hospitalisation and death, beginning 28 days after vaccination.Before this, the company had withdrawn its proposal seeking accelerated approval of its Covid-19 vaccine in the country, without giving additional details.The government had earlier said inoculation of children against the virus is likely to begin very soon. On Thursday, Bharat Biotech’s managing director Krishna Ella said the trial phase of clinical studies in volunteers in the 2-18 age group has been completed and the vaccination drive may start as early September.There are two vaccine candidates that have been tested among children in India: Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-D. The Covaxin trial includes 525 volunteers while ZyCov-D’s trials – as part of the phase II/III clinical studies – includes 1,000 volunteers in the 12-18 age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/johnson-johnson-submits-plea-for-study-of-covid-19-vaccine-on-adolescents-101629439652481.html
20-08-2021||India||Assam govt renames ‘foreigner’ detention centres to ‘transit camps’||The Assam government has renamed detention centres, which house persons declared foreigners or suspected to be illegal immigrants, as transit camps. A notification in this regard, issued on August 17 by Niraj Verma, principal secretary, home and political department, mentioned that the “nomenclature of detention centre is changed to transit camp for detention purpose”. Sources in the government, on condition of anonymity, stated that the decision was made by the state’s second Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government headed by Himanta Biswa Sarma in order to make the detention centres sound humane. “This is just a change of name and nothing much needs to be read into it. Detention centres sound like concentration camps, while in reality they are not. Hence, it order make it sound more humane, the name was changed,” said a senior official. Also Read | ‘Didn’t compromise my father’s ideology’: Sushmita Dev after reaching home as TMC memberAt present there are six detention centres located inside Dibrugarh, Kokrajhar, Goalpara, Jorhat, Tezpur and Silchar jails. A new facility meant exclusively for those declared foreigners by foreigners’ tribunals or those suspected to be illegal immigrants that can house nearly 3,000 inmates is nearing completion at Matia in Goalpara district. “Transit camp means it’s a place where people stay temporarily and leave. The government has to clarify how changing the name of detention centres to transit camps affect the detainees or the legality behind the change in nomenclature,” said Bobbeeta Sharma, media in-charge of Congress in Assam. Most detainees in the detention centres are from Bangladesh. But since India doesn’t have any repatriation treaty with the neighbouring country to take back Bangladeshis found staying illegally in India, there’s no surety on how long the detainees have to spend in the centres or how they will be sent back. Last month chief minister Sarma, who holds the home portfolio, told the state assembly that the detention centres house 181 inmatest. Twenty persons housed in these centres have died due to various causes since 2009, he said. Of the 181 detainees, 61 have been “declared foreigners” by tribunals, and the rest convicted by courts for various crimes (they would be deported once their prison sentences are over). The detainees include nine women and 22 children who are housed in the centres at Kokrajhar, Silchar and Tezpur. Of the children, 20 are below 14 years of age, the CM informed the House. The government had notified detention centres in 2009 to house people “declared foreigners” by tribunals till they are deported. The centres were created inside jails as a temporary measure till a permanent place was constructed or found to keep them. Following a Supreme Court order in 2019, 273 “declared foreigners” who had spent three years or more in the detention centres were released on bail. Another 481 who had spent two years in the centres were released following another Supreme Court order the next year. The CM stated that over 136,000 cases are pending in foreigners tribunals, while nearly 300,000 cases have been disposed of. The tribunals have declared nearly 140,000 people foreigners while 118,616 have been acknowledged as Indians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-govt-renames-foreigner-detention-centres-to-transit-camps-101629439923227.html
20-08-2021||India||India pays tribute to former PM Rajiv Gandhi on his 77th birth anniversary||Tributes started pouring in for former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi on Friday on his 77th birth anniversary even as several Congress leaders, including his son Rahul Gandhi, visited his memorial in Delhi. Vice president M Venakaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among those who paid their tributes. “My tributes to former Prime Minister, Shri Rajiv Gandhi Ji on his birth anniversary today. His valuable contributions to the IT, telecom and education sector will always be remembered,” Naidu tweeted. “Tributes to our former PM Shri Rajiv Gandhi Ji on his birth anniversary,” PM Modi tweeted.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also wrote a message on Twitter in memory of the late leader.Rajiv Gandhi's son and senior leader of the Congress party, Rahul Gandhi, visited Veer Bhumi in Delhi to pay his respect. Rahul Gandhi also remembered his father in a message posted on Facebook. "A secular India alone is an India that can survive. Remembering Shri Rajiv Gandhi ji on his birth anniversary," he wrote in a Facebook post.Born in 1944, Rajiv Gandhi became the youngest prime minister of India in 1984 after he assumed office following the death of his mother Indira Gandhi. He served as the prime minister of India till December 2, 1989. The Congress celebrates Rajiv Gandhi's birth anniversary as Sadbhavna Divas.In 1968, Rajiv Gandhi married Sonia Gandhi who is the current president of the Congress party. Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi are the couple's children.A Bharat Ratna recipient, Rajiv Gandhi was the sixth prime minister of the country. During his tenure as the prime minister, Rajiv Gandhi symbolised a change in the arena of politics, economy, and morality in public life, through consent and conciliation, participation, and persuasion.Rajiv Gandhi, who was a trained pilot and worked for state-owned Indian Airlines for some time, also worked hard to put an end to agitations and violations in Punjab, Assam, Mizoram, Nagaland, and Kashmir to restore peace and democracy.A suicide bomber of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) killed him during an election rally in Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu in 1991.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-pays-tribute-to-former-pm-rajiv-gandhi-on-his-77th-birth-anniversary-101629435194433.html
20-08-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor’s lawyers asked him to stay away from ‘media circus’||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor’s legal team advised him to stay away from the “media circus” and avoid making any public statements that could create confusion and trigger public debate during the proceedings in the case related to his wife Sunanda Pushkar’s alleged suicide, his lawyer Vikas Pahwa has said. A Delhi court on Wednesday dropped all charges against Tharoor in the case.Pahwa said Tharoor’s legal team requested the magistrate to keep the investigation papers confidential and not share them with anyone to avoid media trials. He said the media was running a “full-fledged media trial parallel to the investigation”. He said the media have the right to report the court proceedings, but not to analyse the evidence and pass judgement even before the trial begins. Pahwa said the media were doing a disservice to the justice system by generating adverse public opinion.Also Read | Sunanda death case: Several twists and turns in years of investigationThe court said it found no material against Tharoor to establish that his actions led to Pushkar’s alleged suicide. Pushkar was found dead in a luxury hotel in New Delhi in January 2014.Pahwa said the court’s order has strengthened their confidence in the criminal justice system wherein trial courts can exercise power to reject the flimsy charge sheets filed at the very inception of the trial.Immensely proud of the stellar legal eagles who stood w/me for truth&Justice. In addition to Vikas Pahwa &GauravGupta whom I mentioned in my statement, @lawyerkhanmd Muhammad Khan was intimately involved in strategy even from the UK where he is pursuing his studies. Thanks Team! pic.twitter.com/KoN8GRQRrjPahwa’s team of lawyers included Gaurav Gupta and Mohammad Ali Khan, who has been a part of the Congress’s legal team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-s-lawyers-asked-him-to-stay-away-from-media-circus-101629430922037.html
20-08-2021||India||Widespread rain likely over Bihar, Uttarakhand and east UP from today: IMD||Widespread rain is likely over Bihar, east Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand in the next two-three days while scattered rain is likely over parts of the rest of northwest India, according to India Meteorological Department’s Friday bulletin.The western end of the monsoon trough is near its normal position and the eastern end is south of its normal position. The eastern end of monsoon trough is very likely to shift gradually northwards towards foothills of Himalayas during the next 24 hours. There is a cyclonic circulation over south Bihar and its neighbourhood. It is likely to move nearly westwards during the next two days. Due to above meteorological conditions, enhanced rainfall activity is likely over parts of northwest India and Bihar: Fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rain is likely over Bihar, east Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand from August 20 to 23. Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely over Uttarakhand on Friday.Also Read | Monsoon revival begins in northwest India but high rainfall unlikely: IMDScattered rainfall is likely over West Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh and east Rajasthan over the weekend with isolated heavy rainfall over these areas on Friday and Saturday. Enhanced rainfall activity is likely over Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours--widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rain is likely over Gujarat region, Konkan, Goa, Madhya Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh on Friday and Saturday.Rainfall activity is likely to increase over Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and northeast India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-likely-over-bihar-uttarakhand-and-east-up-from-today-imd-101629430681880.html
20-08-2021||India||India has administered at least 571 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 571 million Covid vaccine doses by Thursday, August 19. Elsewhere, a study involving 350,000 people in the UK said the effectiveness of the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid vaccine appears to decline faster than that of the Oxford-AstraZeneca jab.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Thursday, 571,671,264 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 4,884,440 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 3,635,752 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 1,248,688 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine.Also Read | Chennai Covid patient spends over 100 days on life support, recoversIn the 18-45 age group, 2,666,831 were given the first dose while 601,437 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 211,311,218 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 17,943,325 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 10 million vaccine doses in the 18-45 years age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.Kerala has administered at least 25 million doses till now, said the state health minister Veena George. “Kerala has administered 25,520,478 doses. Of these, 18,682,463 were given the first dose and 6,838,015 were given the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-571-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101629429961836.html
20-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Gehlot to launch virtual incubation program for start-ups in Rajasthan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ashok Gehlot to launch virtual incubation program for start-ups in RajasthanRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot will on Friday launch the I-Start Virtual Incubation Program on the theme of “IT for Good Governance”, officials have said. Read MoreTaliban ask Afghan imams to urge people not to try to flee at Friday prayersThe Taliban have asked Afghan imams to try to counter negative reports about the group during the first Friday prayers and also urge people not to try to flee the country as tens of thousands of people are trying to escape since the hardline Islamist group seized Kabul on Sunday. Read MoreWill Tamil Nadu extend lockdown? MK Stalin may take a decision todayTamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin will on Friday take a call on extending the lockdown in the state as existing restrictions end on August 23. Read More'Sachin Tendulkar was the best technical player I ever played against': Allan DonaldA look at Sachin Tendulkar's stats in South Africa showcases how much he enjoyed batting in the country. Read MoreWatch: Afghans celebrate Independence Day in India amid Taliban takeover back home||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ashok-gehlot-to-launch-virtual-incubation-program-for-start-ups-in-rajasthan-and-all-the-latest-news-101629429074615.html
20-08-2021||India||'Living miracle': Chennai Covid patient spends over 100 days on life support, recovers||A Chennai man spent nearly four months on life support machines and recovered without a lung transplant after contracting Covid-19, the hospital that treated him has claimed. The 56-year-old man was discharged by the Rela Hospital, a multi-speciality quaternary care hospital in Chrompet, on Thursday. The hospital said he spent about 109 days on Extra Corporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO), a procedure that oxygenates a patient’s blood outside the body, and ventilator support.“He became a living miracle, as none in the country has ever recovered without a lung transplant after spending over 9 weeks with ECMO support. Further, the treatment and care at the hospital were such that Mr Mudijja did not require a lung transplant, even after 9 weeks of ECMO support,” Rela Hospital has claimed.Mudijja tested positive for Covid-19 in April and CT scan before he was admitted to Rela Hospital indicated moderate Covid-19 pneumonia. His oxygen saturation level was at 92 per cent when he was transferred to the hospital and as his condition deteriorated, he required 10 litres of oxygen per minute.Also read | Efficacy of Pfizer shot wanes faster than Astra’s, says study Dr C Arumugam, a heart and lung transplant surgeon at the hospital, decided to put him on ECMO support and the hospital continued the medicare despite the progress being minimal during the initial four to five weeks. “ECMO, traditionally, has been used as an intermittent arrangement until lung transplantation. However, now this team has truly made it a life-saving procedure. It was an amazing outcome for the patient and his family,” Dr Mohamed Rela, the hospital’s chairperson, said.Rela said while speaking to reporters that it had allowed critical patients a better opportunity to survive and get back to their normal life.Also read | Joe Biden defends Covid-19 booster vaccines in USMudijja started improving after being put on ECMO for almost 50 days and his lungs started performing better. Dr C Arumugam said they decided to proceed with the treatment plan but without a transplant. “On the 54th day of his ECMO support, the CT scan showed few areas of resolution and we gradually reduced the Ecmo support. And after 62 days into Ecmo, the patient came off Ecmo completely,” Dr Arumugam said. “We witnessed a miracle in front of our eyes. We kept him on minimal ventilator support with tracheotomy for another two weeks and weaned him off the ventilator on July 29, 2021,” he added.“Mr Mudijja is the only patient in the country to recover without lung transplant after being hooked up to an artificial lung ECMO for over 60 days,” said Dr Arumugam.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-covid-patient-spends-over-100-days-on-life-support-recovers-101629428229596.html
20-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra’s active cases continue to drop||At 57,579 cases, Maharashtra recorded a dip in the number of active cases on Thursday. On Wednesday, the state reported 58,069 active cases, while they were 62,069 on Tuesday. However, Pune continues to lead the number of active cases with 12,917 patients, followed by Thane with 7,020 and Satara with 6,792 active cases.Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 5,225 Covid-19 new cases and 154 deaths. The state Covid tally now stands at 6,411,570, while the toll has reached 135,567.Also Read | Maharashtra: Nashik enters Race to Zero campaign, to be carbon neutral by 2040State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said the decreasing numbers indicated the decline of the virus. “Active cases are an indicator of the spread of the virus and these figures show that we have effectively contained the virus,” he said.The peak of the virus saw active cases climb to over 600,000.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, said though active cases have declined, the current situation has still not stabilised. “The manner in which people are getting infected by Delta Plus variant indicates that the third wave is inevitable,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-maharashtra-s-active-cases-continue-to-drop-101629428281779.html
20-08-2021||India||Need system to track tax cases: SC to govt||The Supreme Court on Friday urged the Union government to expeditiously put in place an electronic monitoring system to track all direct and indirect taxes’ litigation, observing this is needed if the government wants to create a business-friendly climate in the country.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah said that after the advent of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), it has become imperative to have a system where litigation involving the revenue arm of the government can be monitored to track movement of cases between tribunals and courts.“A technological tool to monitor revenue proceedings and litigation at all levels will ultimately serve the legitimate interests of the government. Bring all the procedures of adjudication under one net so that the government is able to monitor its litigation very efficiently. This is for the benefit of the entire nation and for revenue,” the bench told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Union government.It emphasised that having a monitoring system will also ensure a more business friendly adjudication process. “This will also subserve the intent of the government that it is taking into account the interest of the business community. Such a technological solution will help further the government’s intent to provide a business-friendly climate in the country.”The court, while hearing an appeal by the revenue department in February, noted gross delays in appeals being filed in the matters of indirect taxation and asked the Union government to find an answer to this state of affairs by ensuring that matters which are required to be litigated are litigated with all necessary dispatch and matters not worthy of being pursued are set to rest. In the case being heard, there was a delay of more than 500 days in filing the appeal against the decision of the tax tribunal and the tax effect was at least ₹66 crores.S-G Mehta assured the bench then that a proposal also incorporating technological modalities has been under consideration by the stakeholders to evolve a system of monitoring such cases at all levels of the courts and tribunals.On Thursday, the S-G agreed with the bench that the proposition to have a robust system was well-meaning, adding that deliberations were on to integrate Legal Information Management and Briefing System (LIMBS) with the e-office system of National Informatics Centre (NIC) to ensure that once a judgement is pronounced in any court, processing of the same starts immediately on the e-office system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-system-to-track-tax-cases-sc-to-govt-101629422567185.html
20-08-2021||India||Will Tamil Nadu extend lockdown? MK Stalin may take a decision today||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin will on Friday take a call on extending the lockdown in the state as existing restrictions end on August 23. The state government has already announced the reopening of schools for Classes 9 and 12 with 50 per cent attendance. After Friday's meeting, Stalin may relax the norms further and open schools for other classes as well.Schools for Classes 9 and 12 will reopen on September 1 and medical colleges and institutes that teach nursing courses have already been allowed to reopen from August 16.Tamil Nadu functioning under partial restrictions as the phased reopening is underway after the fall in daily Covid-19 cases. On Thursday, the state reported 1,702 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the caseload to 2,595,935, the health department said. The death toll rose to 34,639, with 29 people succumbing to the virus.Four districts recorded the highest number of new cases with Coimbatore adding 198 infections, Chennai 193, Erode 147 and Thanjavur 112. Ramanathapuram recorded the least number of new infections with three cases.On August 6, the state government extended the partial lockdown in the state. New restrictions were also added as the government banned the offering of prayers by the public in all places of worship on Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays.The government had also warned of strict action against shops and markets that violate the Covid-19 guidelines issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-tamil-nadu-extend-lockdown-mk-stalin-may-take-a-decision-today-101629421487648.html
20-08-2021||India||Apurva Chandra appointed next I&B secretary||Apurva Chandra, a 1988-batch IAS officer of Maharashtra cadre, has been appointed the secretary of information and broadcasting ministry, the cabinet appointments committee said in an order issued late on Thursday.Chandra will succeed Amit Khare, the current higher education secretary who holds the additional charge of the post of I&B secretary. Khare is scheduled to retire in September.Chandra, a post-graduate in Structural Engineering from IIT Delhi, currently holds the post of labour & employment ministry secretary. “He has a long experience of dealing with issues relating to industries while working in Government of Maharashtra and Government of India,” the government statement said.“Prior to this he was serving as Special Director General, Defence Acquisition, Ministry of Defence, a position where he played a key role in contributing towards AtmaNirbhar Bharat in terms of greater defence acquisition from domestic industry and at the same time keeping Defence Forces equipped with all its challenging requirements,” it added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apurva-chandra-appointed-next-i-b-secretary-101629419127324.html
20-08-2021||NA||Highlights| Joe Biden pledges to Americans in Kabul: 'We will get you home'||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Joe Biden says he cannot promise what final outcome will be in AfghanistanUS President Joe Biden said on Friday a large evacuation of Americans and Afghan allies from Afghanistan is a risky operation and he cannot guarantee the final outcome.Muharram observed in Kolkata sans processionsShia Muslims in Kolkata observed Muharram on Friday without taking out usual processions for the second consecutive year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.At least 9 Chinese nationals killed in massive explosion in Balochistan: ReportAt least nine Chinese nationals have been killed in a massive explosion reported in Pakistan's Gwadar, according to The Balochistan Post. The report suggests that a convoy of Chinese engineers was targeted in the blast.Click here to read more'Double good news': Health minister Mandaviya says ZyCov-D 6th vaccine to be approved in India'ZyCov-D' is the 6th approved #COVID19 vaccine in India, and the 2nd indigenously developed one.PM @NarendraModi ji's vision of #AatmanirbharBharat and Make in India delivers another significant accomplishment! (2/2)Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that ZyCov-D is the sixth vaccine, and the second indigenous vaccine, to be approved in India.As jabs arrive, Covid-19 vaccination drive to resume in Mumbai tomorrow, says BMCVaccination drive to resume tomorrow in Mumbai; BMC has received 1.50 lakh Covishield doses and 10,240 Covaxin doses: BMC#Maharashtra pic.twitter.com/GGutgwqHxzThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Coporation said that the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Mumbai would resume on Saturday after receiving 150,000 Covishield doses and 10,240 Covaxin doses, reports ANI.World must prevent collapse of Afghanistan, says Vladimir PutinRussian President Vladimir Putin said that the world must prevent the collapse of Afghanistan, reports AFP.J&K statehood, repealing farm laws among major demands in statement by opposition leadersRelease all political prisoners in J&K. Restore full statehood including J&K cadre of central services. Conduct a free and fair election at the earliest: Opposition's statement after today's meeting pic.twitter.com/WpnAxbQXV5Following the virtual meeting today, the opposition has demanded the central government to repeal the three farm laws and restore full statehood in Jammu and Kashmir in a statement, reports ANI.Mamata Banerjee calls for opposition unity to defeat BJP in 2024 pollsMamata Banerjee urges opposition parties to keep aside differences and work together to defeat BJP in 2024 LS polls: TMC leaderTrinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjeed urged the opposition leaders to set aside their difference and work together to defeat the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, reports PTI citing party leader.Maharashtra reports 4,365 new Covid cases, 105 deathsMaharashtra on Friday reported 4,365 new Covid-19 cases and 105 deaths, taking the overall death tally to 135,672.Soldier dies after falling into deep gorge in Poonch districtA soldier died after falling into a deep gorge along the higher reaches of Pir Panjal Range in Poonch district. More details to follow.Haryana govt to give ₹2 lakh financial assistance each to families who lost members to Covid-19Financial assistance of Rs. 2 lakhs each to be given to poor families (with annual income up to Rs. 1.80 lakhs), who lost members due to COVID-19: CM Manohar Lal Khattar in a reply in Haryana Vidhan Sabha(file photo) pic.twitter.com/NzNqoWKM0iThe Haryana state government would provide ₹2 lakh financial assistance each to the families that have lost members to Covid-19 and earn less than ₹1.8 lakh per month, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in a reply in state Vidhan Sabha, reports ANI.19 parties, including Congress, attend Opposition meetingAs many as 19 parties, including the Congress, are attending the meeting of Sonia Gandhi with Opposition parties. They are -1. Indian National Congress2. TMC3. NCP4. DMK5. Shiv Sena6. JMM7. CPI8. CPM9. NC10. RJD11. AIUDF12. V.C.K13. Loktantrik Janta Dal14. JDS15. RLD16. RSP17. Kerala Congress Mani18. PDP19. IUMLFBI finds scant evidence US Capitol attack was coordinated, reports ReutersEXCLUSIVE FBI finds scant evidence U.S. Capitol attack was coordinated-sources https://t.co/qERTgcYlOy pic.twitter.com/pmn6upDJ2hThe FBI has found scant evidence that the attack on US capitol was coordinated, reports Reuters.Congress leader Sonia Gandhi begins meeting with Opposition leadersMeeting of Congress interim chief Sonia Gandhi with Opposition leaders, via video conferencing, begins. (File photo) pic.twitter.com/jKt5rDZ7whThe meeting between Congress leader Sonia Gandhi and the opposition leaders had begun, reports ANI.Assam CM gives appointment letters to next of kin of police who died at gunfight in border with MizoramAssam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma gives appointment letters to next of kin of the six police personnel killed during a gunfight at interstate border with Mizoram on July 26, reports PTI.2 ITBP personnel killed in Maoist attack in ChhattisgarhTwo ITBP personnel were killed in a Naxal attack in Narayanpur district, Chhattisgarh, reports PTI, citing the police.In the attack, which took place near the ITBP camp, Kademeta in Narayanpur district, assistant commandant Sudhakar Shinde and assistant sub inspector (ASI) Gurmukh lost their lives in the line of duty.At least 12 labourers killed in Maharashtra as vehicle carrying them for a highway project overturnsAt least 12 labourers were killed in Buldhana district in Maharashtra as vehicle carrying them for the Samruddhi Highway project work overturns, reports PTI citing police.1 killed, 2 injured in assault in Jammu's DigianaOne woman was killed while two others were injured in an assault in Jammu. The Digiana police has taken cognizance of the incident. More details to follow.UP lifts weekend curfew, markets to open like regular daysThe government in UP on Friday decided to lift weekend curfews as Covid-19 cases drop steadily. The markets are also allowed to open normally like weekdays.Instagram, FB take down post From Rahul Gandhi's page that revealed the identity of rape victimInstagram and its parent company Facebook removed the post on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's page that revealed the identity of the parents of a minor girl who was raped and murdered in Delhi.PM Modi recalls sacrifice of Imam Hussain on MuharramPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday remembered the sacrifice of Prophet Muhammad's grandson Hazrat Imam Hussain on the occasion of Muharram.US evacuates about 3000 people from Afghanistan on ThursdayThe United States has airlifted around 3000 people from Afghanistan's Kabul airport on 16 flights, a White House official said.Al Qaeda hails Taliban for emancipating AfghansIt is back to square one for Afghanistan with al Qaeda in Arabian Peninsula (AQIP) praising their fellow terrorist group, the Taliban, for capturing Kabul with military force after evicting the US forces and Ashraf Ghani government. Read MorePM Modi lays foundation stone of multiple projects related to Somnath TemplePrime Minister Narendra Modi lays the foundation stone of multiple projects in Somnath, Gujarat via video conferencing. The projects include Somnath Promenade, Somnath Exhibition Centre, Parvati Temple and reconstructed temple precinct of Old Somnath.Rajnath Singh pays tribute to former PM Rajiv Gandhi on his birth anniversaryDefence Minister Rajnath Singh paid tributes to former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi on his birth anniversary at Parliament House todayShashi Tharoor’s lawyers asked him to stay away from ‘media circus’Congress leader Shashi Tharoor’s legal team advised him to stay away from the “media circus” and avoid making any public statements that could create confusion and trigger public debate during the proceedings in the case related to his wife Sunanda Pushkar’s alleged suicide, his lawyer Vikas Pahwa has said. Read MoreTaliban play the Gestapo to consolidate Afghan ruleThe Taliban are consolidating their hold on Kabul by identifying and eliminating those involved with the security set-up of the previous regime while trying to work out a face-saver transitional government in lieu of recognition from the west.2024 Lok Sabha elections to be discussed Sonia Gandhi meetingMaharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray is set to join Sonia Gandhi's virtual meeting with all Congress state chief ministers. A number of issues including 2024 Lok Sabha elections and upcoming state elections expected to be discussed in the meeting, says Sanjay Sanjay Raut senior MP of Shiv Sena.2nd terrorist killed in Pampore encounterAnother terrorist neutralised by security forces during an encounter at Khrew in the Pampore area of Awantipora, J&K. Two terrorists neutralised so far.India's Covid-19 tally rises to 32,358,829India's Covid-19 tally rises to 32,358,829 after 36,571 tested positive with the virus. The death toll jumped by 540 and now stands at 433,589.Sydney extends lockdown, imposes partial curfewSydney extended its two-month-old lockdown for another month and introduced a partial curfew Friday, as Australia's largest city struggled to contain a fast-spreading coronavirus outbreak.New South Wales premier Gladys Berejiklian announced the "difficult" decision, telling the city's population of five million it was time to "bunker down".Congress nearing its end due to dynastic politics: Union ministerCongress nearing its end due to dynastic politics, says Union Labour Minister Bhupendra Yadav in latest attack against the party.Son Rahul Gandhi pays tribute to former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi on his birth anniversaryOn the birth anniversary of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi, son Rahul Gandhi pays tribute to him at Veer Bhumi in Delhi.Taliban ask Afghan imams to urge people not to try to flee at Friday prayersThe Taliban have asked Afghan imams to try to counter negative reports about the group during the first Friday prayers and also urge people not to try to flee the country as tens of thousands of people are trying to escape since the hardline Islamist group seized Kabul on Sunday. Read MorePresident Kovind gives assent to General Insurance Amendment ActPresident Ram Nath Kovind has given assent to the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Act, 2021. The Act further amends the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Act, 1972.India-US agree to have close coordination o Afghanistan situation"Productive call with Dr S Jaishankar today about Afghanistan. We agreed to continue our close coordination," tweets US Secretary of State Antony Blinken.Taliban celebrate Afghanistan’s I-Day as locals intensify protestThe Taliban celebrated the war-ravaged country’s independence day on Thursday by declaring that they defeated the 20-year-old United States led-invasion as they took over the country. The new independence day also commemorates the 1919 treaty which ended British rule in Afghanistan. Read MoreOne unidentified terrorist neutralised in J&KOne unidentified terrorist neutralised in an encounter at Khrew, Pampore area of Awantipora. Operation is in progress. Details awaited, informs Jammu & Kashmir PoliceHere’s how Facebook, Twitter are securing Afghan accounts amid Taliban takeoverFacebook, Twitter and LinkedIn have said they are securing the accounts of Afghan citizens to protect them against the Taliban after they took over Afghanistan. Read MoreTaliban conduct raids at closed Indian embassies in 2 cities: IntelThe Taliban visited the closed Indian consulates in Kandahar and Herat on Wednesday, searched cupboards in Kandahar for papers, and took away parked vehicles from both embassies, even as it conducts door-to-door searches in Kabul to identify Afghans who worked for NDS, the state-run intelligence agency. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-breaking-news-august-20-2021-101629416890063.html
20-08-2021||India||For pandemic-hit Kerala, it’s a make-or-break Onam||The 10-day-long Onam festivities in Kerala will conclude with Thiruvonam on August 21. Onam is the biggest festival in the state that spans religious boundaries and attracts a lot of the region’s migrant workers back home. In many ways, Onam also marks the beginning of the festive season across India – it continues till the Christmas/New Year season. Festive demand has always been important for the economy, but it will be very crucial for pandemic-affected markets this year. This year’s Onam festivities could be a make-or-break moment for the southern state, which after being hailed as a model in the fight against the pandemic, is dealing with what seems to be an uncontrollable surge in Covid-19 cases. It was around Onam last year that Covid-19 cases began rising in Kerala, putting an end to the state’s claims of successfully containing the pandemic. If there is a similar spike in cases this year too, the situation, at least in terms of the medical infrastructure’s ability to cope, may spiral out of control.1) Onam was when Covid-19 infections started rising in Kerala last yearAlthough India imposed a 68-day long nation-wide lockdown on March 25, 2020, to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 virus, the pandemic’s trajectory was very different in Kerala and rest of India in the initial phase. Cases started rising steadily in rest of India as restrictions were eased. However, Kerala managed to buck this trend, earning much applause for its handling of the pandemic. The situation in Kerala changed with Onam, which was on August 30, 2020. A comparison of normalised values of the seven-day average of daily new infections on a scale of 0 to 1 (0 being the minimum and 1 maximum) for Kerala and rest of India shows this clearly, with a sudden spike in Kerala’s case trajectory around the last week of August 2020. The first wave of Covid-19, once it started in Kerala, took longer to subside, unlike in the rest of the country. That the state had two rounds of polls, local body elections in December and then assembly elections in April, did not help﻿2) A festive boost to mobility may have played a role in the 2020 surge and it appears to be happening againGiven the importance of festivals for businesses, governments are always under pressure to relax restrictions. Kerala is no exception to this. Last year, the state government relaxed restrictions before Onam – for instance, allowing people to dine-in in restaurants. This year too, the government announced relaxations both before Eid and Onam. The impact of this is evident in data from Google mobility indices for the state, which show a sharp rise around Onam last year. Of particular interest are the trends in mobility at retail establishments and transit stations, which potentially capture crowding in markets and inbound travel (of potentially infected) persons to the state. Mobility indices seem to have increased sharply once again before Onam this year, even though the Covid-19 situation is much worse. In fact, Kerala is recording more cases than the rest of the country put together. The rise in mobility coincides with the period of rise in Covid-19 cases in the state, both last year and now.A festive boost to mobility may have played a role in the 2020 surge and it appears to be happening again﻿3) Why does the Kerala experience matter for the rest of the country?To be sure, Kerala’s medical infrastructure has not collapsed due the pandemic, as was seen in most parts of the country during the second wave of the pandemic. Daily new cases and positivity rates, while they are still high, have come down from their peak levels in Kerala. Why does the current situation in Kerala matter for the rest of the country then? One, Onam is the first in a series of forthcoming festivals, all crucial for the revival of consumption demand in the economy.Even an inkling of the third wave of the pandemic is bound to crush both consumer and business sentiment and significantly damage the country’s economic prospects. Whether or not Kerala’s Covid-19 cases surge after the festival will be the first litmus test of whether restoration of pre-pandemic mobility levels trigger the third wave. Despite having a higher number of cases, Kerala has emerged as one of the best performers in terms of vaccination. As of August 19, 2021, it has fully vaccinated 19.3% of its adult population and administered at least one dose to another 33.4%. In addition to offering personal immunity, vaccines, once they have crossed a critical threshold, are also expected to slow down the rate of infections. If cases spike in Kerala despite a significantly high level of vaccinations, then one can expect much worse in other states where vaccinations levels are lower . But a mishap-free Onam, at least on the pandemic front, could be really good news for the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-pandemic-hit-kerala-it-s-a-make-or-break-onam-101629416613022.html
20-08-2021||India||NHRC remarks on violence uncalled for: Two HC judges||Recommendations and observations made by a National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) panel on alleged post-poll violence in West Bengal were “non-est” (having no legal validity) in the eye of the law and uncalled for, two judges of the five-member Calcutta high court bench said on Thursday.The two judges -- justices IP Mukerji and Soumen Sen -- concurred with the high court’s order calling for separate probes by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the state police but objected to some portions of the seven-member NHRC committee’s report.“The committee constituted by the NHRC had only power under our order to report on facts, as gathered by them on investigation. They had no jurisdiction to make any recommendation or to express any opinion. We did not vest them with that power . . . Therefore the part of the report expressing opinion, making recommendations etc. is non-est in the eye of law,” justice Mukerji wrote.On June 18, the high court -- hearing a bunch of public interest litigation -- asked the NHRC to probe the violence. The committee submitted its report on July 13 slamming the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government and recommending a CBI probe. It also called for shifting trials in the case outside the state.In its report, the panel attacked the state government and police, saying the clashes were a “death knell” for democracy and alleging that police didn’t have the “courage” to take action against goons belonging to the ruling dispensation.“Although the fact finding committee has made scathing remarks and made recommendations against politicians and police officers, I am of the view that such remarks and recommendations were uncalled for and to that extent the committee has transgressed its limits,” justice Soumen Sen wrote.The panel was led by NHRC member and former intelligence bureau chief Rajiv Jain and also comprised vice-chairperson of the National Commission for Minorities Atif Rasheed, National Commission for Women member Dr. Rajulben L. Desai, director general (investigation) Santosh Mehra, West Bengal State Human Rights Commission registrar Pradip Kumar Panja, West Bengal State Legal Services Authority member secretary Raju Mukherjee and Manzil Saini, deputy inspector general (Investigation), NHRC.In its order, the HC bench said if the CBI or SIT found any case not related to post-poll violence, it must be transferred to the officer in charge of the concerned police station. “It is made clear that any observation made in this order is only for the limited purpose of deciding the issue whether investigation is to be handed over to CBI and Special Investigation Team. Nothing observed shall be construed as an expression of opinion on the merits of the cases,” the order stated.In its arguments, the state government had argued that some of the committee members had a close association with the Bharatiya Janata Party and were deliberately chosen to give a negative report against the state. On Thursday, TMC MP Saugata Roy said, “We stick to our point that several members of the committee have links with the BJP. Therefore, the credibility of the committee is questionable.”But the high court appeared to reject these charges of bias.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-remarks-on-violence-uncalled-for-two-hc-judges-101629416103638.html
20-08-2021||India||Terrorists kill Apni Party worker in J&K||Terrorists shot dead Apni Party worker Ghulam Hassan Lone in his house in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Thursday, marking the third killing of a political leader in the Valley this month.Police spokesman said that preliminary investigation revealed that terrorists fired upon the 70-year-old leader near his house in Devsar. “He (Lone) was immediately shifted to nearby hospital where he was declared as brought dead... neither the police records nor the activities of deceased indicated him to be a political worker. Besides, as of date no political party had indicated or intimated about his political affiliation. However, post incident Apni Party claimed that the deceased was their political worker,” the spokesman said.Apni party president Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari termed the incident barbaric and conveyed deep anguish over the killings of political activists. Bukhari said Lone was working on the ground for the welfare of people.This is the third killing of a political leader in the region in a fortnight, but the earlier deaths were of Bharatiya Janata Party leaders. On Monday, BJP leader Javeed Ahmad Dar was shot dead by terrorists in Kulgam. On August 10, BJP village chief Ghulam Rasool Dar and his wife Jawahira Bano were gunned down in Anantnag town.Politicians condemned the killing. “Very sorry to hear about the assassination of Ghulam Hassan Lone in Devsar area of south Kashmir. This renewed trend of targeting mainstream politicians by militant outfits is very worrying & I condemn the same in the strongest possible terms....,” tweeted Omar Abdullah, National Conference vice-president.Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti said, “Unfortunately there seems to be no end to the spree of political killings in Kashmir. Unreservedly condemn the killing of Apni party leader Ghulam Hassan Lone...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-kill-apni-party-worker-in-jk-101629413619613.html
20-08-2021||India||Afghan embassy seeks deferment of case citing political crisis||The Embassy of Islamic Republic of Afghanistan on Thursday sought a six-week adjournment from the Supreme Court in a contractual dispute case, citing the regime change in the country following the Taliban takeover.“There is a regime change in Afghanistan and the entire country is in a state of turmoil and I am not able to get further instructions from the Ambassador and from the Embassy located in New Delhi. I will be requesting for an adjournment of six weeks,” said the letter, moved by embassy counsel advocate Ejaz Maqbool.The bench of justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari, however, asked: “Do you think the situation will be resolved in six weeks?”Maqbool replied, “We all pray that the situation improves soon… For now, let the matter be listed after six weeks.” The bench accepted the request and adjourned the case for six weeks.The case is related to a contractual dispute between a Delhi-based private firm KLA Construction Technologies Private Limited and the embassy. The embassy signed a contract for its rehabilitation in November 2007 but disputes arose after the firm took over two years to complete only 40% of work, when the contract specified a timeline of 240 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-embassy-seeks-deferment-of-case-citing-political-crisis-101629411825635.html
20-08-2021||India||Taliban conduct raids at closed Indian embassies in 2 cities: Intel||The Taliban visited the closed Indian consulates in Kandahar and Herat on Wednesday, searched cupboards in Kandahar for papers, and took away parked vehicles from both embassies, even as it conducts door-to-door searches in Kabul to identify Afghans who worked for NDS, the state-run intelligence agency. Details of what’s happening to the Indian consulate in Jalalabad and the mission in Kabul are not available.According to reports from Kabul, nearly 6,000 cadre of the Haqqani Network has taken control of the capital city, led by Anas Haqqani, brother of Sirajuddin Haqqani, head of the terrorist group and deputy leader of the Taliban.While Anas Haqqani met former president Hamid Karzai, Chairman HCNR Abdullah Abdullah and Hezb-e-Islami veteran Gulbuddin Hetkmatyar, it is understood that the movements of both Karzai and Abdullah are restricted and controlled by the Taliban.Negotiations are on to ensure to get both Karzai and Abdullah to formally hand over power to the Taliban leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Barader in the Presidential Palace in a staged event. Sirajuddin Haqqani is said to be passing on instructions from Quetta, where the Taliban’s council of leaders, the Quetta Shura is based.Reports from Kandahar reveal that the Taliban cadre broke the locks of the Indian consulate and carried out searches. They took away parked diplomatic vehicles with them. At Herat, they entered the consulate compound and took away the vehicles without making forcible entry into the consulate.While Haqqani network cadre are largely controlling Kabul, the Taliban faction headed by Mullah Yaqoob, son of the late Mullah Omar and head of Taliban military commission, is planning the take over of power and government from Kandahar, the traditional seat of Pashtuns. Mullah Barader met Mullah Yaqoob after he arrived from Doha on August 18. It was in Kandahar that Mullah Yaqoob’s father was declared Emir ul Momeen on April 4, 1996. The religious head of Taliban, Mullah Haibatullah Akundzada, is still based in Karachi in Pakistan.Although negotiations are on within the Taliban leadership on the formation of government at Kabul, the Pakistan based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), a fellow Deobandi terrorist group, is apparently demanding a stake in the Afghan pie with jagirs or land in south Afghanistan. With the ascent of Taliban in Kabul, there is a celebration both within the JeM as well as their handlers in Rawalpindi as troves of cash and top-of-the-line US weapons and military vehicles have been seized by the invaders.While India and its close allies are in a wait and watch mode, the Taliban are getting support from Britain whose Chief of Defence Staff General Nick Carter is openly lobbying for the Sunni Pashtun group to be given a chance at Kabul.In an interview with Sky News, he referred to them as “country boys ... with a code of honour”. It was Carter and the Pakistan Army that were instrumental in keeping the Doha process alive -- eventually resulting in what is now clear as a sub-optimal deal between the US and the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-conduct-raids-at-closed-indian-embassies-in-2-cities-intel-101629411618002.html
20-08-2021||India||Delhiwale: The emperors of fresh ice-cream||A moderate crowd of idle pedestrians have gathered about the cart. Their faces are full of wonder. This so-called ice-cream is looking so different from the factory-manufactured nutty-buddy and chocolate-chip. Oblivious to the distraction they are causing on the roadside, the two young vendors are busily slicing apples, papayas, pineapples and bananas. Like in a TV cookery show, they are making their fruit ice-cream step-by-step in full view, which is smelling so fresh, so natural. As if it were not the fruit but the ice-cream itself that must had been growing on the tree.Resigned to the hot, humid evening, brothers Hameed and Aamir are wordlessly operating their “roller machine”, here on Delhi’s Mathura Road. “This is roller ice-cream,” replies Hameed. Both the men are so involved in the production that they aren’t at all registering the curious onlookers around them.The machine works logically, says Hameed after much cajoling as if he weren’t wishing to part with a trade secret. The long cylindrical roller is packed with milk-coated crushed ice. Hameed now slowly pours mango smoothie from a small tea kettle. His other hand is constantly spinning the roller’s handle. The smoothie instantly freezes on the rotating ice, which turns mango-yellow in no time. On his part, Aamir is holding a plate of chopped fruit right under the roller. The pieces immediately cling to the creamy ice. When a customer turns up, a layer is scraped from the roller with a knife and served in a disposable bowl. The very first bite wildly invigorates the senses. The soft fruit chunks implode in the mouth, spilling out all their cold secrets within a moment. It’s thrilling.Sadly, such a delicious delicacy, is so rarely sighted. Equally frustrating are these hard-to-spot brothers. Though they move about with their roller machine only in Bhogal and Ashram areas, they say they have no fixed hours for specific locations. This elusiveness makes their ice-cream even more desirable. Happy sighting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-the-emperors-of-fresh-icecream-101629407838430.html
20-08-2021||India||Govt push for women DTC drivers||Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Thursday held a meeting with officials of his department and NGO Azad Foundation to discuss ways to enhance the number of woman drivers in public transport buses.“Deliberated how to raise the number of women drivers in public transport buses today in a meeting with Transport officials and representatives of @FoundationAzad. Delhi government is committed to empowerment and rise of the women under leadership of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal,” the minister tweeted.HT reported on August 10 how the DTC could not add any other woman driver after V Saritha became the first woman to join the service in the state transporter in 2015.Data accessed by HT showed that of the total 28,949 employees of DTC, as on August 9, 28,149 (97.2%) were male, while 800 (2.7%) were female.Besides just one woman bus driver, DTC has 15,433 conductors of which 14,702 (95.2%) are men and 731 (4.7%) are women.The DTC said very few woman have the licence to drive a heavy vehicle which is mandatory for the job.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-push-for-women-dtc-drivers-101629405804202.html
20-08-2021||India||Monsoon revival begins in northwest India but high rainfall unlikely: IMD||New Delhi: With easterly winds bringing in moisture, the monsoon started reviving over northwest India from Thursday but the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said that “there won’t be copious amount of rain”. The monsoon trough was along the Himalayan foothills during the first half of August that led to “break” monsoon conditions over the plains for over two weeks, according to the IMD.“The monsoon trough has started moving to its normal position. It was to the north which is why we had a dry spell. Easterly winds have started penetrating northwest India. Our models are showing an increase in rainfall over the Haryana, Chandigarh region. In August there was very less rainfall activity. The monsoon current has also weakened which is why for many days there was very less rain over the west coast also,” explained K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre at IMD. “But there will not be copious amount rain. Because monsoon flow is not very strong,” she added.The western end of monsoon trough is now near its normal position and the eastern end is south of its normal position. The eastern end of monsoon trough is very likely to shift gradually northward towards foothills of Himalayas during next two days, said the weather agency. A cyclonic circulation is lying over south Bihar and neighbourhood. It is likely to move nearly westwards during next three days, the IMD said. Due to above meteorological conditions, gradual increase in rainfall activity is likely over northwest India and Bihar. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rain is very likely over Bihar, east Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand from till August 23 and heavy to very heavy rain is also very likely over Uttarakhand on August 20. Fairly widespread rainfall is very likely over west Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh and east Rajasthan during August 20 to 23 with isolated heavy rainfall over these areas on August 20 and 21Enhanced rainfall activity over central and adjoining north Peninsular India can be expected during next two days. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rain is very likely over Gujarat region, Konkan, Goa, Madhya Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh during August 20 to 21. Rainfall activity is very likely to decrease thereafter over above areas. Widespread and heavy rain is likely to increase over northeast India; sub–Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim on August 22.There is a 9% rain deficiency during the monsoon season since June 1 with 10% deficiency over northwest India; 11% deficiency over east and northeast India; 11% deficiency over central India and 5% excess over south peninsula. Punjab and Himachal Pradesh have a 22% rain deficiency; Chandigarh 39% deficiency; Uttarakhand 8% deficiency; Delhi and Haryana have recorded 6% and 13% excess respectively during the season. In other regions also many states have significant rainfall deficiency such as 29% in Odisha; 48% deficiency in Gujarat; 27% rain deficiency in Kerala.Monsoon begins withdrawal from northwest India around September 17 and withdraws completely by October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-revival-begins-in-northwest-india-but-high-rainfall-unlikelyimd-101629403921762.html
20-08-2021||India||K’taka govt e-bike proposal calls it cheapest mode of transport||Bengaluru: E-bike taxis are expected to be the cheapest mode of transport in the city as per the draft recommendations sent by the state transport department to the government. According to the recommendations submitted last week, e-bikes are expected to charge ₹25 for the first 5 km and ₹50 for 10 km for electric bike taxis. After an opposition from the cab and autorickshaw drivers against the introduction of e-bikes, the department has proposed to decide to limit the operations of an e-bike within a radius of 10 km. In July, former chief minister BS Yediyurappa unveiled the Karnataka Electric Bike Taxi scheme-2021 with an aim to in a bid to generate employment, bring down pollution and reduce dependence on private vehicles in Bengaluru. The minimum fare for autorickshaws for the first 1.9 km is ₹25 and ₹13 is charged for every additional kilometre. This translates to around ₹61 for 5 km. In the case of cabs, the minimum fare is ₹75 for small cabs and ₹150 for luxury taxis for the first 4km. After that ₹18 (non-ac) and ₹24 (AC) are charged for additional kilometre. A senior transport department official said the department would allow only electric bike taxis to be operated in the city as of now. “We will allow any platform that invests in e-bikes, employs riders and provides taxi services to customers by charging fares fixed by the government. But no permission will be given to operate as an aggregator by attaching private bikes (whiteboard) and run them as bike taxis,” said the official. In past few years, the bike taxi services and the government have been at loggerhead over the use of motorcycles as taxies. Several companies have expressed their interest in getting the e-bike license but there are concerns about government regulations stalling such an initiative. Soon after the launch of bike taxis by cab-aggregators like Ola and Uber in 2016, the transport department cracked down on them, seizing vehicles since there were no provisions in existing laws for bike taxies. In fact, the bike taxies were not allowed to apply for a license either. In July, following a direction from the high court to allow bike taxi services to apply for the license, a ride-sharing company Rapido filed an application before the State Transport Authority (STA) seeking permission to run bike taxi services in the city. However, the transport department is yet to respond to their request. According to the transport department, even though registrations are open, they are yet to receive any requests for e-bike taxies. According to the department, any company with more than 100 electrics bikes can apply for a license from the state transport authority. This rule will be applicable for the aggregators as well. At the same time, any company, or individuals with less than 100 vehicles can apply for a license from the respective Regional Transport Offices, according to the department. According to the department, three companies have expressed interest to operate electronic bike taxis in the city, however, they are yet to apply for licence. “We appreciate the Karnataka government’s decision to let electric two-wheeler vehicles register as a commercial bike taxi. This is a long-awaited step in the right direction and will help people utilize their well-earned assets to earn a livelihood,” Aravind Sanka, co-founder, Rapido had said after the government announced the e-bike policy in July this year. However, criticising government’s rules as archaic and impractical, a senior executive of a bike taxi company, on the condition of anonymity, “There was an opportunity for a a person who couldn’t afford to own a car, to make a living using his motorcycle, but government demands, such as not allowing two-wheelers with whiteboards, are not conducive for it. We are excited about the e-bike policy but concerned about what outdated regulations we might have to face in the fine print of the e-bike policy,” said the official. However, the department has laid out conditions for issuing licenses, such as mandatory yellow number plates, Similarly, yellow helmets should be worn by bike riders and passengers. The rider should also wear a jacket with reflective colour, with the words ‘electric bike taxi’ written on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-govt-e-bike-proposal-calls-it-cheapest-mode-of-transport-101629403920444.html
20-08-2021||India||Mining case: Reddy gets SC nod to visit, stay in Bellary||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed former Karnataka minister Gali Janardhan Reddy to visit and stay in his native district Bellary in Karnataka, and Kadapa and Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh, where he was prohibited from visiting as per a 2015 order granting him bail in a mining case. Reddy, an accused in a multi-crore illegal mining case which is being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation since 2009, was granted bail by the top court on January 20, 2015 on the condition that he will not enter the three districts mentioned above. The former minister was granted conditional bail after spending more than three years in jail.Modifying the bail order, the bench of justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari said: “Keeping in view that the trial has not commenced for more than 12 years after registration of FIR in 2009 and petitioner (Reddy) has not violated conditions of bail even when he was permitted to visit Bellary, we direct the condition (c) contained in the order passed by this Court on January 20, 2015 be modified to the extent that the petitioner shall inform the Superintendent of Police of the districts concerned when he proposes to go and when he is to leave the district concerned.”The top court directed him to intimate about the modification of the order to the Senior Superintendent of Police of his native district..The bench also directed the central agency to intimate the court if any of the bail conditions, such as cooperation during trial and remaining present on dates fixed by courts among others,were violated by the former minister. It further ordered the trial in the case to be expedited and maintained strict vigil on the matter by listing the case after three months. “We observe that trial court may make every endeavour to expedite the trial,” it said.The court’s direction came after Reddy, in an affidavit filed through advocate Parmatma Singh, said that the CBI probe into the case is over. Referring to a memo filed by the central agency before the trial court on July 27 this year, Reddy said: “In the said memo, it is clearly averred on behalf of the CBI that the investigation in the FIR being RC17(A)/2009 dated December 7, 2009 is complete and there are no further reports to be filed u/s 173(8) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.”In its counter-affidavit, the CBI said: “The witnesses (residing in Bellary) are very crucial for the prosecution case….The petitioner’s firms namely Obalapuram Mining Corporation Private Limited and Bellary Iron Ore Private Limited had criminally intimidated these witnesses and extorted the iron ore from these witnesses and their mining companies by forcing them to sell the iron ore at much lesser price than the prevailing market rates.” Appearing for the central agency, additional solicitor general Madhavi Divan said the trial in the case could possibly be hampered and safety of 47 witnesses staying in Bellary would be jeopardized if the accused was allowed to roam freely in the district.“This condition (to keep him out of Bellary) is the heart and soul of the January 20, 2015 order and if nothing has happened to the witnesses so far, it is because of this condition,” Divan said.The bench, however, observed that “in these kinds of matters, trial should not be kept hanging for years” and said “the trial court shall make every endeavour to expedite the trial”.Reddy’s counsels and senior advocates, Mukul Rohatgi and Ranjit Kumar, argued that every accused had the right to seek protection from the court. Rohatgi also referred to the slow pace of trial since 2015 and with 300 witnesses and at least 10,000 documents yet to be examined, such a bail condition could not be “cast in stone” against one of the accused. Kumar pointed out that the bail condition of staying away from hometown was not imposed on the remaining eight accused. Divan, however, explained that Reddy was the alleged kingpin of the mining scam and his bail was cancelled by Andhra Pradesh high court after he was found to have allegedly bribed the trial judge to secure bail. The trial in the bribery case is pending.Another judicial officer alleged that a huge bribe was offered to him for granting bail at the behest of the petitioner which he refused, the CBI counsel added. “If judges are not free, then witnesses are certainly not free. This is the biggest and the most notorious mining scams in the history of this country,” Divan said. Reddy and his brother-in-law B V Srinivas Reddy, managing director of the Obalapuram Mining Company (OMC), were arrested by CBI on September 5, 2011 from Ballari and brought to Hyderabad.The company is accused of changing mining lease boundary markings and indulging in illegal mining in the Ballari Reserve Forest area, spread over Ballari in Karnataka and Ananthpur district of Andhra Pradesh.The CBI had initially filed a charge sheet in the case in February, 2011, and thereafter, two supplementary ones, the latest one being on April 26, 2014. Reddy had also filed a discharge application in the special CBI court in Hyderabad, which is presently hearing the case, in October 2020 but withdrew the same later. While granting bail, the top court had directed him to surrender his passport before the concerned trial court and not to leave the country without the permission of the trial judge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mining-case-reddy-gets-sc-nod-to-visit-stay-in-bellary-101629403871162.html
20-08-2021||India||Italian marines case: SC tells Kerala HC not to issue compensation||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Kerala high court to not disburse the amount of ₹2 crore earmarked for the owner of the fishing vessel ‘St Antony’, which was attacked by two Italian marines aboard the Italian flagship Enrica Lexie in February 2012 after seven crew members demanded their share from his compensation. Two Indian fishermen were killed in the incident.On June 15 this year, the Supreme Court closed all proceedings in India against the Italian marines, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, after being informed that compensation of ₹10 crore for the families of the victims has been deposited in the registry of the top court. The case was then transferred to the Kerala high court so that disbursement could be properly monitored.India accused the two marines on board the MV Enrica Lexie -- an Italian flagged oil tanker -- of killing the two Indian fishermen who were on a fishing vessel in India’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) in February 2012. The owner of the fishing boat ‘St Antony’, in which two Kerala fishermen were killed when the marines opened fire on them allegedly under the misconception that they were pirates, filed the complaint against the Italians.In April, the Centre informed the Supreme Court that the families of the two deceased fishermen have been “adequately” compensated and sought expeditious closure of proceedings before the top court and a criminal trial pending before a special court in Delhi.The Centre’s compliance affidavit dated January 5 said the Italian government offered to pay a total of ₹10 crore in damages. The deceased fishermen’s families have agreed to compensation of ₹4 crore each in addition to the ₹2 crore already paid by the Italian government. The injured owner of the boat also consented to receive damages of ₹2 crore.The payout was part of an Arbitral Award of May 21, 2020, passed by the Arbitral Tribunal, set up under the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Seas (UNCLOS). This required India to close criminal proceedings against the two Italian marines while Italy was asked to continue with the proceedings.On Thursday, advocate Manish Dembla, appearing for the seven crew members who were onboard St Antony when the marines attacked it, submitted that no compensation has been directed to be paid to them, and sought a stay on the disbursement of ₹2 crore earmarked for the boat owner.“While directing the apportionment of compensation in the order (of June 15), the moral harm suffered by the captain and other crew members of St Antony has escaped the attention of the Supreme Court, perhaps, on account of the fact that crew members were not represented in the hearing,” said the application.The seven fishermen also wrote to the Kerala government to get their share out of the ₹2 crore payable to the boat owner. On June 24, Kerala’s Additional Chief Secretary said this was not possible as the order of the Supreme Court did not record their entitlement.Appearing for the Centre, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta suggested that the applicants be sent to the Kerala high court, which is considering the aspect of apportionment.Hearing the matter, a division bench comprising Justice Indira Banerjee and Justice V Ramasubramanian, said that if the compensation is being sought out of the compensation to be paid to boat owners of St Antony, they need to be made a party. The court also issued a notice to the boat owner to ascertain whether the seven fishermen were employed with St Antony.“The notice of this application be given to the boat owner and in the meanwhile, we request the Kerala High Court not to disburse any amount to the boat owner in terms of the June 15, 2021 order,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/italian-marines-case-sc-tells-kerala-hc-not-to-issue-compensation-101629403860364.html
20-08-2021||India||RSS-affiliated farmers’ group plans nationwide protest on Sept 8||The Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, on Thursday emphasised that the government must ensure that farmers get remunerative prices for their produce to cover their production costs, which they are not getting in the existing system. With this demand, the BKS would hold a nationwide stir on September 8.At a press conference, the Sangh outfit said the Narendra Modi government should either bring new legislation or make changes in the farm laws enacted last year to add a provision for the payment of minimum support price (MSP) for major farm produce in the country.Explaining what it means by “remunerative price”, BKS national organising secretary Dinesh Kulkarni told mediapersons that it is the cost of production plus profit — something that the protesting farmers have been demanding as well. “Remunerative price is the right of farmers, which should be facilitated by the government,” said Kulkarni and pointed out that the MSPs announced by the government are not remunerative.Farmers mainly from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, and joined by those from other states, under the banner of Samyukta Kisan Morcha, have been protesting at the borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three farm laws — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Several rounds of talks between the Centre and the farm unions have failed to end the deadlock.Kulkarni said a section of the farm leaders deviated from farmers’ interest for their personal agenda. “They should not close the door for dialogue with the government on MSP,” he said. Kulkarni said the nature of the agitation on the Delhi border changed after January 26, when the agitation turned violent. After that, dialogue with the Centre stopped, he said.The BKS leader also said that the three new farm laws do not have any clause about ensuring MSPs or remunerative prices for agricultural commodities, and the government should make guidelines in respect of contract farming where crops are not purchased below MSP. This should be at least implemented for the 23 crops that currently have MSP cover, he added.The BKS also expressed its reservation about changes in the Essential Commodities Act that offer huge exemptions to big companies by allowing them to stock some commodities as much as they want to promote business. This needs to be corrected, Kulkarni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rssaffiliated-farmers-group-plans-nationwide-protest-on-sept-8-1629402545809.html
20-08-2021||India||Reputation in top court not built on whose child you are: SC judge||The Supreme Court on Thursday observed that the reputation in the top court is not built on whose son or daughter a lawyer is but on a counsel’s ability to evince his or her preparedness in arguing a case.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah was categorical that the judges in the apex court were not swayed by the pedigree of lawyers appearing before them.“Contrary to everyone’s opinion, reputation in this court does not build on whose son or daughter you are. It is built on how well-prepared you are. You gain respect of the judges by showing who you are and how ready you are as a counsel,” said justice Chandrachud.“Judges always remember about lawyers who are well-prepared. They respect such junior lawyers and give them greater opportunities in future. They always respect young lawyers who come to a court knowing the facts of their case,” added the judge.The court’s observations came while hearing a criminal case when a junior lawyer requested for an adjournment on the ground that her senior counsel was busy in another court.At this, the bench encouraged the young lawyer to start arguing the case.“You should at least start arguing the case. One should never become an adjournment counsel. That’s not how you want your career to be. How will you learn the craft of advocacy if you will never argue a case,” justice Shah asked advocate Ripul Swati Kumari.Justice Chandrachud, on his part, added: “We are not angry but we are trying to encourage you. Every time you appear before a judge, always be well-prepared to argue a case. Judges will have respect for you and that’s how your reputation will get built over the years. It has nothing to do with other factors.”Recounting an incident from decades ago when he was a junior lawyer practising in the Bombay high court, justice Chandrachud quipped how he once went to court to get an adjournment without carrying any file with him.“A senior lawyer called me and said – ‘Beta, never appear before a court without your files. It gives a very bad impression on a judge if you do it.’ I have not forgotten that till date. And you should also not forget this ever,” justice Chandrachud told Kumari.Justice Shah said when he was a judge in the Gujarat high court, he always made it a point to give ample opportunities to young lawyers to argue. “I was in fact accused by some of the senior counsel for favouring junior lawyers,” jested the judge.The bench then started hearing the matter, telling Kumari: “We will make you argue today. We will have the other side start the arguments with the bare facts and then we will ask you to argue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reputation-in-top-court-not-built-on-whose-child-you-are-sc-judge-1629401461996.html
20-08-2021||India||AIADMK delegation meets guv, accuses DMK of graft, vendetta||Chennai: Accusing the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) of indulging in “corruption, collection and vendetta”, a delegation of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) led by Edappadi Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam on Thursday called on Governor Banwarilal Purohit at the Raj Bhavan to complain against the ruling party, after boycotting the ongoing assembly session. The AIADMK submitted a five-page list of litanies to the governor, seeking an investigation and necessary action against the DMK. The AIADMK claimed that the agenda of the chief minister MK Stalin-led government is “corruption-collection-vendetta”. Interestingly, when in opposition, Stalin had described the AIADMK’s governance as “corruption-commission-collection”. The AIADMK has been edgy in what it perceives to be the beginning of troubled times after ruling the state for the past 10 years. On Wednesday, the 2017 heist-cum-murder case at late CM J Jayalalithaa’s Kodanad Estate came up in the assembly, a day after police quizzed the prime accused in the case, Sayan. The AIADMK staged a walkout from the assembly in protest. Soon after the DMK formed the government in May, in the first few weeks, the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) filed corruption cases against AIADMK leaders and raided Palaniswami’s close aide and former municipal administration minister SP Velumani and former transport minister MR Vijayabhaskar. A week ago, the AIADMK formed a six-member committee, comprising senior party leaders and legal brains including former law minister CV Shunmugham, to help party members fight cases. The same team met the governor on Thursday for about 40-minutes. After the meeting, former CM Palaniswami reiterated that out of “political vendetta”, the DMK was scheming to frame him and his colleagues in the Kodanad case and they were falsely foisting cases against former ministers. On Wednesday, Stalin dismissed the political vendetta charge, saying it was the DMK’s election promise to bring the real culprits involved in the 2017 Kodanad case to book. On Thursday, Palaniswami countered, “This has nothing to do with their poll promise. This is being overseen by law and is at the closing stage. Weren’t we conducting a fair investigation?” The principal opposition party said the DMK was doing this to cover up its failure in providing governance. “They have failed to deliver on all fronts and that’s their achievement in 100 days,” Palaniswami said. He added that the ruling party was influencing the official machinery to bring a quietus to the pending criminal cases against its own members and leaders. “They (AIADMK) aren’t able to face the consequences of their actions in the past 10 years so they are doing this,” said DMK spokesperson A Saravanan. Last year, the DMK had submitted a 100-page “chargesheet” against Palaniswami, Panneersevlam and other top ministers to the Governor. It went further in its election manifesto by vowing to establish a special court to try all the former ministers under graft charges. Meanwhile, the 2017 heist-murder case is haunting the AIADMK. The sprawling bungalow at Kodanad was what Jayalalithaa had bought along with her close aide V K Sasikala in the 1990s. In the early stages of the investigation, the police had alleged that Jayalalithaa’s former driver, C Kanagaraj, plotted the crime with Sayan. Subsequently, Kanagaraj, Sayan’s wife and their daughter died in separate road accidents. An independent investigation conducted by former managing editor of Tehelka, Mathew Samuel, alleged Palaniswami to be behind the break-in, a charge that the senior AIADMK leader has dismissed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-delegation-meets-guv-accuses-dmk-of-graft-vendetta-1629401281290.html
20-08-2021||India||Goa minister doesn’t want BJP to induct more leaders, says there is no space||PANAJI: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) cannot accommodate any more leaders from other parties in Goa, state panchayat and transport minister Mauvin Godinho said on Thursday.Godinho, a former Congressman who joined the BJP ahead of the 2017 assembly elections, said the party doesn’t have any more place to ‘accommodate’ leaders from other parties who wish to join the BJP.“We do not want more, it creates confusion... we don’t have place. Where will you accommodate them? This is our situation,” Mauvin Godinho told reporters while speaking about the BJP’s prospects in the upcoming state polls early next year.The ruling BJP has a strength of 27 MLAs in the 40-member house after it convinced 13 Congress MLAs as well as two MLAs from the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party to switch sides with the most recent being the ‘en masse’ switch over by 10 Congress MLAs in 2019. The Congress, which won 17 seats in the last elections, is down to 5.The BJP has said it is confident of retaining a majority on its own with or without an alliance.But the induction of leaders from rival parties has created its own set of problems, particularly since it had to reward the lawmakers who joined the party after the elections at the cost of the party stalwarts.Several of these leaders, most prominently former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar, have already staked their ‘rightful’ claim to the party’s ticket though the seat he once represented now being represented by his rival who won on the Congress ticket but is now in the BJP.Rivalries between MLAs too has come to the fore with Godinho himself squaring up against his party colleagues Michael Lobo and Alina Saldanha over each other’s ‘performance’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-minister-doesn-t-want-bjp-to-induct-more-leaders-says-there-is-no-space-1629400498770.html
20-08-2021||India||Guj HC stays key sections of new anti-conversion law||The Gujarat high court on Thursday stayed the operation of key sections of the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021, citing its sweeping premise that suggested that all interfaith marriages were illegal.The court said the law cannot be enforced until there is clear evidence of “force, allurement or fraudulent” for religious conversion and that it appeared to be against inter-religion marriages at the very inception.The order by a division bench comprising Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice Biren Vaishnav comes two days after the court observed that the law was a “sword hanging” over interfaith couples since the Act did not convey anywhere that such marriages were permissible.Issuing the interim order on Thursday, the bench said the purpose of this directive was to protect people “from unnecessary harassment.”The court stated, “We are of the opinion that pending further hearing, rigors of section 3, 4, 4a to 4c, 5, 6, and 6a shall not operate merely because the marriage is solemnised by a person of one religion with another religion without force, allurement or fraudulent means and such marriages cannot be termed as marriage for the purpose of unlawful conversion.”These sections define forcible conversion for marriage and provide for penal action for violating the law. The stay prevents anyone from lodging an FIR under this law merely on the basis of an interfaith marriage -- the court’s order suggested that this was in the realm of the possible.Responding to the court order, Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel told reporters: “Whenever such rulings are passed, our legal department and other technical sections look into it. Once we receive this interim order and after our legal experts have studied it, the government will decide on the future course of action.”Mujaheed Nafis of Gujarat Minority Coordination Committee, who was also a petitioner besides the Gujarat chapter of the Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, said, “We argued that this law itself is totally against the Constitution of India, that guarantees the citizens the liberty to choose their religion.”The Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021, which penalises forcible or fraudulent religious conversion through marriage, was notified by the Gujarat Government on June 15. The amendment to the 2002 law was passed in the State Assembly earlier this year and Governor Acharya Devvrat gave his assent on May 22.The law is one of several passed by states where the Bharatiya Janata Party is in power, and targets what members of the party and its affiliates refer to as love jihad , where Muslim men misrepresent their religion to woo and marry women from other communities, mostly Hindus.When state Advocate General, Kamal Trivedi, sought a clarification asking what if a marriage resulted in forceful conversion, the Chief Justice said, “There has to be a basic element of force or allurement or fraud. Without that you will not (proceed), that’s all we have said in the order.”Among the sections the operation of which has been stayed by the court is Section 3 which defines “forcible conversion”.It states: “No person shall convert or attempt to convert any person from one religion to another by use of force, or by allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage or by getting a person married or by aiding a person to get married, nor shall any person abet such conversion”.Under Section 4, people found guilty of violating the provisions of Section 3 will face up to three years of imprisonment and a fine of ₹50,000. If the victim is a minor, a woman or from SC or ST community, then the jail term will be four years with a fine of ₹1 lakh.The other stayed clause, Section 4A, deals with “marriage by unlawful conversion”. This section states: “Conversion by marriage or by getting a person married or by aiding a person to get married is concerned, shall be punished with imprisonment not less than three years, but may extend up to five years along with a fine of ₹2 lakh”.Section 4B states any marriage for the purpose of unlawful conversion “shall be declared void by family court”. And Section 4C includes institutions or organisations found involved in unlawful conversions.Section 5, which has also been stayed, mandates religious priests to seek permission from a district magistrate for conversion. And people being converted also needsto “send an intimation” to the DM in a prescribed form.Section 6 mandates prior sanction of the DM or a sub-divisional magistrate to start prosecution against the accused and Section 6A says the burden of proof is on the accused “who has caused the conversion”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guj-hc-stays-key-sections-of-new-anti-conversion-law-101629396374574.html
20-08-2021||India||NIA begins probe into tiffin bomb dropped by drone||New Delhi: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has launched an investigation into the delivery of a sophisticated tiffin bomb along with hand grenades and 100 pistol cartridges using a drone by Pakistan backed Khalistani terrorists earlier this month, people familiar with the development said. The consignment was dropped on August 9 near a drain at Daleke village in Lopoke sub-division of Amritsar district, Punjab, just ahead of the Independence Day, following which the state was put on high alert. This is NIA’s fourth drone related probe in past year and half. The tiffin bomb , thus named because 2-3 kg of RDX was packed in a children’s lunch box, was sophisticated enough for Punjab director general of police Dinkar Gupta to say at the time of its recovery that it seemed to be straight off an “assembly line”. There may be more of such tiffin boxes, which would be coming, or might have come and we don’t know yet”. The lunch box, five hand grenades and ammunition for a 9mm pistol were packed in a bag and dropped off by a drone. Officials in security agencies investigating drone activity from across the border said that all anti-India groups, be it Islamic terrorists such as Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammad, or Hizbul Mujahideen, Khalistani terrorists, and drug smugglers are increasingly using drones to deliver arms, explosives, and drugs to avoid capture. NIA recently took over investigation into the dual bombing of the Jammu air force station on June 27 by LeT using drones, which travelled almost 14 km from across the border. The investigators examined several villagers on the possible route taken by the two drones used in the attack but there has been no breakthrough in the case as of now. Apart from the federal anti-terror agency, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir police are also investigating multiple drone related incidents, which have posed a challenge for the security and intelligence agencies. The Khalistani network, particularly Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) and Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF), are extensively using Chinese drones with the help of Pakistan’s spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), with a purpose to arm a movement to destabilize Punjab. Multiple assessments by Indian security agencies and the Border Security Force (BSF) have highlighted that the use of commercial drones (or quadcopters) by the Pakistan army, ISI and terror groups is a serious threat considering the size of the border, which is difficult to man physically round the clock. Union home minister Amit Shah said recently that the government will soon have an anti-drone technology in place to combat the threat. “Smuggling of drugs, arms and explosives through tunnels and drones is a major challenge. Today, it is very important for us to deal with these challenges at the earliest. I am confident that we will soon increase our presence at the borders with Swadeshi (made-in-India) anti-drone technology,” Shah said on July 17. Bureau of Police Research and Development, as reported by HT last month, has already formulated detailed specifications and guidelines for anti-drone technologies and submitted the same to the ministry of home affairs (MHA). Among the issues covered by the BPRD are threats posed by unregulated/rogue drones to attack critical structures such as oil and gas installations, military bases, and airports apart from targeted assassinations; the importance of declaring particular areas as no-drone zones; training police/security personnel in handling anti-drone systems; and collaborating with private sector for harnessing the technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niabegins-probe-into-tiffin-bomb-dropped-by-drone-101629395817300.html
20-08-2021||India||Jesuit body moves Bombay HC to clear Stan Swamy’s name||The Jamshedpur Jesuit Province, to which late tribal rights activist and Elgar Parishad accused Father Stan Swamy was attached to, has sought the removal of the odium (widespread hatred) linked to the priest’s name.In the written submissions filed before the Bombay high court (HC), Swamy’s lawyers have submitted that as per the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and Supreme Court (SC) rulings, even though the priest died on July 5 pending his medical bail hearing in HC, the next of kin of the late activist has a right to seek the removal of the odium.The submissions by senior advocates Mihir Desai and Mihir Joshi, filed in the bail application of Swamy, stated that the Jamshedpur Jesuit Providence appointed Fr Frazer Mascarenhas as the late activist’s next of kin and he would participate in the inquiry by the magistrate.They have sought that the inquiry is conducted as per the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) guidelines pertaining to custodial deaths and also the Nelson Mandela Rules framed by the United Nations, which deal with the provision of facilities to inmates of prisons.While hearing Swamy’s bail application, the HC bench of Justice SS Shinde was informed of the untimely demise of Swamy, who was being treated at Holy Family Hospital in Bandra after being shifted from Taloja Central Prison, as per an order of the court. At the request of Swamy’s lawyer, who contended that there was negligence on the part of the prison authorities as well as the National Investigation Agency (NIA) which resulted in Swamy’s health deteriorating and his death, HC had ordered a magistrate inquiry.NIA opposed the inquiry, stating that as Section 394 of CrPC – which deals with abatement of criminal proceedings, convictions and sentences against accused/convict – was applicable in this case there was no need for the report to be submitted before HC. However, Desai requested that as it was a case of custodial death, the court should exercise parens patriae (parent of the nation) jurisdiction and ask for reports of the judicial inquiry. HC accepted the contention.While seeking the removal of stigma attached to Swamy’s name, the submissions said that Article 21 (Right to life and personal liberty) of the Constitution applied to deceased persons too. “Just as the appellant [Swamy] would have had a right to clear his name if he were alive, similarly those closest to him would have a similar right to clear his name,” the lawyers contended.They further stated that though the application of section 394 was not acceptable, assuming that it was applied even though Swamy was not convicted or sentenced, as per an SC ruling, the next of kin had a right to seek removal of the odium at the time of hearing of the bail application. The lawyers submitted that as the special court had made adverse observations while rejecting Fr Swamy’s bail application, the observations would remain a stigma on his name and hence, there was a prayer for the removal of the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jamshedpur-jesuit-body-moves-bombay-hc-to-clear-stan-swamy-s-name-101629395761639.html
20-08-2021||India||Sonia to chair 18 oppn parties’ meet today, AAP not invited||At least 18 opposition parties were scheduled to meet virtually on Friday to strategise on reaching out to the people on issues such as the economic slowdown, the alleged mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Pegasus spyware controversy, and the farmers’ protest,But the meeting, to be chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, will not have Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) even as it was a crucial part of the opposition’s united floor management in the recent monsoon session of Parliament.“We have not invited AAP as the meeting is chaired by the Congress president,” said a top leader who would be present in the virtual meeting. “Both the AAP and the Congress are uncomfortable sharing the same political platform,” he said on condition of anonymity.Former National Democratic Alliance (NDA) member Shiromani Akali Dal has also not been invited, party functionaries confirmed. The Akalis quit the NDA last year over the three controversial farm laws, but instead of aligning with the mainstream opposition parties, they have kept their focus on the farm laws and are treading a separate path. With elections in Punjab due in six months, the Congress and its rival Akalis would not be interested in sharing a common platform against the NDA.Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party has been invited but the UP-based party has not confirmed its participation.The meeting takes off from a new-found unity among the opposition parties during the Parliament session when several anti-NDA parties joined hands on every single issue and nearly washed out the monsoon session.“This Parliament session was one of the worst in history. Almost none of the people’s issues were discussed in it. Now, we are meeting to decide how to take these issues to the people. We will discuss the Covid mismanagement, economic situation, Pegasus, farmers protests and the struggle of the workers in the wake of privatisation,” said Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, a key figure in achieving this opposition unity.Apart from Gandhi and Yechury, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and National Conference chairman Farooq Abdullah, former Prime Minister HD Devegowda and other leaders would attend the meeting.The date of the meeting also coincides with late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s birth anniversary, but the organisers claim the anniversary has nothing to do with it and the date was chosen as all leaders could make themselves available.The biggest challenge for the opposition, however, is how to reach out to the people in this prevailing Covid pandemic. “That’s also a key topic of discussion. But whatever we do, we will comply with the Covid protocol,” Yechury said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-to-chair-18-oppn-parties-meet-today-aap-not-invited-101629395516914.html
20-08-2021||India||SC to cops: Don’t arrest merely because you can||Don’t arrest people just because you can, or just because you have to file the charge sheet, the Supreme Court has told the police.Arrests can cause incalculable harm to the reputation and self-esteem of a person,  the Supreme Court said,  as it implored the police officers not to make the arrest a routine affair just because the law arms them with the power to do so. “Personal liberty is an important aspect of our constitutional mandate,” emphasised a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy while disapproving of the practice of arresting people in criminal cases even when investigations can be completed without sending the accused to jail. “The occasion to arrest an accused during investigation arises when the custodial investigation becomes necessary or it is a heinous crime or where there is a possibility of influencing the witnesses or the accused may abscond. Merely because an arrest can be made because it is lawful does not mandate that arrest must be made,” noted the bench. The court was emphatic that a distinction must be made between the existence of the power to arrest and the justification for the exercise of this power. “If an arrest is made routine, it can cause incalculable harm to the reputation and self-esteem of a person. If the Investigating Officer has no reason to believe that the accused will abscond or disobey summons and has, in fact, throughout cooperated with the investigation we fail to appreciate why there should be a compulsion on the officer to arrest the accused,” underlined the bench. The court’s observations came while hearing a pre-arrest bail petition of a man, named an accused along with 83 others in a case of cheating and forgery which was registered in Uttar Pradesh in 2014. While he was not arrested during the last seven years when he joined the investigation, the police moved to arrest him since the charge sheet was to be filed before the court. The Allahabad high court refused to grant him protection from arrest by an order on July 9, forcing the accused to approach the apex court. The counsel for the UP government submitted in the top court that the arrest memo was issued since the trial court wanted the accused to be in custody before the charge sheet could be taken on record under Section 170 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). Section 170 talks of cases where there is sufficient evidence to prosecute the accused and states that police officers shall forward the accused “under custody” to a competent court for trial at the time of filing of the charge sheet. Rejecting the trial court’s views, the bench said that such a course is  “misplaced and contrary to the very intent” of the law since Section 170 of the CrPC does not impose an obligation on the officer-in-charge to arrest each and every accused at the time of filing of the charge sheet. “We are of the view that if the Investigating Officer does not believe that the accused will abscond or disobey summons he/she is not required to be produced in custody. The word ‘custody’ appearing in Section 170 of the CrPC does not contemplate either police or judicial custody but it merely connotes the presentation of the accused by the Investigating Officer before the court while filing the charge sheet,” held the bench. “It (the law) does not impose an obligation on the Officer-in-charge to arrest each and every accused at the time of filing of the charge sheet,” it added. It pointed out that the legal position has to be made clear since the Supreme Court has been regularly coming across cases where the accused has cooperated with the investigation throughout and yet on the charge sheet being filed, non-bailable warrants have been issued on the ground that there is an obligation to arrest the accused and produce him before the court. In the present case, the court set aside the high court order and protected the accused from arrest on the condition that he will keep cooperating with the investigators and will appear before the trial court at the time of filing of the charge sheet. “When the appellant has joined the investigation, the investigation has been completed,  and he has been roped in after seven years of registration of the FIR, we can think of no reason why at this stage he must be arrested before the charge sheet is taken on record,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-cops-don-t-arrest-merely-because-you-can-101629395486403.html
20-08-2021||India||NHRC issues summons to Chhattisgarh police chief over activist’s arrest||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has summoned Chhattisgarh Police chief D M Awasthi on October 21 with sought action taken reports on the arrest of activist Hidme Markam in Dantewada under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) in March this year.The summons in this regard was issued on August 16 based on a complaint by the People Union For Civil Liberties (PUCL) and other activists. “The Commission observes that despite direction and reminders, the said authority has failed to submit the requisite report till date. Taking serious view of the same, the commission directs to issue summons to the DGP (director general of police Awasthi) under section 13 of the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993, to appear before the commission...” the NHRC order read. The human rights panel, however, said that Awasthi’s appearance will not be required if the concerned reports are submitted before October 14. Awasthi said he is looking into the matter and that a report will be submitted on time.In their complaint, the PUCL alleged that Markam, 28, was picked up on March 9 over an event to mark International Women’s Day. “Later the victim was shown as arrested in four cases involving serious charges, including charges under UAPA without following due process/guidelines of arrest laid down by the apex court ...,” the complaint read. Dantewada Police superintendent Abhishek Pallava claimed all due process for arrest as per the law was followed. “She was accused of four serious offences, including a case under UAPA. She has been arrested and is in judicial custody,” he said. Taking cognisance of the complaint on March 31, the NHRC had directed Awasthi to submit an action taken report within four weeks. Awasthi, however, failed to submit the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrcissues-summons-to-chhattisgarh-police-chief-over-activist-s-arrest-101629366826088.html
20-08-2021||India||India completes 500 million Covid-19 tests||India on Wednesday completed 500 million tests to detect Coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The first Covid-19 test was conducted on January 24, 2020.“With an average daily testing of at least 1.7 million in the month of August, India has tested 500 million samples across the country till date,” said ICMR in a statement.The last 100 million tests were performed in only 55 days. On July 21, 2021, India tested 450 million Covid-19 samples.The government attributes it to rapidly increasing testing infrastructure and capacity across the country.According to ICMR, which is responsible for overseeing Covid-19 testing, it has been enhancing the testing capability across the country by leveraging technology and facilitating innovation in affordable diagnostic kits.Also Read | No evidence of lasting lung damage in Covid-19 survivors: StudyThe testing strategy has been carefully calibrated to increase access and availability of testing over the months. “We have seen that exponential increase in testing led to early identification, prompt isolation and effective treatment of Covid-19 cases. This testing milestone is testimony to the fact that India has been successful in implementing strategy of 5T approach --Test, Track, Trace, Treat and use of Technology -- efficiently, which will enable us to contain the spread of the pandemic,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR.Close to 3,000 labs (2,876) are approved to perform Covid-19 tests in the country, and even now, mass testing is on in areas showing a high positivity rate. Positivity rate is the percentage of people testing positive for the virus of the total tests conducted.Of the 2,876 approved labs, 1,322 are dedicated government laboratories.Several advancements have been made towards reducing turnaround time of tests. Easy, at-home self-diagnostic kits have been developed and approved to make it easy for people to perform the test at home.“Enhanced production of diagnostic kits has made India Atma Nirbhar, which has resulted in reduction of costs and improved availability of testing kits,” Dr Bhargava added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-completes-500-million-covid-19-tests-101629350143932.html
