21-08-2021||India||Hindu Army chief held over communal slogans at protest in Delhi||The Delhi Police have arrested Hindu Army chief Sushil Tiwari for allegedly raising anti-Muslim slogans during a protest at Jantar Mantar on August 8, people aware of the matter said on Saturday.Shortly after the incident in the national capital, when the police began cracking down on those who allegedly shouted hate remarks, Tiwari fled the city, a senior police officer said, asking not to be named. He was tracked down in Lucknow on Friday night and arrested, the officer said.Tiwari is a resident of Lucknow and came to Delhi with a group of at least five men to participate in the protest at Jantar Mantar, the officer said. The police said they have formed various teams to track the other men.Videos of anti-Muslim sloganeering during a protest at Jantar Mantar were widely circulated on social media, following which the Delhi Police registered a case in connection with the matter on Monday. Hundreds of people attended the protest organised by the “Bharat Jodo Aandolan” at Jantar Mantar on Sunday. Tiwari was seen shouting slogans in one of these videos, the police said.On being questioned after he was tracked down, Tiwari told the police he joined the protest after reading a message on a WhatsApp group. Tiwari works as a travel agent and often comes to Delhi for work, said the police.Six people, including advocate and former Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay, were previously arrested in the case. Upadhyay was granted bail on August 12. “Seven arrests in the case have been made and we are further investigating the matter,” said the police officer.HT tried to contact Upadhyay and the Hindu Army for comments on Saturday but their phones were switched off.The earlier arrests were made after an FIR was registered by a policeman posted at Jantar Mantar, at the Connaught Place police station. It pertained to provocative sloganeering at the programme. Besides Upadhyay, Preet Singh, Deepak Singh, Deepak Kumar, Vinod Sharma and Vinit Bajpai have been arrested, police said, adding that Tiwari is the seventh to be arrested in the case.Preet Singh is the director of ‘Save India Foundation’ while Deepak Singh, Deepak Kumar and Vinod Sharma are associated with different right-wing organisations.“They had previously decided to hold this protest in April, but due to the second wave of Covid-19, the plan was postponed till August and towards the end of July, a date for this protest was decided,” another official said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindu-army-chief-held-over-communal-slogans-at-protest-in-delhi-101629570310573.html
21-08-2021||India||300 Indians set to return from Kabul||Close to 300 Indian nationals were expected to return home from Afghanistan by Sunday as part of the government’s elaborate efforts to speed up the evacuation of all citizens against the backdrop of the deteriorating situation at Kabul airport.More than 80 Indian nationals, flown in an Indian Air Force (IAF) transport aircraft from Kabul to the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe on Saturday, will return home in a special Air India flight that will reach New Delhi early on Sunday, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.More than 100 Indians were set to be flown out of Kabul to New Delhi in a C-17 heavy lift aircraft and they too are expected to reach home by Sunday, the people said.Another group of 100-odd Indians, most of them employees of firms from Western countries, had been flown in US and Nato aircraft to Doha. This group too will be brought back to India by Sunday, the people added.As reports emerged of Taliban fighters opening fire and using harsh methods to control thousands of people who have been converging on the Kabul airport, the US embassy issued a security alert advising American citizens to avoid travelling to the airport because of “potential security threats outside the gates”. The alert also asked Americans to “avoid airport gates at this time unless you receive individual instructions from a US government representative to do so”.Earlier on Saturday, there was confusion for several hours about the status of some 150 Indians who were to be evacuated following reports that they were rounded up by the Taliban near the Kabul airport.The development was first reported on the website of the Afghan media outlet Etilaatroz and its sister publication Kabul Now, which cited a source as saying that more than 150 people, most of them Indians, had been “abducted”. The outlets subsequently quoted a Taliban spokesman as rejecting the allegations of abduction.Etilaatroz also reported the Indians were safe and their passports were checked before they were sent to the airport.There was no official word from Indian side on the development. The government has kept all details of the evacuation of Indian nationals from Afghanistan under tight wraps because of operational and security reasons.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that there were problems when a group of more than 200 people, including around 70 Afghan nationals and the remainder Indians, came to Kabul airport in a convoy late on Friday. The Taliban, who are outside the airport, stopped the group, following which most of the Afghans reportedly escaped.The Afghan nationals included Sikhs and Hindus, and reports said the Taliban had said they would not be allowed to leave the country.The Indians were rounded up by the Taliban and taken to an unknown location close to the airport for further checks, the people said. Following inquiries and checking of documents such as passports, the group was sent back to the airport on Saturday afternoon, the people added.The development occurred after an Indian military aircraft evacuated more than 80 Indians from Kabul to Dushanbe. Another military aircraft was on standby at Dushanbe, which is being used as a transit point by the Indian Air Force because of the limited time slots available at Kabul airport, which is controlled by the US military.The people cited above said the biggest problem in the evacuation of Indians is the journey from different parts of the city to the airport as Kabul has been taken over by the Taliban, who have set up check posts across the capital. Adding to the worries of the Indian side are reports that terrorists from Pakistan-based groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Haqqani Network are also present among the Taliban.With the civilian side of Kabul airport still closed, all evacuations are being done from the military side, outside which thousands of Afghans have gathered in the hope of getting on board the flights being operated by countries such as the US and the UK. Numerous videos have emerged of Taliban fighters opening fire outside the airport to drive back crowds.India evacuated its envoy, diplomats, officials, security personnel and some nationals on two C-17 heavy lift aircraft on Monday and Tuesday. It is believed that more than 500 Indians are still in Afghanistan and the government is focused on their safe repatriation. A few hundred Afghan Sikhs and Hindus too will be brought to India.The Taliban marched into Kabul on August 15 after the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. Most of the top leaders of the group, including Abdul Ghani Baradar, have returned to Afghanistan and are engaged in consultations of forming a government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/300-indians-set-to-return-from-kabul-101629569770558.html
21-08-2021||India||Three-day state mourning to be observed in UP for Kalyan Singh’s demise: CM||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that a three-day state mourning will be declared to condole the demise of the former chief minister of the state as well as the ex-Governor of Rajasthan Kalyan Singh, who passed away on Saturday.“His last rites will be performed on the bank of Ganga in Narora in the evening of August 23. There will be a public holiday on [that day as well],” Adityanath was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Singh, who was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow on July 4 passed away aged 89 owing to sepsis and multi-organ failure. He was initially hospitalised with an infection and a reduced consciousness. Hospital authorities informed on Friday that the veteran leader’s health condition was critical and that he was moved to a life support system.Also Read | Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh dies at 89Several Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu paid their tributes to Singh.“Kalyan Singh Ji gave voice to crores of people belonging to the marginalised sections of society. He made numerous efforts towards the empowerment of farmers, youngsters and women,” PM Modi tweeted.“Pained by the demise of former UP CM Kalyan Singh. He was a nationalist & an exemplary leader who was deeply committed to serving people. My thoughts are with his bereaved family & followers,” VP Naidu said, according to ANI.The 1992's Babri demolition took place a year after Singh became the chief minister for the first time in 1991.He became the CM once again in 1997 as per a seat-sharing deal between BSP and BJP and remained in the post even after BSP withdrew its support from the ruling dispensation at the time. In 1998, Kalyan Singh's government was dismissed by the Governor after a Congress faction withdrew its support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/threeday-state-mourning-to-be-observed-in-up-for-kalyan-singh-s-demise-cm-101629567976557.html
21-08-2021||India||Amid festivals and relaxations, BMC likely to increase Covid-19 testing||With festivals round the corner beginning with Raksha Bandhan on Sunday and a set of relaxations implemented in the last 10 days, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) may soon increase the daily testing of samples for Covid-19. In the last two days, the BMC has conducted a dry run by doubling its number of testing to gauge the situation.Since the last two days, over 50,000 tests have been conducted in the city, the majority of which were done using rapid antigen kits. This is an increase from the daily 25,000 to 35,000 tests being conducted in the city until Wednesday. The BMC has said with relaxations and festivals round the corner, in the coming days the testing may be increased, if the need arises.According to BMC officials, more testing of samples also leads to detecting cases faster which also results in early tracing of infected citizens. As per predictions of experts and authorities, the third wave of Covid-19 cases is likely to kick in anytime between September or October, during the festive season.Suresh Kakani, Additional Municipal Commissioner of the BMC said, “In the last two days, we did a trial run by increasing our testing numbers to above 50,000. However, it will remain around 35,000 for now. But in the coming days depending on the situation, we may have to increase testing.”“However, when we increase our testing, major reliance will be on RT-PCR testing and rapid antigen tests equally. Ultimately, when we have to increase our testing, we will have to focus on places with high footfall. For instance, malls again depending on whether they are open or not, hawkers, shopkeepers. We will have to target those who have multiple layers of contact,” Kakani added. In Mumbai, overall, as of August 19, 2021, 740,290 cases have been detected by testing 8,855,005 samples. The overall positivity rate is 8.36% and the daily positivity rate is hovering between 0.50% to 1% in the last few days. In Mumbai, a total of 8,050,775 citizens have been traced as part of the contact tracing method for Covid-19. A total of 8,0171,766 have completed home quarantine and currently 32,256 are under home quarantine.According to BMC officials, along with more relaxations the instances of citizens self-testing has also increased in a few areas. This in a way adds up to the testing count and also results in early testing. Prashant Gaikwad, Assistant Municipal Commissioner of D Ward under whom the BMC’s jurisdiction areas like Malabar Hill, Tardeo fall said, “There are many areas in my ward where citizens are going outstation for work. On their return, they get tested and there are times even their family members get tested. This in a way helps in early testing and tracing of infected patients.”Dr Madhav Sathe, Retired Microbiology Professor at Nair Hospital in Mumbai said, “I do understand that there are less people willing to come up for testing but at the least we need 20,000 RT-PCR testing on a daily basis. Looking at the current relaxations and festivals coming up, we should at least have 40 to 50 thousand tests conducted in Mumbai of which 60% should be RT-PCR and 40% should be done through rapid antigen kits.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-festivals-and-relaxations-bmc-likely-to-increase-covid-19-testing-101629568330489.html
21-08-2021||India||Shinde frustrated over Sena matters, looking for alternatives: Rane||Union minister Narayan Rane on Saturday alleged that Maharashtra urban development minister and senior Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde is unhappy with the affairs in his party and may possibly switch sides.“Even though he (Shinde) is the urban development minister in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, he is being used only to sign files. The rest is in the hands of a ‘son’, who is also a minister, and another person who is not in politics. No file from the urban development department can be cleared without the approval from Matoshri (Thackeray’s residence),” Rane said without naming Aaditya Thackeray, environment minister and son of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.“He (Shinde) is frustrated and tired of this and is looking for alternatives… I will provide for him one day,” the Union minister added, pointing at the alleged unrest within the Shiv Sena. Rane was on his ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ near Vasai organised by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for new ministers in the Narendra Modi Cabinet when he made the remarks. The Union minister has been a bitter critic of the chief minister ever since he was expelled from the Shiv Sena in 2005 for alleged anti-party activities. He also alleged that the MVA government would collapse soon.Refuting Rane’s allegations of unrest within the Sena, party spokesperson Manisha Kayande said: “There is no unrest in the Shiv Sena. In fact, Shinde is one of the best performing ministers and is the first person to reach a spot if an incident happens. Rane has suddenly got a position and thus, is making all allegations to show his bosses that he is doing something.” Kayande alleged that it was the BJP that was reeling under internal feud and not the Shiv Sena. “BJP has no leader who can lead the party in the upcoming Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation elections. This is the reason BJP loyalists have been sidelined and Rane is being projected. Thus, there is unrest in the BJP and not in Shiv Sena,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shinde-frustrated-over-sena-matters-looking-for-alternatives-rane-101629568032606.html
21-08-2021||India||4 special CBI teams may hold region-wise probe into post-poll violence in Bengal||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which has been directed by the Calcutta high court to probe cases of alleged murder, attempts to murder and rape reported during the post-poll violence in West Bengal, is likely to divide the entire state into four zones on the basis of the number of complaints received, people familiar with the matter said.Four special teams, comprising seven members each, are slated to arrive in the state next week to take charge of complaints from north, south, west and Kolkata zones, respectively, the people cited above said, adding that separate FIRs could be filed for each allegation of rape and murder.“Four special teams, each headed by a joint director, are likely to take up the investigations in each zone. For each allegation of rape and murder, separate FIR would be lodged instead of clubbing them into one complaint,” a CBI official said on condition of anonymity.The teams will be assisted by local officers from the agency’s Kolkata office and will be under the overall supervision of additional director Ajay Bhatnagar.The top five districts, from where the seven-member enquiry committee set up by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) received maximum number of complaints, were Cooch Behar, Birbhum, Kolkata North 24 Parganas, East Burdwan and South 24 Parganas.While Birbhum and East Burdwan, located in the western part of the state, received 314 and 113 complaints, respectively, Cooch Behar in north Bengal topped the list with 322 complaints. North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas in south Bengal received 196 and 203 complaints, respectively.At least 172 complaints were received from Kolkata.On Thursday, the Calcutta high court ordered separate probes by the CBI and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the state police into the alleged violence. A five-judge bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal said the CBI will probe the serious allegations of rape and murder and a three-member SIT those of arson and loot under the court’s supervision.The central agency on Friday sought details of all cases of alleged murder, attempt to murder and rape reported during the violence from the state police.While speculations are rife that the West Bengal government may challenge the high court order in the Supreme Court, two caveats by advocate Anindya Sundar Das and advocate Priyanka Tibrewal have already been filed in the apex court.Welcoming the high court order, Biswajit Sarkar, brother of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker Abhijit Sarkar who was allegedly murdered by Trinamool Congress workers in Kolkata on May 2, said: “The attackers had used wires to drag my brother. They had assaulted me too but my brother was their primary target. Hopefully I will get justice now.”In South 24 Parganas, one Sankar Adhikari recounted how his brother Haran Adhikari was killed near their house in Sonarpur on the same night.“The TMC had been threatening my brother for many days as he was a BJP supporter and used to chant Jai Shri Ram. He was attacked after the results were declared. His face was almost not recognizable. Hopefully all these would be probed, and the culprits would be hanged,” he said.The BJP has already released the names of 42 party workers, including Sarkar and Adhikari, who were allegedly killed in the post-poll violence.The TMC, however, has denied any post-poll incident after May 5, when chief minister Mamata Banerjee took oath for a second term.“We have been telling right from the beginning that there has been massive post poll violence. The NHRC report also said this. Now, the high court has said the same thing. The state has been denying this from the very beginning,” BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said.At Nanoor in Birbhum where allegations of a gang rape surfaced, police said that no such incidents had taken place.“There is absolute peace in the district. There has been no violence. The BJP is bringing false allegations. Let the CBI come and investigate,” TMC’s Birbhum district president Anubrata Mondol said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-special-cbi-teams-may-hold-region-wise-probe-into-post-poll-violence-in-bengal-101629567851074.html
21-08-2021||India||Media stalwart Pradeep Guha dies at 68, tributes pour in||Mumbai Pradeep Guha, managing director of 9X Media and former president of the Bennett Coleman and Company Ltd (BCCL, also known as the Times Group) passed away in Mumbai on Saturday, August 21. Guha was recently detected with fourth stage liver cancer and was being treated at the city’s Kokilaben Ambani Hospital. The hospital declined to make a statement on the request of Guha’s family. He was 68, and is survived by his wife and their son.One of his treating doctors said Guha was put on ventilator support on Friday as he was struggling to breathe on his own. “He passed away on Saturday morning,” he said on condition of anonymity.An economics graduate from St Xavier’s College in Mumbai, Guha was associated with the Times Group for 29 years between 1976 and 2005. He was appointed chief executive officer (CEO) of Zee Entertainment Enterprises the same year, a position he held until 2008. Between 2008 and 2015, he presided over the Asia Pacific division of the International Advertising Association, a global advertising and marketing body established in 1938. In 2010, he was appointed managing director of 9X Media, a position he held until his death.In January 2010, he founded Fountainhead MKTG along with Brian Tellis, Neale Murray, Owen Roncon, VG Jairam and Otis D’Souza.Several Hindi cinema and television personalities and publishers took to social media to mourn Guha’s death.Punit Goenka, MD and CEO and of Zee Entertainment, said, “Devastated to lose my mentor, guide and friend Pradeep Guha... It is a huge loss for all of us.” Actor and producer Riteish Deshmukh said, “Extremely saddened by the demise of Mr Pradeep Guha. An absolute icon, a marketing genius- be it beauty queens or page 3 events - he gave them a pedestal to shine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/media-stalwart-guha-dies-at-68-tributes-pour-in-101629567313611.html
21-08-2021||India||Russian tourist who died by suicide in Goa faced harassment: Consulate||The 24-year old Russian woman, who was found hanging in her rented apartment in north Goa on Thursday, was blackmailed for sexual favours in 2019 by culprits based in Chennai, a representative for the Russian consulate said on Saturday.The woman was found hanging in her room where she lived with her friend in Siolim village in north Goa on August 19. While a probe is underway, Goa Police said that “prima facie”, it appeared to be a case of “death by hanging”.“We received information that she was blackmailed in 2019 for sexual favours and Chennai Police had registered an FIR in this regard. But this is preliminary information and we hope that the Goa Police will investigate the matter thoroughly and rule out any possible suspicion in her death,” counsel for the Russian Consulate Adv Vikram Varma .The FIR in Chennai was registered in 2019 after the woman accused a photographer of harassing her for sexual favours.In a separate incident, the body of another Russia woman - Ekaterina Titova - was recovered from her apartment in the village on the same day.“In both cases, we are following legal procedures... we have informed the embassy to appoint a representative and begun inquest proceedings. Once the representative is assigned, further medico legal formalities such as post mortem examination will be conducted,” North Goa superintendent of police Shobit Saksena said.“We are not suspecting any foul play as of now,” he added.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russian-tourist-who-died-by-suicide-in-goa-faced-harassment-consulate-101629567314172.html
21-08-2021||India||Terrorist behind killing of BJP leader among 3 gunned down in Kashmir||A Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorist involved in the killing of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader was shot dead along with two other members of the terror outfit by security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama on Saturday, police said.Police said Wakeel Ahmad Shah, a resident Tral, was linked to the murder of BJP leader Rakesh Pandita in June.“We have issued a list of top 10 terrorists who are on our target. He [Shah] appears on the list. He was also involved in the killing of BJP leader Rakesh Pandita and in the killing a special police officer and some civilians,” Inspector General of Police (IGP) Vijay KumarPandita, the chairman of a municipal committee, was killed by terrorists on June 2 when he was visiting his hometown of Tral.According to Kumar, a joint team of the police and army launched a search operation in the forests of Nagaberan Dhoka area after receiving inputs about the presence of the Jaish terrorists.“Our jawans approached the target and cordoned the place. They [the terrorists] were given an opportunity to surrender but they opened fire and in retaliation, they were killed,” Kumar said.Police have identified the second terrorist as Ab Hamid Chopan, whose son Adil Chopan was killed in an encounter in 2017, while the third terrorist has been identified as Illyas Najar of Pulwama, who has been active since June 2019. “Terrorist Hamid was involved in #killing of #civilians,” Kashmir Police said in a Twitter post.“Illyas Najar was involved in many terror crime cases & civilian atrocities,” the Police addedThe IGP said that political leaders and workers have been targeted by the terrorists in the region since the late 1980s but assured that they will attempt to provide security to the a maximum number of people. Three political leaders have been killed in the region in a fortnight.“If someone is threatened or falls in vulnerable areas we are assessing and providing them security,” he said and added that they were investigating the killing of Apni Party Worker Ghulam Hassan Lone in Kulgam on Thursday.Issuing a warning to terrorists, the IGP said: “If you think you will kill innocent civilians and run away into forests to hide, be informed that we will trace you there as well.”Saturday’s encounter comes against the backdrop of a series of gunfights between the forces and terrorists. Two terrorists belonging to the “hit squad” of Hizbul Mujahideen were killed in an encounter at Khrew in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Friday. According to official figures, 94 terrorists have been killed in the region this year.The General Officer Commanding (GOC) of Victor Force Major General Rashim Bali said the forces have sent out a strong message to the terrorists.“A strong message has gone out by this operation that there is no place for terrorists either in a built-up area or otherwise. Even if they go into the jungle we will get information about them,” he said.On Taliban threatKumar said the forces were ready to deal with any challenge while alluding to a potential security risk from the Taliban.“As a police officer I would say that any terrorist who comes into our territory, our work is to collect information and launch operations with the army to neutralize any threat. Whatever challenge will be in future we will deal with it professionally and we are alert,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-behind-killing-of-bjp-leader-among-3-gunned-down-in-kashmir-101629567313107.html
21-08-2021||India||TN health minister inaugurates round-the-clock Covid-19 vaccination camps in all district capitals||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday inaugurated full-time vaccination camps against Covid-19 in all medical college hospitals in the district capitals in the state. State health minister Ma Subramanian took to Twitter to announce the commencement of such centres.“As per the instructions of the honourable chief minister of Tamil Nadu, full time (24/7) full-time vaccination camps were inaugurated at the medical college hospitals in all district capitals of Tamil Nadu,” Subramanian tweeted in Tamil.மாண்புமிகு தமிழக முதல்வர் அவர்களின் அறிவுறுத்தலின்படி தமிழகத்தின் அனைத்து மாவட்ட தலைநகர பகுதிகளில் உள்ள மருத்துவ கல்லூரி மருத்துவமனைகளிலும்(24/7 )முழு நேர தடுப்பூசி முகாம்கள் தொடங்கிவைக்கப்பட்டது.... pic.twitter.com/wUCblvjt8wThe announcement came as the state government has decided to relax several curfews in the state. In a statement on Saturday evening, chief minister MK Stalin announced that the Covid-19 curfew in the state has been extended until 6am on September 6. However, the state government has also offered several relaxations in view of the receding number of daily infections in the state. The relaxations were announced following a review meeting chaired by Stalin and attended by several state officials.During the meeting, the importance of vaccinating all people in the state and the measures towards that were also discussed, following which the vaccination camps have been commenced.Also read | Tamil Nadu extends Covid-19 curbs till September 6, but gives fresh relaxationsFurther, the state government has decided to reopen the educational institutes from September 1. Students belonging to classes 9, 10, 11 and 12 and colleges would be allowed to attend schools based on a rotational basis and following the standard operating procedures (SOP) previously released. Theatres were reopened allowing 50% of seating capacity at a time and swimming pools have also been opened to athletes alone. Other relaxations include the reopening of botanical gardens, zoological parks and boathouses for the public.According to data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, 28,035,129 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to eligible beneficiaries in TN as of 7am on the day. In the capital city of Chennai, 3,597,849 people have been vaccinated until August 20, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) said.Meanwhile, the total confirmed cases in the state reached 2,599,255 on Saturday after 1,652 more people tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours. The death toll rose to 34,686 as 23 people succumbed to the illness, a bulletin from the state health department showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-health-minister-inaugurates-round-the-clock-covid-19-vaccination-camps-in-all-district-capitals-101629566155507.html
21-08-2021||India||'Saddened beyond words': PM Modi condoles death of former UP CM Kalyan Singh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed condolences over the death of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh who breathed his last at Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow on Saturday. In a series of tweets, PM Modi said that he's saddened beyond words over the demise of "statesman, veteran administrator, grassroots level leader and great human.""He leaves behind an indelible contribution towards the development of Uttar Pradesh. Spoke to his son Shri Rajveer Singh and expressed condolences. Om Shanti," the prime minister tweeted.Singh, who had also served as Rajasthan governor, was admitted to the hospital's intensive care unit on July 4 due to an infection. He was moved to a life-saving support system after this health condition further deteriorated. On Friday, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath paid a visit to the veteran leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)."Generations to come will remain forever grateful to Kalyan Singh Ji for his contributions towards India’s cultural regeneration. He was firmly rooted in Indian values and took pride in our centuries old traditions," PM Modi said in a tweet.Kalyan Singh Ji gave voice to crores of people belonging to the marginalised sections of society. He made numerous efforts towards the empowerment of farmers, youngsters and women.Also Read | Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh dies at 89Union home minister Amit Shah said the country will always be indebted for Singh's immense contribution. "I bow down to such a great and ideal life dedicated to the nation, religion and people...May God give him a place at his feet," Shah wrote on Twitter.Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Nitin Gadkari, and Jitendra Singh have also tweeted condolence messages over Kalyan Singh's demise.The mortal remains of the former UP CM are being taken to his residence in Lucknow from Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, reported news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saddened-beyond-words-pm-modi-condoles-death-of-former-up-cm-kalyan-singh-101629564100684.html
21-08-2021||India||Maharashtra sets new vax record, administers nearly 1.1 million doses in 1 day||In a major milestone for the state government, Maharashtra administered nearly 1.1 million vaccine doses in a day on Saturday. The achievement comes a week after the state nearly touched the one million mark in a day on August 14, when it administered 964,460 doses in a single day.“Till 7pm, Maharashtra administered 10,96,493 (1.96 million) doses across 5,200 vaccination centres in the state. Our previous best was 9.64 lakh doses on August 14, 2021,” said Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary (health). He added that the numbers are expected to rise in the next few hours. According to the data on the CoWin portal, the state’s cumulative tally was 5,321,928, and so far, 14,012,636 citizens have been fully vaccinated in the state.State health minister Rajesh Tope lauded the efforts of the health workers and doctors across the state. “The health department officials and workers today have proved that we can administer over 10 lakh (1 million) doses in a day,” he said adding that the state has the infrastructural capabilities to go past this record as well.State tourism and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray in a tweet said, “As and when vaccines are received, our healthcare champions from public & private sector ensure max citizens are reached out to.”Earlier this month, Maharashtra went past the 50 million mark in total vaccines administered. The state stands second in the overall doses administered after Uttar Pradesh, which has administered over 63.1 million doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-sets-new-vax-record-administers-nearly-1-1-million-doses-in-1-day-101629564849869.html
21-08-2021||India||Never in our wildest dreams did we think Taliban would return so easily: ANA officer who trained at IMA||Two weeks ago, a young Afghan National Army (ANA) officer who pursued his pre-commission training at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun, was donning his uniform with pride, while on duty at a military base several miles away from Kabul. Little did he know that a week later, he would have to hide his uniform and all his identity cards to escape from the Taliban.The ANA officer has been moving to different towns since August 15, when the Taliban captured Kabul, to avoid getting caught. According to him, the Taliban are looking for ANA personnel and other people who worked for the erstwhile elected government of former President Ashraf Ghani.“We never thought in our wildest dreams that the Taliban would return so easily in just a few days. Our leaders sold us. Since the government was toppled and the top commanders surrendered, we hid our uniform and service weapons. We then went into hiding from the Taliban,” said the officer while talking to HT on a social media platform from an undisclosed town several miles away from capital Kabul.He said that like him many others from the ANA are in hiding to avoid getting caught by the hardline Islamists who ruled the war-torn country from 1996 to 2001 invoking an extreme form of Sharia law.“Like me, many others from the ANA are hiding in different places of the country. We are not scared at all, but only worried that they will take the country back to the period before 2001. We are waiting for the right time to rise against the Taliban who are still wild animals. We will not accept their rule,” said the officer.Nearly got caught by Taliban at a checkpointThe officer said that since August 15, he has been hiding in different towns to ensure his safety while worrying for his parents who live in the capital.“Initially, I was hiding for a couple of days in one of my relative’s house. There I had proper food as I was hungry for two days with nothing left to eat in my post. From there I left for one of my friend’s place a few kilometres away a day ago. It was then, that I encountered the Taliban at a checkpoint manned by them,” he said.“They stopped our car and using an expletive, asked us that from where we were coming and where we were going. For a moment we were worried, but we kept our cool and replied in a relaxed way to avoid any suspicion. Then they allowed us to go after a tense 3 minutes of questioning.”Narrating his escape, he said that “fortunately, I had grown my beard a few weeks ago.”“I started growing it weeks before the Taliban captured Kabul on August 15. It helped me pass the checkpoint along with my traditional attire of pathani suit which I donned after disposing my uniform,” said he officer adding he is “worried about his family”.‘Was shocked to see our weapons in the hands of the Taliban’The officer said he and his men hid their weapons including the American made M4 assault rifles before going into hiding while many others surrendered them to the Taliban.“At the checkpoint, where we were stopped, I was shocked to see our weapons in the hands of those men. I was thinking, do you even know how to hold it properly, how to open it and clean it? But that was the new reality we had to accept in Afghanistan. They got their hands on the modern weaponry provided to us by the Americans,” he said adding “we however don’t know what to do, till when to hide like this.”The ANA officer also vented his anger on the United States of America (USA) for their “abrupt exit all of a sudden”.“Wherever they have stepped in, they have destroyed that country. Now after destroying ours, they left it suddenly. We want to tell the people of other countries that never ever trust them. They only care about their vested interests,” he said while also expressing his anger on former President Ashraf Ghani who fled from the country.“After leaving the people of his country in this crisis, he had the guts to say in a video that he will return to Afghanistan to work for the people. If he returns, people will not spare him. How can someone leave his motherland and flee in such an hour of need?” he questioned.‘Will soon stand under Ahmad Massoud’Hoping for a turnaround in fortunes the young officer said, “The people of Afghanistan will soon stand up against the Taliban.”“We are lucky to still have leaders like Ahmad Massoud, son of legendary Ahmad Shah Massoud, who have vowed to stand up for the people of Afghanistan against Taliban in Panjshir Valley which is the only province free from the Taliban,” he said adding resistance has already started in Baghlan province.“There the locals recaptured three districts from the Taliban after they carried out a door-to-door search against their promise of general amnesty. That enraged the locals who then retaliated to capture the three districts from them. God willing, this will spread to other areas as well,” said the officer before signing off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-in-our-wildest-dreams-did-we-think-taliban-would-return-so-easily-ana-officer-who-trained-at-ima-101629563530186.html
21-08-2021||India||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh dies at 89||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and former Rajasthan Governor Kalyan Singh passed away at Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow on Saturday, due to sepsis and multi-organ failure. The veteran leader was admitted to the hospital's intensive care unit on July 4 because of an infection and reduced consciousness level. On Friday, the hospital authorities informed that his health was critical and he was being moved on a life-saving support system.BJP leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh visited the leader at the hospital this month. On Friday, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath paid a visit to the leader.Kalyan Singh, popularly known as 'Babuji', became the chief minister of the state for the first time in 1991. He was at the helm of the affairs in the state when the Babri masjid was demolished in 1992. In several interviews, he recounted what happened on December 6 and just before the bhumi pujan of the Ram temple in Ayodhya in August 2020, he said he wanted to be reborn in the temple town. "I was told that central forces were on way to the temple town but their movement was halted by kar sewaks outside Saket college. I was asked whether to order firing (on kar sewaks) or not. I denied permission in writing and said in my order, which is still there on the files, that firing would lead to the loss of many lives, chaos and law and order issues across the country," Kalyan Singh had told Hindustan Times in an interview.After a controversial first stint as the chief minister, Kalyan Singh became the CM once again in 1997 according to a power-sharing agreement between the BJP and the BSP. Even after the BSP withdrew its support from the government, he continued to be the CM as a faction of Congress extended support to the Kalyan Singh government. In 1998, the Kalyan Singh's government was dismissed by the Governor after a Congress faction withdrew its support.Kalyan Singh's association with the BJP had many ups and downs. An RSS member from school, Kalyan Singh was a member of Bharatiya Jana Sangh, the Janata Party and then the BJP. During his second stint as the chief minister, he was replaced as the chief minister and left the BJP to form a new party, the Rashtriya Kranti Party.In 2004, he returned to the BJP and again exited the party in 2009. In the 2009 Lok Sabha elections, he won from Etah as an independent candidate. In 2010, he announced the formation of the Jan Kranti Party and four years later, he again came back to the BJP. In the same year, he was appointed the Governor of Rajasthan and completed his term in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-uttar-pradesh-chief-minister-kalyan-singh-dies-at-89-101629562799495.html
21-08-2021||India||‘Such people have malicious intentions’: Naqvi on Mufti’s remark on J&K issue||The Union minister of minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Saturday took a dig at People’s Democratic Party (PDP) supremo Mehbooba Mufti for her statement regarding the Jammu and Kashmir situation, saying that people who give “such statements have malicious intentions”.Earlier in the day, Mufti asked the Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government to rectify its mistake of disintegrating Jammu and Kashmir. Addressing a gathering, the PDP chief said, “It needs courage to endure what people of Jammu and Kashmir are enduring. The day [people] run out of patience, everything will be doomed.”She also stressed not testing the patience of the people of Jammu and Kashmir and drew the example of the Taliban recapturing Afghanistan nearly two decades later. “See what is happening in our neighbourhood [Afghanistan]. Even the US, which is such a massive power, had to pack their bags and withdraw from the country,” Mufti added.Reiterating her demand to restore the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir, the PDP chief said discourse around the region and matters associated with it should be done similar to how BJP leader and late Prime Minister of India Atal Bihari Vajpayee had done. “There is still time; rectify yourself,” Mufti said while referring to the Centre.#WATCH | It needs courage to endure what people of J&K are enduring. The day they run out of patience, you would be doomed. Don't test our patience. See what is happening in our neighbourhood. US, a great power, had to pack its bags & withdraw from there: Mehbooba Mufti, PDP pic.twitter.com/cEELMRX0mtNaqvi said PM Modi believes in the culture of tolerance and zero-tolerance to terrorism. “With that resolution, India and its people are going forward,” the minister, who is also the deputy leader of the Rajya Sabha, added.This development comes on the day the Union territory (UT) police chief Dilbag Singh visited the Kulgam district and chaired a review meeting focussed on an array of political killings that recently occurred in the region.“All the suspicious elements that are providing any kind of support to militant activities should be kept under the radar to foil their attempts. Stringent action should be taken against the elements found involved in anti-peace activities,” a statement quoted Singh as saying.Also Read | J&K Police chief reviews security after spate of political killingsThe meeting comes in the aftermath of BJP leader Altaf Thakur claiming that as many as nine of his party workers have been killed in the Kulgam district this year.Meanwhile, a senior J&K Police official said that three Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorist militants, including one Wakeel Shah, who killed BJP leader Rakesh Pandita in June, were gunned down by security forces in the Tral area of Pulwama district on Saturday.Also Read | JeM terrorists, who killed BJP leader, gunned down in J&K's TralOfficials said that the three JeM terrorists were killed during an encounter with the forces after the latter launched a cordon and a search operation in the Pulwama district following the receipt of inputs about the presence of the militants.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/such-people-have-malicious-intentions-naqvi-on-mufti-s-remark-on-j-k-issue-101629560571883.html
21-08-2021||India||India allowed two flights daily to evacuate people from Kabul: Report||India has been allowed by the US and NATO forces to operate two flights per day from Kabul to evacuate its nationals stranded in Afghanistan, government sources told news agency ANI. This will accelerate the evacuation process to which the government has reiterated its commitment. Countries are scrambling to evacuate their people after the Taliban captured Kabul on August 15. The Kabul airport which is being managed by the US and NATO forces has become a scene of disarray and chaos as the situation has taken an unexpected turn following the fall of Kabul.Reports said more than 300 Indian nationals have to be taken out of Kabul. Air India operated one of the very first evacuation flights to Kabul on August 15, before the air space was closed. The flight had to hover in the skies for almost an hour as it could not land.The Indian Air Force has already evacuated around 180 passengers, including its ambassador to Afghanistan and all other diplomats. The first aircraft of India was allowed to operate from Kabul after National Security Advisor Ajit Doval interacted with his US counterpart Jake Sullivan to facilitate the movement of Indian officials inside the American security zone at the airport, ANI reportedThe external affairs ministry said the main challenge in evacuation is the operational status of the Kabul airport. A day after the Taliban captured Kabul, the airspace was closed disrupting the evacuation process.But that did not deter India's evacuation process, Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Friday. "We operated flights to Kabul every day but after Afghanistan airspace's closure, Indian Air Force's C130 Hercules Globemaster aircraft flew to Kabul to bring back our citizens to the country. These flights are operating to bring back our people safely. Every day we are getting 130-150 Indians safely back to the country," he said."The Indian government will bring its citizens back to their homes from Afghanistan, as we did in the Vande Bharat Mission, through Air India and the Indian Air Force (IAF) planes, whichever way is possible. The evacuation process continued for three days. But, when a flight was about to take off on Sunday, NOTAM (a notice to alert aircraft pilots of potential hazards along a flight route) was received following gunshots fired at the Kabul airport," Scindia said earlier.The European Union has said the situation at the Kabul airport is very difficult and EU delegation members are there at the airport trying to help constantly. “It is a very difficult situation, it is changing by the minutes, but there is intense work being done to make the best of a very difficult situation," an EU official said. A senior US military official has told Reuters on Saturday that there have been short durations during the last 24 hours where gates of Kabul airport have been closed.The Taliban have claimed that they are not holding foreigners back and are aiming to improve the situation to provide a smooth exit at the airport over the weekend.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-allowed-two-flights-daily-to-evacuate-people-from-kabul-report-101629559665474.html
21-08-2021||India||Well deserved: Making our heroes feel special||The Tokyo 2020 Olympics were gripping and victorious for us Indians. For our country, it was the highest return since the 2012 London Games with seven medals. As a special reward to the hardwork and perseverance of India’s medal winners at the Games, many brands have come forward in celebration of these medallists and have been serenading them with gifts and goodies.It all began with the wish of the 26-year-old weightlifter Saikhom Mirabai Chanu who clinched the silver medal in women’s 59 kg category on the second day of the international sports event to celebrate her victory with a pizza. Within hours, Dominoes jumped into the fray with a lifetime offer of free Dominos pizzas for the champion.Shree Cements, the cements brand, also announced that the company will offer free cement to the medallists ‘in order to help them build their dream homes’.ISCKON temple, Dwarka has gone a notch higher and has made meals at the Govindas Restaurant free for lifetime for the gold, silver and bronze Olympic medalists and their families. Neeraj Chopra cinched gold, Weightlifter Mirabai Chanu and Boxer Ravi Kumar Dahiya bagged a silver and Badminton player PV Sindhu, Boxer Lovlina Borgohain, Wrestler Bajrang Punia and all the players of the men’s hockey team won Olympic bronze and they all deserve applause.Shri Hemant Kumar, associated with the management of Rukmini Dwarkadhish Mandir, ISKCON Dwarka, Delhi says, “Through this move, we are celebrating the will, determination, restraint and passion of players who made a mark on the global stage. We are also bestowing life membership of ISKCON on these players. An inspiration to other players, we welcome the real gems of the country to ISCKON Dwarka, Delhi.``These special gestures of honouring India’s talent will go a long way in encouraging other brands to invest in infrastructure needs of emerging sports persons and help in bridging the gap between India’s quest for sporting glory and the number of medals.To keep up the spirit of our national game, hockey, a Peer Commerce start-up, Rozana.in has announced a 75% discount for a year for the Indian women hockey team and their families coinciding with the 75th Year of India’s independence. They have taken this initiative to commemorate the undying determination and grit displayed by the Indian Women’s Hockey Team at Olympics.“These women are an inspiration for every sports person in the country. Team Rozana salutes the champions and this is just a small gesture to show our support and respect,” says Ankur Dahiya, co-founder, Rozana.in while announcing the initiative.Participation in the Olympics is a matter of national pride, says Sumit Israni, managing director, Geetanjali Salons & Studios and Celebrity Hair Stylist. He says, “Our representatives have given us hope, joy and a reason to feel proud. Though a small gesture, we are delighted to offer a flat 50% discount to all the Olympic winners. They can avail these services PAN India- in both our verticals - Geetanjali salon and Geetanjali studio till the next Olympics.”India has an expansive history of legal aid, backed by several decades of legislation, jurisprudential interpretation, and numerous state-funded programs. However, its pro bono culture is still very much a work in progress. Keeping this in mind, L&L Partners informed the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports that the firm will provide medal winners of the Indian contingent at the 2020 Olympics with pro-bono legal aid for a period of one year.Such gestures and long commitments would ensure better credibility for the brands. Let’s hope the players get their due from other corporate structures in the near future as well. In a country obsessed with cricket and the majority of brand endorsements bagged by cricketers, let’s pray that the focus shifts to other deserving sports and sportspersons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/well-deserved-making-our-heroes-feel-special-101629561129876.html
21-08-2021||India||'Don't have enough data...': Dr Randeep Guleria on if India needs booster shot of Covid-19 vaccine||Even as booster shot of coronavirus vaccine has been approved in some countries, including Israel and the United States, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria said on Saturday India “does not have enough data” right now to determine if a booster is needed in the country to increase protection against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). More information in this regard would be available "by early next year," Dr Guleria told NDTV.“I don’t think we have enough data right now, even for elderly and higher-risk groups, to say that a booster shot is needed. We really need to have some data to give us an idea of the level of protection that vaccines provide. Information is still emerging, possibly by early next year, we will have data on what type of booster shots are needed, and who all need it,” he said.For single-dose vaccines, the second dose represents the booster shot, while for two-dose vaccines, the third one will be the booster. A booster shot is administered only if required.Dr Guleria also emphasised that globally, as well as in India, people who have been vaccinated continue to be protected from severe Covid-19, adding that “there has not been a huge surge” in hospital admissions among such people. “Will the booster be needed from the vaccines available? Should we consider a new vaccine or the same one? Should vaccines be combined for the booster? These details are still emerging,” the senior doctor further said.India’s vaccination drive against Covid-19 began on January 16, and all citizens above the age of 18 are eligible to be inoculated. Covishield and Covaxin were the first two vaccines to receive emergency use authorisation (EUA), and both require two doses. Among other vaccines to be approved for use in India, both Sputnik V and mRNA-1273, also have two-dose regimen, while Johnson and Johnson’s jab requires a single dose. The latest vaccine to be given EUA here, ZyCoV-D, is the world’s first three-dose vaccine for Covid-19.Among these, Covaxin and ZyCoV-D are indigenously developed jabs. Till now, 576,117,350 vaccine doses have been administered in the country, including 3,636,043 in the last 24 hours, according to Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-have-enough-data-dr-randeep-guleria-on-if-india-needs-booster-shot-of-covid-19-vaccine-101629559477356.html
21-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi Metro services to start early on Rakshabandhan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Raksha Bandhan: Delhi Metro services on two corridors to start earlyThe Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Saturday announced that services on Pink and Magenta Line (Phase 3 corridors) will start early on Sunday, on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan. Read moreTwo female ITBP constables wanted to be posted in Afghanistan, Delhi high court 'amazed'The constables in their plea which was submitted before the fall of Kabul said they are required in the Indian Mission in Kabul for frisking women and children coming to the embassy. Read more‘Not a single euro’: EU talks tough on Taliban’s promise of peace, women rightsThe European Union has neither recognised the Taliban nor it is holding talks with the militant, EU Commission president Ursula von der Leyen said on Saturday. Read moreIPL 2021: Rajasthan Royals' Jos Buttler to miss UAE legEngland wicketkeeper-batsman Jos Butter won’t be available for the second phase of IPL 2021 in UAE, as he and her wife Louise are expecting a second child soon, Rajasthan Royals announced on Saturday. Read moreWhen Sadhana said producers chose Saira Banu for beauty, Asha Parekh for dance and her for this reasonSadhana was among the most popular actors in the 1960s, having starred in hits such as Saaya, Woh Kaun Thi and Waqt. During that time, Saira Banu and Asha Parekh were her two contemporaries and also fan-favourites. Read moreHappy Raksha Bandhan 2021: Festival Celebrating Brother-Sister BondRaksha Bandhan 2021 gifts: This special day that celebrates the bond between a brother and sister is right around the corner and if you haven’t purchased a gift for your sibling, we are here to help. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-metro-services-to-start-early-on-rakshabandhan-and-all-the-latest-news-101629556204581.html
21-08-2021||India||Odisha forest dept suggests translocation of trees instead of felling for widening highways||Concerned over large-scale felling of trees due to expansion of highways in Odisha, the state forest department is expected to suggest to the national highway authorities that they go in for translocation of trees instead of cutting them down.Odisha principal chief conservator of forests Sisir Ratho said the forest department would soon request the NHAI to consider translocation of trees, which can survive during transportation, instead of felling them. Trees like Banyan, Peepal and Ashok can be saved through translocation. If the technique succeeds in saving trees along the highways, it can be implemented in cities and other locations at a later stage,” Ratho said.Earlier this year, Odisha forest and environment minister Bikram Keshari Arukh told the state assembly that 18.5 million trees were cut between 2010 and 2020 for widening of national highways such as the Sambalpur-Chhatisgarh section of NH-6, four-laning of Bhubaneswar-Puri road, Panikoili-Remuli section and Remuli Rajamunda section. However, just about 2.98 million trees were planted in place of the felled trees, just about 16 per cent of the trees that were cut down. More tree felling is on the cards after Union minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari in February this year approved 3 six-lane projects in the state.Earlier, environmentalists in the state had expressed concern over felling of 1,720 full-grown and old trees of different species for the widening of a 40 kilometre stretch of the National Highway 59 in Ganjam district. The ₹126-crore project is aimed at widening the road to 12 metres from 7 metres between Ratanpur near Berhampur city and Mundamarai near Aska.Project director of NHAI in Odisha, Ramprasad Panda said though the agency has not done any translocation of grown trees during highway expansion in the state, it would try to do it. “But there are several issues as not all trees can be relocated. We don’t have the expertise. It has to be done by OFDC or some forest agency. Besides, very old trees can’t be relocated. Another issue is getting the necessary space for planting of the same after relocation. But we would definitely try for relocation of trees as much as possible,” Panda said.Badri Lal Chaudhary, a botanist from Rajasthan who has reportedly moved more than 10,000 trees across the country and outside over last 18 years said there is need for tree relocation due to the declining green cover.“As cities are rapidly losing forest cover, we have to take steps to save each and every full-grown tree. Peepal and Banyan trees should be saved as they have sentimental value. Translocation can take a day to a week depending on the species and physical conditions like climate, temperature, soil conditions have to be accounted for before translocation,” he said.Recently, the Central Public Works Department in Delhi had proposed to transplant over 1,800 trees inside the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts complex, as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project.However, Odisha-based environmentalist Biswajit Mohanty said translocation is not a feasible idea as not every tree can be replanted. “A tree cannot be transplanted just by simply uprooting it and placing it in a pit somewhere else. The process involves several steps and requires significant expertise. The entire cost of transplanting any tree depends on its age, weight and distance to be shifted. The older a tree is, larger is its weight and harder is it to treat its root anatomy. Any tree which is older than 20 years is difficult to translocate. The translocation has to be done not very far from the place where it originally grew. As the survival of transplanted trees is around 10 per cent, we have been suggesting that before expansion of national highways, let the officials first plant trees just around the place where the expanded project will end. This should be done at least 3 years before the actual work happens. If those planted trees survive, then the authorities can cut down the existing trees for expansion,” said Mohanty.Mumbai-based naturalist Shardul Bajikar also expressed doubts whether tree transplantation can work in India. “It is a very sensitive process and I don’t know if proper procedures are followed in India. Various precautions need to be taken after tree transplantation. The survival rate of trees that are transplanted in India is well below 10 per cent,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-forest-dept-suggests-translocation-of-trees-instead-of-felling-for-widening-highways-101629559209386.html
21-08-2021||India||When will ZyCov-D vaccine be available for children under 12? Company’s MD hopes to start trials ‘very soon’||The Zydus Group on Saturday said that the company would soon apply to the Indian drug regulator for their approval to conduct trials of ZyCoV-D on children above 2 years of age. The announcement came a day after the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approved the drug for emergency use authorisation against Covid-19 for children and adults above 12 years of age.“In the younger age group, we have not started them yet. We are working now with the regulators to work on a program to do a study for the younger age group as well. We will be applying for trials in one-two week to start the trials. But we hope that we can conduct trials on them very soon,” news agency ANI quoted Dr Sharvil Patel, managing director of the Zydus Group, as saying on Saturday evening.ZyCov-D became the sixth vaccine to be approved in India. The medicine is “the world’s first and India’s indigenously developed DNA-based vaccine for Covid-19 to be administered in humans including children and adults 12 years and above,” news agency PTI quoted the government’s Department of Biotechnology as saying.Also read | Zydus Cadila says will begin supply of its Covid-19 vaccine in mid-SeptemberWhile the approval of the vaccine came as a shot in the arm to the country’s immunisation programme against the disease, its phase 3 trials data is yet to be published by the company.Dr Patel said that the company might take another four or five months to publish the results fully. “So, the full phase 3 data will show not only the efficacy of the vaccine but also the safety and long-term immunogenicity details which is at least followed up for the next 3-6 months. So, for the full report to be published in a peer-reviewed journal, it will take at least four to five months,” ANI quoted him as saying.When asked about the trials conducted so far on adults, he said, “Trials have been conducted at 50 centres across the country. I am not aware of centres for only children. Overall the trials on 28,000 volunteers have been conducted at 50 centres. We have conducted the trials on 1,400 children in the 12-18 years age group,” ANI further reported.Further, he also said that no severe side effects were observed in the 12 to 18 age group. “In the age group of 12-18 years and adults, we have not seen severe side effects related to the vaccine. We haven't seen any deaths related to the vaccine. We have seen that the vaccine and the placebo which is the non-vaccinated have shown the same kind of mild effects related to the vaccine,” Dr Patel said.So far, more than 57 million doses (576,117,350 to be exact) have been administered under the country’s vaccination drive, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s dashboard showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-zycov-d-vaccine-be-available-for-children-under-12-company-s-md-hopes-to-start-trials-very-soon-101629557987666.html
21-08-2021||India||Who is Taliban leader 'Sheru', once trained at Dehradun's military academy?||As the Taliban took over Afghanistan in an uncontested march, the name of Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanikzai, a top leader of the insurgent group, is doing the rounds as some retired Army personnel remember him when he was being trained at the Indian Military Academy in Dehradun. Reports said before joining the Taliban, he was in the Afghan army and was trained as a foreign cadet at the Indian Military Academy.ALSO WATCH | The Taliban leader who once trained at Indian Military Academy: Stanikzai aka SheruAs per sources, quoted by news agency ANI, Mohammad Abbas had joined the Afghan National Army as a Lieutenant after passing out in 1982, after completing his training at the IMA. He was selected for training at IMA after passing the examination of the Afghan Defense Academy.Popularly called 'Sheru' by his then batchmates, Mohammad Abbas was among the 45 cadets who received training in the Keran Company of the Bhagat Battalion of the academy. Many cadets from African and Asian countries have received "pre-commission training" at the Indian Military Academy since 1948.Taliban wanted India to retain its diplomatic presence in AfghanistanBorn in Logar Province, Mohammad Abbas studied political science in Afghanistan and completed his masters before joining the military. He fought in the Soviet-Afghan war and when the Taliban came to power in 1996, he became the deputy minister of foreign affairs under foreign minister Wakil Ahmed Muttawakil. Being one of the top Taliban leaders, he was also at the helm of affairs in the last two decades when the Taliban was operating from its political office in Qatar.A Bloomberg report said unlike many of the Taliban leaders, Stanikzai speaks fluent English. In 1996, he had visited Washington to convince the Clinton administration to recognise the Taliban government. The mission failed but he remained a go-to man when it came to lead Taliban delegations in other countries. He led many Taliban delegations to foreign countries between 2012 and 2018. He is also Abdul Hakim Haqqani's deputy negotiator on talks with Afghan government officials.Reports have quoted Mohammad Abbas's batchmates saying that when he was in Dehradun, he was not at all a hardliner and was quite a likeable person.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-taliban-leader-sheru-once-trained-at-dehradun-s-military-academy-101629557131660.html
21-08-2021||India||Centre to pay PF share of employer, employee till 2022 for certain people working in formal sector||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday announced that the Central government will pay provident fund (PF) contribution for both the employer and the employee till 2022 for those who were called back to work for small scale jobs in the formal sector after losing their job. She also highlighted the Centre’s effort to support migrant workers who returned to their native place after losing jobs in the informal sector.“If in a district, more than 25,000 migrant workers working in the informal sector return to their native place, [they] will get benefits from 16 Central schemes for employment. In 2020, we increased the MGNREGA budget from ₹60,000 cr to around ₹1 lakh crore due to Covid,” the minister added.Sitharaman was in Lucknow for the launch of several schemes and initiatives. She addressed the audience at the launch of ‘Mission Shakti 3.0’, under which ₹30.12 crores were transferred in the account of 1.55 lakh girls. Sitharaman said women shall spearhead the development of Uttar Pradesh under chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s leadership.She also highlighted the financial inclusion policies, including Stand-Up India Scheme, Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana, Jan-Dhan Yojana, for women and women entrepreneurs over the last seven years.The Union finance minister also attended the launch of the 'Ubharte Sitaare Fund' (USF) and interacted with founders of various companies, including start-ups, identified under the Ubharte Sitaare programme. The programme identifies Indian companies that have the potential to be future champions in the domestic arena while catering to global demands. Sitharaman said Uttar Pradesh has effectively implemented the One District One Product Programme, which provides the ideal ecosystem for the success of a program like the Ubharte Sitaare Programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-pay-pf-share-of-employer-employee-till-2022-for-certain-people-working-in-formal-sector-101629554955091.html
21-08-2021||India||Tamil Nadu extends Covid-19 curbs till September 6, but gives fresh relaxations||The MK Stalin government in Tamil Nadu extended the overall lockdown-like curbs in the state till 6am on September 6, but also announced certain relaxation. The decision comes after chief minister Stalin held a meeting on the Covid-19 situation on Saturday.The existing restrictions were scheduled to end on August 23.The state government had earlier allowed reopening of schools for Classes 9 and 12 with 50 per cent attendance from September 1. "The schools will work on a rotational basis," the chief minister announced today. Any decision on reopening of schools for Classes 1-8 will be taken after September 15, he added.Here are the latest relaxations announced by the Tamil Nadu government on Saturday:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-extends-covid-19-curbs-till-september-6-but-gives-fresh-relaxations-101629553676993.html
21-08-2021||India||One Army jawan dies, others suffer injuries while training under 'severe' weather near Pathankot||One Army jawan died and a few others were injured during a supervised training activity at Mamun military station near Pathankot in Punjab on Saturday as the weather conditions were "severe", said senior officials.The senior Army officials said that the affected jawans have been admitted at the military hospital in Pathankot and are being provided with required medical care.The officials said the weather was hot and humid when the training activity was taking place.The training activity was organised, supervised and monitored in the area under the 9 Corps of the Indian Army, they said.They said due to "severe" weather conditions, there has been one fatal casualty and a few jawans have been admitted to the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-army-jawan-dies-others-suffer-injuries-while-training-under-severe-weather-near-pathankot-101629544620694.html
21-08-2021||India||Parliamentary panel visits India-Pak border in Jammu||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs, which is on a four-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), visited a post along the India-Pakistan border near Jammu on Friday. Border Security Force (BSF) officers briefed the panel about the security scenario."(The panel)...visited BSF headquarters and the Makwal border post as a part of a study visit on administration, development and people’s welfare,” said a BSF spokesperson.This 18-member Committee is led by Congress lawmaker Anand Sharma.“...the committee members...were shown various border domination aspects. The Committee members witnessed various drills...showcasing the border management, border domination, and surveillance,” said the spokesperson.The members interacted with officers and troops and got a first-hand account of the BSF's working conditions and challenges. They also spoke to the local residents.BSF officers briefed the committee about the threats being faced including tunnelling, smuggling and firing from the Pakistani troops.“A special emphasis was given on the threat posed by Pakistani drones abetting the smuggling of weapons and narcotics from across the border to Indian territory,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-visits-india-pak-border-in-jammu-101629545768348.html
21-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: J&K police chief reviews security situation following political killings and all the latest news||J&K Police chief reviews security after spate of political killingsJammu and Kashmir (J&K) Police chief Dilbag Singh on Friday visited the Kulgam district and chaired a security review meeting focussed on a spate of political killings in the area. Read more‘Don’t endanger lives of citizens’: Maharashtra CM Thackeray appeals to political, religious, social organisationsMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said that the Covid-19 crisis was not over yet and also asked political, religious and social organisations to not do anything that would endanger the lives of citizens. Read moreChina says security situation in Pakistan 'severe' after suicide blast in Balochistan's GwadarThe Chinese embassy in Pakistan has confirmed that a Chinese national was injured in the suicide attack reported in the port of Gwadar in Balochistan province on Friday evening. Read moreIPL 2021: RCB add Chameera, Hasaranga and Tim David to squad; announce new head coach for remaining seasonRoyal Challengers Bangalore have bolstered their squad by adding the Sri Lankan duo of Dushmantha Chameera and all-rounder Wanindu Hasaranga, along with Australia's Tim David to their unit for the remainder of the IPL 2021. Read moreShilpa Shetty shares pics from first photoshoot after Raj Kundra's arrest, is 'determined to rise'. See hereActor Shilpa Shetty on Saturday shared pictures from a photoshoot for the first time since the arrest of her husband Raj Kundra in a porn case. Read moreASI mom and DSP son salute each other, beautiful viral pic wins heartsA heartwarming picture of an ASI mother saluting her DSP son has gone all sorts of viral online. Shared on Twitter, the post that shows DSP Vishal Rabari and his mother, has now won people’s hearts. There is a chance that the share will have the same effect on you too. Read moreTaliban Takeover: Why India must keep its options open amid regional instabilityThe Taliban takeover of war-torn Afghanistan has sent shockwaves across the globe with horrifying scenes being witnessed at the Kabul airport. The evacuation process continues even as the fighters of the islamic group and their checkpoints ring the airport. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-j-k-police-chief-reviews-security-situation-following-political-killings-and-all-the-latest-news-101629543950039.html
21-08-2021||India||J&K Police chief reviews security after spate of political killings||Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Police chief Dilbag Singh on Friday visited the Kulgam district and chaired a security review meeting focussed on a spate of political killings in the area. Representatives of the Army and paramilitary Central Reserve Police Force attended the meeting.According to a police statement, Singh called for the need to intensify cordon and search operations in the district to eliminate the remaining militants. He directed the augmentation of the intelligence as well as security grids.“All the suspicious elements that are providing any kind of support to militant activities should be kept under the radar to foil their attempts. Stringent action should be taken against the elements found involved in anti-peace activities,” the statement quoted Singh as saying. He directed officers to revisit their security plans.The meeting came days after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Altaf Thakur demanded adequate security for his party’s workers in the backdrop of the killings. He said nine BJP workers have been killed in the Kulgam district this year.A worker of the Apni Party, which was floated after the revocation of J&K’s semi-autonomous status in 2019, was killed in Kulgam on Thursday. As many as 23 BJP workers and functionaries, including three this month, have been killed in the Valley over the last two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-police-chief-chairs-security-review-meeting-after-spate-of-political-killings-101629541688279.html
21-08-2021||India||Zydus Cadila says will begin supply of its Covid-19 vaccine in mid-September||A day after Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D was cleared as India’s sixth vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Dr Sharvil Patel, the Managing Director of the Ahmedabad-based pharmaceutical firm said on Saturday that the supply of the vaccine will begin in mid-September, adding that clarity on its price will be given next week.Also Read | Zydus vaccine given govt panel approval“The supply of vaccine will start in mid-September. Next week, we will have a clarity on its price. From October, we can scale up our production to 10 million per month from our new production plant,” Dr Patel said, according to news agency ANI. “The efficacy of our Covid-19 vaccine is at more than 66%, while that against the Delta variant is at about 66%,” he further said.The efficacy of our COVID19 vaccine is over 66%, and its efficacy against the Delta variant is about 66%: Dr. Sharvil Patel, MD, Zydus GroupZyCoV-D, which received Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Friday, was found to have a primary efficacy of 66.6% for symptomatic RT-PCR positive cases, according to interim results from its phase 3 clinical trials. With more than 28,000 volunteers, this was the largest trial for a Covid-19 vaccine in India till now, the Union ministry of science and technology said in the statement in which it announced EUA for the vaccine.Also Read | Zydus Cadila's Covid vaccine for children over 12 approved. 10 pointsAfter Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited’s Covaxin, the Zydus Cadila coronavirus vaccine is India’s second indigenous anti-Covid shot. It also has several firsts to its name: It is India’s first Covid-19 vaccine for the 12-18 age group; it is also the first coronavirus vaccine in the world based on Plasmid DNA technology, as well as its first needle-free one.Also Read | 'Momentous feat': PM Modi on Zydus Cadila’s Covid vaccine getting approvalA three-dose vaccine, its second and third shots will be administered on the 28th and 56th days respectively. Zydus Cadila submitted its application for EUA on July 1.Currently, every citizen above the age of 18 is eligible to be vaccinated against Covid-19, the nationwide drive for which began on January 16. However, no date has been finalised yet for children. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in July that the inoculation drive for kids is likely to begin in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-says-will-begin-supply-of-its-covid-19-vaccine-in-midseptember-101629537551276.html
21-08-2021||India||Tripura Congress chief resigns||Congress’s Tripura unit head Pijush Kanti Biswas on Saturday resigned from his post and announced his retirement from politics citing personal reasons. Biswas said he has sent his resignation letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. “The reasons are not to be disclosed. I can only say that I resigned due to some personal reasons,” he said when asked about the reasons for his decision to quit politics. Biswas’s resignation came amid speculation that he could join Trinamool Congress (TMC), which has been trying to make inroads into the state. Biswas, a lawyer, helped a team of 23 members of the Indian Political Action Committee get bail after they were booked for violating Covid-19 norms here. The team was in Agartala as part of TMC’s poll preparations ahead of the 2023 elections.Biswas maintained that he has no plan of joining any political party. In a tweet, he thanked Congress leaders, including Sonia Gandhi, and supporters for their cooperation during his tenure. Biswas was appointed as acting state president of the Congress in December 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-congress-chief-resigns-101629537548067.html
21-08-2021||India||Confusion over Indian evacuees’ status, reports suggest Taliban rounded them up||Confusion surrounded the status of some 150 Indians who were to be evacuated from Afghanistan following reports that they had been rounded up by the Taliban near Kabul airport on Saturday, hours after a military aircraft flew out another 80-odd Indians to Tajikistan.The development was first reported on the website of the Afghan media outlet Etilaatroz and its sister publication Kabul Now, which cited a source as saying that more than 150 people, most of them Indians, had been “abducted”. The outlets subsequently quoted a Taliban spokesman as rejecting the allegations of abduction.Etilaatroz also reported the Indians were safe and their passports were being checked before they were sent to the airport.There was no official word from Indian officials on the development. The government has kept all details of the evacuation of Indian nationals from Afghanistan under tight wraps because of operational and security reasons.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that there were problems when a group of more than 200 people, including around 70 Afghan nationals and the remainder Indians, came to Kabul airport in a convoy late on Friday. The Taliban, who are outside the airport, stopped the group, following which most of the Afghans reportedly escaped.The Indians were rounded up by the Taliban and taken to some unknown location close to the airport for further checks, the people said. Following inquiries and checking of documents such as passports, the group was sent back to the airport on Saturday afternoon, the people added.The development occurred after an Indian military aircraft evacuated some 80 Indians from Kabul to the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe. Another military aircraft is reportedly on standby at Dushanbe, which is being used as a transit point by the Indian Air Force because of the limited time slots available at Kabul airport, which is controlled by the US military.The people cited above said the biggest problem in the evacuation of Indians is the journey from different parts of the city to the airport as Kabul has been taken over by the Taliban, who have set up check posts across the capital. Adding to the worries of the Indian side are reports that terrorists from Pakistan-based groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Haqqani Network are also present among the Taliban.With the civilian side of Kabul airport still closed, all evacuations are being done from the military side, outside which thousands of Afghans have gathered in the hope of getting on board the flights being operated by countries such as the US and the UK. Numerous videos have emerged of Taliban fighters opening fire outside the airport to drive back people.India evacuated its envoy, diplomats, officials, security personnel and some nationals on two C-17 heavy lift aircraft on Monday and Tuesday. It is believed more than 500 Indians are still in Afghanistan and the government is focused on their safe repatriation. A few hundred Afghan Sikhs and Hindus too will be repatriated to India.The Taliban marched into Kabul on August 15 after the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. Most of the top leaders of the group, including Abdul Ghani Baradar, have returned to Afghanistan and are engaged in consultations of forming a government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/confusion-over-status-of-indian-evacuees-as-reports-suggest-taliban-rounded-them-up-101629535628008.html
21-08-2021||India||Assam: Police arrest 14 people over supporting Taliban on social media||Fourteen people were arrested from across Assam for alleged social media posts supporting the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, police said on Saturday.The arrests were made since Friday night and they have been booked under different sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, IT Act and CrPC, a senior police officer said."We were on alert and monitoring social media for inflammatory posts," the officer said.Two people each were arrested from Kamrup Metropolitan, Barpeta, Dhubri and Karimganj districts, police said.One person each was arrested from Darrang, Cachar, Hailakandi, South Salmara, Goalpara and Hojai districts, they said.Deputy Inspector General Violet Baruah said the Assam Police is taking stern legal action against pro-Taliban comments on social media that are harmful to national security."We're registering criminal cases against such persons. Please inform the police if any such thing comes to your notice," she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-police-arrest-14-people-over-supporting-taliban-on-social-media-101629533503423.html
21-08-2021||India||Watch: Bus narrowly escapes fatal accident in Nainital after mountain landslide||A bus full of passengers had a narrow escape in Uttarakhand when rocks started falling off a mountain on side of the road it was travelling on due to landslide. In a video tweeted by news agency ANI, the bus is see stopping just at the right time to escape the falling debris.The incident happened in Uttarakhand's Nainital on Friday and there in no report of any casualty. The landslide was triggered by heavy rainfall in the region.Watch the video:#WATCH | Uttarakhand: A bus carrying 14 passengers narrowly escaped a landslide in Nainital on Friday. No casualties have been reported. pic.twitter.com/eyj1pBQmNwThe minute-long video shows some passengers getting off the bus with their luggage and running away from the landslide site. The bus driver too takes the vehicle in reverse to reach a safe distance.A portion of the mountain is seen coming down along with uprooted trees, the video further shows. The passengers (not seen in the video) are heard heaving a sigh of relief.The debris continue to fall, thereby blocking the road, the video shows.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of heavy rainfall in Uttarakhand for two days, prompting the state disaster response force (SDRF) to put all its teams in alert mode.The IMD on Friday issued an alert of heavy to very heavy rainfall with intense spells likely to occur at isolated places in Uttarakhand. It also warned of thunderstorms accompanied by lightning likely to occur at isolated places in the state.During 24 hours starting 8.30am on Thursday, Uttarakhand reported 29.5mm rainfall, with a departure of 127% from the normal. Since June 1, the state has received 811.1mm rainfall against normal of 861mm, registering a deficit of six per cent so far.Nine tourists were killed and three others, including a local resident, were injured when heavy boulders fell on their tempo traveller during multiple landslides in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-bus-narrowly-escapes-fatal-accident-in-nainital-after-mountain-landslide-101629530934829.html
21-08-2021||India||Why no mention of Article 370 at Opposition leaders meet, asks ex-J&K minister||Former Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) minister Sajad Lone has questioned the justification of the presence of representatives from the region at a meeting of Opposition leaders on Friday if they could not convince them to talk about Constitution’s nullified Article 370. In a series of tweets on Saturday, he referred to the presence of National Conference (NC) chief Farooq Abdullah and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader at the meeting and added they became part of the “process that abandons Article 370” in its discourse.Lone pointed out there was no mention of Article 370, which was nullified in 2019 to strip J&K of its special status, at the meeting even as the Opposition parties sought early elections and restoration of the statehood for the region. “No mention of Article 370 in opposition parties meet. In wonderment how can J and K leaders justify their presence in the meeting if they could not convince the leaders to talk about 370. BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) anti 370’stance is clear. What is the national opposition stance,” tweeted Lone.Leaders of 19 parties met virtually on Friday as part of efforts to build unity ahead of the 2024 national elections.Lone said Parliament or courts can restore Article 370. “Courts we have to wait. It is a long process. In parliament we know BJP won’t restore it. The quietude of opposition parties suggest they won’t either. Then who will,” he said in another tweet. He added J&K’s leadership should seek “national support” for the restoration of Article 370. “For heavens sake. Let us at least resolve that if we can’t facilitate we will not impede either. Leaders from j and k should either get the national opposition endorse demand for 370 so that at the national level there is some hope at a future date or just keep out of it.”He said J&K leaders became a part of a national opposition that abandons Article 370 and irked the ruling party, which is not known for tolerance and hence puts even statehood at risk.Lone’s People’s Conference last year quit an alliance that was formed for the restoration of J&K’s special status. The alliance includes NC and PDP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-no-mention-of-article-370-at-opposition-leaders-meet-asks-ex-j-k-minister-101629530887803.html
21-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Uttar Pradesh govt launches 3rd phase of 'Mission Shakti' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Mission Shakti' phase 3 commences in UP; 1.5 lakh more girls get cash benefitThe Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday launched the third phase of 'Mission Shakti' with an aim to promote safety, respect and self-reliance for women. The latest phase was inaugurated in the presence of Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Read moreChhattisgarh paid ₹1,522 crore to farmers on Rajiv Gandhi's birth anniversaryIn what comes as a boost to farmers in Chhattisgarh, the Bhupesh Baghel-led government has made a payment of ₹1,522 crore to the bank accounts of about 21 lakh farmers under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. Read moreMukhiya’s husband among 2 murdered in separate incidents in rural PatnaUnidentified armed criminals killed Bank panchayat mukhiya’s husband at Painal in Rural Patna late on Friday night. Bihar Police said 45-year old Pintu Kumar Sao, a resident of Narhanna village under Maner police station area, was likely murdered by professional contract killers over panchayat elections. Read moreIndonesia moves Afghan diplomatic mission to PakistanIndonesia has moved its Afghanistan diplomatic mission from Kabul to Pakistan, its foreign minister said on Saturday, after its air force evacuated dozens in the wake of the Taliban's seizure of power. Read more'He wasn't wrong': When Virat Kohli told Allan Donald 'India will become World's No. 1 Test team'A thrilling win over England in the 2nd Test at Lord's has put India on the pedestal of Test cricket once again. The Virat Kohli-led side were in a precarious position on Day 5, gone six wickets down with a lead of 154 runs. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput's fans are baffled by change in his Facebook DP, flood comments section: 'Heaven has internet'Actor Sushant Singh Rajput's fans were taken by surprise on Thursday, after they noticed that changes had been made to his Facebook profile. The late actor's display picture appeared to have been updated, leaving his fans scratching their heads. Read moreThis Twitter post of bell peppers with googly eyes is what you need to see todayAre you looking for something that can leave you giggling uncontrollable for a long time? Worry not, because the Internet is here with a hilarious object that can leave you doing so for quite some time. Read moreWatch| 'Afghan baby lifted over wall at Kabul airport reunited with father': US Marines﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-uttar-pradesh-govt-launches-3rd-phase-of-mission-shakti-101629529935755.html
21-08-2021||India||Ex-Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh, Sachin Vaze booked in extortion case||Mumbai Police on Friday registered another case of extortion against former city police commissioner Param Bir Singh, dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze and three others on the basis of a complaint by a city hotelier and civic contractor Bilal Agarwal. This is the fifth criminal case filed against Singh following one in Marine Drive and four at a Thane police station.Agarwal has accused Sachin Vaze, arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Antilia explosives scare case and the subsequent murder of Thane resident Mansukh Hiren, of extorting money from various establishments on behalf of Param Bir Singh, police said.According to the police, 47-year old Agarwal alleged that Singh, Vaze and civilians Sumit Singh alias Chintu, Vinay Singh alias Bablu and Riyaz Bhati had threatened him and extorted (hafta) monthly payments since January 2020 till March 2021 for “letting him run his hotels in Goregaon and Andheri without any police hassles.”Agarwal claimed that he had paid ₹9 lakh in cash and given two Samsung Fold-2 mobile phones worth ₹212,000 to meet their extortion demands.Agarwal further claimed that he had learnt that the accused had also extorted money from other hotel owners and even bookies, in return for letting them run their betting business in Mumbai without any police intervention.The Goregaon police said they have registered a case under Section 384 (extortion), 385 (extortion and threat of physical harm) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and are conducting a full-term investigation to verify Agarwal’s claim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exmumbai-police-chief-param-bir-singh-sachin-vaze-booked-in-extortion-case-101629530167691.html
21-08-2021||India||'Mission Shakti' phase 3 commences in UP; 1.5 lakh more girls get cash benefit||The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday launched the third phase of 'Mission Shakti' with an aim to promote safety, respect and self-reliance for women. The latest phase was inaugurated in the presence of Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath.This is the flagship programme of the Uttar Pradesh government which was first launched in October last year.The third phase of the programme will end on December 31. The main schemes that are scheduled to be implemented in this phases are the launch of 'Mission Shakti Kaksha' (classrooms) at all the 59,000 gram panchayat bhawans (village panchayat buildings), formation of one lakh women self-help groups, linking of 1.73 new beneficiaries to destitute women pension scheme, safe city project in divisional headquarters and Gautam Buddh Nagar, posting of women police personnel as beat police officers, construction of pink toilets (for women) in 1,286 police stations, special recruitment for women battalions of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) on 2,982 posts, deployment of women sub-inspectors in urban areas, setting up of creche in all police lines and construction of health club in women's colleges.In the program, the chief minister also transferred ₹30.12 crore into the bank accounts of 1.5 lakh new beneficiaries under Kanya Sumangala Yojana. With this, the total number of girls who have been benefitted by the scheme will reach 9.36 lakh.A foundation stone for the courtyard of Veerangana Avantibai Battalion in Badaun was also laid.On Friday, the Uttar Pradesh government had directed its officials to take a pledge to not discriminate against caste, community, region, religion, and language and work towards unity and harmony of all citizens on the occasion of the 77th birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phase-3-of-mission-shakti-commence-in-up-1-5-lakh-more-girls-get-cash-benefit-101629528214240.html
21-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh govt paid ₹1,522 crore to farmers on Rajiv Gandhi's birth anniversary||In what comes as a boost to farmers in Chhattisgarh, the Bhupesh Baghel-led government has made a payment of ₹1,522 crore to the bank accounts of about 21 lakh farmers under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. According to a government release, the amount was transferred to the farmers on Friday on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. The Chattisgarh government also transferred an amount of ₹3.49 crore online for the cow dung purchased from cattle rearers and to the Gauthan committees and women self-help groups under the GodhanNyay Yojana.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, speaking on the occasion, said that his government has adopted the vision of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi to "eradicate poverty and build a self-reliant India" in Chhattisgarh. Baghel said that the state government, following on the path shown by Gandhi, has launched several welfare programs and schemes for all sections of the people -- including the poor, the farmers, and the tribals. The 'Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana' was started to provide remunerative prices to the farmers for their produce, he said.Moreover, the Chhattisgarh government has also expanded the scope of this scheme from the Kharif season this year to include paddy, along with other Kharif crops. In addition to this, the 'Rajiv Gandhi Grameen Bhoomheen Krishi Mazdoor Nyay Yojana' is being started to provide financial help to landless agricultural laborers residing in the rural areas of Chhattisgarh.Under this scheme, ₹6,000 will be provided annually to such families of rural areas who do not have agricultural land and are associated with MNREGA or agricultural wages.Under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana, an amount totalling more than ₹5,600 crore in the financial year 2020-21 is being given to about 21 lakh farmers of Chattisgarh in four installments as crop production incentive input assistance to paddy and sugarcane growing farmers. An amount of ₹1,525 crore and 97 lakh has already been paid to the farmers as the first installment in their accounts, the government said. The second installment of ₹1,522 crore and 3 lakh was transferred to the bank accounts of the farmers under the scheme on the birth anniversary of Rajiv Gandhi.Notably, the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana was implemented in 2020 with the objective of providing a fair price to the farmers for their produce, promoting the productivity of Kharif crops and crop diversification, but with a retrospective effect, its benefits beginning from the Kharif marketing year. In the 2019-20 financial session, a provision was made to give the amount to the farmers selling paddy on support price, and ₹5,628 crore was provided in this regard.This year as well, the process of giving input assistance to farmers under this scheme is going on, the Chhattisgarh government said. According to the official release, it is to this end that the amount of ₹1,522 crore and 3 lakh was transferred to paddy and sugarcane farmers as the second installment on August 20.With the help of the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana, agriculture has been encouraged in Chattisgarh, the state government said. In the past two and a half years, the number of farmers has increased from 15 lakh to 22 lakh and the area under paddy cultivation has increased from 22 lakh hectares to more than 27 lakh hectares. According to the government, people who have turned away from agriculture have also started joining agriculture again.Under the 'GodhanNyay' scheme of the Chhattisgarh government, ₹1 crore was provided to cattle owners and villagers on August 20 as the 26th installment for the plan. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel also authorised the payment of ₹1 crore 3 lakhs as a dividend to the self-help groups and Gauthan committees. It is worth mentioning here that under the GodhanNyay Yojana, which started in the state from July 20 last year, cow dung worth ₹99 crore and 8 lakh has so far been purchased.This amount is mostly contributed by cow dung sellers, cattle farmers, villagers, people belonging to backward classes, scheduled castes, and tribes, the government said. Around 45 per cent of the benefitted cow dung sellers are women, the release noted, adding that more than 78 thousand people among the beneficiaries belong to landless families. Of the amount directly transferred to the bank accounts so far, ₹18 crore and 49 lakh have been paid to self-help groups associated with Gauthans, and ₹26 crore 75 lakhs have been paid to Gauthan committees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-govt-paid-rs-1-522-crore-to-farmers-on-rajiv-gandhi-s-birth-anniversary-101629523308266.html
21-08-2021||India||IAF aircraft evacuates over 85 Indians from Kabul||The Indian Air Force's (IAF's) C-130J transport aircraft took off from Kabul evacuating 85 Indians, news agency ANI reported on Saturday. ANI reported citing people familiar with the developments that the IAF aircraft landed in Tajikistan for refuelling as Indian government officials are helping in the evacuation of India's citizens from Kabul. The IAF's aircraft will drop off the Indians at Tajikistan's Dushanbe and they will then be picked up by an Air India plane.On Tuesday, India's ambassador to Afghanistan Rudrendra Tandon and diplomatic staff from Kabul were brought back on a C-17 Globemaster heavy-lift aircraft from the Afghanistan capital. Before that, 45 diplomats and security personnel were flown on Monday as part of an extensive evacuation programme. The government has kept its evacuation plan under wraps and airlifted the citizens after the Indian side received credible inputs about possible threats from rogue elements and Pakistani terror groups.Also read | Extensive planning, Afghan locals’ help eased evacuationPrime Minister Narendra Modi also held a high-level meeting during which he instructed officials to ensure all Indian nationals are evacuated safely from war-torn Afghanistan, which has been overtaken by the Taliban.The two C-17s flew into Kabul using a circuitous route through Iranian airspace and over the Arabian Sea in order to avoid flying over Pakistan or spending too much time in the uncontrolled Afghan airspace.Also watch | 'Afghan baby lifted over wall at Kabul airport reunited with father': US MarinesThe withdrawal of the ambassador and other diplomatic staff from Kabul reflected India’s misgivings about the Taliban’s assurances that all embassies and diplomats would be provided security. On Monday night, Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen tweeted that no problems will be created for diplomats, embassies and charitable workers.Also read | Few Kannadigas exited Afghanistan in time, govt trying to bring back othersIndia is among the several countries struggling to ramp up the pace of evacuations since the Taliban captured the entire country with stunning speed just a week ago. The Kabul airport, which is now the only way out for foreigners and Afghans alike, has been witnessing chaos as thousands of people desperate to flee have been crowding the area.Members of the hardline Islamist group with guns have been seen around the airport. At least 12 people have been killed in and around the airport since Sunday, Nato and Taliban officials said.Also read | Chinese envoy and Jaish commander separately call on Taliban leadershipA Nato official told Reuters on Saturday that about 12,000 foreigners and Afghans working for embassies and international aid groups have been evacuated from Kabul airport since Sunday. "The evacuation process is slow, as it is risky, for we don't want any form of clashes with Taliban members or civilians outside the airport. We don't want to start a blame game regarding the evacuation plan," the official said on condition of anonymity.The Taliban have said they are not responsible for the disorder at the Kabul airport, saying the West could have had a better plan to evacuate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-aircraft-evacuates-over-85-indians-from-kabul-101629522763835.html
21-08-2021||India||Onam 2021: Shashi Tharoor gets into 'spirit of things' with a traditional swing||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Saturday posted a video of him on a swing as he celebrated the festival of Onam in the traditional way. The senior Congress leader, who represents Kerala's Thiruvananthapuram constituency in the Lok Sabha, said that although the tradition is usually left to young girls, he was persuaded to get into the "spirit of things" this year. Posting the clip on Twitter, Tharoor wished his followers, "Happy Onam!"Also Read | PM greets on Onam, says festival brings out positivity, vibrancy, harmony"There’s an Onam swing tradition that one normally leaves to young girls. I was persuaded to get Into the spirit of things this year. Happy Onam!" Shashi Tharoor wrote from his Twitter account.There’s an Onam swing tradition that one normally leaves to young girls. I was persuaded to get Into the spirit of things this year. Happy Onam! pic.twitter.com/Z23nJ9FmfpDonning a traditional red kurta and white mundu, the Congress leader was seen in the 30-second video clip enjoying the swing tradition, which is also known as Onam Oonjal in Kerala.Onam, celebrated in Kerala, is one of the most popular harvest festivals in the country. Each day of Onam has its own name, significance, and activities, which people do to enjoy this festival. There are also a few post-Onam celebrations that continue even after 10 days.People are celebrating Saturday, August 21, as 'Thiruvonam', the most auspicious day during the 10-day festival. Notably, the swing is considered an integral part of Onam celebrations, especially in rural areas. Young men and women, decked in their best, sing Onappaatt, or Onam songs, and rock one another on swings slung from high branches.Also Read | For pandemic-hit Kerala, it’s a make-or-break OnamOnam is celebrated each year between August and September, and accordingly, the festival fell on August 21 (Saturday) this time. However, the festivities started on August 12 and are slated to go on till September 23.Onam falls in the month of Chingam, marked during August-September as per the Gregorian calendar. It is celebrated to honour the kind-hearted and much-beloved demon King Mahabali, who is believed to return to Kerala during this festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/onam-2021-shashi-tharoor-gets-into-spirit-of-things-with-a-traditional-swing-101629517281338.html
21-08-2021||India||Zydus Cadila's Covid vaccine for children over 12 approved. 10 points||Zydus Cadila's vaccine, ZyCoV-D, has received approval for emergency use in India and it will be administered to people 12 years and above. "Zydus Cadila has received approval for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for ZyCoV-D today i.e. 20/08/2021, the world's first and India's indigenously developed DNA-based vaccine for COVID-19 to be administered in humans including children and adults 12 years and above," the department of biotechnology (DBT) said.India has now approved six vaccines. Two of them from AstraZeneca Plc and one from Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Ltd are already being used in the government's vaccination drive across the country. Russia’s Sputnik V has been administered in small numbers and Johnson & Johnson and Moderna Inc are negotiating for legal indemnity.Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D are the only two vaccine candidates to have been tested among children in India. They are also the only ones to be developed indigenously.Here are 10 points about ZyCoV-D:1. ZyCoV-D is a three-dose vaccine when injected produces the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.2. ZyCoV-D works against newer virus strains, including the highly infectious Delta variant, Zydus Cadila has claimed.3. ZyCoV-D will be administered first on day zero, day 28th and then on the 56th day.Also read | 'Momentous feat': PM Modi on Zydus Cadila’s Covid vaccine getting approval4. It elicits an immune response, which plays a vital role in protection from the disease as well as viral clearance.5. The department of biotechnology said that the "plug-and-play" technology on which the plasmid DNA platform is based can be easily adapted to deal with mutations in the virus, such as those already occurring.Also read | Pfizer-BioNTech's Covid-19 vaccine may get full approval in US next week6. ZyCoV-D works by instructing cells to produce the spike protein of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which elicits an immune response.7. Zydus Cadila said the vaccine is delivered via a “painless” intradermal applicator and added that it plans to seek approval for a two-dose regimen of the vaccine.8. The vaccine has been developed in partnership with the department under Mission COVID Suraksha.Also read | As more people around world get vaccinated, fewer are able to donate blood9. It has been implemented by the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council.10. ZyCoV-D has been supported under the Covid-19 Research Consortia through National Biopharma Mission for preclinical studies, Phase I and Phase II clinical trials and under the Mission COVID Suraksha for Phase III Clinical Trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-s-covid-vaccine-for-children-over-12-approved-10-points-101629520295788.html
21-08-2021||India||3 JeM terrorists killed in encounter in South Kashmir||Three Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorists were killed in an encounter with security forces in South Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Saturday, police officials said. The encounter started in the upper reaches of the forest area of Nagbaeran Tral in Awantipora after police and army launched a search operation early Saturday morning, they added. “Three unidentified terrorists affiliated with proscribed terror outfit JeM killed. Search going on. Further details shall follow, “Kashmir police said in a tweet. On Friday, two terrorists belonging to the “hit squad” of Hizbul Mujahideen were killed in an encounter with security forces at Khrew in Pulwama district, police said. The Saturday encounter was the latest in a series of gunfights as security forces intensified counter-insurgency operations in the Valley, killing 94 terrorists so far this year. Eight terrorists were killed in separate operations this month till Saturday. It also comes at a time when Jammu & Kashmir is witnessing a spike in violence and attacks on political leaders.A policeman and four civilians including three political workers have been killed in suspected terrorist attacks this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-jem-terrorists-killed-in-encounter-in-south-kashmir-101629518047289.html
21-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Underpass in Delhi waterlogged, closed as rains intensify and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Intense rain spell in Delhi results in waterlogging, closing of imp underpassAfter a long dry spell, Delhi received 73.2 mm rainfall over Friday night and early Saturday morning and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the spell was likely to continue till about 9 am. The heavy spell inundated low-lying areas including key stretches and underpasses across the city. Read moreNirmala Sitharaman to launch fund for export-oriented firms and startups todayUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will on Saturday launch the ‘Ubharte Sitaare Fund’ for export-oriented small and mid-sized companies and startups in Uttar Pradesh’s Lucknow. The fund has been set up by the Exim Bank along with the Small Industries Development Bank of India (Sidbi). Read moreTelangana govt to present evidence in 'Disha encounter' case todayThe Telangana government, led by K Chandrashekar Rao, has been directed by the Supreme Court-appointed Justice Sirpurkar commission to present its evidence on Saturday in the alleged police encounter of four young men accused of gang rape and murder of a 26-year-old veterinary doctor at Shamshabad near Hyderabad in November 2019. Read more'We only have hours': Army veteran's desperate appeal to save Afghan interpreterFearing there may only be hours to stave off a capture, a former US army captain who served in the war in Afghanistan is lobbying for the rescue of his former interpreter. Read moreFormer WWE champion CM Punk returns to wrestling after seven years, makes debut at AEW RampageFormer WWE Champion CM Punk returned to pro-wrestling for the first time since leaving the wrestling ring in January 2014. The five-time WWE Champion had left the company after creative frustrations and sour relations with Chairman Vince McMahon after Royal Rumble 2014. Read moreBellBottom box office day 2: Akshay Kumar's spy film inches over ₹5 crore; Saturday expected to be betterThe Akshay Kumar-starrer BellBottom couldn't crack the ₹3 crore mark at the box office on its opening day, and it looks like it won't be able to do it on day two either. The spy thriller is expected to make ₹2.4 crore on its second day of release, pushing its total to just over ₹5 crore. Read moreHere's how regular walnut consumption is linked to longevity, reduced death riskConsuming walnuts regularly may be associated with a lower risk of death and an increase in life expectancy among older adults compared to those who do not eat the nuts, according to a Harvard-led study. Read moreWatch| Joe Biden warns Taliban amid criticism over Afghanistan crisis, evacuations﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-underpass-in-delhi-waterlogged-closed-as-rains-intensify-101629514674871.html
21-08-2021||India||JeM terrorists, who killed BJP leader, gunned down in J&K's Tral||Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorist Wakeel Shah, who killed a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader in June, was among three operatives gunned down by security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Tral area, a senior police official said on Saturday. Rakesh Pandita, a municipal councillor of Tral in Pulwama district and BJP leader, was killed by terrorists on June 2. Pandita was visiting a friend, Mushtaq Ahmad, when three terrorists opened fire at them.Shah and two other JeM terrorists were killed in the encounter by security forces, which started in the upper reaches of a forested area of Nagbaeran in Tral in Awantipora of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said earlier in the day.JeM #terrorist Wakeel Shah neutralised in today’s #encounter. He was involved in #killing of Sh Rakesh Pandita (BJP leader): IGP Kashmir@JmuKmrPoliceAlso watch | Jaish terrorists, who killed BJP leader, gunned down in encounter in J&K's TralSecurity forces launched a cordon and search operation in the area in the south Kashmir district after they received inputs about the presence of the JeM terrorists there, the officials said.Also read | Kashmir BJP leader Rakesh Pandita shot dead by terrorists in Pulwama’s TralThey said the search operation turned into an encounter after the terrorists fired upon the security forces, who retaliated. "In the ensuing gunfight, three terrorists affiliated with JeM outfit were killed," an official said.This was the second encounter in the Pulwama district in as many days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jem-terrorists-who-killed-bjp-leader-gunned-down-in-j-k-s-tral-101629515466929.html
21-08-2021||India||PM Modi greets on Onam, says festival brings out positivity, vibrancy, harmony||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday greeted people on the occasion of Onam, saying the festival is associated with "positivity, vibrancy, brotherhood, and harmony". The Prime Minister also hoped for the good health and well-being of everyone celebrating the festival."Best wishes on the special occasion of Onam, a festival associated with positivity, vibrancy, brotherhood, and harmony," the Prime Minister wrote in a tweet posted from his official handle. "I pray for everyone's good health and wellbeing."Best wishes on the special occasion of Onam, a festival associated with positivity, vibrancy, brotherhood and harmony. I pray for everyone's good health and wellbeing.President Ram Nath Kovind greeted citizens on the eve of Onam on Friday and also said that the festival promotes harmony, love, and fraternity in society. "On the auspicious occasion of Onam, I extend my greetings and best wishes to all fellow citizens, especially the brothers and sisters of Kerala living in India and abroad,” the President said in a statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan.This festival, celebrated to commemorate the yield of new crops in the fields, shows the tireless hard work of the farmer and gratitude towards mother nature, he said, adding that it sends the message of harmony, love, and fraternity in the society.“On this occasion, let us all resolve to move forward unitedly towards progress and prosperity of our country,” the president said in his message.Onam, celebrated in Kerala, is one of the most popular harvest festivals in the country. Each year, it is celebrated between August and September, and accordingly, the festival fell on August 21 (Saturday) this time. However, the festivities started on August 12 and are slated to go on till September 23.Onam falls in the month of Chingam, marked during August-September as per the Gregorian calendar. It is celebrated to honour the kind-hearted and much-beloved demon King Mahabali, who is believed to return to Kerala during this festival.Each day of Onam has its own name, significance, and activities, which people do to enjoy this festival. There are also a few post-Onam celebrations that continue even after 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-greets-on-onam-says-festival-brings-out-positivity-vibrancy-harmony-101629512651689.html
21-08-2021||India||Disha encounter case: Telangana govt to present evidence to Supreme Court-appointed panel today||The Telangana government, led by K Chandrashekar Rao, has been directed by the Supreme Court-appointed Justice Sirpurkar commission to present its evidence on Saturday in the alleged police encounter of four young men accused of gang rape and murder of a 26-year-old veterinary doctor at Shamshabad near Hyderabad in November 2019. The crime sparked massive outrage in several parts of the country, with the media calling the subsequent killing of the four accused in police custody as 'Disha encounter'.The Justice Sirpurkar Commission was constituted by the Supreme Court to investigate the allegations of extrajudicial killings by the Cyberabad Police. According to reports, the committee finished collecting records in the case earlier this week and has now moved on to the evidence recording phase. Owing to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation, the panel is conducting its proceedings in a hybrid manner, issuing summons for physical presence wherever necessary. It has also held 16 virtual hearings and passed orders in 24 applications filed by the police so far.Disha, the name given by the police to the victim to protect her identity, was a veterinary assistant surgeon at a state-run hospital when she was attacked one night by the four men, according to confessions recorded by the police. The four men raped and smothered Disha to death and then loaded her body into a truck and burned it under a bridge later that night. With the incident sparking nationwide outrage, the Telangana police came under pressure to deliver punishment without delay on the basis of a fast-track court trial.All four accused in the Disha gang rape-and-murder were killed while in police custody on December 6, 2019, under a bridge on the Bengaluru-Hyderabad national highway. According to the police, the accused allegedly snatched guns and attacked police officers. In the ensuing gunfight, all the four accused were shot dead, said the Cyberabad Police. Although the 'Disha encounter' was viewed by many as an instance of extrajudicial execution, thousands across the country celebrated the 'swift justice' in the form of the death of the accused.The Justice Sirpurkar Commission issued a press release earlier this week, saying that witnesses have to be examined in physical presence "considering the gravity of the issue under inquiry and the sensitive nature of the evidence". In connection with this, the Supreme Court-appointed panel ordered the Telangana government to present its evidence before the commission in the high court building at 11:30am on August 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disha-encounter-case-telangana-govt-to-present-evidence-to-supreme-court-appointed-panel-today-101629504586093.html
21-08-2021||NA||Highlights: Three-day state mourning to be declared for Kalyan Singh's demise||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:With the passing away of Kalyan Singh, we have lost an eminent personality: Om BirlaWith the passing away of Kalyan Singh, we have lost an eminent personality who left an indelible mark at the national level with his political acumen, administrative experience and development-oriented approach: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla.3-day state mourning to be declared to condole Kalyan Singh's demise: UP CMThree-day state mourning will be declared to condole the demise of Kalyan Singh. His last rites will be performed on the bank of Ganga in Narora in the evening of on August 23. There will be a public holiday on August 23: CM Yogi Adityanath in Lucknow https://t.co/LXfiBuezCH pic.twitter.com/WFeqX6nzVhFormer UP CM Kalyan Singh passes away in Lucknow owing to sepsis and multi-organ failure: SGPIFormer Uttar Pradesh CM and former Rajasthan Governor Kalyan Singh passes away at Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow, due to sepsis and multi organ failure: SGPGI (File photo) pic.twitter.com/lRCv1xHMe2Maharashtra reports 4,575 new Covid-19 cases, 145 deaths on Saturday: state health department bulletinMaharashtra on Saturday reported 4,575 new Covid-19 cases and 145 deaths taking the respective figures to 6,420,510 and 135,817, respectively.Maharashtra administered 10.96 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine today: state health department10.96 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccine administered in Maharashtra today, says State Health Department pic.twitter.com/zPTfv6KiLKCovid-19-induced lockdown extended in Tamil Nadu till September 6Centre to pay PF share of employer, employee till 2022 for certain people: FMThe central government has decided to pay the provident fund (PF) share of the employer as well as the employee till 2022 for people who lost their jobs but again called back to work in small scale jobs in the formal sector whose units are registered in EPFO: Union finance minister Nirmala SitharamanUnion minister Niranjan Jyoti ties rakhi to fellow colleague Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi in New Delhi#CORRECTION | Union Minister Niranjan Jyoti ties rakhi to her Cabinet colleague Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi at her* residence in New DelhiMumbai's Dharavi reports one new Covid-19 case; active caseload stands at 10: BMCMaharashtra: One new COVID positive case has been reported in Mumbai's Dharavi area today; active cases in the area stand at 10, says Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) pic.twitter.com/zG1CYiZuJgDelhi markets allowed to function normally from Monday onwardsJust in:#COVID19 regulation requiring shops, business enterprises and markets to close by 8 pm everyday removed by the Delhi government from the upcoming week. @htTweetsDelhi Metro Pink Line and Magenta Line to begin at 6 and 6.30 am, respectively, for Rakshabandhan on Sunday: DMRCService UpdateIn order to facilitate those travelling for Rakshabandhan, metro services will begin at 6:30 AM on pink line and 6:00 AM on magenta line on 22 August 2021 (Sunday).'Very proud': Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on UP CMI am very proud of the CM (Yogi Adityanath) who understands the larger national interest, translates that into state's policies and takes it at the executional level to the last mile: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Lucknow pic.twitter.com/94V3NNlvGcTripura Congress acting president Pijush Kanti Biswas resignsTripura Congress acting president Pijush Kanti Biswas resigns from the post"It's very painful for me to resign from the post. I'm grateful to Sonia ji for giving me a chance to serve the party. I am retiring from politics and I'm happy to go back to my profession," he says pic.twitter.com/Bsz7et3XI136 FIRs filed so far against BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra in MumbaiThe Mumbai Police on Saturday registered 17 more first information reports (FIRs) against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and workers for the alleged violation of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols during the Jan Ashirwad Yatra of Union minister Narayan Rane in different parts of the city. Read moreEarthquake of 4.1 magnitude hits Gujarat's KutchThe Institute of Seismological Research (ISR) said on Saturday that an earthquake of 4.1 magnitude was recorded in Gujarat's Kutch district with its epicentre situated near near Dholavira. District administration officials said that no damage to property or casualties was reported.Mumbai to resume vaccination drive from today after 2-day suspensionVaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is set to resume in Mumbai from Saturday, two days after being halted due to shortage of doses, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Read more4th extortion case filed against former Mumbai top cop Parambir SinghA fourth extortion case has been registered by Mumbai Police against its former commissioner Parambir Singh, news agency ANI reported on Saturday. As per the FIR copy, the complaint has been registered against Parambir Singh, Sachin Vaze, Sumit Singh alias Chintu, Alpesh Patel, Vinay Singh alias Bablu and Riyaz Bhati, under sections 384, 385, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on Friday in the Goregaon Police station.Tral encounter update: Jaish terrorist, involved in BJP leader's murder, killed in encounterThe J&K Police said on Saturday that Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist Wakeel Shah, who was involved in the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Rakesh Pandita, was killed in the Tral region today.IAF's C-130J aircraft has taken off from Kabul with over 85 IndiansNews agency ANI reported on Saturday that Indian Air Force's (IAF's) aircraft has taken off from Afghanistan's capital Kabul with over 85 Indians. "The aircraft landed in Tajikistan for refuelling. Indian government officials are helping in evacuation of Indian citizens on the ground in Kabul," sources told the news agency.India reports 34,457 new Covid-19 cases, 375 more deathsIndia's caseload of the coronavirus disease climbed to 32,393,286 on Saturday after 34,457 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. As many as 36,347 patients died and 375 succumbed to the viral disease, taking the cumulative count of recoveries and deaths to 31,597,982 and 433,964 respectively. The active cases have come down to 361,340, lowest in 151 days.Pfizer-BioNTech's Covid-19 vaccine may get full approval in US next weekPfizer-BioNTech's two-dose vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is poised for full approval by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) early next week, which will expedite an earlier timeline for licensing the shot, Bloomberg reported on Saturday. Read moreForces gun down 3 Jaish terrorists in encounter at J&K's TralSecurity forces on Saturday killed three terrorists affiliated with the Jaish-e-Mohammed in the Tral area of Jammu and Kashmir.Uttar Pradesh to commence 3rd phase of Mission Shakti todayThe Uttar Pradesh will on Saturday begin the third phase of Mission Shakti with an aim of promoting women’s safety, self-reliance, and respect, a government statement said on Friday. Read moreDelhi's Azad Market Underpass closed due to waterlogging"Azad Market Underpass is closed due to 1.5 feet waterlogging, Please avoid using this route. Sorry for the inconvenience," the Delhi Traffic Police tweeted on Saturday.4 trains cancelled at 2 UP train stations due to farm stirFour trains were cancelled at Uttar Pradesh's Moradabad and Bareilly railway stations on Friday due to the ongoing farmers protest against the central government's three farm laws. Passengers were unable to reach their respective destinations due to the disruption in railway services.Nirmala Sitharaman to launch fund for export-oriented firms and startups todayUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will on Saturday launch the ‘Ubharte Sitaare Fund’ for export-oriented small and mid-sized companies and startups in Uttar Pradesh’s Lucknow. Read moreUAE to shelter 5,000 Afghan refugees on a temporary basisThe United Arab Emirates will temporarily shelter 5,000 Afghan citizens evacuated from the war-ravaged country as the Taliban took control, the the UAE's ministry of foreign affairs and international cooperation said on Friday. "The UAE's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation announced that, following a request from the United States, it would host the Afghans on a temporary basis, after which time they would travel on to other nations," the ministry said in a statement. Hurricane Grace to make second landfall in MexicoHurricane Grace strengthened into a category 2 storm on Friday and it is headed for a second landfall in Mexico. The US National Hurricane Center said Grace had maximum sustained winds of 100 mph (161 kph) on early Friday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-21-2021-101629505893069.html
21-08-2021||India||Taj Mahal to reopen for night viewing from today. Check slot timings here||Taj Mahal, the 17th-century marble mausoleum in Agra, is set to reopen for night viewing from Saturday after more than a year, owing to relaxations in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related restrictions. Tourists can now once again visit the Taj Mahal at night and admire the Unesco World Heritage Site under the moonlight in all its glory.The Taj Mahal, also categorised as one of the "seven wonders of the world", was closed down for night viewing on March 17 last year when the Covid-19 lockdown was first imposed in Uttar Pradesh. Before the pandemic arrived, the Taj Mahal grounds used to remain open from 6am to 7pm on weekdays, except on Fridays when the complex was kept open for prayers at the mosque between 12pm to 2pm. Night viewing was allowed on the day of the full moon and two days before and after, excluding Fridays and the month of Ramadan.Dates and timingsNow, after more than one year of Covid-19 curbs, the Taj Mahal is set to reopen once again for night viewing, albeit with modified timings. According to the Archeological Survey of India's (ASI's) superintending archaeologist (Agra Circle) Vasant Kumar Swarnkar, the Taj Mahal will now remain open for night viewing on August 21, 23, and 24. The mausoleum will be closed every week on Friday, while the Covid-19 lockdown remains in effect as usual on Sunday.Taj Mahal will remain open for the tourists for night viewing on three separate time slots --> 8:30pm - 9pm> 9pm - 9:30pm> 9:30pm - 10pmGuidelinesTourists visiting the Taj Mahal for night viewing will be allowed to enter in batches of 50 people per slot, as per the guidelines of the Supreme Court. The tickets can be booked one day in advance from the office counter of the ASI on 22 Mall Road in Agra, said Swarnkar.Rajeev Saxena, vice-president of the Tourism Guild of Agra, said it was a good step, but it would not attract weekend travellers until the restriction of lockdown on Sunday and curfew after 10 pm was not lifted. "Tourists want to enjoy the nightlife of the city, they don't want to be packed in their hotels after 10 pm," he said.A government-approved tour guide, Monika Sharma, appreciated the move and said it was a ray of hope for the revival of Agra's tourism sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taj-mahal-to-reopen-for-night-viewing-from-today-check-slot-timings-here-101629502799004.html
21-08-2021||India||Will complacency on demand hurt revival?||India’s benchmark stock market index, BSE Sensex, breached yet another psychological milestone, crossing the 55,000-mark on August 13. This has come at the middle of the second quarter of the current fiscal year. Stock markets, provided they are not thriving on a bubble, are supposed to reflect future optimism (or lack of it) about an economy. The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) crossed the psychological threshold of 100 in the week ending August 15. A NIBRI value of 100 refers to pre-pandemic levels of economic activity. This suggests that the present state of economic activity is coming close, or has even surpassed pre-pandemic levels.So, has the Indian economy finally shed its pandemic hangover? The answer to this question is less encouraging when we look at other recently released macroeconomic indicators. In fact, they underline the importance of focusing on revival of mass demand in the economy.Poor demand outlook will continue to suppress ‘animal spirits’Addressing members of the Confederation of Indian Industries on August 12, revenue secretary Tarun Bajaj asked why private investment was subdued despite impressive corporate performance (in terms of profits). Private capital makes investments only when it expects to make profits. Profits are a function of sales, which in turn is a function of demand. Investment, unless it is being made on account of depreciation of existing plant and machinery (or capital stock), is only justified when existing production capacity is deemed inadequate to cater to current or future demand. It is this constraint, not some ulterior motive, which is holding back private business from making investments.The latest round of RBI’s Industrial Outlook Survey (IOS) offers clinching evidence on this count. One of the questions in the survey asks respondents about the assessment of adequacy (or lack of it) of production capacity at the time of the survey and expected situation in the next six months. The statistic which stands out in the survey findings is not the assessment about current adequacy of production capacity but the future assessment about it. An unprecedented 28.4% of the respondents believed that their existing production capacity is more than adequate for the second quarter (July-September) of 2021-22. The latest IOS round was carried out between April and June. What is remarkable about the perception about future production capacity being more than adequate is that it has increased significantly compared to the first lockdown and the subsequent first wave of Covid-19 infections, which peaked in September 2020. This could be a reflection of delayed realisation of demand side damage to the economy.June quarter IIP numbers highlight damage to discretionary demandSome of the sequential economic recovery after a pandemic-like shock is inherent, as things will come back to normal. For example, people will go for haircuts and children will buy school uniforms once restrictions are eased. This is often described as pent-up demand. What matters for a sustained recovery, however, is whether there is any damage to what is often referred to as discretionary demand. This can happen when consumers, facing a current and future squeeze on their incomes, start cutting back on various kinds of non-essential spending. A new car or television, a family vacation etc. would fit in this category.Evidence from the June quarter Index of Industrial Production (IIP) numbers suggest that this seems to be happening in the Indian economy. The IIP index in the June 2021 quarter was lower than the June 2019 value, which means that industrial activity has not returned to pre-pandemic levels. A comparison of different components of the IIP for the June 2021 quarter with their corresponding values in the June 2019 quarter supports the argument around discretionary demand being weaker.At the use-based level, capital goods (lack of investment demand) and consumer durables (lack of discretionary demand) show the biggest deficit vis-a-vis pre-pandemic levels. Consumer non-durables, on the other hand, show the smallest contraction. At the industry level, the only three industries which had recovered to pre-pandemic levels in the June 2021 quarter were manufacture of food products, pharmaceuticals and basic metals, all of which are essential in nature. Transport equipment, furniture, motor vehicles etc. show the biggest deficit on this count.A ‘terms of trade’ shock to rural demand could be on the wayAgriculture was the only silver lining in the economy in the last fiscal year. Barring any unforeseen climate shocks, agricultural production should continue to grow in 2021-22 as well. However, agriculture’s contribution to overall demand in the economy is also contingent on what is described as ‘terms of trade’ or relative prices of farm and non-farm goods in the economy. If prices of non-farm goods are rising at a faster pace than farm-products, then farmers will face a squeeze on their purchasing power, which will generate headwinds for overall demand.Given the fact that it is non-food inflation which seems to be driving headline inflation numbers at the moment, a ‘terms of trade’ shock to farm incomes and therefore rural demand cannot be ruled out. To be sure, headline numbers for food and non-food inflation underestimate the possibility of such a situation, because food inflation has been elevated by prices of commodities such as edible oils, pulses and meat products. Prices of cereals and vegetables, which account for almost half of the value of crop production in the country, have actually been contracting for six months now. This is not good news for incomes for majority of farmers in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-complacency-on-demand-hurt-revival-101629493889900.html
21-08-2021||India||Zydus vaccine given govt panel approval||India’s drugs regulator approved a coronavirus vaccine by Zydus Cadila for anyone aged 12 and above, clearing the first shot for use in children and adding a sixth inoculation in India’s toolbox to fight the pandemic.The approval was given by Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) after its experts assessed results from the company’s phase III clinical trials that showed the vaccine to have an efficacy of 66.6%. Officials said it can be rolled out to those under the age of 18 once the inoculation drive is officially expanded to cover children – at present, it is only for adults.“India is fighting Covid-19 with full vigour. The approval for world’s first DNA based ‘ZyCov-D’ vaccine of @ZydusUniverse is a testimony to the innovative zeal of India’s scientists. A momentous feat indeed,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Friday.The company confirmed the approval and said it has already stockpiled doses. “…the company has received the emergency use authorisation… for ZyCoV-D the world’s first plasmid DNA vaccine for Covid-19. ZyCoV-D is a three-dose vaccine which will be administered first on day zero, day 28th and then on the 56th day. With this approval, India now has its first COVID-19 vaccine for the adolescents in the 12-18 age group…,” the company said.It said the vaccine is delivered via a “painless” intradermal applicator and added that it plans to seek approval for a two-dose regimen of the vaccine. “The main advantage of DNA vaccines is their ability to stimulate both the humoral and cellular arms of the adaptive immune system. They are a valuable form of antigen-specific immunotherapy, as they are safe, stable and can be easily produced,” the company said.An official, who asked not to be named, said the expert panel sought more data to allow the company’s existing request to approve it as a two-dose shot.A second government official, who asked not to be named, said final approval to roll-out the vaccine to children above the age of 12 will be taken by government’s expert committees on vaccination. “The emergency use approval has come for the Zydus vaccine for use in 12 year olds and above but it will be the call of the experts on panels such as NTAGI (National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation) and NEGVAC (National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19), who decide on Covid-19 vaccine-related matters, whether to allow Covid-19 vaccination in children; and when. Even if the experts allow it, orders will have to be placed -- there is an entire procurement process that needs to be followed. Regulatory approval is just a part of the process,” this person said.ZyCoV-D was developed in partnership with the government’s Department of Biotechnology under the ‘Mission COVID Suraksha’, which involved the pooling of resources by several Indian research institutions for development and clinical trials.The vaccine works by instructing cells to produce the spike protein of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which elicits an immune response, the ministry of science and technology said in a statement on Friday.“It is a matter of great pride that today we have the EUA for the world’s first DNA COVID-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D by Zydus developed in partnership with the Department of Biotechnology and supported through Mission COVID Suraksha. The Indian Vaccine Mission COVID Suraksha was launched under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat package 3.0 being implemented by BIRAC, is aimed at the development of safe and efficacious COVID-19 vaccines for public health,” said Dr Renu Swarup, secretary, department of biotechnology, and chairperson, Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council.“We are confident that this will be an important vaccine for both India and the world. This is an important milestone in our indigenous vaccine development mission and positions India on the global map for novel vaccine development,” she added.There are two vaccine candidates that have been tested among children in India: Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D. The two are also the only ones of the six now approved in India to be developed indigenously.The Covaxin trial data in children is still not out, while Zydus Cadila submitted the data to the national drugs regulator along with data from trials held in adult participants on July 1.The safety and tolerability data of children that was submitted to the regulator for scrutiny showed the tolerability profile was similar to that seen in the adult population, said the company’s managing director, Sharvil Patel, in a press briefing last month.Patel, last month announced that the company should have a production capacity of about 10-12 million doses per month.He added that the plug and play technology on which the plasmid DNA platform is based is ideally suited for dealing with Covid-19 as it can be easily adapted to deal with mutations in the virus, such as those already occurring.The pricing was not discussed as yet but Patel said it would be decided once the regulatory approvals came in as it would depend on doses, technology etc.“We are extremely happy that our efforts to put out a safe, well tolerated and efficacious vaccine to fight COVID-19 has become a reality with ZyCoV-D. To create the world’s first DNA vaccine at such a crucial juncture and despite all the challenges, is a tribute to the Indian research scientists and their spirit of innovation,” said Pankaj R Patel, chairman, Zydus group.ZyCoV-D is now the sixth vaccine approved in India for emergency use after Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, Russian-made Sputnik V, and the American vaccines— Moderna and Johnson and Johnson (J&J).Meanwhile, American pharma giant Johnson & Johnson (J&J) has sought approval from India’s drugs regulator to conduct clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine for the people in the 12-17 age group.“On 17 August 2021, we submitted an application to the CDSCO to conduct a study of the Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine in India in adolescents aged 12-17 years,” said a J&J India spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-vaccine-given-govt-panel-approval-101629492759586.html
21-08-2021||India||Facebook takes down Rahul Gandhi’s post on rape victim’s family||Facebook on Friday removed content posted by former Congress president Rahul Gandhi that contained photographs of the family of a nine-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly gang-raped and murdered in Delhi on August 1.“We have taken action to remove the content as it was in violation of our policies,” a Facebook spokesperson said.According to Facebook, its content enforcement decisions are neutral for anyone using its platform, irrespective of their political position or party affiliation. The company takes action against content if it violates its community standards or upon receiving a valid legal request under Indian laws.“In this case, the family has pleaded for their safety in court. In view of their safety and to maintain the dignity of the victim, we have decided to take down the content from our platform,” a person familiar with the matter said.The Wayanad MP had on August 4 tweeted a photograph of his meeting with the family of the victim, after which there was a complaint against him filed by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR). His Twitter account was locked for a few days and the controversial tweet withheld even as the BJP accused him and his party of politicising the matter.On the same day, Gandhi shared a video on Instagram and posted on Facebook pictures of the family. While NCPCR’s notice to Facebook was only regarding the Instagram post, the company has also proactively removed the Facebook post.Meanwhile, Twitter unlocked Gandhi’s account on August 14 after he submitted a consent letter by the parents of the victim, authorising him to use the image. A day earlier, on August 13, the victim’s family was heard telling news media that they had no objection to Gandhi sharing their photograph on social media as he did that in good faith.But on Tuesday, the mother of the victim said something different to news channel Times Now. “We have not given consent to share the photos or reveal her (the victim) identity to anyone except the court,” the mother said.The BJP on Tuesday launched an attack on Gandhi, calling him “insensitive”, and demanded that his Twitter account be locked again. “Rahul Gandhi has lost credibility and is a habitual liar. The public has locked his political account, now Twitter should also lock his account,” party spokesperson Sambit Patra said.Suresh Chaudhary, a lawyer representing the victim’s parents, said his clients hold a “neutral position” on the issue of sharing their images. “My clients have told me that they neither gave any written consent (to share their photograph), nor have they submitted any complaint in this connection,” Chaudhary told HT on August 17.There was no comment by the Congress on the action by the Facebook.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-takes-down-rahul-gandhi-s-post-on-rape-victim-s-family-101629491303490.html
21-08-2021||India||Only 25% districts achieved zero malaria cases by ’20: Report||Only a fourth of the 448 districts have been able to achieve zero malaria cases by 2020 as per the National Strategic Plan for Malaria Elimination, a report by the non-profit Malaria No More-India has revealed.India was among the 18 global leaders who pledged to end malaria by 2030 in the East Asia Summit held in Malaysia in 2015. However, so far, only 116 of the total 448 districts have reported zero malaria cases in 2020, and an additional 215 districts have reported less than 10 cases, the report said.The National Strategic Plan for Malaria Elimination (2017-22) was launched by the health ministry in July 2017, which laid down strategies for the next five years.Under the plan, 448 districts that reported one case per 1,000 population a year fell under Category 1, while 48 that reported between 1 and 2 cases per 1,000 population a year fell under Category 2. All these districts were to achieve zero malaria cases by 2022.According to the report, the country has recorded an 85% decline in the number of malaria cases since 2015. Of this, the Category 1 districts have recorded an 89% reduction, while Category 2 recorded 68%. The report further pointed to 34 states and 676 districts, which reported less than 1 malaria case per 1,000 population in 2020.Odisha had the highest burden, contributing over 30% of the country’s cases. It also saw the maximum decline in infections.“This, however, does not imply that 676 of the 678 districts initially considered in the National Strategic Plan have achieved less than 1 malaria case. The number of districts that provide malaria data has gone up since. Also, due to the pandemic last year, there was a 32% reduction in malaria testing; the surge in Covid-19 and the lockdown happened during the peak malaria season. We have to factor these; if we are targeting elimination we cannot be satisfied with fewer tests,” said Dr Kaushik Sarkar, director, Malaria No More-India.The states that currently need to focus on reducing the malaria burden are Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Mizoram, and Chattisgarh, said the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-25-districts-achieved-zero-malaria-cases-by-20-report-101629488916911.html
21-08-2021||India||Afghan crisis hits herbal, dry fruit markets in Hyderabad as import stops||Hyderabad: The crisis in Afghanistan after the Taliban takeover has had a big impact on the herbal medicine and dry fruit markets in the city. Imports have stopped over the last couple of weeks and whatever little is available is now being sold at exorbitant prices.The unani (also known as Arabian medicine) pharmacists get raw materials like mulethi (licorice), wormwood, jujube, akarkara (Anacyclus pyrethrum), dried plum, zaffron, raw hing (asafoetida), pure honey and solo garlic from Afghanistan.“Hing is used in making digestive syrups and tablets. These days medicine for cough and cold is high in demand. Raw materials used for making it are pure honey and mulethi (licorice) which has become scarce due to the crisis in Afghanistan,” said Hamin Ansari, a pharmacist.Now they will be forced to procure honey and mulethi from Punjab, which is of lesser quality. Due to the ongoing crisis in Afghanistan, prices of each and every herbal medicine have seen an upward trend by around 5% to 8 %. “If the situation does not improve, another steep price hike and even some shortage cannot be ruled out. We hope that the situation will improve in a few weeks,” said Ahmed Khan, a herbal store owner.The situation is similar for the dry fruit traders as they panic over the stranded import of items. Afghanistan exports dry fruits including dried raisins (kishmish), walnut (akhrot), fig (anjeer), pine nut (chilgoza), pistachios, dried apricot (qubani), almonds, cashew, spices and medicinal herbs. It is the only source of apricot and dried fig. “In the last two weeks, there has been about a 50% hike in the price of dry fruits. Almonds are now being sold at ₹600 per kg. It was sold at ₹400 sometime ago. Price of pistachio has been hiked by ₹100 per kg and figs by ₹200 per kg,” said Kapil, owner of the popular dry fruit store Kashmir House.Traders lament that trading has completely stopped in the last 15 days. “Usually, Afghan commodities reach India through the sea route through Mumbai. Some containers are sent via land route, through Pakistan which reach Amritsar, and will then be supplied from Delhi. We are looking forward to the government to resolve the issue as customers are becoming choosy,” Kapil added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-crisis-hits-herbal-dry-fruit-markets-in-hyderabad-as-import-stops-101629488527077.html
21-08-2021||India||Telangana, Andhra now at odds over fishing in 2 rivers||Hyderabad: Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, which are sparring over sharing of Krishna and Godavari river waters, are now gearing up for another standoff over fishing on Krishna and Tungabhadra rivers.These rivers run through the border of the two Telugu-speaking states and are conducive for fishing. Mostof the fishing activity takes place at Nagarjuna Sagar reservoir, Srisailam backwaters and Pulichintala project on the Krishna, and Somasila and Sunkesula projects on the Tungabhadra.Telangana fishermen are miffed that their counterparts from Andhra Pradesh enter into frequent brawls with them and ruin their business. A couple of weeks ago, around 15 Telangana fishermen were allegedly attacked by a few Andhra fishermen at Pulichintala project. This is among a series of attacks that have taken place since the bifurcation of the two states in 2014.Following the latest brawl, the Telangana government decided not to allow Andhra fishermen to enter into Telangana waters in the Krishna basin to catch fish.On Thursday, fishermen met Telangana animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav towork out a plan of action for stopping the attacks. Yadav assured that the K Chandrasekhar Rao government will keep a strict vigil on the entry of fishermen from the neighbouring state.A top official from the Telangana Fisheries Cooperative Society, on the condition of anonymity,said, “It has been decided that a strategy to avoid frequent brawls will be discussed by the government at all fishing hamlets and stern action will be taken. There is no clarity yet on what type of action would be taken up. Once we figure out the needs of the fishermen, we will submit a plan of action to the state government.”The Telangana government is also miffed that Andhra Pradesh does not release fishlings in its reservoirs.“Whatever fish is available is only because of the efforts made by the Telangana government. We have been releasing about 10 crore fishlings every year in July and September from 2015 unlike Andhra Pradesh, which does not do it. This has made fishermen from Andhra to fish in our territory,” said the fisheries society official.Another bone of contention of Telangana is the issue of licence to fishermen. The state says that it has given licences to 5,800 fishermen in the border districts of Gadwal, Wanaparthy, Nagarkurnool, Nalgonda and Suryapet. However, fishermen have complained that many who did not possess permit cards were also fishing and most of them hail from Andhra.Telangana officials say that if a decision is taken on joint fishing, then Andhra too should release fishlings. The fisheries department officials want Andhra Pradesh to spend money on fish production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-andhra-now-at-odds-over-fishing-in-2-rivers-101629487987989.html
21-08-2021||India||K’taka govt to initiate programme to upgrade SC/ST schools: Bommai||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said that the state government will initiate a special programme to qualitatively upgrade Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and minority residential schools in the state. “It is the thinking of our government that in the days to come SC, ST, OBC and minority residential schools, we have invested a lot in their buildings and infrastructure and there is a need to qualitatively upgrade them,” Bommai said. The chief minister was speaking at the 106th birth anniversary of former Karnataka chief minister D Devaraj Urs, who was popular for his policies on backward classes and land reforms. Bommai said that there was a need to give “international standards of education” in these schools to make the children more competitive and create job opportunities. He said that such qualitative upgrades would help these children boost their confidence and get better prepared for competitive exams like NEET or CET. The statements come at a time when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Karnataka has been accused of neglecting interests of marginalised communities and continuing to prioritise the needs and demands of dominant castes like Lingayats, Vokkaligas and others who have a profound impact on the state’s politics and social life. The state government is also looking at increasing competitiveness of the state board schools to be on par with CBSE and other modes of teaching as Covid-19 exposed the faultlines in the archaic education system that prevails in the southern state. The education department is working to overhaul its system to make the state board children more competitive and have periodical reviews after the pandemic-induced lockdowns have led to the loss of almost two whole academic years. Bommai said that the government will start three new residential schools for children of nomadic tribes to safeguard their unique culture, with an outlay of ₹6 crore each . After taking over as chief minister on July 28, Bommai’s first decision was to approve the creation of a separate Scheduled Tribe secretariat and B Sriramulu was handed over this portfolio. Bommai said that the government would emphasise on the three “e” strategies of education, employment and empowerment. “Every year, we give away scholarships to students worth ₹625 crore....also residential schools for backward class students are also being run,” Bommai said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-govt-to-initiate-programme-to-upgrade-sc-st-schools-bommai-101629487626107.html
21-08-2021||India||Siddaramaiah seeks caste census report||Bengaluru: Former Karnataka chief minister and Congress Leader of Opposition, Siddaramaiah, on Friday, lashed out at the Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government for not releasing the findings of the 2015 caste census. He said the socio, economic and educational survey was not conducted “only for one caste”, claiming a hesitancy on the part of the new government to release the findings as they are likely to impact the existing caste equations in the state. “Former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy said that Siddaramaiah has got the report written. This is complete nonsense. The report is yet to reach the government. I had directed the then Backward classes department minister Puttaranga Shetty of the previous coalition government to approve the report. I was just (the) leader of (the) coordination committee. The then chief minister HD K opposed the approval. I agreed to avoid any further fight between both our parties,” Siddaramaiah said on Friday. The statements come at a time when several backward communities and the Opposition are piling pressure on the Bommai government to release the findings of the report to ensure justice to voiceless caste groups in Karnataka. The Siddaramaiah-led Congress government had commissioned the “Socio-Economic and Education Survey”, better known as caste-census, in 2015 at a cost of around ₹150 crore, employing 1.6 lakh people for 45 days to pose around 55 questions to 1.35 crore households across the state. Siddaramaiah has also been accused of holding back the findings of the report since his term in office ended in 2018, three years after the report was prepared, allegedly due to pressure from his own partymen belonging to dominant communities. The rise of reservation-related demands by dominant communities like the Panchamasali, one the largest sub-sects within the Lingayats, Vokkaligas, Valmiki and the Kuruba’s has added to the challenges of the Bommai government who has been trying to uphold the promises made by his predecessor, BS Yediyurappa. Several influential seers and pontiffs from caste-specific Mathas or monasteries have threatened to agitate if the Bommai government does not accede to their demands. Mathas have played an important role in shaping Karnataka’s caste-centric politics and are used as a bargaining chip to get better representation to the community. Most of the benefits even within these dominant communities are cornered by a few in power, leaving the remaining as vote banks or support systems with little or no benefits other than the name of the community itself. Requests of at least 36 such small communities remain pending before the Karnataka Backward Classes Commission, people aware of the developments said. “The report was prepared with the help of school teachers. The resources of our nation should be distributed equally and social justice should be achieved. Data is necessary to do this. Hence, we had ordered for the survey to be conducted,” Siddaramaiah said. Political analysts and observers believe that Siddaramaiah, from the Kuruba community, had commissioned the report to challenge Karnataka’s dominant-caste politics that has been controlled by Lingayats and Vokkaligas, believed to be the two biggest caste groups in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddaramaiah-seeks-caste-census-report-101629485526817.html
21-08-2021||India||Phone call from wife saved Dehradun man from Afghanistan crisis||Amid the efforts being put by the government to bring back over 300 of its residents from Afghanistan, 49-year-old Sanjay Gurung can’t thank God enough for “saving” him from going to the war-torn country.Gurung, an ex-serviceman from Dehradun, Uttarakhand, was all set to leave for Kabul on July 15 from Delhi when he got a phone call from his wife pleading not to go while he was in a taxi heading to the airport. Insisted by his mother too, he cancelled his plan midway while letting his three other friends go.“After what I am witnessing in Afghanistan at present, I just think it was God who saved me with that phone call from my wife at the last moment before entering the airport. I just can’t thank God enough,” said Gurung, who was going to join a private security agency in Kabul.Gurung said after retiring from the Army, he worked in a private security agency in Iraq in 2012 before going to Afghanistan for the same work.“The private security agencies in Afghanistan majorly recruit Gorkhas with an army background. I went there and worked for nine years before coming back in January this year as the agency reduced my salary. I then applied to another agency and got selected, for which I was supposed to leave on July 15.”He said fourteen others from Dehradun were also selected along with him in the same company.“Eleven of them got their visa first and left earlier. Four of us got it late and booked our tickets on Kam Air’s flight on July 15... my wife frantically called me pleading me to return citing the troublesome situation in Afghanistan. I was a little hesitant to stay back and tried to pacify her over a video call. Then, my mother also pleaded and I finally decided to return,” said Gurung.“I returned Dehradun on the same day and after a couple of weeks, the crisis triggered in Afghanistan with its ultimate fall in the hands of the Taliban. Then a few days ago, I received a video on WhatsApp in which a group of men like me from Dehradun could be seen appealing to the government to evacuate them. Among them, two of my three friends were also there. Though I feel fortunate, I am worried for their safety as well,” said Gurung, adding that while watching the news about Afghanistan, all the cities like Herat, Kandhar and Kabul where he worked, floated before his eyes. Gurung is now putting efforts to help the other men from Dehradun stranded in Afghanistan. “I am in touch with them while assuring them all possible help from my side for their evacuation. I am worried for their safety,” said Gurung. Meanwhile, four residents of Dehradun who were stranded in Afghanistan returned on Thursday in the evacuation flights which are being operated from the Kabul international airport. Chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said that the “Government is putting all efforts to evacuate the Uttarakhand residents stranded in Afghanistan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phone-call-from-wife-saved-dehradun-man-from-afghanistan-crisis-101629485467029.html
21-08-2021||India||Organ donation picks up in Karnataka, 14 get new lease of life||Fourteen people got a new lease of life after the families of two patients, who were declared brain dead on Thursday, decided to donate their organs. 40-year-old Lawrence from Hunsur and 48-year-old Shobha from Kushalnagar were brought to Apollo BGS Hospitals in Mysuru from two different private hospitals in critical condition on Monday. Lawrence had met with an accident and was declared brain dead due to brain stem failure, while Shobha had suffered from a brain hemorrhage and was also declared brain dead on Thursday. According to the hospital authorities, the families came forward to offer their organs. This incident has brought relief to officials at the Jeevana Sarthakathe, who have been struggling to get organ donors during the pandemic. Jeevana Sarthakathe is the nodal agency for organ donations in the state. According to officials, the numbers of donations are showing signs of improvement. However, with more than 5,000 people on the waiting list, they believe more awareness is needed. The records of Jeevana Sarthakathe, the donations of organs had dropped drastically during the pandemic. While the state saw 105 donations in 2019, this number dropped to 35 in 2020. “With a big waiting list, getting people to donate has always a been a problem. The difficulties that came with the pandemic made it even worse,” said Lijamol Joseph, Chief Transplant Coordinator for the state. One of the biggest problems faced during the pandemic was the lack of medical facilities. A transplantation or organ donation requires Intensive Care Units and during the pandemic, they were short in supply. “We were taken by surprise by the pandemic. So, most of the hospitals dedicated the ICUs for Covid-19 cases. But now we have learned from it. This time around, there is better ICU management among hospitals,” she said. Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Thursday said that steps have been taken since Covid-19 has hampered blood and organ donation in the state. “Covid-19 has hampered blood and organ donation. We have taken few special measures to encourage organ donation in the state. We are planning to reorganize Jeevana Sarthakathe in the coming days,” said the health minister. To promote organ donations, on August 13, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai had registered himself as an organ donor. As of August, there are 5,056 patients listed for organs transplant. Out of this, 3,756 patients require kidneys, and this is followed by 1,084 patients who need liver transplantation. There is a requirement for 113 heart transplants, 48 lung transplants and there are 22 patients who require both heart and lungs. The increase in the number of donations in 2021 is however giving hope. Until August 2021, the number of donations has already gone past the numbers in 2020. Officials believe that if the number of donations could surpass the numbers in 2019. “There is a big change in attitude. Earlier, we had to sit with families and convince them, but now they are coming forward to offer organs once they realize the medical condition of the family members,” said Joseph. She added the family of actor Sanchari Vijay coming forward to donate his organs has had a big impact. 38-year-old Vijay was declared brain dead on June 15, after he met with a motorcycle accident. The decision of the actor’s family to come forward to offer his organs had made the headlines and this has helped spread the message among the rural areas, said Joseph. “The news (of actor’s organ donation) has traveled to the rural parts, and we see more people talking about it. This is a good sign. We are happy with how things are changing but as much awareness about organ donation is needed,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/organ-donation-picks-up-in-karnataka-14-get-new-lease-of-life-101629485405002.html
21-08-2021||India||Karnataka worst in distributing land deeds to forest dwellers: Data||Bengaluru Karnataka fares among the poorest in terms of distribution of land deeds to forest dwellers and tribals who have inhabited these lands for generations when compared to its counterparts in southern India, data shows, indicating how issues pertaining to non-dominant caste groups are rarely a priority for the state and its political dispensation. Out of the 275,446 applications received till end of 2020, only 14,667 titles have been distributed, according to the ministry of environment, forest and climate change in a response to the Lok Sabha. This amounts to 20,813.51 acres of forest land to dwellers who have been demanding proper titles for them to remain in their natural and traditional habitat without being under the sword of eviction. In comparison, Kerala has distributed 26,398 titles as against total requests of 43,331, data shows. Andhra Pradesh has distributed 96,675 titles, amounting to 239,554 acres out of the total 177,466 claims. Tamil Nadu has just 33,755 claims but has distributed 8,144 land titles, amounting to 9,626.44 acres. Telangana has processed and distributed 93,639 deeds, amounting to 300,284 acres as against 183,252 claims, data shows, indicating that Karnataka is lowest in distribution of land title deeds among the five large southern states. “There is a committee at taluk, gram and district level which decides these matters and the forest department is a part of it. If all criteria are met then the process moves forward,” said one senior government official from Karnataka, requesting not to be named. The official said that the social welfare department is the nodal office for such claims. However, the long delays in processing such claims and ensuring protection for vulnerable tribals forced the new government under chief minister Basvaraj Bommai to set up a separate portfolio of Scheduled Tribe (ST) welfare and B. Sriramulu has been made its first minister. But the political climate in the state, especially with ministers unhappy with their respective portfolios, including Sriramulu, the newly set up secretariat has barely taken off the ground, those aware of the developments said. At least five senior officials from Karnataka’s tribal welfare department could not be reached for comment including its minister, Sriramulu. Karnataka has a strong dominant caste-centric political reality with successive governments prioritising requests and demands from communities like Lingayats, Vokkaligas and Kurbas among others, leaving most of the other groups almost voiceless and without adequate representation or benefits. Sriramulu himself is from the dominant Valmiki community, classified as ST, who have been seeking better reservation opportunities. A total of 19,20,507 individual titles over an extent of 4,182,274 acres (1.69 million ha) of forest land in the country, including Maharashtra, have been distributed till December 31,2020 to the Scheduled Tribes and other traditional forest dwellers. “The first thing we need to understand is that it’s not about giving land but about recognizing the fact that somebody was cultivating land before a certain date and that they were there for the right and not wrong reasons,” said Dr. Sharachchandra Lele, distinguished fellow in Environmental Policy & Governance at Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE), a non-profit organisation. “It is about a recognition of a right they (tribals and forest dwellers) had,” he added. He said that there is no data on how many people are actually claimants of such lands as the number of applications does not provide the true picture. Hundreds and thousands of people are displaced from their homes due to development works and declaring of forests as national reserves which, he said, was earlier dealt with by giving monetary compensation but provided no hope for resettlement for those who have been moved out. A significant section of these communities is moved to the edges of forests where only a small section get homes but with no source of livelihoods. In the case of adivasis, experts said that governments (including the British before independence) recognized the dwellers’ right to land, water and worship but not the right to cultivate or hunt that rendered such people without a source of livelihood. Data shows that Karnataka has the third highest forest land under encroachment in the country. With more than 83,000 hectares under encroachment out of the total 1.33 million hectares in the country, Karnataka stands third nationally, data shows. Officials said that some of these encroachments include those by people occupying and living on forest land and rules prevent authorities from evicting those with less than three acres without proper rehabilitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-worst-in-distributing-land-deeds-to-forest-dwellers-data-101629485345537.html
21-08-2021||India||SC seeks Centre’s diplomacy to implement order against Kenyan national||New Delhi: The Supreme Court has sought the help of the Indian government for the implementation of its order before a Kenyan court in a child custody matter, after it was told that the High Court in the African country refused to recognise its order. The top court had granted permanent custody of an 11-year-old boy to his Indian-origin father Perry Kansagra, having a Kenyan passport, on October 28 last year. While doing so, the court required the father to obtain a “mirror order” from the Kenyan court reflecting the conditions and assurances arrived at between the parents – Perry and Smriti – before the Supreme Court. On Thursday, the court was informed that on May 21, the High Court of Kenya refused to recognise the order passed by the Supreme Court. The HC of Kenya situated at Nairobi said, “The Court makes a finding that the judgment from the Supreme Court of India, being from a superior court of a non-reciprocating country, and further being one in proceedings in connection with the custody or guardianship of a child, is not registrable in this Court.” Even the father, a permanent resident of Kenya, failed to appear during the proceedings, giving an impression to the court that they had been misled. In December last year, the Supreme Court was informed that on November 9, 2020, the Kenyan court had registered the judgment of the Supreme Court. With the child now outside Indian jurisdiction and the father in clear breach of the Supreme Court’s order, the bench of Justices UU Lalit and Ajay Rastogi requested Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to provide assistance in the case. The bench said, “The boy is a Kenyan citizen, but the child is a ward of this Court as we were exercising loco parentis (in place of parents) jurisdiction. For the first time we are being told that the Kenyan court has not recognised our order. Mirror orders are generally recognised by all countries. We were earlier told that it has been registered. With this new development, this man (the father) is in contempt of this court. We are requesting the Union of India if this matter could be diplomatically taken up with the other country. Or else, we will have to deal with it.” Solicitor General said, “At a personal level, I can ask the Indian Embassy officials at Kenya to call up the father and explain to him the situation and get him to follow the order. This matter can also be taken up diplomatically but only the Foreign Secretary will know what can be done.” The bench asked Mehta to adopt this course and inform the Court about any breakthrough by Tuesday. Senior advocate AS Chandhioke, appearing for the child’s mother, informed the court that the conduct of her husband was in breach of his undertaking given to this court on October 30. In December 2020, Smriti approached the court saying that a mere “registration of Supreme Court’s judgment” was not a guarantee for enforcement. She stated that Kenya has got a Foreign Judgments (Reciprocal Enforcement) Act to make provision for enforcement of judgments given in countries outside Kenya. But India and Kenya are not reciprocating countries and hence, provisions of this Act will not apply. Further, Section 3(3)(e) of this Act states that “nothing in this Act will apply to proceedings in connection with custody or guardianship of children.” But the top court dismissed this application and said, “Registration of judgment is sufficient compliance of the direction to obtain a mirror order issued from a competent court in Kenya.” The court realised there was no means now to get in touch with the father, who has not authorised his counsels to appear in the case anymore. The bench said, “This man has led us up the garden path and misled us. We will wait for the Solicitor General to have a word with the Embassy officials and Foreign Secretary to find a diplomatic solution. In case it does not happen, we will deal with it.” As a next step, the court had in mind to allow the mother to visit Nairobi. As part of its October 28 order, the father had already deposited a sum of ₹1 crore with the Supreme Court Registry as a guarantee to comply with the order. The bench said in such an eventuality, the Centre should extend all necessary help. Trans-national child custody battles involving Indian citizens have often ended up in contradictory orders being passed by courts in different countries. India is not a signatory to the Convention on Civil Aspects on International Child Abduction, 1980, and this is a chief reason why Indian courts find it difficult to enforce its orders on this aspect before foreign courts. Conscious of this gap in law, the Supreme Court in October 2020 directed a mirror order to be passed by the Kenyan court as Kenya too is not a signatory to the 1980 Convention. A mirror order is passed to ensure that the courts of the country where the child is being shifted are aware of the arrangements which were made in the country where he had ordinarily been residing. Such an order is meant to safeguard the interest of the parent who is losing custody, so that the rights of visitation and temporary custody are not impaired. The couple got married in 2007 and is living separately since April 2012. The child, who enjoys dual citizenship of Kenya and the United Kingdom, is an Overseas Citizen of India. The mother had initially filed a suit restraining her husband and his family from removing the child from her custody. In this suit the father was allowed visitation rights. Later, the boy’s father filed a Guardianship petition in a Delhi court that was allowed and later affirmed by the Delhi high court in February 2020. This order was set aside by the Supreme Court in its October 2020 judgment by a 2:1 majority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-centre-s-diplomacy-to-implement-order-against-kenyan-national-101629485165462.html
21-08-2021||India||Bihar recorded 251k excess deaths since Covid-19 pandemic: Data||There were at least 251,000 excess deaths registered under the Civil Registration System (CRS) in Bihar since the start of the Covid-19 outbreak (from March 2020 to May 2021), which is 48.6 times the official number of confirmed coronavirus deaths (5,163) in the state in the same time period, data accessed by HT shows.The figures from Bihar, based on deaths registered in the state’s Civil Registration System between January 2015 and May 2021, present one of the largest deviations in excess mortality seen in such calculations of any state in the country so far.“Excess death” or mortality is a generalised term that refers to the total number of deaths occurring due to all causes during a crisis that is above and beyond what would have been expected under regular conditions. To be sure, not all such excess deaths may be due to Covid-19, but during a pandemic such major deviations in fatalities is likely to be either directly or indirectly caused by the outbreak and the stress it had caused on a region’s healthcare system.For the analysis here, the CRS data from the pre-pandemic period (January 2015 to February 2020) has been averaged to establish an all-cause mortality baseline, which has then been compared to the deaths registered from March 2020 onwards, resulting in the number of “excess deaths”.Internationally and domestically, such data has provided vital information on the true toll of the pandemic on human life.For Bihar, data shows that there were 251,053 “excess deaths” since the start of the outbreak compared to the corresponding four-year period before the pandemic (2015-2019). The state’s official Covid-19 death toll till the end of May was 5,163. This means CRS data showed that the official Covid-19 death toll had an undercount factor of 48.6 times.Of these, over 126,000 such excess deaths were reported in the first five months of 2021 against 3,766 reported Covid-19 deaths in the same period – resulting in an undercount factor of 33.7 this year.During the Covid-19 outbreak, such data, calculated from CRS – a national system of recording all births and deaths, under the Office of the Registrar General of India and implemented on the ground by state governments – is being used to count the number of deaths that would not have occurred had the pandemic never happened.Similar analysis conducted by several news organisations such as The Hindu, Scroll, The News Minute, Article 14, among others, have estimated the undercount factor for different states, cities and districts in the country. Such estimates have been arrived at for Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, and have shown a wide range of undercount factors — as little as 0.42 times in Kerala to 43 times in UP (based on data from 24 of the state’s 75 districts).The findings from Bihar, however, appear to show the highest undercount factor in the country so far. This is not surprising as the state ranks the second lowest in the country (after UP) in Niti Aayog’s Health Index, 2020, and despite being home to 9% of the country’s population, has seen 9,649 confirmed deaths due to Covid, accounting for just 2.2% of the total 432,138 fatalities in the country till August 19, according to HT’s Covid dashboard.Globally, the World Health Organization (WHO) has estimated that Covid-19 deaths may be as much as two-three times the officially reported numbers.To be sure, as pointed out by Shamika Ravi in a July 14 article in HT, such an analysis suffers from certain shortcomings: historically, not all deaths in India are registered under CRS, which is why the Sample Registration System (SRS) – an annual survey conducted by the Office of the Registrar General in India – is considered the primary source of annual estimates of deaths. Furthermore, she writes that registered deaths are not necessarily domiciliary, while deaths, if registered at all, may not be reported promptly. She added that the level of registration from CRS to the estimated deaths from SRS is not uniform across the country and over time.Another factor in the increase in CRS numbers may be the improvement in registration of deaths in the country. According to the CRS’ 2019 annual report on “vital statistics”, while only 20.7% deaths in the country were medically certified, registration of deaths in India has improved to more than 90%.Thus, it is possible that the period since March 2020 has seen a sharp improvement in registration of deaths, resulting in the spike seen, with very little or none of the increase being on account of Covid-19.Indeed, despite the apparent improvement in registration of deaths, the CRS data from Bihar shows fluctuations – there were 204,093 registered deaths in 2015, but it dropped to 177,021 in 2016, then spiked to 261,425 in 2017, before dropping again in 2019 (213,989).Still, the magnitude of the difference since last March (a quarter of a million) is staggering.Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey said that he cannot comment on CRS data, but all the Covid-19 related deaths have been verified by district magistrates and civil surgeons.“That is why we were able to give a revised death figures in June. Yet we have from time-to-time requested to all if there has been death in their family where the cause in death certificate is mentioned as Covid 19, they can get their entry recorded and claim the compensation announced by the state government,” said the health minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-recorded-251k-excess-deaths-since-pandemic-data-101629484985619.html
21-08-2021||India||State’s bifurcation can’t take away quota benefits, says SC||The Supreme Court has held that bifurcation of states will not result in persons already employed under reserved categories to be dislodged of their benefits in the newly formed state.The top court was dealing with a petition by a man who was appointed as an assistant teacher in December 1999 at Ranchi as a scheduled caste (SC) candidate. Pankaj Kumar also opted to serve in Jharkhand after the new state was carved out of Bihar in 2000.But when Pankaj Kumar applied as an SC candidate for the state’s combined civil services examination in 2008, he was not appointed despite his selection on the grounds that he was a migrant in Jharkhand and not entitled to reservation benefits since his service book showed him to be a permanent resident of Patna.“It will be highly unfair and pernicious if the benefits of reservation with privileges and benefits flowing thereof are not being protected in the State of Jharkhand after he is absorbed by virtue to Section 73 of the 2000 Act that clearly postulates not only to protect the existing service conditions but the benefit of reservation and privileges which he was enjoying on or before the appointed day, i.e. 15 November 2000 in the State of Bihar not to be varied to his disadvantage after he became a member of service in the State of Jharkhand,” a bench of justices UU Lalit and Ajay Rastogi ruled.The court directed the Jharkhand government to appoint Kumar on the post that he was selected for in 2008 and give him the seniority as per his placement in the order of merit with notional pay and allowances but not back wages.The bench noted that the petitioner was born in Hazaribagh in 1974 which came under Jharkhand after the enactment of the Bihar Reorganization Act 2000 and belonged to caste recognized as a scheduled caste in both Bihar and Jharkhand.The court noted that Sections 73 and 74 of the 2000 Act protected the employment of only those reserved candidates from undivided Bihar who opted to remain in the employment of Bihar government while employees of undivided Bihar who opted for service in Jharkhand government were denied recognition by Jharkhand terming them as migrants. At the same time, Bihar introduced a new rule in 2003 under the Bihar Reservation of Vacancies in Posts and Services(for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes) Act, 1991, limiting reservation benefits to only those who are residing in Bihar.The apex court noted that such a matter involving reservation benefits being denied as a result of bifurcation was arising for the first time.“In our considered view, such of the employees who are members of the SC/ST/OBC whose caste/tribe has been notified by an amendment to the Constitution(Scheduled Castes)/(Scheduled Tribes) Order 1950 under Vth and VIth Schedule to Sections 23 and 24 of the Act of 2000 or by the separate notification for members of other backward class (OBC) category, the benefit of reservations including privileges and benefits flowing thereof, shall remain protected by virtue of Section 73 of the Act 2000 for all practical purposes which can be claimed (including by their wards) for participation in public employment.”The court was assisted by Attorney General KK Venugopal who said that a February 1985 government order does specify that reserved category candidates will be entitled to claim benefits within their home state and not in the state to which they have migrated.But here it was not a case of voluntary or involuntary migration but bifurcation, he said.Venugopal said by virtue of Section 73 and 74 of the Bihar Reorganisation Act, the reservation rights of residents of the 18 districts included in Jharkhand would stand protected for all practical purposes and such class of persons (as the petitioner) would not be considered as migrants to Jharkhand. He clarified that reservation benefits could be claimed only in one state and not both states, a point that was reiterated by the court as well.The court noted that the inclusion of the caste/tribe under the Presidential Order 1950 identified them because of the “disadvantages and social hardships” being faced by the members concerned in the integrated state of Bihar and by this yardstick, they will remain entitled to seek the benefit of reservation throughout the state of Jharkhand for public employment.The court also ruled on a batch of appeals filed by six candidates of SC/ST/OBC categories who were appointed as constables in Jharkhand but were removed from service in June 2008 on the ground that they were migrants in the successor state. On merits, the apex court found that they were indeed migrants as they had no proof of how long they were staying in Jharkhand and failed to produce their caste certificate at the time of appointment.But the court invoked its extraordinary powers and directed their reinstatement as undeniably, they belonged to the SC/ST/OBC category in the undivided Bihar and had already served for a period of three to four years as constables with Jharkhand police. Having lost 13 years in litigation, it would be hard for them to secure employment at this later stage, the bench observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-bifurcation-can-t-take-away-quota-benefits-says-sc-101629484746757.html
21-08-2021||India||Have been made a scapegoat: IPS officer Rashmi Shukla to Bombay HC||Senior IPS officer Rashmi Shukla on Friday told the Bombay high court that she has been made a scapegoat for submitting a report on alleged corruption in police transfers and postings.The bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar was hearing her petition for quashing of the FIR registered by the cyber cell for alleged illegal phone tapping and leaking of her report regarding corruption in police transfers and postings.Shukla, the then head of the State Intelligence Department (SID), told the bench through her counsel, senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani: “I am an upright officer. I was shunted out in an illegal manner from the post of State Intelligence Department, Commissioner, without following any proper procedure as I had made the report.”“I had got sanctions from time to time from Additional Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte from July 17, 2020 to July 29, 2020 to carry out the phone tappings. I had managed to bring to light the nexus between brokers and others assigning in postings to police officers and nine of them had actually got the postings,” Jethmalani told the bench.“I was abruptly transferred on 2nd September without following due procedure as DGP Civil Defence. There was no office neither any staff allotted to the office. The State has made nine posts of DGP without permission from Home Affairs or any approval from the State Cabinet.”Shukla’s counsel further told the court: “Despite having all the permission to carrying out the tappings, I am now been made a scapegoat. Kunte is trying to exonerate himself. A report by Kunte already blames me and further says that I accepted my mistake before him and told him that my husband had died due to cancer and my children were still studying. This is a lie. I had only told him if there was a problem, I was ready to withdraw my report. My husband died in 2018. I am even ready to undergo a lie detector test provided others are also willing to take it to bring out the truth.”“I have done nothing wrong in my job as SID Commissioner and duly followed my duty and if the state thought there was nothing in my report why was it reluctant to share it with the CBI that is demanding it,” Jethmalani argued.The FIR was a trigger after senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and opposition leader in the assembly, Devendra Fadnavis, gave an interview to a television channel on March 23 citing the report and corruption in transfers. A case was registered on March 26 in the matter, Jethmalani told the bench.The bench while continuing the protection granted to Shukla, posted the matter for Saturday when the Maharashtra government is likely to argue on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-been-made-a-scapegoat-ips-officer-rashmi-shukla-to-bombay-hc-101629484625766.html
21-08-2021||India||MP bank siphoned off more than ₹200 cr to fake accounts: Officials||More than ₹200 crore was siphoned off from a cooperative bank in Madhya Pradesh to various account holders using fake accounts in 2015, people familiar with the developments said. While manager of Dabhora cooperative bank, Ramkrishna Mishra, was arrested in 2015, the Economic Offences Wing will soon begin a probe into the role of other employees, they added. According to officials in the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), more than ₹200 crores was transferred from the bank to at least 11 accounts in various private banks. These 11 accounts, according to the officials, were opened using forged documents, and photographs and addresses belonging to various people. The photograph of a daily wage labourer, Pramod Shukla, was used to open one such fake account. Shukla, who earns ₹8,000 per month, was unaware about transactions worth ₹40 lakh made via the account till he got a call from the police a few days ago as part of the probe into the case.“I am a daily wager and don’t have an account in any bank. Some police officers told me that some fraudster used my picture and name for opening an account. Now, they have launched an investigation to find out who did it and how,” Shukla said. Mishra has been accused of using the fake accounts to transfer the money to his relatives.“We found that the accounts were opened using fake identity cards. The account holders turned out to be daily wagers and farmers. The accused used the picture of one person and the address of some other person. Similarly, they opened a company account by using the address and picture of a farmer, Shyam Kumar,” an investigating officer said on condition of anonymity. “The accused used these fake accounts more than a thousand times to transfer around ₹200 crore from the bank to various accounts,” he added. Using the siphoned off money, real estate was purchased by the accused in metropolitan cities like Delhi and Mumbai, the investigating agency said, adding that a probe into the properties is underway. “The role of bank officials of the other private banks is also under scanner as they opened these accounts without physical verification. We will interrogate them too,” Virendra Jain, SP, EOW, Rewa, said.The bank has closed accounts of beneficiaries who deposited their savings into the bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-bank-siphoned-off-more-than-200-cr-to-fake-accounts-officials-101629484384900.html
21-08-2021||India||Projects in protected zones to draw 2% surcharge as mitigation measure||The National Board for Wildlife has decided to impose a cost of 2% of the proportionate value of any development or infrastructure project in a protected zone such as a national park or a wildlife sanctuary. The levy of 2% will not be on the entire value of the project but of that part of the project a falling within the said zone, according to the minutes of a key board meeting published on Thursday.The amount raised will be utilised to mitigate the impact of such projects on ecology and wildlife. The standing committee of the board, chaired by Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav, took up the issue in its 64th meeting held on August 7. The minutes, published on Thursday said that states have been imposing a certain percentage of the project cost for mitigation of the environmental impact. The states/UTs impose costs at different rates.“The ministry has received requests that the cost imposed should be based on the proportion of the project lying within the protected area or the eco-sensitive zone rather than the total cost of the project. The ministry has also received requests that instead of imposing costs on project proponents, they may be asked to implement mitigation measures,” the minutes said.R Sukumar, board member and an ecologist specialising in elephants, said during the meeting that the cost for mitigation measures should be 2% of the proportionate cost of projects falling within the protected area. He also suggested that there should be an analysis of the cost imposed and mitigation measures taken in various states.HS Singh, former principal chief conservator of forests and a member of the board, said if the project proponents are allowed to carry out mitigation measures inside protected areas, it will cause interference in the management of forests. The board finally decided that 2% of the proportionate cost of projects falling inside protected areas and eco-sensitive zones may be imposed in future. This amount is to be spent on mitigation measures within the same protected area.UD Singh, another board member, said guidelines should be framed for fixing the impact cost of these projects.”The states were already imposing this cost at different rates. It was arbitrary, so now it has been clarified that 2% will be charged. Also, it means that 2% of the project cost that is falling within the protected area and not 2% of the entire project cost. For example, a pipeline or a road can cover several kilometers, so the cost cannot be imposed on the entire project value. Many states were charging more than 2% of the proportionate project cost,” said a board member who did not wish to be named.The environment ministry in a letter to all states and UTs on October 28, 2015 advised that 2% of the proportionate project cost falling in protected areas should be imposed by states. This has been referred to in various board meeting minutes but the letter itself is not on the ministry website.Environmental and legal experts said instead of imposing an arbitrary cost, projects in protected areas should be discouraged as much as possible. The Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 states that no person shall “destroy, exploit or remove any wildlife including forest produce from a national park or destroy or damage or divert the habitat of any wild animal by any act whatsoever … except under and in accordance with a permit granted by the Chief WildLife Warden, and no such permit shall be granted unless the State Government is satisfied in consultation with the National Board for Wildlife that such removal of wildlife is necessary for the improvement and better management of wildlife therein”.Between 2015-16 and 2019-20, 680 projects in protected areas were granted wildlife clearance, the environment ministry informed the Rajya Sabha on September 14 last year.“The decision to impose a levy of 2% of the project cost for mitigation measures and that too within the same protected area is ecologically and legally flawed. The most basic scientific tenet of ecology is to prevent habitat fragmentation by inclusion of at least 10 times the area sought for diversion. Instead of explaining this to the new minister, the ecologist on the committee has shockingly proposed a 2% levy, while senior forest officers have failed to intervene and highlight the risks involved,” said Praveen Bhargav of the Bengaluru-based Wildlife First, a conservation advocacy group.“The law mandates that there can be no destruction (by projects) unless it is for the improvement and better management of wildlife. The destruction caused due to habitat fragmentation by a project obviously cannot be mitigated by imposing a 2% levy.”Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research, said: “This may or may not have been a practice carried out by different states or the Centre, which has now been rationalised. There are two larger issues to consider. First, this is yet another signal that all land, irrespective of the degree of legal protection, needs to make way for industrial and infrastructure expansion. Second, the financial offsets of such land use change continue to be designed through the sensibility of a few ‘experts’ and without any disclosure of how the calculations were arrived at.”The standing committee also decided that their meetings would be held once in a month instead of once in three months to minimise delays in assessing projects seeking wildlife clearance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/projects-in-protected-zones-to-draw-2-surcharge-as-mitigation-measure-101629483846014.html
21-08-2021||India||Opposition meet focuses on strategy for 2024||Congress president Sonia Gandhi asked India’s top Opposition leaders to rise above individual compulsions “in the interest of the nation” and start planning “systematically” as the “ultimate goal is the 2024 Lok Sabha elections”, in her first formulation for the next national elections, according to her party.The parties are likely to form a core committee, meet at regular intervals and might even expand this grouping to woo other non-NDA outfits—indicating their intent to start preparing even as the Lok Sabha elections are three years later. Traditionally, Opposition parties have never joined hands or started poll preparations so much in advance.Addressing virtually a meeting of 19 parties here on Friday, Sonia, who had a pivotal role in forming the UPA in 2004, told the Opposition that the “single-minded objective” should be to give India a government that “believes in the values of the Freedom Movement and in the principles and provisions of our Constitution”. She also expressed confidence that the new-found unity of Opposition in Parliament “will be sustained in future sessions” but reminded that “the larger political battle has to be fought outside it”.The first meeting, however, also saw some political jockeying. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, trying to build a wider Opposition front, strongly pitched for inclusion of other non-NDA parties. “Dipankar Bhattacharya of CPI(ML) should be invited. Our fight is against the BJP. For these meetings, even those not allied with Congress must be invited,” she is said to have told those present. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury argued that only parties present in Parliament have been invited.Sonia acknowledged that it would be a “challenge” to keep the group together. “Together we can and must rise to it because there is simply no alternative to working cohesively. We all have our compulsions, but clearly, time has come when the interests of our nation demand that we rise above them,” she said, ahead of a daunting task of bringing various regional outfits with conflicting interests to form a grand coalition to take on a formidable Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led BJP in the next elections.“The 75th anniversary of India’s Independence is indeed the most appropriate occasion for us to reaffirm our individual and collective resolve. Let me say for its part, the Indian National Congress will not be found wanting,” she said.Rahul Gandhi, who spoke at the fag end of the meeting, described the BJP’s vision and said the Opposition needs to offer an alternative vision to the people.In the meeting that lasted two and a half hours, Yechury accused the Modi government of destroying constitutional values and replacing them with RSS doctrines. “We have to firmly decide to save India today. All constitutional bodies, election commission, Parliament, CBI, ED are being undermined by this government.”While all leaders spoke about Pegasus, Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren tried to say that farm laws and price rise are more important issues than Pegasus. Some Opposition leaders quickly tried to describe how Pegasus can infiltrate the personal space of a person. RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav suggested that the caste census should be part of the joint statement even as Banerjee suggested that a joint statement (prepared by Yechury) should not be drafted in advance. She also suggested to pick just 5-6 issues and reiterated that the leadership would not be an issue as “people of India would lead” them.“Of course, the ultimate goal is the 2024 Lok Sabha elections for which we have to begin to plan systematically with the single-minded objective of giving to our country a government that believes in the values of the Freedom Movement and in the principles and provisions of our Constitution,” Sonia said.The core committee, an idea tossed by Banerjee and Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, is likely to be formed and meet once a month to take stock of the political situation.In the joint statement, the Opposition parties demanded augmenting “all vaccine production capabilities in India, procure vaccines globally and speed up the free universal mass vaccination drive immediately”, free cash transfers of ₹7,500 per month to “all families outside the income tax bracket” and “free food kits containing all essential commodities of daily consumption to all the needy”.The parties also demanded that the government “withdraw unprecedented hikes in central excise duties on petrol & diesel, reduce prices of cooking gas and essential commodities, particularly cooking oil, and control galloping inflation” and “repeal the three anti-agriculture laws and compulsorily guarantee MSP to farmers”.In a statement issued in the evening, the TMC said that Mamata Banerjee proposed the “constitution of a core committee to rightfully address the issues that the people of India are facing”.Thackeray spoke of fighting together against the ruling party to save democracy in the country, senior Sena leader Sanjay Raut said.Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, who was also in the virtual meeting, called for time-bound collective efforts by Opposition parties to deal with the issues the country is facing.Raut, who was also part of the meeting, said, “Uddhav ji said that the unity among the Opposition parties must remain intact. Besides that, he said that we have to give people the confidence that the political parties that have come together will remain united. Uddhav ji spoke about fighting together and saving democracy.”Pawar, meanwhile, said that the current scenario in India appears very gloomy. Farmers have been protesting for many months and it is an anguishing picture for a democratic country.Samajwadi Party (SP), one of the parties invited, did not join the meeting. “Our national president Akhilesh Yadav ji already had meetings and events scheduled for the day at the party office in Lucknow. SP didn’t join the (Sonia Gandhi’s) meeting,” said party spokesperson and former UP minister Rajendra Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-meet-focuses-on-strategy-for-2024-101629483725358.html
21-08-2021||India||Fault lines emerging between partners BJP and JD(U) in Bihar||Signs of unease between the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Janata Dal (United) over issues including caste-based enumeration and the Pegasus snooping row have begun surfacing, nearly nine months after the parties formed a coalition government in Bihar.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, along with a delegation of opposition leaders in the state, will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 23, to push for a caste-based census, a long-standing demand of many parties that believe the reservation system is no longer representative of the demographic split of the population across castes.The BJP has been reluctant to touch the sensitive issue (as, indeed, any party in power in the Centre has been) for fear of a political backlash. A caste census was conducted in 2011 but its results were not released.“Status quo-ist forces and those who are anti-change are against the decision to have a caste-based enumeration,” JD(U) general secretary KC Tyagi said, referring to the BJP’s reluctance to conduct a caste-based census. “These forces fear that if the percentage of OBCs is higher than the 52% recorded by the Mandal Commission, there might be a demand for more quota.”He said that the JD(U) is also in favour of doing away with the present cap of 50% on all quotas.The current reservation regime in India is based on the recommendations of the Mandal Commission dating back to the 1980s and a Supreme Court ruling capping reservations at 50%.The Bihar assembly, in 2019 and 2020, passed a resolution seeking a caste-based census. Interestingly, the resolutions were supported by the BJP. A socio-economic and caste census was conducted by the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance in 2011. The caste data, however, was not released. India’s last caste census was conducted in 1931.The demands for the caste-based enumeration come soon after the Bihar CM also called for a probe into the Pegasus snooping issue. “Phone tapping has been discussed for a long time. One never knows how one’s phone can be tapped these days. So, there must be a probe,” the chief minister said on August 2.The BJP-led central government on Monday refrained from confirming or denying in the Supreme Court its use of the spyware for alleged surveillance.The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international investigative consortium reported that the phones of Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 that were potentially targeted by Pegasus, Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software.Another instance of fissures between the alliance partners emerged on Wednesday when Bihar water resources minister Sanjay Jha countered the Union government’s claim that 14.6 million water connections were provided in the state under the Centre’s Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) for rural households.Jha said that 87% of rural households in the state have access to clean tap water and credited the state government for the achievement. “Thanks to vision of Hon CM Shri @NitishKumar, 87% of Bihar rural households have access to clean tap water,” he said in a tweet on Wednesday.Asked if a difference of opinion on key issues would hurt the alliance, a JD(U) leader speaking on condition of anonymity said that both the parties were working to fulfil their individual commitments.“The BJP has been working to fulfil its ideological concerns, whether it is the construction of the Ram Temple or abrogation of Article 370 to nurse its constituency. We are not a frontal organisation (of the BJP), we are a separate party that has the right to nurse our constituency without confrontation,” the leader said.Meanwhile, there are speculations in the state that the JD(U) cadre wants the party to contest the Manipur and Uttar Pradesh assembly elections next year on its own. “There is a sense among party workers that to retain its position as a bigger partner in Bihar and to increase its presence across the country, the JD(U) should contest elections on its own and not rely on allies,” the second JD(U) leader cited above said.To be sure, the BJP actually won more seats than the JD(U) in the 2020 assembly elections -- 74 to 43 in the 243-member assembly.Tyagi said that the party’s priority is to continue its alliance with the BJP, even as he said that the JD(U) can contest independently in the two states in case no agreement can be reached with the BJP. “We have conveyed to the Prime Minister and the party leadership that we are keen to contest as allies and we are hopeful of a positive response. But if that does not happen, we will contest alone,” he said.BJP’s Bihar MLC Sanjay Mayukh, however, downplayed the divergence. “Sometimes, parties that are members of the NDA contest elections independently. But as far as the NDA alliance in Bihar and at the Centre is concerned, it is unified for the development of the people,” he said.In July, JD(U) leader RCP Singh was inducted into the Union cabinet as minister for steel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fault-lines-emerging-between-partners-bjp-and-jd-u-in-bihar-101629483606174.html
21-08-2021||India||Hasty passage of bills not unique to NDA govt||6, 6, 8, 5, 5, 9, 5, 5, 9, 7—these are not digits of a cellphone number but minutes are taken to pass proposed laws in the Lok Sabha during the monsoon session of Parliament. The laws passed amidst the din and without debate, triggered controversy as the Opposition alleged the government avoided parliamentary scrutiny and debate.But data available with PRS Legislative Research shows that during the UPA1 and UPA2 governments too, a large number of bills were passed with little debate in the Lok Sabha.In the 14th Lok Sabha, the UPA’s first term between 2004 and 2009, 33 bills were approved with each one taking less than 5 minutes. This amounts to 18% of 182 bills approved in the Lok Sabha during the entire five-year term.Of these 33 bills, eight were passed on December 24, 2008, in 17 minutes, setting a record for hasty passage of bills as the BJP, then in the Opposition, disrupted the House over then minority affairs minister AR Antuley’s remarks that ATS chief Hemant Karkare’s death during the terror attack in Mumbai should be probed.The 15th Lok Sabha—the second term of the Manmohan Singh government—saw 20 bills or 17% of the total laws passed during the five-year term approved in five minutes or less. And 11 other bills were cleared swiftly with each one taking less than 30 minutes, according to PRS data.A bill, after introduction, is usually referred to a standing committee for review. Once the House panel submits its report, the bill is scheduled for “consideration and passing”. The Business Advisory Committee of each House—a multi-party panel headed by the Chair—allows time for its discussion. Normally, one to three hours are allotted for discussion for a bill.Congress leaders, however, pointed out that during the Modi regime, very few bills have been sent to House panels for review. In an interview with HT, the Congress’s Rajya Sabha chief whip Jairam Ramesh said, “The Opposition’s agitation is justified. Just 12% of the bills in the second term of the Modi government (were sent to the panels). It was 27% in the first term of Modi and in the UPA 1 and 2, 71% and 60% bills were referred to panels for review.”The monsoon session of Parliament witnessed as many as 19 bills passed without any debate as the government decided to push important bills amid the Opposition-led deadlock over the Pegasus spyware issue and the farm laws. The only bill to go through a proper debate was the 127th Constitution Amendment bill. Lawmakers spoke on the bill for 7.54 hours in the Lok Sabha—the longest debate on any bill during the Narendra Modi government.To be sure, laws were cleared after extensive debates in the first term of the Modi government (2014-19), and just one bill was passed in less than 5 minutes. Another eight took half an hour each to be decided in the Lok Sabha. But other laws saw extensive discussion lasting from an hour to a marathon of 7.28 hours. The last was a discussion of the bills on the bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir into Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hasty-passage-of-bills-not-unique-to-nda-govt-101629483127871.html
21-08-2021||India||Upgraded Vande Bharat rakes likely to be ready by June 2022||The next lot of Vande Bharat rakes with upgraded amenities as well as better seating, security, and surveillance systems along with features designed for emergencies is expected to be commercially available from June 2022 onwards, according to officials aware of the development.“The first prototype rake is tentatively planned to be dispatched in March 2022, which will be put to commercial service tentatively by June 2022,” a senior official said.Some of the new amenities/safety features planned to be added include Four emergency windows for easy evacuation of passengers in case of an emergency; disaster lights in all coaches, to be used in the event of failure of all other lights in a disaster situation; more emergency push buttons (four per coach).The coaches will also have a centralized coach monitoring system for all electrical, climate control, and other vital functions of the train set. An important upgrade in the new coaches will be a “pushback arrangement” for better reclining of seats. In the first two rakes of the Vande Bharat trains, issues regarding the seating comfort level were raised.The new trains will also have fire survival cables indoor circuits. The coaches will have the availability of ventilation for three hours in case of failure of power supply to the roof-mounted AC package unit.“It will also have better availability, a more reliable and bacteria-free air conditioning system, and a higher flood protection underframe equipment to ensure reliability during the monsoon,” the official cited above said.The development comes following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Independence Day announcement on rolling out 75 new Vande Bharat Express trains that will be launched to connect different parts of the country in 75 weeks to mark the ongoing “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”.The Indian Railways in September last year floated a revised tender for procuring 44 semi-high speed 44 Vande Bharat trains mandating 75% domestic components, making it a domestic tender. The government had earlier scrapped three global tenders for the ambitious project. Hyderabad-based engineering firm Medha, which in February secured the contract to supply the electrical systems for 44 Vande Bharat trains, has now been told to advance its production plan so that at least two prototypes can be rolled out by next March following all trials.Modi flagged off the maiden run of a Vande Bharat train on the New Delhi-Varanasi route on February 15, 2019. The second such train service between New Delhi and Shri Mata Vaishnodevi Katra was flagged off by home minister Amit Shah on October 3 that year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upgraded-vande-bharat-rakes-likely-to-be-ready-by-june-2022-101629483008605.html
21-08-2021||India||Terror forces’ presence never permanent: PM Modi||Destructive and terror forces may be dominant for some time, but their existence is never permanent, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday, against the backdrop of the Taliban seizing control of Afghanistan, prompting thousands of citizens to flee the country.During a virtual address, Modi cited the example of the historic Somnath temple, which despite being torn down several times over centuries, has managed to stand the test of time. “Somnath temple is a symbol of trust and assurance for the entire world. Forces of destruction who follow the ideology of creating empires out of terror can dominate for some time, but their existence is never permanent,” he said. The Prime Minister, who is also the chairman of the Shree Somnath Trust, made the remarks while laying the foundation stone for four projects, worth ₹83 crore, in Somnath, including — Somnath Promenade, Somnath Exhibition Centre, Parvati Temple and reconstructed temple precinct of Old (Juna) Somnath.“This temple was demolished numerous times over several centuries in the past. Idols of deities were also desecrated. Attempts were made to erase its existence. But it came up again in its full glory every time it was demolished,” he added.During the address, Modi highlighted his government’s focus on tourism and pointed to the jump in India’s rank in the Travel and Tourism Competitiveness Index -- from 65th in 2013 to 34th in 2019.The PM also stressed the importance of religious tourism in the country, saying that out of the total 40 pilgrimage places covered under the Centre’s PRASAD (Pilgrimage Rejuvenation And Spiritual Augmentation Drive) scheme, the work on 15 projects was already over.“We are now planning to connect Somnath with other tourist spots and cities of the state so that people who visit one place are encouraged to visit other places too,” he said, adding that the Centre has identified 19 iconic tourist destinations across the country for further development. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and other dignitaries attended the programme at a temple auditorium, while While Union home minister Amit Shah participated virtually.Reacting to the PM’s speech, former Gujarat Congress president Arjun Modhwadia said, “Modi always tries to create a scare among the people in the name of terrorism, but he goes silent when it comes to action.” “Why is he not spelling out his position on the situation in Afghanistan? Whatever happened to his foreign policy, which has failed there (in Afghanistan) as also in China,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terror-forces-presence-never-permanent-pm-101629482946945.html
21-08-2021||India||Johnson & Johnson applies for Covid-19 vaccine study in Indian adolescents||American pharma giant Johnson & Johnson (J&J) has sought approval from India’s drugs regulator to conduct clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine for the people in the 12-17 age group in the country.The company submitted an application to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on Tuesday, August 17, to conduct the trials of J&J’s single-dose Covid-19 vaccine.J&J has confirmed the development. “Johnson & Johnson is committed to facilitating global equitable access to its Covid-19 vaccine and recognises the unmet needs of children. On 17 August 2021, we submitted an application to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) to conduct a study of the Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine in India in adolescents aged 12-17 years,” said J&J India spokesperson in a statement.“To ultimately achieve herd immunity, it is imperative that Covid-19 vaccine clinical trials continue to move forward in this population, and we remain deeply committed to the critical work needed to make our Covid-19 vaccine equitably accessible for all age groups.”On August 7, the Drugs Controller General of India granted J&J’s Covid vaccine emergency use authorisation for adults. It is the fifth vaccine and the second foreign-made after Moderna’s to receive such authorisation.If permitted, J&J’s would be the third Covid-19 vaccine to be tested for use in children in India. There are two vaccine candidates that have been tested among children in India: Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-D. The Covaxin trial includes 525 volunteers while ZyCov-D’s trials – as part of phase II/III clinical studies – include 1,000 volunteers in the 12-18 age group. There are 145.4 million people in India between the ages of 12 and 18 (excluding 18).J&J entered a partnership with India’s Hyderabad-based Biological E earlier this year to conduct a clinical trial and produce its Covid-19 vaccine in India. The vaccine is developed by the Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of J&J.Through Biological E, the American company in May applied for permission from the national drugs controller to conduct bridging clinical trials locally in India for its Covid-19 vaccine.Since the government later modified its regulatory provisions for grant of emergency use authorisation to foreign-made Covid-19 vaccines, J&J put forth a fresh application for grant of emergency use authorisation on August 5. J&J withdrew its earlier application to conduct the bridging studies.Apart from the J&J and Moderna vaccines, the other three Covid-19 vaccines approved for emergency use in India are Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, and the Russian-made Sputnik V.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/johnson-johnson-applies-for-covid-19-vaccine-study-in-indian-adolescents-101629442683103.html
21-08-2021||India||Taliban wanted India to retain its diplomatic presence in Afghanistan||As it became apparent earlier this week that New Delhi planned to bring back its officials from Kabul, senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai reached out to the Indian side with a surprise request: Would India retain its diplomatic presence in Afghanistan?The request was conveyed informally and indirectly by the Taliban leader, who is part of the leadership of the group’s political office at Doha in Qatar, shortly before India evacuated some 200 people – including its envoy, diplomats, security personnel, and citizens–in two military flights on Monday and Tuesday.Stanekzai, who is seen as the number two in the Taliban’s negotiating team and third overall among leaders based in Qatar, has been critical of India’s role in Afghanistan in the past, and the message took Indian officials in New Delhi and Kabul by surprise, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.He conveyed to the Indian side in his informal message that the group was aware of Indian concerns regarding the security situation in Kabul following the Taliban takeover on Sunday, but that it should not worry about the safety of its mission and diplomats in the Afghan capital, the people said.Also Read | Taliban ask Afghan imams to urge people not to try to flee at Friday prayersMore specifically, Stanekzai referred to reports that fighters from the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Lashkar-e-Jhangvi (LeJ) were in Kabul and deployed at check posts set up by the Taliban on the route to the airport, and contended that all check posts, including those at the airport, were firmly in the hands of the Taliban, the people added.A quick assessment done by the Indian side and its Afghan counterparts came to the conclusion that the request from the Taliban side could not be taken at face value and that the evacuation of the Indian diplomats and others should go ahead as planned, people said.As reported by Hindustan Times on Tuesday, the evacuation was done after the Indian side received intelligence reports that certain “rogue elements” and members of LeT and Haqqani Network, both Pakistan-based terror groups, had entered Kabul with Taliban fighters who took over the capital following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government.People familiar with developments said once these reports were received, no chances could be taken with the safety of diplomats and other officials in Kabul as Prime Minister Narendra Modi had given instructions that the security and return of the Indians were of paramount importance.The development also reflects the Taliban’s apparent efforts to reach out to the international community amid growing concerns about the group’s actions affecting security and human rights in Afghanistan, and the Indian side’s misgivings about the Taliban despite opening channels of communication with the group in recent months.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the development.Taliban spokesman Suhail Shaheen has said on Twitter that the group would not create a hindrance in the functioning of embassies and consulates. “We assure all diplomats, embassies, consulates, and charitable workers, whether they are international or national that not only no problem will be created for them on the part of IEA but a secure environment will be provided to them, Inshallah,” he tweeted on August 16.Hindustan Times was the first to report on June 8 about India opening channels of communication with Taliban factions and leaders, including Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, against the backdrop of the drawdown of US forces in Afghanistan.Besides exchanging messages with Baradar, the Indian side has also been in touch with Mullah Khairullah Khairkhwa and Mullah Mohammed Fazil, the people said. Both Khairkhwa and Fazil were held at the US military prison at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba after their capture following the collapse of the previous Taliban regime in 2001.Mullah Abdul Salam Zaeef, who served as the Taliban’s ambassador in Pakistan, had also informally advised the Indian side in Kabul regarding contacts with the Taliban, the people added.Stanekzai, who trained for about 18 months at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun during 1982-83, when he was an officer in the Afghan Army, has emerged as a top Taliban negotiator in recent years. He subsequently left the army to join Pakistan-based mujahideen who opposed the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979.He created a flutter last year by accusing India of playing a “negative role” in Afghanistan for the past 40 years. If the Indian government reconsiders its policy and wants an active role in peace, reconciliation and reconstruction, the Taliban would welcome it and look at it positively, he had said.At the time, the Afghan foreign ministry had rejected Stanekzai’s remarks and said India had been cooperating in development and was expected to contribute to the Afghan peace process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-wanted-india-to-retain-its-diplomatic-presence-in-afghanistan-101629430323448.html
