22-08-2021||India||Constantly question the actions of those in power, says SC judge||In a democracy, citizens must use their liberties to constantly question those in power and not be complacent about any encroachment of their rights, Supreme Court judge Justice S Ravindra Bhat said at an online event on Sunday.Speaking on the topic, ‘Role of Judiciary in Governance’, Justice Bhat said at a time when the world is passing through a pandemic and its painful and traumatic consequences, it is all the more important for people to cherish their liberties and question the moves and policies that displace the liberties that the Constitution guarantees.“We gained our freedom at a great cost. Every Indian, therefore, has to use his liberties to constantly question the actions of those in power because democracy gives no tickets to free meals. It is for us to assert and guard liberty and not be complacent about any encroachment,” he said.The judge was addressing the first anniversary celebrations of an organisation called Connecting Governed, Governing and Governance that comprises lawyers, judges and academics and which also has former Chief Justice of India (CJI) KG Balakrishnan as one of its patrons.Justice Bhat touched upon the horrors of the Covid-19 pandemic and said personal freedoms become even more important during such a crisis. “Today the world is reeling under the painful and traumatic consequences of the Covid pandemic disrupting lives and livelihoods, leaving behind destruction, despair and impoverishment. It is more important for people to cherish liberties and constantly question, through every legitimate channel, the moves and policies which undermine the democratic government and displace creepingly, the liberties that the Constitution guarantees.”The judge also shared his personal view on reservations. “Reservation, at least in regard to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled tribes and most backward classes is essential and we cannot put a time limit on it...I would say it is not possible that we should do away with it (reservation) as long as society is unequal and people are socially and educationally backward. So long as the society is unwilling to cast off the shackles of caste, these quotas are needed because they underline empowerment.”Justice Bhat emphasised that in a democratic way of governance, citizens should be prepared for imperfections. That’s where the role of courts comes in. “The rule of law through democracy is a continuing work-in-progress where people’s scrutiny is paramount and courts are part of the dialogue,” the Supreme Court judge said, emphasising that a person may have a fundamental right to get a ration card or change the date of birth, but if people don’t get justice internally, there is no other way than to go to court.Even on the limits of freedom that the legislature or executive places on its citizens, Justice Bhat highlighted the need for laws to clearly define limits and not sound vague. Giving instances of what constitutes an obscene publication, an incitement that is likely to affect communal harmony, or the extent of regulation permissible at any given point of time, the judge said, “These are very important in governance, because unless you know what you can speak and what you cannot speak, it is very easy for the state to criminalise any content.”Justice Bhat also said that the broad role played by the judiciary in governance operates in two ways. “Firstly, by protecting people’s fundamental rights and constitutional ethos by ensuring transparency and accountability to the rule of law. And secondly, interpreting new-age laws and filling policy gaps in existing norms,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constantly-question-the-actions-of-those-in-power-says-sc-judge-101629655458421.html
22-08-2021||India||Returnees will be vaccinated against polio, says Mansukh Mandaviya||India on Sunday decided to vaccinate all returnees from war-torn Afghanistan against the wild polio virus, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Sunday.“We have decided to vaccinate Afghanistan returnees with free Polio Vaccine - OPV & fIPV, as a preventive measure against Wild Polio Virus. Congratulations to the Health Team for their efforts to ensure public health. Take a look at the vaccine drive at Delhi International Airport,” tweeted the Union health minister.This comes as part of India’s evacuation operations from Kabul in the backdrop of the deteriorating situation in the city after its takeover by the Taliban after President Ashraf Ghani fled the country.Afghanistan and Pakistan are the only two remaining polio endemic countries in the world.“Since the infection is still prevalent in our neighbouring countries, including Afghanistan, it was decided to go for mass inoculation of all returnees against the infection as a preventive measure,” said a senior government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.“Dedicated health teams have been deployed to vaccinate all returnees where the flights land. Even though India has been polio free for a while, it is important to continue with the efforts that resulted in eradication of the disease from the country as there always runs a risk of the disease re-entering the country as long as it is prevalent in other countries,” added the official.Close to 540 people from Afghanistan, including Indians, have so far landed in India at different airports since the crisis in the country.“Ministry of external affairs is sharing itinerary of incoming flights that they are organising; based on the details provided by them, the recipient airport’s APHO (Airport Health Organisation) in collaboration with the States is doing this exercise,” said another senior central government official in the know of things, on condition of anonymity.“The vaccination and Covid-19 testing of Afghan migrants who landed at the Hindon airforce station in Ghaziabad is being taken care of by teams from the Urban Primary Health Centre, Karhera,” added the official.According to Unicef, disruption in the polio vaccination programme in the war-torn country lead to increase in wild polio virus cases, and polio circulation remained particularly high in the southern region of Afghanistan that contributed to 66% of the total national cases in 2020.In India, the last polio case was recorded in January 2011. And on March 27, 2014, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared India polio free, since then no cases of wild polio infection have been reported from anywhere in the country.India’s polio immunization programme has been one of the largest in the world and so meticulously implemented that the country got polio cases down from 741 in 2009 – the highest in the world -- to one within a year, with the last case was confirmed in West Bengal on January 13, 2011.Even now India conducts the polio immunisation drive twice a year, followed by mop-up rounds to cover all those children who may have been missed in the primary rounds. “We have a robust polio surveillance mechanism in place in the country; as long as there are cases of wild polio still getting reported even from a single country in the world, we will have to be vigilant,” said the first official cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/returnees-will-be-vaccinated-against-polio-says-mandaviya-101629655278370.html
22-08-2021||India||TN BJP gives cars to 4 district secretaries who worked for party’s victory||Four of BJP’s district presidents in Tamil Nadu received an SUV each on Sunday as reward for helping the party win four assembly seats in the April 6 state elections for which results were announced on May 2. Former Tamil Nadu BJP chief L Murugan, who has now been elevated as a Union minister of state, had promised an Innova car to district functionaries who worked to ensure victory of the party’s MLA candidates in the 2021 assembly polls. After a gap of twenty years, the BJP entered the assembly in Tamil Nadu this May with four MLAs. BJP contested 20 seats as part of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) led alliance in Tamil Nadu and won in Tirunelveli, Nagercoil, and Modakurichi apart from a nail-biting contest in Coimbatore South. Murugan had said after the results were declared that their win is a strike against all those who ridiculed the BJP’s symbol in Tamil Nadu. Murugan is touring the state as part of the Jan Aashirwad Yatra. At the Chennai BJP office, he distributed the car keys of Toyota Innova Crysta to Maharajan (Tirunelveli), Dharmaraj (Kanyakumari), Sivasubramanian (Erode), and Nandakumar (Coimbatore). “This was done to recognise hard working district secretaries who won despite the climate here being against us,” said senior BJP leader CP Radhakrishnan. “Previously such rewards were given by the DMK. It’s the first time we are doing it and party workers will be enthused.” The cars were purchased using party funds. Such rewards to district secretaries are common in Tamil Nadu where the DMK and AIADMK have offered gold to party functionaries who bring successful election results. The national party has been trying to get a foothold in the Dravidian heartland after the demise of former chief ministers J Jayalalithaa in December 2016 and M Karunanidhi in August 2018. While it is evident that the Dravidian parties still hold sway in Tamil Nadu with the DMK winning a majority and the AIADMK finishing second with 66 seats, the BJP’s modest performance has kept its ambition of becoming a dominant force in the state by 2026, alive. The BJP had last won four seats in Tamil Nadu in 2001 in alliance with the DMK. Currently, the BJP is focussed on the upcoming local body polls for which the party has formed a 17-member panel for preparations. The alliance with the AIADMK is likely to continue. “Some more work and attention is all that’s required for the BJP to grow in Tamil Nadu,” said Radhakrishnan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-bjp-gives-cars-to-4-district-secretaries-who-worked-for-party-s-victory-101629654923115.html
22-08-2021||India||‘People must follow Covid norms; can’t put them on gunpoint’: Experts on Kerala||With Kerala continuing to be one of the worst-affected states in India due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, medical experts have said people cannot be made to follow protocols on gunpoint and would rather need to do so themselves.“You cannot hold a gun to people’s head and make them follow the guidelines. They need to modify their behaviour on their own,” Dr Amar Fettle, the state nodal officer for Covid-19 told news agency PTI.Dr Fettle and another medical expert, Dr Kannan, said that the test positivity rate (TPR) in the state will witness a rise from Saturday’s 17.73 per cent as the festival season is yet to end and people are venturing out and not adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour.When asked if the recent relaxations were the reasons behind the increasing TPR of the state, the experts stated that easing of curbs were required as people were cooped indoors for over a year – and also because of the financial crisis.Dr Fettle and Dr Kannan added that the rising TPR could also be due to a large population of the state that is still not infected by the virus. With the emergence of the Delta strain of coronavirus, which is seen as a more virulent and transmissible subtype, the TPR will take a "considerable amount of time" to come down, Dr Fettle added.He further told PTI that Kerala has adequate medical infrastructure and personnel in place, which can be out to maximum use if the need arrives.Kerala health minister on Thursday urged the citizens to be more vigilant during Onam as coronavirus cases were on the rise in the state. She also mentioned that the TPR was increasing because more tests were being done. “While lives and livelihood are important, self-preservation was also important,” she added.Also Read | For pandemic-hit Kerala, it’s a make-or-break OnamEchoing Dr Fettle’s view that people cannot be compelled to follow orders, Dr Kannan said that when police officers point out Covid-19 violations by shops during festive season, the latter’s reaction is that they’re ready to face legal consequences. He, however, noted that such a response was due to traders and merchants starving from loss of revenue due to lockdown and restrictions.Dr Fettle said that when out in public, people must consider the risk being taken by health workers, who are working day-in and day-out without breaks, and even on holidays such as Onam, to care for those affected by the virus.“The public, who escaped the virus, need to dedicate their carefulness, modify their behaviour by taking into account the health workers who are working tirelessly without holidays and the people who lost their lives or those who lost loved ones or breadwinners in the family to Covid-19," the medical expert added.Also Read | Numbers Matter: Kerala’s Covid numbers concerning, but it managed crisis betterNotably, Kerala on Sunday recorded 10,402 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 38,14,305. A total of 25,586 new recoveries were logged along with 66 fatalities, following which the respective tally stood at 36,31,066 and 19,494, according to the state government’s daily Covid-19 bulletin.The daily caseload is an improvement from Saturday’s figures when 17,106 new cases were reported along with 83 fatalities. After Sunday’s changes, the active case count in the state stands at 163,212.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-must-follow-covid-norms-can-t-put-them-on-gunpoint-experts-on-kerala-101629653936116.html
22-08-2021||India||Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav: Union minister Anurag Thakur to kick-off ‘Iconic Week’ celebrations||Union minister for information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur will kick off a series of activities to celebrate the ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ starting August 23. The series of events will go on till August 29. The activities organised by the ministry will aim to ‘ showcase the convergence of the values and glories of the freedom struggle of the past with the aspirations and dreams of a young, new and iconic India’, a statement released by the ministry said.Thakur will kick off the ‘Iconic Week’ which will attract participation from across the country under the overall spirit of ‘Jan Bhagidari and Jan Andolan’. During the Iconic Week, the ministry will showcase the journey of new India and celebrate the contribution of freedom fighters, including the 'Unsung Heroes of the freedom struggle, through massive outreach activities, the ministry said.The celebrations will be a 360-degree outreach via traditional means such as cultural programmes, nukkad natak and TV programmes along with innovative means of digital and social media. “All India Radio's daily capsule 'Azadi Ka Safar, Akashvani Ke Saath' will be reaching schools and colleges across India through collaborative efforts of the Directorate of Information and Public Relations of various states and regional offices of the Ministry,” the statement said.The AIR will launch a series of special programmes called ‘Dharohar’ which are speeches of freedom fighters; ‘Nishaan’ which will showcase 75 landmark sites and ‘Aparajita’, a show on women leaders. The Doordarshan network will telecast programmes covering themes such as diplomacy, Digital India and legislative reforms through sectoral programmes like ‘Naye Bharat Ka Naya Safar’ and ‘Journey of New India’. Popular films like Raazi will also be broadcasted. Daily news capsules on ‘Unsung heroes and Freedom Struggle’ will also be shown. “The National Film Development Corporation of India (NFDC) is also organizing a film festival on its OTT platform www.cinemasofindia.com screening a specially curated bouquet of films such as Island City, Crossing Bridges and many others,” the statement said.“The Bureau of Outreach and Communication will also reach out to the people through nukkad nataks, skits, magic shows, puppetry, folk recitals through more than 50 Integrated Communication and Outreach Programmes by ROBs and over 1,000 PRTs by Song and Drama Division across the country,” it further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministry-of-information-and-broadcasting-to-kick-off-iconic-week-celebrations-101629653367861.html
22-08-2021||India||ITBP aids police to rescue 17 people who went missing after cloudburst in Ladakh||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police along with Ladakh Police rescued 17 villagers on Sunday evening who went missing during the cloudburst in the Rumbak village area.In a tweet by the ITBP, it informed, "Brave North West Frontier ITBP Special Response and Rescue team of #Himveers assisted the Ladakh State Police earlier today in rescuing 17 villagers who were missing during a cloudburst event in Rumbak village area."Earlier today, the border police informed that 14 persons were rescued by ITBP and State Disaster Response Force teams from the Rumbak Village along Ladakh's Zanskar River that was hit by a flash flood due to the bursting of a glacial lake.The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) of Leh informed on Saturday that an artificial lake near Rumbak had burst, which resulted in the blockage in the Indus River and creating an artificial lake in the area."Alert!!! As per information received from CEO, DDMA Leh, there is an outburst of an artificial lake near Rumbak resulting in blockage of the Indus River and creating an artificial lake in the area. The artificial lake formed in the river may outburst anytime," tweeted by the Department of Information and Public Relations Leh (DIPR Leh)."The road approaching Rumbak, Zingchen, Yurutse and Rumchung has been cut off from the main road," DIPR Leh further tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbp-aids-police-to-rescue-17-people-who-went-missing-after-cloudburst-in-ladakh-101629653071541.html
22-08-2021||India||Schools in Karnataka to reopen on Monday as threat of third wave of infections loom large||After a gap of nearly four months, the Karnataka government has decided to reopen physical classes for students in classes 9, 10 and 12, that would allow them to be back in schools for the first time since the second wave of Covid-19 infections hit the country.The decision to reopen schools comes at a time when the number of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka appears to have stabilised but fears of an imminent increase in viral infections loom large over the state, especially with the impending third wave.“In the last one year, no matter how much we tried we could not give the same kind of education in our homes,” BC Nagesh, Karnataka’s minister for primary and secondary education said on Sunday.He listed a variety of reasons for the same which included the technical aspects like poor or no internet connectivity and the general disconnect between students and teachers in an online set-up.Despite being known for its prowess in technology, the Covid-19 pandemic exposed the fault lines in Karnataka’s inequitable development; nearly half of the state’s students lost an academic year due to internet accessibility-- or the lack of it.In July, S Suresh Kumar, the then primary and secondary education minister had stated that around 9.3 million students out of the total 10.05 million across private and public schools in Karnataka, have been accounted for in terms of access to devices, internet, TV, radio and even email.Of the 9.3 million who have been accounted for, only 58,59,907 have smartphones/tablets and around 31,27,524 are without any access to such devices. Further, there are just 51,34,386 students who have access to the internet while 37,799,65 students do not have access to the internet, rendering the exercise of online classes as redundant for these children, mostly from rural and backward regions of the state, Hindustan Times reported on July 2.The restarting of schools has been a contentious one, especially at a time when there appears to be a resurgence of new Covid-19 infections.Karnataka has 20,556 active Covid-19 cases after the state reported 1189 new infections in a 24 hour period, the health department said in its bulletin on Sunday.The death toll rose to 37,145 as 22 more people succumbed to the virus.The average positivity rate stands at 0.94% and the case fatality rate is 1.85%, according to government data.To make matters worse, the testing numbers in Karnataka too have dropped with just 125158 tests on Sunday, including 92,842 RT-PCR, data shows.While the state positivity rate is below 1%, there are at least eight districts that have a higher than state average, data from the Covid-19 war room shows.Dakshina Kannada, which has been at the receiving end of heavy rains, has an average positivity rate (in the last seven days) of 3.5% until 5 pm on Saturday while Udupi has 2.71%.Kodagu has a positivity arte of 2.16% while it is 1.64% in Hassan.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai will be visiting schools and colleges on Monday to check if Covid-19 safety protocol has been followed.Several ministers of the Bommai government, including Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) members, have been asking children to return to school without fear. Parents and guardians have questioned the decision of the government.“Let them reopen schools where there is not much impact of Covid-19 but you cannot have one yardstick for the entire state,” Mohammed Shakeel, president of Voice of Parents, an association of parents and guardians, told Hindustan Times on Sunday. He said that Karnataka says it wants to implement the National Education Policy (NEP) which states that students will graduate only in class12, which gives them no reason to push children below these classes to rush back to schools.He, and several other parents, have challenged the right of schools (private) to demand full school feels as well.Shakeel said that by reopening schools, the government is helping these private institutions to collect fees and then when the third wave comes, close them down again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-in-karnataka-to-reopen-on-monday-as-threat-of-third-wave-of-infections-loom-large-101629653178864.html
22-08-2021||India||Railways suffered losses worth ₹36,000 crore during pandemic: Minister||Union minister Raosaheb Danve on Sunday said the Indian Railways suffered losses to the tune of ₹36,000 crore during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Danve said that goods trains are the real revenue generators for the Indian Railways.“The passenger train segment always runs into losses. Since increasing the ticket fares affects the passengers, we cannot do so. During the pandemic, the Railways suffered losses of ₹36,000 crore,” Danve was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. He also highlighted that a bullet train project will be developed along the Mumbai-Nagpur Expressway and is currently under construction.He also said that the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor project which will connect Navi Mumbai to Delhi has also been undertaken. Danve assured that tracks will be doubled between Nanded and Manmad and said he would check if the Jalna-Khamgaon railway line would be viable or not.Indian Railways last month said that it had improved its operating ratio to 97.45% owing to no concessions and tightening of expenses due to Covid-19. It also said that it has no plans to restore concessions offered to certain categories of people in ticket fares which was initially suspended due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-suffered-losses-worth-rs-36-000-crore-during-pandemic-minister-101629649380289.html
22-08-2021||India||Question authority, don’t be complacent about encroachment of rights, says SC judge||In a democracy, citizens must use their liberties to constantly question the authorities in power and not be complacent about any encroachment of their rights, said Supreme Court judge Justice S Ravindra Bhat.Speaking at an online event on Sunday on the topic “Role of Judiciary in Governance”, Justice Bhat said at a time when the world is passing through a pandemic and its painful and traumatic consequences, it is all the more important for people to cherish liberties and question the moves and policies which displace the liberties that the Constitution guarantees.Justice Bhat said, “We gained our freedom at a great cost. Every Indian therefore has to use his liberties to constantly question the actions of those in power because democracy gives no tickets to free meals. It is for us to assert and guard liberty and not be complacent about any encroachment.”In the context of the Covid-19 pandemic, he said, “Today the world is reeling under the painful and traumatic consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic disrupting lives and livelihoods, leaving behind destruction, despair and impoverishment. It is more important for people to cherish liberties and constantly question, through every legitimate channel, the moves and policies which undermine the democratic government and displace the liberties that the Constitution guarantees.”The judge was addressing the first anniversary celebrations of an organization called “Connecting Governed, Governing and Governance” having former Chief Justice of India (CJI) KG Balakrishnan as one of its patrons.The judge also gave his personal views on the topic of reservation and the need for placing a time cap on quota benefits. Justice Bhat said, “Reservation, at least in regard to scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and most backward classes is essential and we cannot put a time limit on it.”Expressing his personal view, he said, “I would say it is not possible that we should do away with it (reservation) as long as society is unequal and people are socially and educationally backward. So long as the society is unwilling to cast off the shackles of caste, these quotas are needed because they underline empowerment.”Justice Bhat emphasized that in a democratic way of governance, citizens should be prepared for imperfections. That’s where the role of courts come in. “The rule of law through democracy is a continuing work-in-progress where people’s scrutiny is paramount and courts are part of the dialogue,” the Supreme Court judge said, giving an illustration that a person may have a fundamental right to get a ration card or change his date of birth. But if people don’t get justice internally, there is no other way than to go to court.Even on the limits of freedom that legislature or executive places on its citizens, Justice Bhat highlighted the need for laws to clearly define limits and not sound vague. Giving instances of what constitutes an obscene publication, an incitement that is likely to affect communal harmony, or the extent of regulation permissible at any given point of time, the judge said, “These are very important in governance, because unless you know what you can speak and what you cannot speak, it is very easy for the state to criminalize any content.”The broad role played by the judiciary in governance operates in two ways. First, by protecting people’s fundamental rights and constitutional ethos by ensuring transparency and accountability to the rule of law. And secondly, interpreting new-age laws and filling policy gaps in existing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/question-authorities-don-t-be-complacent-about-encroachment-of-rights-says-sc-judge-101629649518636.html
22-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Chinese provincial capital bars unvaccinated people from public areas and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Provincial Chinese capital bans unvaccinated from entering public areasInner Mongolia’s push to boost vaccination rates comes as the ruling Communist Party of China stresses on achieving herd immunity - which puts an end to community transmission - by December this year. Read morePalm-oil plan for Andamans came after many steps to skirt legal hurdlesIndia’s quest to increase oil palm isn’t new. A broad policy push came with the Special Programme on Oil Palm Area Expansion between 2011-12 and 2014-15. Read more'No': Eknath Shinde replies to Narayan Rane's 'fed up with Sena' claimMaharashtra minister Shinde said that he is happy in the Shiv Sena and that Rane’s comments were aimed at creating confusion in the Maha Vikas Aghadi coalition. Read moreIn Assam, police foil bank heist; 3 suspected robbers killed in encounterAccording to Kokrajhar police, the incident took place around 2:30 am at Bhotgaon when a group of alleged bank robbers were on their way to rob a branch of Indian Bank. Read more‘He’s preparing ready material & sending it to Team India’: Former Pak captain backs Dravid’s reapplication for NCA postThe Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has invited applications for the post of Head of Cricket at the National Cricket Academy (NCA) as Rahul Dravid’s two-year contract is about to end. Read moreDia Mirza shares photos of son Avyaan’s first Raksha Bandhan, twins with stepdaughter SamairaDia Mirza posted pictures from the Raksha Bandhan celebrations at her home. She, her husband Vaibhav Rekhi and his daughter Samaira were seen in matching outfits. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-chinese-provincial-capital-bars-unvaccinated-people-from-public-areas-and-all-the-latest-news-101629642064923.html
22-08-2021||India||In Assam, police foil bank heist; 3 suspected robbers killed in encounter||Three suspected robbers were killed in an encounter in the early hours of Sunday after police in Assam’s Kokrajhar district foiled an alleged bank heist. According to Kokrajhar police, the incident took place around 2:30 am at Bhotgaon when a group of alleged bank robbers were on their way to rob a branch of Indian Bank. “There was a failed attempt at robbing the bank branch three months ago and since then we had activated our information network. On Sunday, we got information that a team of robbers were on their way to rob the Indian Bank branch,” said Thube Prateek Vijay Kumar, superintendent of police, Kokrajhar. “When our personnel intercepted the robbers around 800 m away from the bank before the robbery was committed, they started firing at us. Our team also fired at them in retaliation in which three of their members were injured. They were taken to RNB CiviL Hospital in Kokrajhar where they later succumbed,” he added. The deceased robbers have been identified as Sirajudaulah Sheikh from Mankachar district and Aminul Haque and Manowar Hussan from Goalpara district. Police have launched an operation to nab the other robbers who managed to escape from the scene. According to director general of police (DGP) Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta, police recovered two pistols, several rounds of used bullets, oxygen cylinders, gas cutters and other materials from the scene of the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-assam-police-foil-bank-heist-3-suspected-robbers-killed-in-encounter-101629643157977.html
22-08-2021||India||Don't speak on issues you don't know: Amarinder Singh's message to Sidhu's advisors||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has taken strong exception to the recent comments made by two of Navjot Sidhu's advisors on Kashmir and Pakistan. Slamming the statements as "totally misplaced and antagonistic to the stated position of India and the Congress", Singh has urged them to stick to only giving advice to the Punjab Congress president and not speak on matters on which they "clearly had little or no knowledge and had no understanding of the implications of their comments", a press release issued by the Captain's office said.Sidhu's advisor Pyare Lal Garg, who is the former registrar of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, has recently questioned Captain's criticism of Pakistan. He said any criticism of Pakistan by Captain was not in the interest of Punjab.Thaw in Capt-Sidhu ties, agree to set up strategic policy group"Garg may have forgotten the thousands of Punjabi lives lost in the fire of Pak-backed terrorism of the 1980s and 1990s, but I have not. Nor have the people of Punjab. And we will continue to do everything in our power to fight off Pakistan’s dangerous games,” asserted Captain Amarinder, urging Garg not to undermine the sacrifices of Punjabis with his outrageous, irresponsible, and politically motivated statements," the CM said, slamming the comment.But this was not the only case. Before Garg's statement, Sidhu's other advisor Malvinder Singh Mali, a former government teacher, said that Kashmir is a "separate country". "Kashmir belongs to Kashmiris. Going against the tenets of the UNO resolutions, India and Pakistan have illegally usurped Kashmir. If Kashmir was a part of India, then what was the need to have Articles 370 and 35-A. What was the special agreement with King Hari Singh? Tell people what were the terms of the agreement," he wrote on Facebook.Even after severe criticism, Mali did not withdraw the statement and stood by what he said. This is "totally anti-national", the CM said adding that Mali had effectively and inexplicably toed Islamabad's line.Sidhu has recently appointed former DGP Mohammed Mustafa as his principal strategic advisor. Previously, Mustafa had declined the offer. The Punjab president of Congress has four adviors including Mohammed Mustafa. Apart from the two at the centre of the controversy, and Mustafa, Lok Sabha MP Amar Singh is Sidhu's advisor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-speak-on-issues-you-don-t-know-amarinder-singh-s-message-to-sidhu-s-advisers-101629641326143.html
22-08-2021||India||Want to check whether Aadhaar card is genuine or fake? Here's how to do it||The importance of Aadhaar card today is such that it is needed to open a bank account or to get vaccinated against Covid-19, filing income tax returns etc. Given its importance, the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) recently warned that "not all 12-digit numbers are Aadhaar." Also, in recent days, several cases of fraud, involving the Aadhaar, have been busted in different parts of the country.Therefore, it has become important to determine whether an Aadhaar card is genuine or not. Here's how to do it:(1.) Visit the official UIDAI portal. Once there, click on "My Aadhaar," and then, from the drop down menu, click on "Verify an Aadhaar number" under "Aadhaar Services."(2.) Next, enter the 12-digit Aadhaar number, followed by captcha verification. Then, click on "Proceed to Verify."(3.) If the number entered by you is valid, you will be redirected to a new page that will show your Aadhaar card number, along with details such as age, gender and state.(4.) The page will mention if it was even issued in the first place. If the card was never issued, it is obvious that the card for which the verification is being sought is fake.About Aadhaar:Aadhaar is a unique identity number that was launched in January 2009. The data for Aadhaar is collected by the UIDAI, which is statutory authority body established by the Government of India. The body comes under the jurisdiction of the Union ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-to-check-whether-aadhaar-card-is-genuine-or-fake-here-s-how-to-do-it-101629638964861.html
22-08-2021||India||Palm-oil plan for Andamans came after many steps to skirt legal hurdles||The Modi Cabinet’s decision last week to promote environmentally ruinous oil-palm plantations in the Andamans has been a long time in the making and came on the heels of a go-ahead contained in a scientific body’s report, which environmentalists have disputed. The ₹11000-crore “National Mission on Edible Oils – Oil Palm (NMEO-OP) plan seeks to renew and expand oil-palm plantations in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, a fragile archipelago of 572 untrammeled islands, of which only 38 are inhabited. Palm oil, which is cheap, is used in most food items, from chocolate to pizza. India’s quest to increase oil palm isn’t new. A broad policy push came with the Special Programme on Oil Palm Area Expansion between 2011-12 and 2014-15. During the erstwhile 10th and 11th plan periods, the government also ran a programme called ISOPOM, or the “Integrated Scheme of Oilseeds, Pulses, Oil Palm and Maize”. India’s gluttonous demand has made it the world’s largest importer of vegetable oils, a base ingredient for cooking most common dishes. The country meets up to two-thirds of its domestic demand through imports. During 2020-21, India imported both crude and refined palm oil worth $5.8 billion. Edible oil is the country’s third most high-value import, after petroleum crude and gold. Edible-oil plantations tend to replace natural tropical forests, depleting biodiversity. Environmental case studies in forested belts of Sumatra, Borne and the Malay Peninsula -- which produce 90% of global palm oil – have found cultivation had eliminated pristine forests, pushing out wildlife, from orangutans to birds. The new push will likely require additional clearances from the Supreme Court, which had on May 7 2002 ordered phasing out all “exotic plantations” to conserve the islands’ ecology, an official with the knowledge of the matter said. “Exotic” in this context refers to all species of flora and fauna not native to the islands. The new scheme seeks to bring additional 0.65 million hectare under oil palm by 2025-26 to reach a targeted one million hectare, up from 0.3 million hectare at present. This would result in crude palm oil output to rise to 1.1 million tonne by 2025-26 and up to 2.8 million tonne by 2029-30 The scheme follows a long series of steps to steer clear of legal and procedural hurdles, HT has learnt. In January 2019, the administration of Andamans and Nicobar Islands had moved the Supreme Court seeking a review of its strict conservation orders for the Andamans, the official said. The chief secretary of Andamans and Nicobar Islands, Jitendra Narain, did not respond to a request for comments till the time of going to press. A second official said the Union agriculture ministry had deputed a scientific team from the Indian Institute of Oil Palm Research for a report on how to grow oil-palm sustainably at the request of the Andamans and Nicobar Islands administration. The panel’s reported, finalised in end-2018, stated that agro-climatic conditions in the archipelago were congenial for oil palms. Ecologists dispute this. “The report was more about agricultural suitability. It is not an ecological study,” said Manjula Jaitley, an independent ecologist. Most of the oil-palm plantations in the archipelago, including in Little Andaman, are nearing the end of their natural productive shelf life of about 35 years. They now need to be grown anew. Oil-palm can be grown sustainably but only under strict conditions, including total avoidance of Andaman’s rainforests, said. GVRamanjaneyulu of the Centre for Sustainable Agriculture. However, there are very little non-forested open belts in ther Andamans, ecologists say. The country’s second-most senior law officer had told the Supreme Court in October 2018, in a case regarding rehabilitating farmers in the islands, that there was hardly any land available for “compensatory afforestation” and “87% of the land mass is a natural notified forest”. According to top ecologist MD Madhusudan, grasslands are officially taken by policy-makers to be waste lands, which “they are not” and so oil palm should not be there. The state-run A&N Islands Forest and Plantation Dev. Corporation Ltd. owned about 1,583 hectares of red oil palm oil plantations in islets, such as Little Andamans. The company had four processing units, whose operations were curtailed when the top court had ordered folding up of monoculture plantations. Deposing before a parliamentary committee in 2009, a senior official of the environment ministry had stated that “as per the recommendation of the Shekhar Singh Commission, the existing plantation of oil palm, rubber etc. are to be phased out and the land so released, in so far as it is forest land, be regenerated. No exotic species of fauna or flora should be introduced into the Islands”. The landmark Shekhar Singh Commission had spelt out a series of recommendation to conserve the islands’ anthropological and ecological heritage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/palmoil-plan-for-andamans-came-after-many-steps-to-skirt-legal-hurdles-101629637037708.html
22-08-2021||India||Are vaccine doses in the offing for children in India?||Here’s the big question: when will children above 12 get their vaccine doses? Last week, India’s national drug regulator approved Zydus Cadila’s anti Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D. This week, discussion around the vaccine for teenagers will start in right earnest. Earlier this month, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya had hinted that vaccines for children will begin as early as September. If it indeed does, millions of children and their parents will be queuing up for one.Simultaneously, the Delhi government is likely to draft a plan on vaccination of children against Covid-19. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi had been demanding vaccination of children against Covid-19 at the earliest.Maharashtra, meanwhile, created a record of sorts on Saturday when it inoculated 1.1 million people in a single day. But in several districts dominated by tribal communities, hesitancy is preventing the government from administering more (the state’s capacity is more than 1.5 million a day). This week, therefore, the state government may start an outreach programme to make them aware that the vaccines are safe.The western Indian state has been the worst affected state in India with more than 6.4 million cumulative cases and close to 135,900 deaths.Northwards in Delhi, the capital’s Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) committee will submit a report on the strategy for reopening schools, colleges and educational institutions to the offices of the chief minister (CM) and Lieutenant Governor (LG) on August 25. Based on the report, the government will take a call in the matter, a senior government official said on Saturday.The Capital has also been the decision making centre in response to the astonishing developments in Afghanistan, the most crucial being the safe return of Indian diplomats and citizens. India began accelerating the evacuation of its nationals from Afghanistan amid the further deterioration of the situation at Kabul airport, where there are no signs yet for the resumption of commercial flights. A total of 329 Indians were brought back from Dushanbe, Doha and Kabul in three flights early on Sunday and, officials say, efforts will continue on pulling out the remaining Indians. The government, however, has given no indication of its thinking regarding the possible recognition of any government/regime to be formed by the Taliban.While Covid-19 and Afghanistan have dominated headlines over the last eight days, there might be some news to warm the cockles of Indian hearts, especially farmers. The monsoon revival in the north western parts of the country may result in the cumulative rainfall crossing the Long Period Average level this year. As per IMD’s gridded dataset there was a deficit of 5% from LPA as of 8:30 am on August 21.Regional politics may also throw up a few headlines. On Monday, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and leaders of some other opposition parties are expected to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi to demand a caste census along with general census next year. They are also likely to demand a removal of the 50% cap on reservations in the country, a demand being made by smaller OBC parties in election bound Uttar Pradesh and several other states.After resignations by two sitting Congress MLAs and switching sides to ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, another opposition legislator, Phanidhar Talukdar, All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) MLA from Bhabanipur, is all set to join the saffron party. With this development, six assembly seats in the state would go for by-polls in coming weeks. Schools in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are scheduled to open from today for the first time since end of March, when the second wave started. Both the states will resume secondary and higher secondary classes. Will children be excited at the prospect of meeting their friends once again?Not that the sporting world is going to be less exciting. India will go into their third Test against England at Leeds with a confident 1-0 lead. After a debilitating blow at Lord’s, England will have to find something special not to get routed again.The Tokyo Paralympics begin on August 24. India has a strong 50-member contingent, its largest ever. Will we win medals? If the confidence after the Tokyo Olympics is any indicator, we just might!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-vaccine-doses-in-the-offing-for-children-in-india-101629633917664.html
22-08-2021||India||Former TMC minister arrested on corruption charges in Bengal district||Former Trinamool Congress (TMC) minister Shyamaprasad Mukherjee was arrested by the Bankura district police on Saturday night on charges of corruption involving the Bishnupur municipality where he served as chairman till 2020. It has been alleged that he was involved in financial irregularities to the tune of ₹9.91 crore. A Bankura court remanded the accused to police custody for five days on Sunday afternoon. “I have no idea why I was arrested,” Mukherjee said while he was being taken to court. Mukherjee joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on December 19, 2020 when Suvendu Adhikari and a host of TMC leaders left the ruling party and switched sides. He was however, never seen at any BJP event nor was he given any post in the state committee. The former legislator from Bishnupur assembly constituency was a minister in the first TMC government but was later dropped by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. He was not fielded in the March-April state polls. The police arrested him following a probe into irregularities in tenders floated by the Bishnupur municipality. The complaint was lodged by the sub-divisional officer of Bishnupur. “Mukherjee was arrested after he failed to explain the irregularities,” said Bankura superintendent of police Dhritiman Sarkar. “Irregularities were found in as many as 50 tenders. These were all related to development projects launched by the chief minister,” said Shyamal Santra, a former minister and TMC legislator for Kotulpur in Bankura. “Mukherjee was never active in our party. The alleged crime took place when he was in the TMC. BJP has nothing to do with this,” said Samik Bhattacharya, Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-tmc-minister-arrested-on-corruption-charges-in-bengal-district-101629632237297.html
22-08-2021||India||Rajnath to felicitate Army personnel who participated in Tokyo Olympics||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh will on Monday felicitate the Army personnel who participated at the Olympics at Tokyo at the Army Sports Institute in Pune on Monday."All the armed forces personnel, who represented India in the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics, including gold medallist javelin thrower Subedar Neeraj Chopra, are likely to be present on the occasion," a statement released by defence ministry read, according to news agency PTI.Neeraj Chopra was appointed as Junior Commissioned Officer in the Rajputana Rifles regiment in 2016 following his stellar performance at the South Asian GamesSingh is also expected to interact with sportsperson of the Army Sports Institute and troops during his visit.The defence minister is also scheduled to visit the headquarters of Southern Command along with Chief of Army Staff General MM Naravane and General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Command Lieutenant General JS Nain.The Army Sports Institute has produced 34 Olympians, 22 Commonwealth Games medallists, 21 Asian Games medallists, six Youth Games medallists and 13 Arjuna Awardees till date, according to PTI."Indian Army has always been the backbone of Indian sports — from Major Dhyan Chand to Subedar Neeraj Chopra who etched their names in golden letters in the history of Indian sports," the statement by the Army read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-to-felicitate-army-personnel-who-participated-in-tokyo-olympics-101629628316667.html
22-08-2021||India||UAE to approve tourist visas for Indian passport holders as Covid cases fall||In the wake of a fall in coronavirus cases, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) has decided to allow Indian passport holders, who have not been to the country in the last 14 days, to obtain tourist visas.Besides India, the facility has been extended to Nepal, Nigeria, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Uganda, according to a media report on Sunday.At present, only citizens of the UAE and transit passengers are allowed to fly to the UAE, a measure the administration took earlier this year to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The country is now slowly opening up its arrivals as the situation improves.However, all flyers would have to undergo a Polymerase Chain Reaction test on the day of arrival and on the ninth day after arrival in the UAE.Meanwhile, the UAE has said it will accept passengers from Pakistani airports Islamabad, Karachi and Lahore. Earlier, arrivals from Pakistan were only allowed to transit passengers.The coronavirus has claimed 2,018 lives along with 708,302 confirmed infections in the UAE, according to Johns Hopkins University.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uae-to-approve-tourist-visas-for-indian-passport-holders-as-covid-cases-fall-101629627767268.html
22-08-2021||India||Why states that can't control population get more seats in Parliament: Madras high court||The Madras high court has recently passed an order asking the Centre why southern states like Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh which have successfully controlled population will have a fewer number of seats in Parliament than states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, which have high population. The bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice B Pugalendhi passed the order on August 17, before Justice Kirubakaran retired, Bar and Bench reported. The order said that Tamil Nadu should be monetarily compensated for the past 14 elections and the amount, according to the court's estimate, will be around ₹5,600 crore.The high court said Tamil Nadu had 41 representatives in the Lok Sabha until 1962. Owing to a reduction in population, the number of Tamil Nadu Lok Sabha constituencies was reduced to 39. It is not about two seats as every vote matters, the court said referring to the 1999 no-confidence motion against the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government.The state had no fault as the number of political representatives was reduced based on the population count, the court said, adding that its quota of Rajya Sabha seats should be increased in that case. That way, it will also become an acknowledgement of Tamil Nadhu's successful birth control programme."Population control cannot be a factor to decide the number of political representatives of the States in the Parliament. Those States which failed to implement the birth control programmes were benefited with more political representatives in Parliament whereas States, especially, southern States, namely Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, which successfully implemented the birth control programmes stood to lose 2 seats in each Parliament ... States have been reorganised on linguistic basis as per the States Reorganisation Act, 1956. India is a multi-religious, multi-racial and multi-linguistic country. Therefore, the powers should be distributed equally and there should be a balance of powers", the Court said.The court made these observations as it rejected a plea to de-serve the Tenkasi Parliamentary constituency, presently reserved for SC candidates. The court said it would remain reserved till the next delimitation exercise, which will be carried out in 2026.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-states-that-can-t-control-population-get-more-seats-in-parliament-madras-high-court-101629625390156.html
22-08-2021||India||'This is why CAA was necessary': Hardeep Singh Puri as India evacuates people from Afghanistan||Amid India's ongoing evacuation from Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover of the country, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Sunday said this shows how necessary it was to enact the Citizenship Amendment Act. "Recent developments in our volatile neighbourhood & the way Sikhs & Hindus are going through a harrowing time are precisely why it was necessary to enact the Citizenship Amendment Act," the minister tweeted.A special evacuation flight by the Indian Air Force reached the Hindon airbase on Sunday carrying 168 passengers, including former Afghanistan parliamentarians who thanked the Indian government for the evacuation. Arindam Bagchi, the official spokesperson of the external affairs ministry, posted a video of the evacuation where the evacuees can be seen chanting 'Bharat Mata ki Jai' inside the aircraft.Jubilant evacuees on their journey home ! pic.twitter.com/3sfvSaEVK7The crisis in Afghanistan has brought the controversial CAA again into discourse as the Citizenship Amendment Act aims to grant Indian citizenship to persecuted Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, who arrived in India before the end of December 2014. The rules under the act are yet to be notified.The Union home ministry said it is committed to repatriating all Indians and Afghan Sikhs and Hindus. The ministry of home affairs has recently reviewed the visa provisions and created a new e-visa category for Afghan nationals -- mainly Hindus and Sikhs -- to apply online.Prime Minister Narendra Modi early this week chaired a high-level meeting on the Afghan situation and directed officials to ensure the safe evacuation of all Indian citizens and also to provide refuge to Sikhs and Hindus wanting to come to India.The Taliban on Saturday reportedly stopped a group of 70 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, which included Sikh members of parliament Anarkali Kaur Honaryar and Narender Pal Singh claiming that the Taliban said that they were Afghan nationals and the flight was meant for Indians.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-why-caa-was-necessary-hardeep-singh-puri-as-india-evacuates-people-from-afghanistan-101629623135635.html
22-08-2021||India||Infant without passport amongst passengers evacuated from Kabul by IAF||An infant who was onboard the C-17 transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force from Kabul that landed at Hindon air base on Sunday morning, reported news agency ANI, adding that the toddler travelled without a passport. "An infant has also landed in a special IAF flight to India without a passport," an evacuation co-ordinating official told ANI.A video uploaded on the news agency's Twitter showed the child in their mother’s arms, as another young girl embraced the child out of joy. Several other children were also evacuated from Kabul by the IAF. "Situation was deteriorating in Afghanistan, so I came here with my daughter and two grandchildren. Our Indian brothers and sisters came to our rescue. They (Taliban) burnt down my house. I thank India for helping us," one of the evacuees told news agency ANI. During Friday prayers in Kabul an imam said those trying to flee a Taliban rule do not possess strong religious convictions, reported AFP.Also Read: India to inoculate all Afghanistan returnees with free polio vaccinesThe IAF evacuated more than 168 individuals, including 107 Indians, 23 Afghans, Sikhs and Hindus, out of the war-torn nation on Sunday. The news agency did not mention the infant’s nationality. Two more flights carrying evacuees from Kabul, including a special Air India flight carrying 87 Indians and two Nepalese citizens, landed on Saturday. India has been allowed to operate two flights a day, by the American and North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) forces, to evacuate nationals stranded in Afghanistan, reported news agency ANI.Most roads in the capital city Kabul are deserted, but the roads which lead to Kabul airport are choked with traffic, reported news agency AFP on Sunday. The US military sent a helicopter to rescue more than 150 Americans who were unable to reach the airport. The US and its allies have been trying to evacuate all of their citizens as the official withdrawal date of the troops on August 31 looms on the horizon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infant-without-passport-amongst-passengers-evacuated-from-kabul-by-iaf-101629621453505.html
22-08-2021||India||Petrol prices cut marginally for first time after remaining at all-time high for 36 days||Petrol on Sunday become cheaper by 20 paise per litre for the first time after remaining at record ₹101.84 a litre for 36 days since July 17.State-run oil marketing companies have also reduced diesel rates on Sunday by 20 paise per litre, the fourth price cut in the last five days, making the fuel cheaper by 80 paise per litre since August 18.Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) pumps are now selling petrol at ₹101.64 per litre in Delhi and diesel at ₹89.07 a litre.While fuel rates of IOC in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies.Domestic rates of petrol and diesel have been slashed after international crude oil plunged sharply by 7.66% last week. Benchmark Brent crude that closed at $69.51 per barrel on Monday (August 16) with a 1.5% fall, maintained a downward trend for the entire week.Brent closed at $65.18 on Friday, the lowest level since May 21 amid worries of surging Covid-19 cases, increased supplies of crude oil in the market from large producers, and demand concerns.After mid-July, state-run fuel retailers kept auto fuel rates frozen at record levels in a departure from the policy of aligning petrol and diesel rates daily by tactically using minor gains of falling international oil prices to offset the need of raising pump rates.Ahead of the Monsoon session of the Parliament, the retail price of diesel was frozen first on July 15 at ₹89.87 per litre in Delhi. Petrol followed the suit after two days at ₹101.84 a litre, even as international oil prices saw wide fluctuations. The Monsoon session that started on July 19 ended two days ahead of the schedule on August 11.Post-session, oil companies first reduced diesel rates on August 18 by 20 paise a litre after it remained frozen at the historical high of ₹89.87 a litre for 34 days. There was some delay in petrol price reduction due to smaller revenue margin on it, an executive working for one of the state-run oil marketing companies (OMCs) said requesting anonymity.Three public sector OMCs – IOC, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) – enjoy a monopoly in the fuel retail business with about 90% market share. While international oil prices impact pump rates of auto fuels because India imports more than 80% of crude it processes, steep taxes are the other reason for high rates of petrol and diesel. In Delhi, central levies account for 32.3% of petrol’s price and state taxes, 23.07%, according to official data of August 1. On diesel, Central taxes are over 35.38% while state taxes are about 14.62%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the central government raised excise duty on the fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit, with revenues hit on account of the pandemic. According to official data, petroleum sector contributed ₹3,71,726 crore central excise revenue in 2020-21, and ₹2,02,937 crore state levies or value added tax (VAT).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-prices-cut-marginally-for-first-time-after-remaining-at-all-time-high-for-36-days-101629620178097.html
22-08-2021||India||La Ganesan, ex-RSS pracharak and Tamil Nadu BJP chief, made Manipur governor||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Tamil Nadu unit president La Ganesan became the new governor of Manipur on Sunday. The office of President Ram Nath Kovind said Ganesan said Ganesan’s appointment would be with effect from the date he assumed charge of his office. A former pracharak of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) Ganesan replaced Najma Heptulla, who retired earlier this month, as the 17 governor of Manipur."The President has been pleased to appoint Shri La. Ganesan to be the Governor of Manipur with effect from the date he assumes charge of his office," said Ajay Kumar Singh, press secretary to the President.Heptulla had demitted office on August 10 and on the same day the charge was given to Sikkim Governor Ganga Prasad.I feel very elated because my services have been recognised. I am prepared to work at any place in India. With my experience, I will feel that entire India is one: La Ganesan, on being appointed as the Governor of Manipur pic.twitter.com/QUw2gyxgTjExpressing his gratitude, Ganesan said he was prepared to work at any place in the country. “I feel very elated because my services have been recognised. I am prepared to work at any place in India. With my experience, I will feel that the entire India is one,” he said.The former Rajya Sabha MP had once reportedly courted controversy while commenting on protests launched by locals against extraction of hydrocarbons at Neduvasal village in Tamil Nadu’s Pudukkottai district. He had said, “There is nothing wrong in sacrificing Tamil Nadu for the welfare of India."(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/la-ganesan-ex-rss-pracharak-and-tamil-nadu-bjp-chief-made-manipur-governor-101629618621280.html
22-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi, JP Nadda in Lucknow to pay last respects to Kalyan Singh and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Modi, Nadda arrive in Lucknow to pay last respects to Kalyan SinghPrime Minister Narendra Modi and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda reached Lucknow on Sunday morning to pay their last respects to veteran leader Kalyan Singh who passed away on Saturday evening. Read MoreManipur extends night curfew for 15 days till September 6The Manipur government has extended the night curfew imposed in the North Eastern border state from 6 pm to 5 am by another fifteen days till September 6 while lifting certain restrictions, officials said. Read MoreIndia to vaccinate all Afghanistan returnees with free polio vaccinesUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Sunday that the central government will be vaccinating returnees from Afghanistan with a free polio shot as a preventive measure against the Wild Polio Virus. Read More'Excited and honoured': Wanindu Hasaranga on being part of RCB squad for IPL 2021The latest addition to the Royal Challengers Bangalore squad, Wanindu Hasaranga on Sunday said that he is excited to join the franchise. Read MoreUnrecognisable Salman Khan spotted filming Tiger 3 in Russia, is joined by nephew Nirvaan. See picsActor Salman Khan was spotted on the Russia sets of the upcoming action film tentatively called Tiger 3. Read MoreThe Rock pulls up beside a tour bus to surprise people. Watch how they reactA video of Dwayne Johnson surprising a few unsuspecting tourists has now created a buzz online. Read MoreShilpa Shetty's ₹58k sequin saree for Dance Deewane 3 comeback is the perfect Rakhi lookBollywood actor Shilpa Shetty returned to the sets of Dance Deewane 3 recently and took to Instagram to reveal her look for the episode. Read MoreWatch: Modi govt reacts to Taliban example by ex-J&K CM Mehbooba MuftiAfter a controversial speech by former Jammu & Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti in Kulgam, Union Minister Anurag Thakur said that she is a habitual deliverer of statements which are not in national interest. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-jp-nadda-in-lucknow-to-pay-last-respects-to-kalyan-singh-and-all-the-latest-news-101629615414736.html
22-08-2021||India||12% of Madhya Pradesh residents completely jabbed against Covid: CM Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday his government had administered the first dose of the vaccine against coronavirus to 60 per cent people in the state of whom 12 per cent have received both the doses.Chouhan said a mega inoculation drive would be organised across the state on August 25 and 26. “Both doses will be administered on the first day, while August 26 will be only for those awaiting their second doses,” the chief minister said, adding the second day has specifically reserved for second dose because it was essential to remind people who have taken their first dose to complete their course."Vaccine is most effective when its second dose is taken within the stipulated time. The effect of the first dose would wear off if one does not take their second dose," he added.Also read | Madhya Pradesh CM says Covid under control, announces reopening of schoolsFurther, the CM appealed to the people of the state to ensure that everyone takes their vaccine jab. "The risk of COVID-19 infection drops by 93 per cent for those who are fully vaccinated against it. Therefore, I request the people of my state to get their vaccine jab at the soonest; for those who have not received their first dose, please take it...also, remember that it is very important to take the second dose of the vaccine too."According to the latest updates, Madhya Pradesh has administered a total of 4,01,36,448 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. Of these, 3,35,53,099 have received the first dose and 65,83,349 have received both the doses. As far as the nationwide tally is concerned, MP is only behind Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra in inoculating its citizens.Chouhan further said the pandemic situation in the state was under control even as he urged people to maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour. “With the support of people, Covid infections are under control. However, Covid-19 has not been eradicated. We should not panic, but it is important to maintain precautions,” the CM was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Students return to classes in more states following ebbing of COVID-19 casesThe state registered seven new cases on Saturday taking the total caseload to 7,92,096. There was no fatality during the same period and the death toll remained unchanged at 10,515.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-of-madhya-pradesh-residents-completely-jabbed-against-covid-cm-chouhan-101629616151405.html
22-08-2021||India||India to inoculate all Afghanistan returnees with free polio vaccines||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Sunday that the central government will be vaccinating returnees from Afghanistan with a free polio shot as a preventive measure against the Wild Polio Virus. The announcement comes on the day a C-17 aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) landed at the Hindon airbase in Ghaziabad from the Afghan capital of Kabul with 168 passengers, including more than 100 Indians and some 20 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus. Two more flights ferrying Indians from Afghanistan's Kabul landed earlier on Sunday, including a special Air India flight carrying 87 Indians."We have decided to vaccinate Afghanistan returnees with free Polio Vaccine - OPV & fIPV, as a preventive measure against Wild Polio Virus," Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted. "Congratulations to the health team for their efforts to ensure public health."The Union minister also attached a photo of the vaccine drive, which is already underway at the Delhi international airport.We have decided to vaccinate Afghanistan returnees with free Polio Vaccine - OPV & fIPV, as a preventive measure against Wild Polio VirusCongratulations to the Health Team for their efforts to ensure public healthTake a look at the vaccine drive at Delhi International Airport pic.twitter.com/jPVF1lVmRuMeanwhile, the World Health Organization (WHO) on Saturday raised an alarm over the healthcare situation in Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover, noting that the conflict in the country has left countless people vulnerable to hunger and illnesses. The public health body estimates that around half of Afghanistan's population, which includes more than four million women and nearly 10 million children, are in dire need of humanitarian assistance. The WHO said that countries must continue to provide health services to the people in Afghanistan, lest the current drought worsens to even dire situation.The United Kingdom has said that it will administer vaccines against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to Afghan refugees coming to the country on fleeing the Taliban. The UK is also looking to resettle around 20,000 vulnerable Afghans under a new resettlement programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-vaccinate-all-afghanistan-returnees-with-free-polio-vaccines-101629611968427.html
22-08-2021||India||‘Indian brothers, sisters came to rescue’: Afghan woman after fleeing Taliban||An Afghan woman on Sunday thanked India for helping her escape the Taliban as she was evacuated from Kabul in a C-17 aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) along with several others. “The situation was deteriorating in Afghanistan, so I came here with my daughter and two grandchildren. Our Indian brothers and sisters came to our rescue. They (Taliban) burnt down my house. I thank India for helping us," the woman said after landing at the Hindon Air Force Station in Ghaziabad, according to news agency ANI.She was among the 168 people evacuated from Kabul by the IAF as the Indian government continued its efforts to bring back people from the war-torn country overtaken by the Taliban. Around 20 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus also travelled in the flight, which took off from Kabul earlier in the day.Also read | India allowed two flights daily to evacuate people from Kabul: ReportTens of thousands of Afghans are trying to flee the country after the Taliban seized control on August 15 even as the United States warned of security threats at Kabul's chaotic airport. Reuters reported citing witnesses that the Taliban are ensuring that people formed orderly queues outside the main gates of the airport and not allowing crowds to gather at the perimeter. The witnesses told Reuters that there was no violence or confusion at the airport but there were long lines forming.Also read | Afghan Sikh MP expresses his gratitude to India for Kabul evacuationSeveral videos on social media have shown Afghan families crowding, people hanging onto departing planes and even lifting a baby over a wall at the airport as more jostled pleading with American and British soldiers manning the area to help them.Also watch: Indians on evacuation flight shout 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai'The Taliban have assured that they will bring in a softer version of their brutal rule from 1996-2001 and will take steps towards forming a government. However, terrified Afghans have been hoping against hope to escape the hardline Islamist group since they took back power in Afghanistan. Some of them fear reprisals and others say the Taliban will enforce the rules under Islamic law, which included a ban on women stepping out of their homes without a male relative and a prohibition on girls.Meanwhile, more Indians were brought out of Kabul in two more flights earlier on Sunday. They included a special Air India flight with 87 Indians, who were first taken to Tajikistan’s capital of Dushanbe from Kabul on a transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Saturday.Another 135 Indians, who were evacuated from Kabul to Doha in the last few days, were also brought back home. These Indians evacuated to Doha by US and Nato aircraft from Kabul worked with foreign companies operating in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-brothers-sisters-came-to-rescue-afghan-woman-after-fleeing-taliban-101629612103709.html
22-08-2021||India||Modi, Nadda arrive in Lucknow to pay last respects to Kalyan Singh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda reached Lucknow on Sunday morning to pay their last respects to veteran leader Kalyan Singh who passed away on Saturday evening. He was 89.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh were present at the Lucknow airport to receive Modi and Nadda.The leaders went to Mall Avenue in the city where the mortal remains of Kalyan Singh have been kept at the residence of his grandson Sandip Singh. A former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and a former governor of Rajasthan, Kalyan Singh died at Lucknow’s Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) at 9.15 pm on Saturday after battling prolonged illness.On Saturday, Modi took to microblogging platform Twitter to condole the death of Kalyan Singh. “Generations to come will remain forever grateful to Kalyan Singh Ji for his contributions towards India’s cultural regeneration. He was firmly rooted in Indian values and took pride in our centuries old traditions,” the prime minister posted.Modi had described Kalyan Singh as a "statesman, veteran administrator, grassroots level leader and great human" in his condolence message.Addressing the media in Lucknow, Modi said, "Kalyan Singh always gave priority to public welfare. He lived up to his name. We have lost a big leader. I pray to Lord Ram to bless him. We will strive to fulfill his dreams."Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and home minister Amit Shah are also expected to reach Lucknow to pay their tribute to the leader.On Saturday, the chief minister had said announced a three-day mourning will be observed and the veteran leader would be put to rest on the banks of Ganga river at Narora in Bulandshahr district on Monday, which will be a public holiday every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-nadda-arrive-in-lucknow-to-pay-last-respects-to-kalyan-singh-101629610438888.html
22-08-2021||India||IAF's C-17 aircraft with 168 people from Kabul lands at Hindon airbase||More than 100 Indians and some 20 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus were brought back from Afghanistan's Kabul on Sunday in a C-17 aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF), which landed the Hindon airbase in Ghaziabad around 10am, according to people familiar with the matter. The flight took off from Kabul earlier in the day, the spokesperson for the Union ministry of external affairs (MEA), Arindam Bagchi, tweeted earlier in the day.Also Read | Amid deteriorating situation in Kabul, India evacuates nearly 400 people"Evacuation continues!" Bagchi tweeted on Sunday. "IAF special repatriation flight with 168 passengers on board, including 107 Indian nationals, is on its way to Delhi from Kabul."The passengers on the IAF repatriation flight were not immediately allowed to leave the aircraft, news agency ANI reported, as they are to first undergo the RT-PCR test for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).#WATCH | 168 passengers, including 107 Indian nationals, arrive at Hindon IAF base in Ghaziabad from Kabul, onboard Indian Air Force's C-17 aircraftPassengers are yet to come out of the airport as they will first undergo the #COVID19 RT-PCR test.#Afghanistan pic.twitter.com/x7At7oB8YKTwo more flights ferrying Indians from Afghanistan's Kabul landed earlier on Sunday, including a special Air India flight carrying 87 Indians. The Indians were taken to Tajikistan’s capital of Dushanbe from Kabul on board a transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Saturday.Also Read | Under Taliban, Afghanistan is the address of global jihadThe Indian embassy in Qatar said late on Saturday that 135 Indians, who were evacuated from Kabul to Doha in the last few days, were also sent to India. People familiar with the matter have said that Indians evacuated to Doha by US and Nato aircraft from Kabul were employees of a number of foreign companies operating in Afghanistan.The latest evacuations are part of the central government's efforts to bring back hundreds of Indian nationals to the country from Afghanistan, as the situation deteriorated from Kabul following the lightning-fast Taliban offensive.The Taliban seized Kabul last Sunday after sweeping across Afghanistan amid the withdrawal of the US forces from Afghanistan. The forces will leave the country by the end of this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iafs-c-17-aircraft-with-168-people-from-kabul-lands-at-hindon-airbase-101629607996764.html
22-08-2021||India||Amid deteriorating situation in Kabul, India evacuates nearly 400 people||India evacuated nearly 400 people, including 329 of its nationals, who were in Afghanistan on three flights from different destinations on Sunday as the government accelerated efforts to bring back all citizens after the situation at Kabul airport deteriorated further. A total of 87 Indians and two Nepalese citizens were flown from the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe to Delhi in a special Air India flight that arrived shortly after 5 am. They were earlier evacuated from Kabul to Dushanbe in a C-130 Hercules aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Saturday. Another 168 people, including 107 Indians and 23 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, were flown out of Kabul in a C-17 heavy lift aircraft and they are expected to reach Hindon airbase later on Sunday. Afghan lawmakers Anarkali Honaryar and Narender Singh Khalsa and their families were among the Sikhs and Hindus. They were escorted into Kabul airport by international forces after the Taliban prevent a group of more than 70 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus from entering the airport on Saturday.Another group of 135 Indians, most of them employees of firms from Western countries that were active in Afghanistan, were flown back from Doha to Delhi on a special flight. These Indians had been flown out to Qatar on US and NATO flights over the past few days. As reports emerged of Taliban fighters opening fire and using harsh methods to control thousands of people who have been converging on Kabul airport, the US embassy issued a security alert on Saturday advising American citizens to avoid travelling to the airport because of “potential security threats outside the gates”. The alert asked Americans to “avoid airport gates at this time unless you receive individual instructions from a US government representative to do so”. The alert was issued following intelligence reports that the Islamic State could target Americans in the Afghan capital. Earlier on Saturday, there was confusion for several hours about the status of some 150 Indians who were to be evacuated following reports that they were rounded up by the Taliban near Kabul airport. Also read: Under Taliban, Afghanistan is the address of global jihadThe development was first reported on the website of the Afghan media outlet Etilaatroz and its sister publication Kabul Now, which cited a source as saying that more than 150 people, most of them Indians, had been “abducted”. The outlets subsequently quoted a Taliban spokesman as rejecting the allegations of abduction. Etilaatroz also reported the Indians were safe and their passports were checked before they were sent to the airport. There was no official word from the Indian side on this incident. The government has kept all details of the evacuation of Indian nationals from Afghanistan under tight wraps because of operational and security reasons. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that there were problems when a group of more than 200 people, including around 70 Afghan nationals and the remainder Indians, came to Kabul airport in a convoy late on Friday. The Taliban, who are outside the airport, stopped the group, following which most of the Afghans reportedly escaped. The Afghan nationals included Sikhs and Hindus, and reports said the Taliban had said they would not be allowed to leave the country. The Indians were rounded up by the Taliban and taken to an unknown location close to the airport for further checks, the people said. Following inquiries and checking of documents such as passports, the group was sent back to the airport on Saturday afternoon, the people added. The people said the biggest problem in the evacuation of Indians is the journey from different parts of the city to the airport as Kabul has been taken over by the Taliban, who have set up check posts across the capital. Adding to the worries of the Indian side are reports that terrorists from Pakistan-based groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Haqqani Network are also present among the Taliban. With the civilian side of Kabul airport still closed, all evacuations are being done from the military side, outside which thousands of Afghans have gathered in the hope of getting on board the flights being operated by countries such as the US and the UK. Numerous videos have emerged of Taliban fighters opening fire outside the airport to drive back crowds. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-deteriorating-situation-in-kabul-india-evacuates-nearly-400-people-101629608476030.html
22-08-2021||India||PM Modi sends message on World Sanskrit Day. All you need to know about the language||Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter on Sunday to mark the occasion of World Sanskrit Day. Sanskrit is an ancient Indian language and belongs to the Indo-European group of languages. Sanskrit is often referred to as the language of the gods and is made of the words sáṃ, meaning together, good, well, perfected, and kṛta, meaning made, formed and work. When used together connotes something that is well-formed or perfected.एषा भाषा प्राचीना चेदपि आधुनिकी,यस्यां गहनं तत्त्वज्ञानम् अस्ति तरुणं काव्यम् अपि अस्ति,या सरलतया अभ्यासयोग्या परं श्रेष्ठदर्शनयुक्ता च,तां संस्कृतभाषाम् अधिकाधिकं जनाः पठेयुः।सर्वेभ्यः संस्कृतदिवसस्य शुभाशयाः।World Sanskrit Day is celebrated on Shravana Poornima every year, and this year it falls on August 22.Read on to find out more about World Sanskrit Day:1. World Sanskrit Day was celebrated for the first time in the year 1969 after the Union ministry of education issued notifications to state and central governments.2. The day is marked by seminars, lectures and meets all over the country. The Rajasthan Sanskrit Academy and Sanskrit University have jointly organised a week-long celebration starting Sunday, in which various Sanskrit scholars, poets, critics and senior officers of the state government will take part and deliver lectures on different topics.3. The central and various state governments have been celebrating Sanskrit Day with renewed vigour to help revitalise the language.4. The New Education Policy (NEP) laid an ambitious path for “mainstreaming” the language. Sanskrit was to be offered in schools, including as one of the language options in the three-language formula, as well as in higher education. This was a point which Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha reiterated on August 20 while laying the foundation stone for the new building of Chudamani Sanskrit Sansthan, at Basohli, Kathua district.5. NEP also stated that Sanskrit universities will be turned into multi-disciplinary institutions of higher learning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-sends-message-on-world-sanskrit-day-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-language-101629606416445.html
22-08-2021||India||Afghan Sikh MP expresses his gratitude to India for Kabul evacuation||Afghanistan’s Sikh parliamentarian Narender Singh Khalsa has thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Indian government and the Indian Air Force for rescuing him and other members of his community from the war-torn nation following its takeover by the Taliban and fall of the elected government, led by Ashraf Ghani, last week.In a message recorded at the airport ahead of his evacuation to India late on Saturday or early Sunday, Khalsa expressed his gratitude to the Indian government for extending help to him and others belonging to the minority community in Afghanistan.Khalsa was among 23 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus along with several stranded Indians who were onboard the C-17 Globemaster that landed at the Hindon IAF base in Ghaziabad on Sunday. The flight took off from Kabul airport earlier in the day and flew directly to India.He later broke down while speaking to reporters at Hindon. "Everything that was built in the last 20 years is now finished. It's zero now," he said.#WATCH | Afghanistan's MP Narender Singh Khalsa breaks down as he reaches India from Kabul. "I feel like crying...Everything that was built in the last 20 years is now finished. It's zero now," he says. pic.twitter.com/R4Cti5MCMvAlso read | Crossing dozens of check posts, relaying messages: Inside India’s evacuation plan in KabulThere have been repeated pleas from Sikhs in India about bringing back members of the minority community from Afghanistan after the Islamic militants took over Kabul. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had earlier urged external affairs minister S Jaishankar to arrange for the immediate evacuation of all Indians, including around 200 Sikhs, stranded in a gurdwara in the turmoil-gripped nation.The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), which has been sharing regular updates on evacuation of Indians and others in need from Afghanistan ever since the Taliban came to power, also wrote the latest flights.Also read | Will make all arrangements to evacuate Indians from Afghanistan: HS PuriEarlier in the day, a special Air India flight from Kabul ferrying 87 Indians landed in Delhi. The Indians were taken to Tajikistan’s capital of Dushanbe from Kabul on board a transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Saturday.MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi shared early morning tweets in this regard. "Evacuation continues! IAF special repatriation flight with 168 passengers onboard, including 107 Indian nationals, is on its way to Delhi from Kabul," Bagchi wrote."Bringing Indians home from Afghanistan! AI 1956 carrying 87 Indians departs from Tajikistan for New Delhi. Two Nepalese nationals also evacuated. Assisted and supported by our Embassy @IndEmbDushanbe. More evacuation flights to follow," he tweeted at around 1:20am.The Indian embassy in Qatar said 135 Indians, who were evacuated from Kabul to Doha in the last few days, were being sent to India.India has already evacuated 200 of its citizens, including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in Kabul, in two C-17 heavy-lift transport aircraft of the IAF after the Taliban seized control of Kabul on August 15. The first evacuation flight brought back more than 40 people, mostly staff at the Indian embassy, on Monday. The second C-17 aircraft evacuated around 150 people, including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel, journalists and some stranded Indians from Kabul on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-sikh-mp-expresses-his-gratitude-to-india-for-kabul-evacuation-101629605691378.html
22-08-2021||India||Raksha Bandhan 2021: India celebrates Rakhi, leaders extend greetings||As India is celebrating Raksha Bandhan on Sunday, August 22, political leaders and several others wished people on the auspicious occasion which marks the love between siblings. The festival of Raksha Bandhan is observed with great pomp and show in India. Also known as Rakhi or Raksha Bandhan, the festival is quite similar in its essence and sentiment to Bhai Dooj except that on Raksha Bandhan, the ceremonial Rakhi is tied to the siblings’ wrists.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday extended his greetings to the people on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan. "Many best wishes to all the countrymen on the auspicious occasion of Raksha Bandhan," the Prime Minister tweeted in Hindi.सभी देशवासियों को रक्षाबंधन के पावन पर्व पर ढेरों शुभकामनाएं।Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu also greeted the nation on Raksha Bandhan and urged people to ensure a safe environment for the women. “On this auspicious day, let us resolve to uphold the dignity of women and ensure a safe environment for them at all times," the vice president’s office tweeted.Happy Rakshabandhan!#Rakshabandhan is a celebration of the special and deep-rooted bond of love and respect between brothers and sisters. On this auspicious day, let us resolve to uphold the dignity of women and ensure a safe environment for them at all times. #Rakhi #Rakhi2021Union home minister Amit Shah also greeted the nation on the festival. "Warm wishes to all the countrymen on the auspicious occasion of Rakshabandhan," Shah tweeted.समस्त देशवासियों को रक्षाबंधन के पावन पर्व की हार्दिक शुभकामनाएँ।Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla posted a video statement on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan and said, "Hearty congratulations to the countrymen, this holy festival of virtuous affection between brother and sister is a symbol of our rich religious-cultural heritage." He added, "On this day it is wished that the love and brotherhood in the society become stronger. Let us come closer to each other, contribute to the new construction of India."#रक्षाबंधन की देशवासियों को हार्दिक शुभकामनाएं। भाई-बहन के पुनीत स्नेह का यह पावन पर्व हमारी समृद्ध धार्मिक-सांस्कृतिक विरासत का परिचायक है। आज के दिन कामना है कि समाज में प्रेम तथा भाईचारे डोर और मजबूत हो। हम एक-दूसरे के और निकट आएं, भारत के नवनिर्माण में अपना योगदान दें।#Rakhi pic.twitter.com/d4IkPkIyDMSince Rakhi is celebrated annually on the full moon in the Hindu month of Shravan, each year there is a particular time that is considered optimal for carrying out the ritual. This year, Rakha Bandhan falls on August 22 and the ‘shubh muhurta or the best time to tie the rakhi on your sibling is between 1:42pm to 4:18pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raksha-bandhan-2021-india-celebrates-rakhi-leaders-extend-greetings-101629601530968.html
22-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Flight with 87 Indians on-board from Kabul lands in Delhi||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Air India flight with 87 Indians from Kabul lands in Delhi, another enrouteA special Air India flight ferrying 87 Indians from Afghanistan’s Kabul landed in Delhi early on Sunday. Read MoreGanga Expressway: UP govt gets approval letter for ₹ 5100 crore loan from PNBThe Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday received the sanction letter of ₹ 5100 crore loan for the 594-kilometre-long Ganga Expressway project from the Punjab National Bank (PNB) in the presence of Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and chief minister Yogi Adityanath at an event in Lucknow. Read MoreUS state department hit by cyber attack, perpetrators unknown: ReportThe US state department was hit by a cyberattack this month, local media reported on Saturday, adding that the United States department of defense cyber command has notified of a possible "serious breach". Read More'Good decision': Saba Karim explains how BCCI not allowing players to compete in overseas T20 leagues has helped IndiaFormer India cricketer Saba Karim expressed his views over the BCCI not allowing its players to participate in the overseas T20 leagues. Read MoreBellBottom box office day 3: Akshay Kumar-starrer sees uptick in numbers, expected to close weekend with ₹12 crAfter failing to cross the ₹3 crore mark in its first two days of release, the Akshay Kumar-starrer BellBottom is expected to have made around ₹3.25 crore on Saturday. Read MoreNora Fatehi in a sexy yellow figure-hugging dress poses for sun-kissed shoot in TorontoDancer-turned-actor Nora Fatehi has been creating waves with her performance in the latest release Bhuj: The Pride of India, also starring Ajay Devgn, Sanjay Dutt and Sonakshi Sinha. Apart from her movie roles and impeccable dance moves, the star is also known for her head-turning fashion choices. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-flight-with-87-indians-on-board-from-kabul-lands-in-delhi-101629600799587.html
22-08-2021||India||Bihar: Floods leave people displaced in Hajipur, damage crops in Saran||People in flood-affected areas of Bihar's Hajipur and Saran are facing a lot of problems as their houses and agricultural fields have been inundated by the floodwaters.While in Hajipur people have moved to higher altitudes along with their cattle and family making it difficult for them to survive, floodwaters have damaged crops in Saran leaving farmers in huge losses and debts.Indu Devi, a local in Hajipur, told ANI, "We had to leave our houses because floods inundated them. We came up with family, children and cattle but survival is tough. Sometimes we get food, many times we have to go hungry.""Floods in the Ganga river have inundated our homes till waist level. So we came at a high altitude along with family and cattle. The government provides us with food between 12 to 2 pm. We are facing difficulty in feeding our cattle," said another flood victim.Another local said, "It is very difficult for us to survive. We have been staying here for the past 9-10 days because floods have inundated our homes. We get meals very late in the day and hardly get any fodder for the cattle.""Since the time floods inundated our homes, we have received no help from the government. Earlier the level of floodwater was much higher. Now it has gone a bit down. But the situation is very bad. We are struggling to perform our daily chores. Our daily lives have been affected very badly," added another flood victim.Satish Kumar Singh, a local of Saran said, "There was a lot of water initially. Schools, hospitals, temples were completed immersed in floodwater. Now the water levels have gone down. But the situation is bad. All the crops we had sown have been destroyed by the floodwater. We have received no help from the government yet. We were told that the government will sent aid to the flood victims but have received no help as yet.""These floods have left the farmers devastated. Whatever crops they had sown after taking loans, have been destroyed. Farmers are facing huge losses due to crop damage," said Kundan Patel," another Saran local."We have been facing a lot of difficulties due to floods. All my crops have been damaged. Survival has become very difficult. We are facing problems in feeding family and cattle," added Ravinder Mahato, a flood victim in Saran.On August 18, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar took stock of flood-affected regions of Khagaria and Bhagalpur, in an aerial survey.Nearly 26 districts in Bihar have been affected by floods due to incessant rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-floods-leave-people-displaced-in-hajipur-damage-crops-in-saran-101629599366932.html
22-08-2021||India||Air India flight with 87 Indians from Kabul lands in Delhi, another enroute||A special Air India flight ferrying 87 Indians from Afghanistan’s Kabul landed in Delhi early on Sunday. The Indians were taken to Tajikistan’s capital of Dushanbe from Kabul on board a transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Saturday. A C-17 aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) also took off from Kabul with another 168 people, including 107 Indians and some 20 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, onboard earlier on Sunday. Afghanistan lawmaker Narender Singh Khalsa is among the 23 Afghan Sikhs on the C-17 aircraft. It will land at the Hindon IAF base in Ghaziabad later in the day."Evacuation continues! IAF special repatriation flight with 168 passengers onboard, including 107 Indian nationals, is on its way to Delhi from Kabul," the spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs (MEA), Arindam Bagchi, tweeted on Sunday.Evacuation continues!IAF special repatriation flight with 168 passengers onboard, including 107 Indian nationals, is on its way to Delhi from Kabul. pic.twitter.com/ysACxClVdXBagchi posted earlier that two Nepalese citizens are also coming to India on board the Air India flight from Kabul, which are overtaken by the Taliban last Sunday. "Bringing Indians home from Afghanistan! AI 1956 carrying 87 Indians departs from Tajikistan for New Delhi. Two Nepalese nationals also evacuated. Assisted and supported by our Embassy @IndEmbDushanbe. More evacuation flights to follow," he tweeted at around 1:20am.Also watch | Indians on evacuation flight shout 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai' | AfghanistanThe MEA spokesperson said the passengers were earlier evacuated from Kabul by an IAF aircraft.Also read | Afghanistan vulnerable to hunger, illness after Taliban takeover: WHOSeparately, the Indian embassy in Qatar said 135 Indians, who were evacuated from Kabul to Doha in the last few days, are being sent to India. "1st batch of 135 Indians who were evacuated 4m Kabul to Doha over past days being repatriated tonight to India," the embassy said in a post-midnight tweet.It said embassy officials provided consular and logistics assistance to ensure the safe return of the Indians. "We thank Qatar authorities n all concerned for making this possible," it added.Also read | Taliban don’t allow 70 Afghan Sikhs, Hindus to board flight to IndiaPeople familiar with the matter have said that Indians evacuated to Doha from Kabul were employees of a number of foreign companies that were operating in Afghanistan. The Indians were flown into Doha by US and Nato aircraft.India has already evacuated 200 of its citizens, including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in Kabul, in two C-17 heavy-lift transport aircraft of the IAF after the Taliban seized control of Kabul on August 15. The first evacuation flight brought back more than 40 people, mostly staff at the Indian embassy, on Monday. The second C-17 aircraft evacuated around 150 people, including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel, journalists and some stranded Indians from Kabul on Tuesday.Also read | Taliban release propaganda video showing fighters in US army uniform, gearThe Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities including Kabul in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces.After the initial evacuations, the MEA has said the focus now would be to ensure the safe return of all Indian nationals from the Afghan capital. It has also said that the immediate priority for the government is to obtain accurate information about all Indian nationals currently staying in Afghanistan. It also requested Indians as well as their employers to urgently share details with the special Afghanistan cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-flight-with-87-indians-from-kabul-lands-in-delhi-another-enroute-101629598713347.html
22-08-2021||India||Hundreds of Indian evacuees from Kabul expected to return home today||Hundreds of Indian nationals are expected to return home on Sunday in Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft as part of the government’s efforts to bring back people from Afghanistan as the situation has deteriorated at Kabul airport. The Indian Embassy in Qatar said on Sunday that the first batch of 135 Indians, who were evacuated from Kabul to Doha over the past few days, are being repatriated to India."1st batch of 135 Indians who were evacuated from Kabul to Doha over past days being repatriated tonight to India. Embassy officials provided consular and logistics assistance to ensure their safe return. We thank Qatar authorities and all concerned for making this possible," the embassy tweeted.Wishing everyone safe journey home. pic.twitter.com/QNtwLkeLzWMore than 80 Indians, who were flown in an IAF transport aircraft from Kabul to Tajikistan’s Dushanbe on Saturday, will also reach New Delhi on Sunday in a special Air India flight. More than 100 Indians are also expected to reach home by Sunday. They were set to be flown out of Kabul to New Delhi in a C-17 heavy-lift aircraft.The spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs (MEA), Arindam Bagchi, tweeted that an Air India flight carrying 87 Indians has departed from Tajikistan for New Delhi. "Bringing Indians home from Afghanistan! AI 1956 carrying 87 Indians departs from Tajikistan for New Delhi. Two Nepalese nationals also evacuated. Assisted and supported by our Embassy in Dushanbe. More evacuation flights to follow," Bagchi posted.Also read | Taliban don’t allow 70 Afghan Sikhs, Hindus to board flight to IndiaNews agency ANI reported citing people familiar with the matter that India has been allowed to operate two flights every day from Kabul to evacuate its nationals stranded in Afghanistan. The permission has been granted by the American and Nato forces, which are controlling operations of the Hamid Karzai International Airport after the Afghan capital was taken over by the Taliban on August 15.Also read | Taliban release propaganda video showing fighters in US army uniform, gearThe government has evacuated hundreds of Indian nationals from Kabul, which is now under the Taliban's control. India is airlifting its citizens through Dushanbe in Tajikistan and Qatar. The IAF has already evacuated around 180 passengers, including India’s ambassador to Afghanistan and all other diplomats.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday chaired a high-level meeting and instructed all officials to undertake all necessary measures to ensure the safe evacuation of Indian nationals from Afghanistan.Also read | Taliban block govt staff from returning to workTaliban swept across the country and entered Kabul last Sunday and ever since hundreds of thousands of Afghans have been crowding the Kabul airport to escape. Several countries, including the United States, are also evacuating thousands of their diplomats and civilians as well as numerous Afghans.Meanwhile, the Taliban's co-founder, Mullah Baradar, arrived in the Afghan capital for talks with other leaders as the hardline Islamist group is trying to hammer out a new government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hundreds-of-indian-evacuees-from-kabul-expected-to-return-home-today-101629594235269.html
22-08-2021||India||Gujarat suspends vaccination drive today so healthcare workers can celebrate Raksha Bandhan||Gujarat government has suspended the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state on Sunday, on account of Raksha Bandhan, reported news agency PTI. Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, who also heads the ministry of health, said in a statement that the decision was taken so that the women healthcare workers involved in the vaccination drive could stay home and celebrate the festival with their families.Gujarat inoculated as many as 397,524 people against Covid-19 on Saturday and the state has administered 42,666,652 doses of the vaccine to date, news agency PTI stated citing a government press release. On Saturday, the state reported 15 new cases of Covid-19 and one fatality, taking the total number of cases to 825,287 and the death toll to 10,079, according to a bulletin released by the health department.Gujarat is all slated to get a new Covaxin manufacturing facility in Ankleshwar, the Union minister of health and family welfare, Mansukh Mandaviya, announced on August 10. The Ankleshwar-based manufacturing facility is expected to supply another 200 million doses to the vaccine’s overall production, Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer, said in a press release.Mandaviya, who is on a ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ of Gujarat, told reporters in Botad that Covid-19 vaccines will soon be administered to children above the ages of 12. He talked to reporters about the emergency use approval accorded to Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-D by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), and said it is the world's first plasmid DNA vaccine for Covid-19 which will be administered in three shots and "those above the age of 12 can take the vaccine shot".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-suspends-vaccination-drive-today-so-healthcare-workers-can-celebrate-raksha-bandhan-101629592566105.html
22-08-2021||NA||Highlights: Punjab CM asks Sidhu's advisors to stick to their roles||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:ITBP personnel assisted Ladakh Police in rescuing 17 people missing after a cloudburstITBP personnel from North West Frontier, Leh (special response & rescue team) today assisted Ladakh Police in rescuing 17 villagers who were missing following a cloudburst in Rumbok village area in Ladakh pic.twitter.com/0DOet9xSEtDon't speak on issues you don't know: Captain's message to Sidhu's advisorsPunjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has taken strong exception to the recent comments made by two of Navjot Sidhu's advisors on Kashmir and Pakistan. Slamming the statements as "totally misplaced and antagonistic to the stated position of India and the Congress", Singh has urged them to stick to only giving advice to the Punjab Congress president and not speak on matters on which they "clearly had little or no knowledge and had no understanding of the implications of their comments", a press release issued by the Captain's office said. Read more.Punjab CM approves renaming 10 govt schools after 11 players of Olympics Bronze medallist Indian men's hockey teamPunjab School Education & PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla said that the CM has given the approval to rename 10 government schools after 11 players of the state, who were part of the Tokyo Olympics bronze medalist Indian men's hockey team: State GovernmentWill convene G7 leaders on Tuesday to discuss Afghanistan situation: UK PM#BREAKING G7 leaders to discuss Afghanistan crisis on Tuesday: UK PM Johnson pic.twitter.com/jJr2D8d4a7Goa extends Covid-19-induced curfew till August 30Goa Government extends COVID-induced curfew till August 30 pic.twitter.com/hRbEEjrNoM20-yr-old Samaniya Bhat from Baramulla has become the youngest female RJ of north KashmirJ&K: 20-yr-old Samaniya Bhat from Baramulla has become the youngest female RJ of North Kashmir "I've completed graduation in Mass Communication from Govt Degree College, Baramulla. I applied for an RJ job among 250 others. I along with 3 male participants got selected,"she says pic.twitter.com/JApVHPq3c1Henri downgraded to tropical storm as it nears US east coast#BREAKING Henri downgraded to tropical storm as it nears US east coast pic.twitter.com/NDQMQXck2hDelhi reports 24 new Covid-19 cases and zero fatalitiesDelhi reports 24 fresh COVID cases and 56 recoveries todayActive cases: 398Total recoveries: 14,11,840Death toll: 25,079 (no new deaths) pic.twitter.com/NXqqLIkNTvSwedish PM Stefan Lofven says to step down in November#BREAKING Swedish PM Stefan Lofven says to step down in November pic.twitter.com/uH62A0XDqnHaryana extends Covid-19-induced restrictions till September 6Haryana Government extends COVID-induced restrictions till September 6 pic.twitter.com/4aSLUvjQlhFinance ministry calls Infosys MD to explain delay in resolving e-filing portal glitches: Income Tax IndiaMinistry of Finance summons Salil Parekh, MD & CEO Infosys on 23rd August to explain to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman as to why even after 2.5 months since launch of new e-filing portal, glitches in the portal have not been resolved: Income Tax India pic.twitter.com/024YvYa4o6Rakhis with face of WB CM Mamata Banerjee on them tied to Afghan nationals in stateRakhis with the face of West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and "Dilli Chalo" written on it, tied to the Afghan nationals and others living in Dum Dum area of North 24 Parganas district.#Rakshbandhan pic.twitter.com/7eu4Zdy0iiINS Shivalik and Kadmatt arrive at GuamINS Shivalik and Kadmatt arrived at Guam on Sunday. These two ships are scheduled to participate in the annual Exercise MALABAR-21 between the navies of Australia, India, Japan, and USA, reported ANI.DMK announces MM Abdullah's candidacy for Rajya Sabha seatTamil Nadu CM and DMK chief MK Stalin announces the name of MM Abdullah as the party's candidate for the Rajya Sabha seat.Afghan special cell established by MEA received more than 2000 calls for 5 daysThe Afghan special cell established by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has so far received more than 2,000 calls for more than 5 days, answered around 6000 queries over WhatsApp, and replied to over 1,200 mails for 5 days, sources told news agency ANI on Sunday. La Ganesan appointed Governor of ManipurPresident Ram Nath Kovind appoints La Ganesan as the Governor of Manipur.PM Modi arrives in Lucknow, to be received by Yogi AdityanathPrime Minister Narendra Modi arrived at Lucknow airport on Sunday. The Prime Minister will be visiting the residence of late Kalyan Singh, former chief minister, to pay his last respects. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath was at the airport to receive him.IAF's C-17 aircraft with 168 people from Kabul lands at Hindon airbase IAF's C-17 aircraft carrying 168 passengers, including 107 Indians and 23 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, landed at Hindon air base on Sunday morning. India reports 30,948 new Covid-19 cases, 403 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia reported 30,948 new Covid-19 cases and 403 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The total number of cases in the country now stands at 32,424,234 and the death toll has exceeded the 4-lakh mark, according to the ministry of health's bulletin.PM Modi to pay his last respects to Kalyan Singh todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will be visiting Lucknow today to pay his last respects to former chief minister Kalyan Singh at his Mall Avenue residence. Singh breathed his last on Saturday night.Kalyan Singh's mortal remains to be taken to AligarhThe mortal remains of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, who breathed his last on Saturday night, will be taken to Aligarh today so people can pay their respects. From there mortal remains will be taken to Atrauli, and will be cremated on August 23 at banks of river Ganga in Narora, Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary, told news agency ANI.168 people on C-17 en route to Hindon airbase from KabulAnother 168 people, including 107 Indians + some 20 Afghan Sikhs, on C-17 that's taken off from Kabul & en route to Hindon airbasehttps://t.co/t4zl4DJvOnUS, Germany ask nationals in Afghanistan to not travel to Kabul airportThe U.S. and Germany advised their nationals in Afghanistan to avoid traveling to Kabul airport, citing security risks after the Taliban's takeover of the capital https://t.co/TBiytK86WJ pic.twitter.com/NaRApVcEDB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-22-2021-101629589210110.html
22-08-2021||India||Air India to operate Kochi-London direct flights thrice a week from today||Air India is set to operate direct flights from Kerala's Cochin International Airport to the United Kingdom’s capital of London thrice a week, starting from Sunday, August 22. This comes as a first for the airport as well as for the state, where the Kochi airport is now the only one to operate direct flights to London.Also Read | As UK relaxes curbs, 19 per cent increase in admission of Indian studentsThe UK moved India from its red list to the amber list of countries earlier this month, and soon after, Air India on August 18 launched direct flights from the Heathrow airport in London to the Kochi airport. Considering the positive response from the expat community, the Kochi airport has now announced that the London-Kochi-London air services are being extended to thrice a week -- on Wednesdays, Fridays, and Saturdays.According to a statement issued by Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL), the three direct flights from London being hosted per week "is the highest number of flight services that have been scheduled in this sector in the history of CIAL."Also Read | Why India-UK flight tickets have become so costlyAir India is deploying a Dreamliner category of aircraft to operate the three direct Kochi-London flights, as per reports quoting a statement issued by CIAL managing director S Suhas. The flights are part of an ongoing effort by the Kochi airport and the Kerala government to establish frequent air connectivity to Europe, Suhas said, adding that the airport will also be waiving off parking and landing fees to attract more European carriers.The Kochi-London direct flight from Air India will take 10 hours, according to the statement issued by the Kochi airport. On Wednesdays and Fridays, the arrival and departure operations are scheduled at 3:45 and 1:20pm. The move is expected to further extend a hand to the thousands of stranded expats in the UK, who can now return to the country with a bit more ease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-to-operate-kochi-london-direct-flights-thrice-a-week-from-today-101629589183284.html
22-08-2021||India||Teen raped in Bihar, 2 booked||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by two people in Bihar’s East Champaran district, police said on Saturday.According to the first information report lodged by the survivor’s mother, the incident took place on August 17. “Around 11 pm, one of the classmates of the survivor called her outside the house, where two men were waiting,” said the complaint.The two men allegedly dragged the girl to an orchard nearby and raped her, it added. The complainant said that a search operation was launched at 11.30pm when the girl did not return.She was found in the orchard. Sub Divisional Police Officer (SDPO) Chakia Sanjay Kumar said that it is matter of investigation and refused to divulge more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teen-raped-in-bihar-2-booked-101629573057803.html
22-08-2021||India||Union minister launches 7 indigenous Manipuri food items as part of Make in India||Union Minister of State for Food Processing Industries and Jal Shakti Prahlad Singh Patel on Saturday launched seven indigenous food products of Manipur in Imphal, as part of the Make in India initiative.The indigenous food products are Black Rice Laddoo, Black Rice Fruit & Nut Cookies, Hot and Spicy Bhujia, Kabok (puffed rice) Mixture, Manipuri Casava Burfi, Bamboo Shoot Muraba and Fig Laddoo.These products were developed under the Incubation Lab project of Manipur Food Industries Corporation Limited (MFICL) in collaboration with TQS Global, Ghaziabad with a budget provision of ₹10 lakh.Prahlad Singh said that food processing is a focus area of the Prime Minister, and added that materials available in the North East are mostly from the hills and forests and products from these materials are in high demand in the country and abroad.However, these products still need certain requirements, like inscription of scientific and detailed information on the products, branding and marketing and transportation, he said.Manipur Textiles, Commerce and Industries minister Th Biswajit Singh, who is also chairman of the MFICL, attended the launch and said that unemployment is a big challenge in the state. He also expressed the need to provide jobs to youngsters.The labelling and packaging of the products are being done at Imphal, Delhi and Mumbai to achieve fine branding and attractive display, an official said. For marketing and distribution, MFICIL is taking steps to market locally and outside the state, with outlets at metropolitan cities.Last week, for the first time, one metric tonne of organic Manipuri black rice, popularly known as Chakhao, was exported to Europe from Imphal. The well-known aromatic rice got a Geographical Indication tag in May 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-launches-7-indigenous-manipuri-food-items-as-part-of-make-in-india-101629572231544.html
22-08-2021||India||CBI likely to divide post-poll violence probe into four zones in Bengal||The Central Bureau of Investigation, which has been mandated by the Calcutta high court to probe the allegations of post-poll murder and rape in West Bengal, is likely to divide the state into four zones based on some of the districts from where the maximum complaints were received. The top five districts, from where the seven-member enquiry committee set up by the National Human Rights Commission received the maximum number of complaints were Cooch Behar, Birbhum, Kolkata, North 24 Parganas and East Burdwan and South 24 Parganas. From Cooch Behar and Birbhum, more than 300 complaints each were received. “Four special teams, each headed by a joint director, are likely to take up the investigations in each zone. For each allegation of rape and murder a separate FIR would be lodged instead of clubbing them into one complaint,” said an official, adding that the teams are likely to arrive next week. The four zones are north, south, west and Kolkata. The NHRC team had received at least 172 complaints from Kolkata. While Birbhum and East Burdwan, located in the western part of the state, received 314 and 113 complaints respectively, Cooch Behar in north Bengal topped the list with 322 complaints. North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas in south Bengal received 196 and 203 complaints. The Calcutta high court on Thursday ordered separate probes by the CBI and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the state police into the alleged violence. A five-judge bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal said the CBI will probe the serious allegations of rape and murder and a three-member SIT those of arson and loot under the court’s supervision. While speculations are rife that the West Bengal government may appeal before the Supreme Court against the high court order of a CBI probe, two caveats have already been filed in the Supreme Court by advocate Anindya Sundar Das and advocate Priyanka Tibrewal. Biswajit Sarkar, brother of Abhijit Sarkar, the only BJP worker allegedly murdered by TMC workers in Kolkata on May 2, the same day on which the results were declared, said: “The attackers had used wires to drag my brother. They had assaulted me too but my brother was their primary target. Hopefully I will get justice now.” In South 24 Parganas, Sankar Adhikari, still recounts the horror of how his brother Haran Adhikari was battered to death near their house on the same night. “The TMC had been threatening my brother for many days as he was a BJP supporter and used to chant Jai Shri Ram. He was attacked after the results were declared. He was battered to death and his face was almost unrecognizable. Hopefully all these incidents will be probed, and the culprits would be hanged,” said Sankar, a resident of Sonarpur. The BJP has already released the names of 42 party workers, including Sarkar and Adhikari, who were allegedly killed in post poll violence. The TMC while brushing aside such allegations has maintained that there has hardly been any post poll incident after May 5, when Mamata Banerjee took charge.“We have been saying right from the beginning that there has been massive post-poll violence. The NHRC report also said this. Now the HC has said the same thing. The state has been denying this from the very beginning,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson. The NHRC had told the high court that it had received around 1979 complaints covering around 15,000 victims. In its report the committee also stated that at least 1934 complaints were lodged with various police stations between May 2 and June 20 out of which 29 related to murder and 12 were related attempt to rape and sexual assault. At Nanoor in Birbhum where allegations of a gang rape had surfaced after a section of some BJP leaders posted pictures of a victim, the police had said that it was fake news and no such incident had taken place. “There is absolute peace in the district. There has been no violence. The BJP is bringing false allegations. Let the CBI come and investigate,” said Anubrata Mondol, TMC’s Birbhum district president. But it is not that only the BJP has allegedly come under attack. A day after taking charge as the chief minister Mamata Banerjee had claimed that at least 16 people were killed from both the BJP and the TMC. At least three TMC workers – Shahjahan Shah, Srinaiban Ghosh and Bibhas Bag – were killed on May 3 at Jamalpur in East Burdwan. “Bag was attacked with a sharp weapon by BJP workers when they found him alone on a desolate village road a day after the results were declared. He has a six-year-old daughter and a two-year-old son. I hope the CBI also takes into account all these and doesn’t only target a particular political party” While BJP has welcomed the HC decision and has been targeting the TMC over the NHRC committee report, senior TMC leaders have been claiming that the NHRC committee report was politically motivated. But while the CBI would be probing allegations of murder, rape and crime and against women, a court monitored SIT comprising three senior officers from the state police would look into the other crimes such as loot and arson. “I am lucky to be alive. But TMC men had beaten me up, ransacked my house, set the haystack on fire and damaged all the crops. I hope these are also looked into and I get justice,” said Bidyut Roy, a resident of Jalangi in Murshidabad district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-likely-to-divide-post-poll-violence-probe-into-four-zones-in-bengal-101629571270924.html
22-08-2021||India||2 labs which held fake tests during Kumbh still on ICMR approved list||Two laboratories that allegedly made fake entries for Covid-19 tests during the Kumbh Mela in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar district in April continue to be on the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR’s) list of approved labs released on Thursday.Allegations of fake testing at the Kumbh surfaced in late April after a Faridkot resident complained to the authorities that he received a message for collecting his Covid-19 report despite never having been tested. The complaint triggered a probe that unearthed roughly 100,000 fake rapid antigen tests.Three firms – Delhi-based Lalchandani Labs, Hisar-based Nalwa Labs and Noida-based private agency Max Corporate Services – were booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code, disaster management act and epidemic diseases act last week. Days later, all three firms approached the high court separately to quash the FIR and denied the charges.At present, three separate probes are looking into the allegations — one by the police, one by the district administration and one by the mela administration.Max Corporate Services, which was recruited by the Uttarakhand government and outsourced the testing to the accused labs, is not a laboratory and was never recognised by the ICMR.No laboratory can conduct Covid-19 testing without being recognised by the ICMR, which provides the login ID and password to all approved labs for the national portal, where all test results have to be mandatorily uploaded. The data is then used by local health teams to carry out control measures such as creating containment zones, tracing and testing contacts, and isolating those who test positive.“ICMR is not a regulatory authority and does not have much control over the private laboratories. ICMR just gives approval to labs for conducting Covid-19 tests based on the kind of facilities that they have and ensures that they upload the test reports to the portal. Other than that, ICMR has no control over how the labs operate,” said a senior official from the country’s apex medical research body, which has assumed the role of an additional regulator for approving Covid-19 test kits and laboratories.The ICMR’s approval to laboratories for conducting Covid-19 tests is conditional to them having a certification from the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL), which is a constituent board of the Quality Council of India.According to people aware of the developments, the NABL, too, has not yet acted against the accused laboratories. The certification of Dr Lalchandani lab is valid till July 2022, whereas that of Nalwa Labs was valid till August 2020 and was extended for another year till the end of the month.HT didn’t receive a comment from NABL CEO Venkateswaran despite several attempts.Director and CEO of Dr Lalchandani laboratory, Mohit Lalchandani, said 12,000 of the 100,000 tests conducted by his lab during the Kumbh are being verified.“We had signed an MoU with Max Corporate Services and accordingly deployed people at testing sites between April 1 and 28. We had no direct contract with the Uttarakhand government. We deployed sufficient manpower there. We have submitted bills for the kits, the tents, and the details of the health department and police personnel posted at the testing sites to all investigating agencies,” he said.So far, the laboratory has received no payments from Max Corporate Services for the tests conducted, he added.Director of Nalwa labs, Dr JPS Nalwa, said, “We did get into an MoU with the Max Corporate Services, but they have not communicated with us since... We never sent anyone to conduct tests and got the first hint of a problem when a person contacted us saying that he received a message about the test but wasn’t even in Haridwar. My son, Navtej, immediately wrote a letter cancelling the MoU.”Asked how the lab’s ID appeared on the report, he said that his data entry operators were not tech-savvy and did not know how this could have happened. “The government officials generated the SRF ID locally from Haridwar,” he said.An SRF ID refers to a specimen referral ID generated by the sample collector, who eventually selects a laboratory from the ICMR’s list. However, according to at least two pathology lab owners who conduct RT-PCR tests in Delhi, once a lab is selected, the SRF ID will reflect on its dashboard. A test report, carrying a laboratory’s ID, cannot be generated without entering their login and password, one of the pathology lab owners added.Cabinet minister and Uttarakhand government spokesperson Subodh Uniyal said, “A probe is already on in the matter by a special investigation team (SIT) of Haridwar district police. Strict action would be taken against anyone found involved of the irregularities.”The main accused in the case and owners of Max Corporate Services agency, are on the run. Their counsel could not be connected for a comment despite several attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-labs-which-held-fake-tests-during-kumbh-still-on-icmr-approved-list-101629570731452.html
22-08-2021||India||Zydus to roll out its vaccine by end of September||Zydus Cadila, the Ahmedabad-based company whose coronavirus vaccine was granted emergency approval for use in India on Friday, has said that it expects to begin the supply of the shots by mid-to-end September and is aiming to increase production capacity by October.The Zydus shot is the world’s first DNA-based vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to be approved for use within a population. The three-shot vaccine is also the first to be cleared for use in children aged 12 and above and is the sixth addition to India’s arsenal in the fight against the pandemic.The company plans to scale up production to 10 million doses a month by October after it presses a new manufacturing plant into action, said managing director Dr Sharvil Patel. They did not elaborate on the location or details about the new plant.The current production capacity at their existing Ahmedabad plant wasn’t immediately known, but officials said they were readying a stockpile of three to five million doses in the next few days.“We were producing vaccines at a very small scale; now our new plant has been commissioned. We expect for the vaccine supply to start from mid-September or end-September. We expect to reach the target of 1 crore doses in October,” said Dr Patel at a digital press briefing on Saturday.The latest timeline given by the company means the vaccine maker will miss the deadline of supplying 50 million doses by the end of the year. The central government told the Supreme Court in June that 1.35 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines will be made available in the country between August and December this year. This included 50 million doses of Zydus’s ZyCoV-D shot, and 300 million doses of BiologicalE’s jab that is still under trial.Patel said on Saturday that there will be a delay of 45 days and that the firm will reach the 50-million target by January. He added that the delivery delay is because of a delay in commissioning the company’s new plant as the second wave of Covid-19 infections prevented the travel of experts from other countries. The managing director also said that two to three other manufacturers have expressed interest in producing the vaccine, but such a technology transfer can take another three to four months.Since the country’s drive began in January, daily vaccinations have been patchy, but are now on the rise.A record 8.8 million shots were administered on August 16, the highest one-day figure for the country so far. The seven-day average for daily shots is presently below the peak capacity reached in the past, but has been rising in recent days. About 6.1 million daily doses were given on average in the last seven days, against a crescendo of 6.3 million daily doses for the week ended June 26, data shows.The Union government has set a target of vaccinating India’s entire adult population by December 31. Till now, nearly half of India’s adult population has received one shot of the vaccine. Another half is still to go.Additionally, Patel said there is no clarity on the price of the Zydus shot to be made available but hinted that it may not be very different from the other jabs currently available. “We are yet to have a discussion with the government on procurement; our understanding is that just like the other vaccines a major proportion will go to the government programme. The pricing will depend on the number of doses purchased and the applicator used, however, there isn’t likely to be a huge difference in cost as compared to the other available vaccines,” said Dr Patel.The mainstays of India’s inoculation drive -- Covishield (Oxford-Astrazeneca) and Covaxin (Bharat Biotech) are provided to the government for ₹215 and ₹225, respectively. Private hospitals can charge people up to ₹780 for Covishield, ₹1,410 for Covaxin.The approval by the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) to ZyCoV-D was given based on interim results of its Phase 3 trial data. The company says its vaccine has proven an efficacy of 66.6%, and is potent against the more transmissible and infectious Delta variant of the virus as the study was conducted during the second wave of the pandemic. “All the breakthrough infections investigated by us show that the infection was caused by the Delta variant,” said Patel.The company, however, will still take four to six months to publish its phase-3 data as the trial hasn’t been completed yet, Patel added.ZyCoV-D is now the sixth vaccine approved in India for emergency use after Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, Russian-made Sputnik V, and the American vaccines — Moderna and Johnson and Johnson (J&J).The vaccine is the only one approved for use in adolescents in India as its phase-3 trial included the age group. But around 145.4 million people between the ages of 12 and 18 in the country will be eligible to get the jab only after a final nod by the government’s expert committees on vaccination, a government official told HT earlier this week.There are two vaccine candidates which have been tested among children in India: Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D, both indigenous.(Covaxin trial data for children is yet to be released).Apart from the world’s first vaccine based on a plasmid DNA platform, the shot is administered needle-free using an intra-dermal jet. This painless administration, the company said, is an added benefit for children and those afraid of the needle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-to-roll-out-its-vaccine-by-end-of-september-101629569830014.html
22-08-2021||India||Row over Mehbooba Mufti’s comments on Afghan crisis||Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti drew flak on Saturday for asking the Centre to take a lesson out of Afghanistan where the Taliban seized power and made the US flee, and demanded the restoration of J&K’s special status.Referring to the Afghanistan crisis, the former CM said: “America, a superpower, had to pack their bags and flee. You (the Centre) still have the opportunity to start a dialogue process in J-K like (former PM) Vajpayee had and mend your mistake of snatching the J-K’s identity illegally and unconstitutionally and splitting of J-K, otherwise it will be too late.”The remarks triggered sharp reaction from the Bharatiya Janata Party which accused her of indulging in “politics of hatred” after losing ground in the Union Territory and said anyone who conspires against India will be destroyed.“The PDP president has committed a great sin against the country. People of Jammu and Kashmir are patriots who love their nation and are keeping the national flag flying high. They are helping the police, Army and paramilitary forces in combating terrorism,” said BJP president Ravinder Raina.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-mehbooba-mufti-s-comments-on-afghan-crisis-101629569535232.html
22-08-2021||India||Tripura Congress president quits post, later withdraws resignation||Tripura Congress chief Pijush Kanti Biswas on Saturday resigned from the party post citing “lack of support from the state unit” but withdrew the resignation later in the day after speaking to the party’s state incharge.Biswas’s resignation triggered speculation that he could join the Trinamool Congress (TMC), which has been trying to make inroads in the state. Earlier in the week, 48-year-old Sushmita Dev quit the Congress to join the Mamata Banerjee-led party.“Cooperation and unity are necessary to make Congress strong. Though I got support from the Congress high command, the expected cooperation was not in Tripura. Even a section of leaders from the party tried to spoil my efforts for the betterment of the party. If I failed to deliver proper results due to lack of cooperation, I did not want to be blamed and that is why I have resigned,” Biswas said earlier on Saturday.However, later in the day, he took back his resignation after holding talks with former Lok Sabha MP and Congress state incharge Ajoy Kumar, who Biswas said assured to resolve his concerns.“Tripura Congress incharge Ajoy Kumar assured to meet me and solve all the issues that I have mentioned earlier. I had resigned from the party president post and not from the Congress. If the party incharge solves all the issues, then I have no problem. Based on his assurances, I withdrew my resignation letter,” said Biswas.Biswas, a lawyer, helped a team of 23 members of the Indian Political Action Committee secure bail after they were booked for violating Covid-19 norms. The team was in Agartala as part of TMC’s poll preparations ahead of the 2023 elections.In an official statement, Kumar’s office said: “Tripura Congress president Pijush Kanti Biswas, after being assured by Tripura Congress prabhari Dr. Ajoy Kumar , has taken his resignation back. Dr. Ajoy Kumar talked to Pijush Kanti Biswas and assured to take all the issues into serious concern and solve them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-congress-president-quits-post-later-withdraws-resignation-101629568631509.html
22-08-2021||India||MSMEs can now access 9,000 factors to monetise their pending bills: Sitharaman||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said the recently enacted factoring regulations have raised the number of factors from nine to 9,000 as micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) can now approach several non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) to monetise their pending receivables. Referring to the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill that was passed in the monsoon session of Parliament, Sitharaman said the legislation aimed to benefit several MSMEs supplying goods and services to large companies and wait for months to get payments.She was speaking at the launch of the ‘Ubharte Sitaare’ Fund in Lucknow, an initiative of India Exim Bank and Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) for export-oriented firms and start-ups. She said MSMEs have options to encash their pending bills through factoring – either with a discount or without any discount. Factoring is a business of acquisition of receivables of assignor by accepting assignment of such receivables or financing, whether by way of making loans or advances or in any other manner against the security interest over any receivables.‘Ubharte Sitaare’ programme includes a mix of structured support, both financial and advisory services through investments in equity, debt, and technical assistance to Indian companies. Sitaraman also released a study by India Exim Bank on “Indian Sports Goods Industry: Strategies for Tapping the Export Potential” that highlighted an untapped export potential of $227.4 million in the sports goods industry.Another study on “Exports From Uttar Pradesh: Trends, Opportunities And Policy Perspective” said while exports from UP have registered robust growth during the recent period, there remains an untapped merchandise export potential of nearly $12.2 billion.UP reported over 36% jump in exports to ₹1.21 lakh crore in 2020-21, compared to ₹88,967 crores in 2017-18 because of the state government’s policies such as One-District-One-Product (ODOP) and robustness of its small industries.Sitharaman said UP has the highest number of MSMEs, and the state government’s ODOP initiative will unlock their true potential for both domestic and export markets.She also hailed Adityanath for creating an investment-friendly atmosphere in Uttar Pradesh.“ I am very proud of the Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath who understands the larger national interest, translates that into state’s policies and takes it at the execution level to the last mile.Speaking at the event, the MSMEs minister of UP Sidharth Nath Singh said the Yogi Adityanath government has taken several policy measures to boost MSMEs. As a result, in the last four-and-a-half years, the state has disbursed over ₹2.5 lakh crore loans to small entrepreneurs and generated 26 million additional employments.MSMEs received over ₹73,000 crores of loans last year alone, despite the Covid-19 pandemic, which is significantly higher than ₹28,000 crores disbursed in 2016-17, he said. He gave credit to chief minister Yogi Adityanath for rapid development in the state’s industrial activities. In new Uttar Pradesh, businesses can be started in 72 hours, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msmes-can-now-access-9-000-factors-to-monetise-their-pending-bills-sitaraman-101629568390566.html
22-08-2021||India||Freed of murder charge after 13 years, MP couple looks to pick up pieces||For 13 years, 61-year-old Raju Yadav and his 58-year-old wife Sahodra Bai lived with the taint of murdering a family member, in and out of jail, serving a term of life imprisonment. But when the couple walked out of Sagar central jail on August 19 after being acquitted by the Supreme Court, the regret was less for themselves and more for their three children.“When other kids were making childhood memories, my children were arranging for food to eat,” Sahodra told HT.At 10:30 pm on May 13, 2008, Moti Nagar police station in Sagar received a call that a man named Pappu was attacked in his home at Subedar Ward. Sahodra, the victim’s sister-in-law, rushed him to a hospital where he succumbed to injuries. In the immediate aftermath, Sohadra and Raju filed a complaint against two persons.However, in the next few days, the two accused were turned into prime witnesses while Raju, Sohadra and Raju’s brother, Madhav, were arrested and jailed for Pappu’s death. The police argued that Raju and Pappu fought over ₹250 rupees, which the latter allegedly owed to the former. In a fit of rage, the couple stabbed Pappu.Booked under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code, they were convicted by a sessions court in 2009. While Sohadra received bail in 2015, Raju continued in jail for the entire period. In October 2018, the couple was found guilty by the high court.For Raju, May 13 is a day that he can never forget. “I still remember that black day. My brother Pappu Yadav was attacked with knives and lathis by two persons and my wife Sahodra took him to the district hospital in an auto. When he died, we registered a complaint against them. But after three days, we were asked to come to the police station. We thought that they wanted to register our statement but we were shocked to see that the police had made us the accused,” he said.With the duo in jail, the couple’s three children -- aged 15, 12 and 7 years old -- were left to fend for themselves.“Who will return these 13 years of our lives? My children suffered a great deal. They spent many nights without food. Their enrollments at school were cancelled and for one year, they dropped out because they did not have the money to deposit the fee. They had to cope with the blot of having parents who were killers? Who will compensate for this?,” Sahodra said.To meet ends, the eldest daughter found herself a job in a mobile phone shop and the 12-year-old at a jewellery shop while the 7-year-old cooked and did the household chores.Sahodra said, “More than us in jail, my children bore the brunt. When they should have been creating childhood memories, my kids were making arrangements for food.”Prior to the incident, Raju would work as the caretaker of a horse in a stable in Sagar, earning between ₹5,000 to ₹6,000 per month. The family lived in a two-room rented house.“They were good in studies and we wanted to see them as officers but we didn’t know that something like this would change our lives,” Sahodra said.Sahodra’s eldest daughter, now 28, is currently pursuing MBA from a private college in Sagar and works for a private company. “I didn’t know how to talk to advocates, what the police were or what a case even was, but had to pick up all of this once my parents were sent to jail. We were vilified by people in our locality for being the children of murderers. Our house had broken doors, and every night, with no adults in the house, we slept afraid wondering if we would be attacked. When people saw my brothers, they taunted them saying they would kill each other too, but we learnt not to respond. I had faith in the judiciary,” the daughter said, wishing not to be named.In its judgement on August 18, the Supreme Court bench comprising justice Indira Banerjee and justice V Ramasubramanian said the police had worked on “extraneous considerations” and the investigation was designed to turn the informants into the accused. “We are clearly of the view that the investigation in this case was carried out by police not with the intention of unearthing the truth, but for burying the same fathom deep, for extraneous considerations and that it was designed to turn the informant and her family members as the accused and allow the real culprits named in the FIR to escape,” the judgement read.Dismissing the police claims in the case, the court said the case was “foisted” against the very informant and their family members “due to political pressure”.“It is unbelievable that the accused caused the death of Pappu due to the failure of the victim to return an amount of ₹250 due and payable to one of the main suspects. It is equally unbelievable that one of the persons who killed the victim, in the presence of witnesses, took the body of the victim to the hospital in an autorickshaw. The normal human behaviour in such circumstances will be either to flee the place of occurrence or to go to the police station to surrender, except in cases where they are intelligent and seasoned criminals. Neither did happen,” the judgment said.“In court, we argued that the conviction was based entirely upon surmises and that such a conviction is wholly unsustainable in law. A close scrutiny of the sequence of events that happened from the date of occurrence of the crime, namely showed that the investigation in this case, instead of proceeding in pursuit of truth, had proceeded towards burying the truth,” the couple’s counsel Ardhendumauli Kumar Prasad said.On the couple’s acquittal, superintendent of police, Sagar, and retired IPS officer Hari Singh Yadav said, “It was not a high profile case so I don’t remember anything.”The current superintendent of police, Atul Singh, said, “We have not received any instruction from the court yet. If the court instructs us to probe the matter, we will act accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/freed-of-murder-charge-after-13-years-mp-couple-looks-to-pick-up-pieces-101629567610348.html
22-08-2021||India||Madras HC to Centre: Use English for official purposes||The Madras high court on Thursday directed the Union government to strictly follow the provisions of the Official Languages Act mandating the use of English for official purposes of the Union and Parliament months after a Tamil Nadu lawmaker filed a petition seeking adherence to the law after a Union ministry responded to his letter in Hindi. Language is a sensitive issue in Tamil Nadu, where anti-Hindi agitations date back to the 1930s.“The Union government must reply in English if you are getting a representation in English,” said Justices N Kirubakaran and M Duraiswamy of the court’s Madurai bench in their order.Su Venkatesan, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) Member of Parliament from Madurai, moved the court seeking the use of English in all communications between the Union and the Tamil Nadu government, its lawmakers and the people. This came after the Union home ministry responded in Hindi to his letter in English last year requesting the setting up of exam centres for the recruitments for paramilitary Central Reserve Police Force in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry.In protest, Venkatesan first sent another letter saying he does not belong to a Hindu-speaking state and does not know how to read, write and speak the language. He sought action against officials who sent him the reply in Hindi without an English translation, saying it violated the rights guaranteed under the Constitution as well as the Official Languages Act.Officials from the home ministry were not available for a comment.In 1938, protests first erupted against the alleged imposition of Hindi in now what is Tamil Nadu when then Madras Presidency premier C Rajagopalachari sought to make the language compulsory in schools. Protests erupted against Hindi again in 1965. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) rose to power first riding on this wave of protests in the 1967 assembly elections. No national political party has since emerged as an alternative to the regional parties.The language issue has gained more importance since the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) returned to power at the Centre in 2014. The ruling DMK has accused the BJP, which is known for its emphasis on Hindi, of trying to impose Hindi and Sanskrit.The Centre informed the court the Union home ministry’s response in Hindi to Venkatesan was inadvertent and not intentional. The court said the Centre should use English along with Hindi citing Section 3 of the Official Languages Act, which says both Hindi and English should be used for the documents.“They (union government) said that they did it unintentionally, but I wanted them to know that they are violating the law,” Venkatesan said.Venkatesan said that he approached the court only after he and other Tamil Nadu MPs faced repeated incidents of ‘Hindi imperialism’. “We had been complaining to the ministries and the Lok Sabha speaker that we are receiving responses only in Hindi and us MPs from non-Hindi speaking states are clueless,” said Venkatesan. “Even while this case was in the court the education ministry sent a reply to me in Hindi on another representation I sent. We made all these arguments today. .”On the question of whether the MPs can send a representation in their regional languages such as Tamil and if the union government is legally bound to reply in the same language, Venkatesan said that the Act mentions that a reply can be given in regional languages to non-Hindi speaking states. “Morally they can give a response in the regional languages but if they can’t, then it has to be in English. Why should a reply be given in Hindi to a non-Hindi speaking state and that’s what the court has stressed on today.”DMK’s spokesperson A Saravanan said that the order stamps an authority on the usage of official languages. “Ever since the BJP came to power they have tried to impose Hindi, if not directly but indirectly. And we have been able to identify those attempts and swat them,” said Saravanan.Tamil Nadu’s BJP unit denied the accusation. “It’s an individual from any union ministry who replies and they would have just done it unawares. No one is scheming here thinking that by replying in Hindi they can thrust the language,” said state BJP secretary Karu Nagarajan. “We have made learning mother tongue compulsory in the National Education Policy and students can write NEET in Tamil and other regional languages. Our party leaders, the Prime Minister and vice-president have repeatedly stressed on the importance of mother tongue so why would we be against it?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-to-centre-use-english-for-official-purposes-101629418418207.html
