23-08-2021||India||Bihar all-party delegation meets Modi, pushes for caste-based census in India||An all–party delegation from Bihar led by chief minister Nitish Kumar called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday to push for a caste-based census, saying they were satisfied with a “patient hearing” but underlining that the final decision rested with the PM.Members of 11 parties, including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), met Modi for around 40 minutes.Speaking to media after the event, Kumar, whose party runs a coalition government with the BJP in Bihar, said a demand for caste-based enumeration existed not just in his state but also the rest of the country. “We are grateful to the Prime Minister for listening to us. Now, he has to take a decision,” he said.The meeting happened in the backdrop of mounting pressure on the Centre to accept the demand for a caste census ahead of critical elections in seven states next year. “There is likelihood of another set of parties meeting the PM on the same issue,” said a person aware of details.Another person familiar with what happened during the meeting said the PM heard arguments put forth by the delegation. “He did not question what was explained by the leaders, but said the issue comes under the purview of the home ministry and will have to be discussed with the home minister as well,” this person added. A delegation of JD(U) members called on home minister Amit Shah earlier this month to discuss the issue.Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav, who has joined hands with bitter rival Kumar to press for a caste census, was also part of the delegation and said the enumeration will be in “interest of the nation” and a step “that will benefit the poor.”“When animals and trees are counted, then why not castes? When the government has no scientific data on the population, how can it make welfare policies?” he said.Yadav also said the perception that a caste-based enumeration will lead to social unrest is flawed. “When states will have the caste data, then only will they be able include castes in their OBC [other backward class] list. If caste census will lead to unrest, then the same logic applies to religion as well.”The demand for a caste census is decades old, especially among OBC groups, but has gathered momentum in recent months, coinciding with the BJP’s outreach among OBCs, a critical votebank in poll-bound states such as Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. The last full caste census was done in 1931; since Independence, India has only counted scheduled castes and tribes.Sections of the BJP support the demand but the party has not explicitly taken a stand on the issue, given its sensitivity and the possibility of triggering anger among influential upper castes.But the party finds itself cornered by a growing coalition of parties, including allies such as the JD(U), Apna Dal, All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and the Republican Party of India-Athawale. The YSR Congress Party and the Biju Janata Dal, considered friendly parties, have also lent their support to the Opposition’s demand.These parties have argued that a count of castes will give a correct assessment of how castes are numerically poised and which groups have benefitted the most and the least from quotas based on the Mandal commission recommendations that paved the way for 27% reservation for OBCs in government jobs and educational institutions.Among those who spoke in favour of the exercise on Monday were Mukesh Sahani (Vikasheel Insaan Party), former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi (HAM) and Ajit Sharma (Congress). The BJP, which supported two resolutions on the demand passed in the Bihar assembly, was represented by Janak Ram.The demand for caste-based census is a politically sensitive issue for the BJP as its outreach towards the OBCs is seen as attempts at consolidating support from the constituency, perceived to have immense political heft that can sway elections in key states such as Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra.Political commentators credit the BJP‘s big win in the 2014 and 2019 general elections to the massive support it drew from the OBC communities. As per a Lok Niti-CSDS survey the BJP managed 22% of the OBC votes in 2009 Lok Sabha elections as opposed to 42% that was drawn by the regional parties but during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections 44% of the OBCs voted for the BJP while only 27% voted for the regional parties.“Statistics given by the government shows that reservation notwithstanding OBCs make up just 9.42% and 8.95% of all group A and B government jobs,” said a JDU leader.Within the BJP too, there is an apprehension that not agreeing to the count could upset the OBC vote bank. “In Uttar Pradesh where OBCs are estimated to be around 50% of the population, the party is particularly concerned about eliciting the support of the non-dominant OBC castes who make up for more than half of the total OBC population,” said a BJP leader on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-all-party-delegation-meets-modi-pushes-for-caste-based-census-in-india-101629743263657.html
23-08-2021||India||7 dalits thrashed on suspicion of ‘black magic'||Seven members of two Dalit families were thrashed by local residents on suspicion of practising “black magic” in a village in Chandrapur district of Maharashtra, leaving them seriously injured, police said on Monday.The incident took place in village Wani under Jiwti tehsil over the weekend and 13 persons have been arrested so far, they added.Atul Kulkarni, additional SP of Chandrapur, said on Saturday night, seven members of two families were summoned to the village square by local residents who accused them of practising “black magic and possessing spirits”. As they reached the village chowk, people started throwing mud on them. Later, the crowd tied three of them to wooden poles and thrashed them with sticks and also punched them, he said.On getting information, police reached the village and moved the victims, who had sustained serious injures, to hospital for treatment, he added.Santosh Ambike, assistant police inspector of Jivta, said: “More arrests are likely as investigation is in the preliminary stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-dalits-thrashed-on-suspicion-of-black-magic-101629742807123.html
23-08-2021||India||Govt sets Sep 15 deadline for Infosys to fix glitches in I-T portal||NEW DELHI: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday conveyed “deep disappointment and concerns” of the government and taxpayers to Salil Parekh, chief executive officer and managing director of Infosys, because of continuing glitches in the e-filing portal of the income tax (I-T) department even after two-and-a-half months of its launch, the finance ministry said.Sitharaman met Parekh in the afternoon and sought an explanation from Infosys for the “repeated issues” faced by taxpayers, it said in a statement. She had summoned him for an explanation on why glitches in the new portal (incometax. gov.in) still persisted months after its launch on June 7.Parekh on Monday assured that Infosys was working expeditiously to ensure a glitch-free experience to the taxpayers on the portal, the statement said after the meeting.Sitharaman demanded that the issues faced by taxpayers on current functionalities of the portal should be resolved by September 15 so that taxpayers and professionals can work seamlessly on the portal, it said.Parekh said “he and his team are doing everything to ensure the smooth functioning of the portal”. He said over 750 team members are working on this project and Pravin Rao, COO of Infosys, is personally overseeing this project. In the meeting, the government emphasised the need for putting in more resources and efforts on the part of Infosys so that the much-delayed delivery of agreed services is ensured. “Parekh was also sensitised on the difficulties that the taxpayers were facing and the problems that are arising on account of the delays in the functioning of the portal,” it said.Infosys did not respond to an email query on this matter.Tax professionals and chartered accountants (CAs) have said the site being completely down is causing immense inconvenience to taxpayers as the deadline for filing ITR is approaching. “There is a rush as the last date for filing personal I-T returns is September 30. The government may have to extend the deadline to salvage the situation,” said Tarun Kumar, a CA.He added that many functions like the filing of rectification applications or the registration of legal heir to file returns on behalf of a deceased hasn’t been enabled yet on the portal.The total number of taxpayers for the assessment year 2019-20 was over 87 million. The total number of ITRs filed, including revised returns, in the financial year 2020-21 was 73.89 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-sets-sep-15-deadline-for-infosys-to-fix-glitches-in-i-t-portal-101629742966886.html
23-08-2021||India||SC pulls up Allahabad, Uttarakhand HCs for staying arrests in murder cases||The Supreme Court on Monday pulled up the high courts of Allahabad and Uttarakhand for “continuously” issuing stay orders on the arrest of people accused of heinous crimes such as murder.“Despite our orders repeatedly holding that no such [stay] order can be passed, the High Courts in Uttar Pradesh (Allahabad) and Uttarakhand are continuously passing such orders,” remarked a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah.The court’s remarks came while hearing an appeal against a July 23 order passed by the Uttarakhand high court on a plea for quashing the first information report in the murder of a man that named three people as accused. The high court had noted that the prayer for quashing the FIR was “innocuous” and was not pressed for by the accused, but it still allowed them protection from arrest till August 10.The Supreme Court noted that the offence in the case was of murder and the high court should have been more circumspect. “It is a shocking order passed by the high court,” the apex court remarked while noting that the order allowed the accused to surrender by August 10 and also get a decision on their bail plea on the same day, if filed. “Further, it goes on to say that if bail is refused, the papers should be sent to a sessions judge the same day who will deal with the bail expeditiously.”Praveen Salar, the complainant in the case and the brother of the victim, appealed in the Supreme Court against this order. His family, as well as the accused, were business rivals, each owning brick kilns in Haridwar. Salar said he wasn’t even heard before the order was passed. At this, the SC issued a notice to the Uttarakhand government and posted the matter for hearing on September 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-pulls-up-allahabad-uttarakhand-hcs-for-staying-arrests-in-murder-cases-101629742643248.html
23-08-2021||India||Southerly winds to bring heavy rainfall in these 11 states till August 27: IMD||This year the monsoon season has caused massive damages to a majority of the states and Union territories in the country, with a myriad of cloudburst incidents caused from incessant rainfall. The rains led to major accidents such as electrocution, landslides and even house collapses thereby leading to hundreds of fatalities, including in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Rajasthan, among others.According to the latest bulletin by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), more than 10 states are likely to receive widespread rainfall in isolated to scattered places over the next four days till August 27.Also Read | Delhi receives highest one-day rain for August in 13 years: IMDIn its bulletin, the IMD said that the western-end of the monsoon trough lies to the “south of its normal position and the eastern-end lies to the north of its normal position.”The IMD said in its forecast that the western-end will gradually shift northwards from August 24 onwards, and the eastern-end will shift southwards from August 26 onwards.Furthermore, the IMD said that a cyclonic circulation lies over northwest Rajasthan and the neighbourhood in lower tropospheric levels. “Strong southerly/southwesterly winds from Bay of Bengal to northeast India very likely to continue to prevail till August 25,” the IMD bulletin noted.Here are the key IMD alerts for states expected to receive heavy rainfall as an effect of the above-mentioned scenario:1. Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely to continue over northeast India, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim till August 27.2. Isolated extremely heavy falls are also expected over Meghalaya and Assam till August 25.3. The IMD bulletin said that fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls is very likely to continue over Bihar, Uttarakhand and east Uttar Pradesh till August 27.4. According to the bulletin. Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Puducherry’s Mahe are expected to witness scattered to fairly widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls on August 23, 26 and 27.5. Subdued rainfall is very likely over the rest of the country covering northwest India, central India and remaining parts of peninsular India, including Gujarat and Maharashtra (outside Rajasthan) till August 27. In Rajasthan, however, the IMD bulletin stated, dry weather is likely to be present between August 25 and 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/southerly-winds-to-bring-heavy-rainfall-in-these-11-states-till-august-27-imd-101629741824297.html
23-08-2021||India||Bhupesh Baghel, TS Singh Deo to meet Congress brass amid buzz over power sharing||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and health minister TS Singh Deo are set to meet senior Congress leaders in Delhi on Tuesday even as talk of a reported power-sharing arrangement between the two gains momentum in political circles.Baghel said that senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will present at the meeting, which will be held in the presence of party’s Chhattisgarh general secretary in-charge PL Punia.“The CM’s meeting was scheduled about one-and-half months ago. It is a review meeting and obviously the power-sharing formula will be discussed. Singh Deo and Baghel both will be present at the meeting,” said a leader close to Baghel who asked not to be named.Tensions between Baghel and Singh Deo have simmered since the formation of the government in December 2018, but have never boiled over. Both leaders have taken the stance that all decisions about the government’s future will be taken by the party high command, and they will follow the instructions from Delhi. However, speculation of a new arrangement has been rising since June 17, the day the CM completed two-and-a-half years of his term.In December 2018, with the Congress winning a comfortable majority after a 15-year Raman Singh-led Bharatiya Janata Party tenure, there were four claimants to the position of chief minister. While senior leader Charan Das Mahant was given the Speaker’s post, a power-sharing agreement was reportedly hammered out between Baghel and Singh Deo at a time when it seemed like Tamradhwaj Sahu, now the state’s home minister, would emerge as the beneficiary of disagreements between the two.On his way to Delhi, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel told reporters at the Raipur airport, “It’s been a long time since I have visited Delhi, and after the pandemic, it is my first trip. We are going to meet with Rahul Gandhi along with our state in charge PL Punia.” Asked if Singhdeo would be joining the meeting, Baghel said, “It’s up to Rahul Gandhi, he can invite anyone. We are going on his invitation.”Singh Deo , when asked about the meeting in Delhi on Tuesday, told HT: “ You should ask Punia ji ( PL Punia); he is correct person to provide more details.”Punia was unavailable for comment despite repeated phone calls.Earlier this month, Singh Deo was in Delhi, where he met senior Congress leaders, although he claimed he was on personal visit.“We know what is going on between Singh Deo and Baghel in Chhattisgarh. I don’t know the sequence and timing of the meetings, but both Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi will meet the Chhattisgarh leaders and all issues including power-sharing will surely be discussed,” said a senior Congress leader in Delhi on condition of anonymity.Over the past two months, there have been several bookmarks of potential tension within the Chhattisgarh government.Last week, Singh Deo wrote a letter to commissioner of the state public relations department seeking action against a news portal that ran a story saying chief minister Baghel will resign on August 17, and attributed the information to Singh Deo.The heath minister demanded “strict action” against the news portal, saying it was a “planned conspiracy” to “pollute” the political environment of state.Then, the issue of power sharing seemed to find tacit admission on August 13 when assembly speaker and senior Congress leader Charan Das Mahant said that four senior leaders – Baghel, Singh Deo, Sahu, and himself – played the semi-finals for the CM post, and the final was in progress. “Semifinals were between four people, and only two remained. But one who wins the finals is eventually the winner. Rahul ji ( Rahul Gandhi) knows all about this formula and only Delhi can give more information about it,” Mahant said.On July 27, Singh Deo walked out of the state assembly where Baghel was present, demanding clarity from his own government over allegations that he was somehow involved in an alleged attack on Congress legislator Brihaspat Singh.The issue began after Singh alleged that his convoy was attacked at the behest of Singh Deo in Surguja district, which is the health minister’s assembly constituency. Later, after the intervention of PL Punia, the issue was resolved, and Singh Deo returned to assembly after Singh apologised for his statements against the minister.Gauri Shankar Srivas, senior BJP spokesperson in Chhattisgarh said, “The infighting within the Congress is causing huge damage to the state. Now, everyone in the state knows about it. The Congress should resolve their issue for the sake of Chhattisgarh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baghel-deo-to-meet-cong-brass-amid-buzz-over-power-sharing-101629740426707.html
23-08-2021||India||Jaishankar to brief all-party panel on Afghan situation||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will brief parliamentary floor leaders of various parties on the prevailing Afghanistan situation on Thursday after the Taliban’s takeover of the war-ravaged country fuelled chaos, protests and mass exodus from Kabul.The last all-party meeting on Afghanistan was held 20 years ago, on October 30, 2001, after US forces launched an attack against the Taliban in the aftermath of the 9/11 terror strike. The upcoming meeting, organised by the parliamentary affairs ministry, underlines how history has turned a full circle on Afghan soil.Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi tweeted, “Floor Leaders of Political Parties would be briefed by EAM @DrSJaishankar on the present situation in Afghanistan... Invites are being sent through email. All concerned are requested to attend”, after Jaishankar announced on the micro-blogging site, “In view of developments in Afghanistan, PM @narendramodi has instructed that MEA brief Floor Leaders of political parties.”Both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha leaders of various parties have been invited for the meeting that will see Jaishankar briefing the parties before answering questions.It will be the first parliamentary all-party meeting during the Modi era on an external situation. But the gravity of the Afghanistan situation is hard for parliamentary leaders to overlook as it affects India’s security situation and a deep humanitarian crisis with hundreds of Indian expats as well as Afghan nationals being evacuated.The last all-party meeting was called on the Covid situation on July 20.While all parties are expected to attend the meeting on Afghanistan, some leaders, however, suggested that the government should call a meeting of party chiefs and not just parliamentary leaders. “A meeting on Afghanistan would have been a more fruitful exercise if the party leaders were invited. The government must call a meeting of party leaders,” said Trinamool MP Sudip Bandopadhyay.The previous meeting on Aghanistan was organised by the external affairs ministry but chaired by the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The subject was “American Military Action in Afghanistan”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-to-brief-all-party-panel-on-afghan-situation-101629740126512.html
23-08-2021||India||2 Lashkar commanders killed in gunbattle with police in Kashmir||The Jammu and Kashmir Police on Monday carried out an operation where it killed two top commanders of the The Resistance Force (TRF), an outfit affiliated with the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). The terrorists, Mohd Abbas Sheikh and Saqib Manzoor Dar, were top LeT commanders and were also responsible for carrying out numerous attacks on civilians, lawmakers and security personnel. Sheikh, who is also the chief of the TRF, along with his associate Saqid were killed in the Aloochi Bagh area of Srinagar.The inspector general of Kashmir Zone called the encounter a ‘major’ success. “We had information about their presence in the area. Ten jawans of police dressed in civvies quickly surrounded the area and challenged the terrorists, who opened fire. In the retaliatory firing, the two were killed,” Vijay Kumar said.Earlier this year, Saqib carried out an attack on Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Mohammad Anwar Khan in Srinagar. Though the leader escaped unhurt, one security personnel lost his life. Saqib also killed Abdul Hamid Najar, a BJP worker, in Budgam last year. In a separate onslaught, the militant also attacked owners of commercial establishments and looted ₹35,000 from the branch of the Grameen Bank in Srinagar. Saqib was involved in at least 10 incidents between 2020 and 2021 where he attacked security personnel, leading to the death of at least seven security personnel.He was also behind the death of advocate Babar Qadri.Mohd Abbas Sheikh was responsible for the deaths of police and security personnel and also was an accomplice of Saqib. Sheikh also killed an owner of a mobile shop and along with Saqib killed police officer Pervaiz Ahmad Dar. He was earlier a member of terrorist organisation Hizbul Mujahideen but defected to the TRF two years ago. The locals were also concerned as these terrorists were also actively recruiting youth to their ranks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-lashkar-commanders-killed-in-gunbattle-with-police-in-kashmir-101629739096391.html
23-08-2021||India||Repatriation of stranded most urgent priority in Afghanistan, say Modi, Merkel||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi and German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Monday called for peace and security in Afghanistan in order to facilitate the repatriation of stranded people.The matter figured in a phone conversation between the two leaders, who discussed the security situation in Afghanistan and its implications on the region and the world.“They emphasised the importance of maintaining peace and security, with the most urgent priority being the repatriation of stranded people,” the external affairs ministry said in a readout.India has evacuated nearly 550 people, including almost 400 of its nationals, from Afghanistan this week and dozens more are expected to be brought home by Tuesday. Germany has been operating military evacuation flights that have flown out nearly 2,700 people from Kabul airport.Spoke to Chancellor Merkel this evening and discussed bilateral, multilateral and regional issues, including recent developments in Afghanistan. Reiterated our commitment to strengthening the India-Germany Strategic Partnership.German troops are among international forces securing the Kabul airport and some of them were involved in a gun battle on Monday.On Sunday, German foreign minister Heiko Maas spoke with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar as part of Berlin’s efforts to cooperate with international and regional partners on the evacuation flights. “Need to continue evacuation efforts for as long as possible,” the German foreign ministry tweeted.Modi and Merkel also discussed issues on the bilateral agenda, including collaboration on Covid-19 vaccines, development cooperation focused on climate and energy, and fostering trade and economic relations.They exchanged views on issues of multilateral interest such as the forthcoming COP26 meeting and the Indian initiative to promote a dialogue on maritime security at the United Nations Security Council. India holds the rotating presidency of the Security Council for August.“They emphasised commonality of perspectives between both sides on promoting inclusive cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region,” the readout said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/repatriation-of-stranded-most-urgent-priority-in-afghanistan-say-modi-merkel-101629737846259.html
23-08-2021||India||Amid crisis, India hopes to evacuate another 150 people, including nationals||India is expected to evacuate up to 150 people, including its own nationals and dozens of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, from Kabul to Dushanbe in military aircraft on Monday before flying them home on commercial flights.A group of almost 50 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus entered Kabul airport by Monday afternoon, hours after an Afghan soldier was killed and three more were injured in a gun battle near the military side of the facility. The firefight began when a sniper outside the airport fired at former Afghan soldiers helping US forces as guards.The Indian side is hopeful of pulling out almost all of the Indian nationals who have registered for evacuation flights by Monday, along with Afghan Sikhs and Hindus and other Afghan citizens, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.C-130 aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) will fly the people to the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe, from where they will be brought home in Air India flights.On Sunday, India evacuated nearly 540 people, including 475 of its nationals, on several flights from Kabul, Dushanbe and Doha. Nearly 200 people – including diplomats, officials and security personnel posted at the Indian embassy and some Indian nationals – were flown out of Kabul within two days of the Taliban marching into the Afghan capital.The people cited above said Dushanbe had emerged as an important hub for the evacuation flights for a variety of reasons, including logistics and support infrastructure.“Time slots and space at Kabul airport continue to be limited. It is easier to station our aircraft in Tajikistan and fly the evacuees from Kabul to Dushanbe whenever we have gathered enough people at the airport. The flight takes about 45 minutes,” one of the people said.“It is also easier to process all the paperwork and complete all the formalities for the evacuees in Dushanbe, where we have back up from the Indian embassy. Plus, we have access to the airbase at Ayni near Dushanbe,” the person said.“Besides, the evacuees get some time to rest and recover after the harrowing journey into Kabul airport, which remains the most difficult part of the evacuation process,” the person added.Since 2002, India has renovated the Ayni airbase, located 10 km west of Dushanbe, at a cost of more than $70 million under an agreement with Tajikistan. The upgrades included extending the runway to 3,200 metres and installing navigation and defensive equipment.The tactic of flying the evacuees from Kabul to Dushanbe and then sending them back home in commercial flights has proved to be less time-consuming, the people said. The Air India aircraft can fly directly from Dushanbe to New Delhi via Pakistani airspace, unlike military aircraft which have to take a longer route through Iranian airspace and over the Arabian Sea.Some of the airlifts using the IAF’s C-17 Globemaster heavy lift aircraft had involved the more circuitous route and more stops for refuelling, the people pointed out.The security situation at Kabul airport, which is controlled by the US military, continues to be precarious. At least 20 people have died in the chaos at the airport, mostly in shootings and stampedes, as US and international forces try to evacuate citizens and Afghans facing threats from the Taliban.The Taliban have deployed hundreds of their fighters outside the airport to enforce some sort of order. On Saturday, seven Afghans were killed in a crush at the gates.The gun battle near the north gate of the Kabul airport on Monday, which also involved US and German troops, highlighted the fragile security situation in the area.President Joe Biden said on Sunday the US could extend the August 31 deadline for the withdrawal of American forces from Afghanistan in order to fly out thousands of US citizens and Afghans, but Taliban spokesman Suhail Shaheen described the development as a “red line” and warned that there “would be consequences” if the US or the UK were to seek additional time for evacuations.UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to urge Biden this week to extend the evacuation deadline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-crisis-india-hopes-to-evacuate-another-150-people-including-nationals-101629735986105.html
23-08-2021||India||Bengal tiger maimed by crocodile 13 yrs ago turns 25 at South Khairbari rehab||SILIGURI: A Bengal tiger, rescued from the Sunderbans 13 years ago after being maimed by a crocodile, turned 25 on Monday at the South Khairbari Leopard Rehabilitation Centre in north Bengal’s Alipurduar district, forest officials said. He is still very healthy, said an official of West Bengal’s forest department that celebrated the event by holding online drawing and quiz competitions on tigers and wildlife protection. A video on life of the tiger in the enclosure was also released.The tiger, Raja, is considered among the oldest in India. Bengal tigers have an average life span of 12-15 years in the wild and 20 years or more in captivity, according to the Wildlife Institute of India (2018) National Studbook of Bengal.Gum-line recession, a physiological aspect of ageing, is said to be reliable way to estimate age of adults tiger. Raja’s age has been estimated using this method, officials said.Deepak M, divisional forest officer of Jaldapara National Park, said, “The day Raja was brought to us was marked as his birthday. He was 12 years old then and could not walk.” “In 2008, Raja was crossing a river at the Sajnekhali Wildlife Sanctuary in the Sunderbans when a crocodile attacked him. His left hind leg was badly injured in the fight. He was taken to the Alipore Zoo in Kolkata and brought to Alipurduar after preliminary treatment,” said Deepak M. Veterinary doctor Pralay Mandal, four doctors in his team, and wildlife guard Partha Sarathi Sinha treated the injured tiger. Though the other injuries healed, Raja could walk only after nine months. When Raja arrived at the rehabilitation centre there were already 19 Bengal tigers that had been rescued from circuses. Some of them died of age while the rest were sent to zoos. Raja is the only Bengal tiger left now. There are 21 leopards as well. Sinha, who still serves as forest guard, said, “Raja is still very healthy and this makes us proud. No Bengal tiger has lived for 25 years. We are witness to history.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-tiger-maimed-by-crocodile-13-yrs-ago-turns-25-at-south-khairbari-rehab-101629735927725.html
23-08-2021||India||Discussed Afghan situation also, says Modi after phone call with Angela Merkel||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday spoke to German Chancellor Angela Merkel and the two leaders discussed among other issues the evolving situation in Afghanistan.The Indian Prime Minister took to Twitter to post that he discussed bilateral, multilateral and regional issues with Chancellor Merkel.Spoke to Chancellor Merkel this evening and discussed bilateral, multilateral and regional issues, including recent developments in Afghanistan. Reiterated our commitment to strengthening the India-Germany Strategic Partnership.An official statement released by the Prime Minister's Office said the two leaders discussed the unfolding security situation in Afghanistan and its implications on the region and the world."They emphasised the importance of maintaining peace and security, with the most urgent priority being the repatriation of stranded people," it read.India deployed a special Air Force aircraft to evacuate its diplomats and nationals from Mazar-e-Sharif in northern Afghanistan on Tuesday after reports surfaced of the advance of Taliban fighters amid a violent assault by the group on key cities and urban centres.The Indian government also advised its citizens still in Afghanistan to make immediate travel arrangements to return before commercial air services are discontinued.India also repatriate around 400 people, including two Afghan lawmakers and two Nepalese citizens, back in three separate flights from Kabul on Sunday.ALSO READ | Jaishankar to brief Parliament floor leaders on Afghan situation on ThursdayIndia is also planning to evacuate another 150 people, including Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, from Kabul to Dushanbe in military aircraft on Monday before flying them home on commercial flights.Modi and Merkel also touched upon the bilateral agenda, including cooperation in vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), development cooperation with a focus on climate and energy, and fostering trade and economic relations.They exchanged views on issues of multilateral interest such as the forthcoming UN climate change conference (COP26) in Glasgow as well as India's initiative to promote a dialogue on maritime security at the United Nations Security Council.The discussion between the two heads of the state also included commonality of perspectives between both sides on promoting inclusive cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narendra-modi-angela-merkel-afghanistan-bilateral-ties-india-germany-101629733841148.html
23-08-2021||India||5 women officers pick up rank of colonel in new branches||The Indian Army on Monday announced that a board has cleared the promotion of five women officers to the time-scale rank of Colonel after the completion of the mandatory 26 years of service. This is the first time that women officers have been promoted to the rank outside the medical, legal and education wings of the army.The promotion forms part of natural career progression after the army began granting them permanent commission after a ruling by the Supreme Court last year.The widening of promotion avenues to more branches of the Indian Army is a sign of increasing career opportunities for women officers, the army said in a statement. “Combined with the decision to grant permanent commission to women officers from a majority of branches of the Indian Army, this step defines the Indian Army’s approach towards a gender-neutral army,” the statement said.The development comes 18 months after the top court ruled that women officers, who joined the Indian Army through short service commission (SSC), were entitled to permanent commission and command roles.The five women officers approved for the rank of colonel are serving with the Corps of Signals, Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers (EME) and the Corps of Engineers. They are Lieutenant Colonels Sangeeta Sardana from the Corps of Signals, Sonia Anand and Navneet Duggal from the Corps of EME and Reenu Khanna and Ritcha Sagar from the Corps of Engineers.“The potential of lady officers was unseen and not utilised well so far. With permanent commission being approved, women are now picking up the rank of colonel. It shows they are no less than their male counterparts. Kudos to their strength and perseverance…It’s been a long wait but worth it,” said Captain Shalini Singh (retd), a former SSC officer whose husband, Major Avinash Singh Bhadauria, was posthumously awarded the Kirti Chakra in 2001.The headcount of women in the military has increased almost three-fold over the last six years, with more avenues being opened to them at a steady pace. As of February 2021, there were 9,118 women serving in the army, navy and air force.Last week, the Supreme Court directed the government to allow women to take the next entrance exam for the National Defence Academy (NDA), thus far a male preserve, opening the doors of the premier training institution to women. Women were allowed to serve in select branches of the three services as SSC officers almost three decades ago.One of the turning points for women in the military came in 2015 when the Indian Air Force decided to induct them into the fighter stream. Earlier this year, the Indian Navy deployed four women officers on warships after a hiatus of almost 25 years.In May 2021, the army inducted the first batch of women into the Corps of Military Police, the first time that women joined the military in the non-officer cadre. In June 2021, two women army officers were for the first time selected to train as helicopter pilots at the force’s premier Combat Army Aviation Training School at Nashik in Maharashtra. But tanks and combat positions in the infantry are still no-go zones for women....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-women-officers-pick-up-rank-of-colonel-in-new-branches-101629733228960.html
23-08-2021||India||‘Covid-19 third wave is completely avoidable if…’: What this govt expert says||Following the debilitating effect of the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on India, concerns are growing regarding the third wave of the virus. Speaking on the issue, the secretary of the government’s department of biotechnology, Dr Renu Swarup, said on Monday that the third wave will come “if invited” either by human behaviour or that of the virus.The behaviour of the virus, Swaroop said, is known and it is typical of mutation and that “we don’t have control over that.”“Human behaviour is in our control, which involves adopting Covid-appropriate behaviour vis-à-vis maintaining hygiene, wearing a face mask, following social distancing,” she told news agency ANI.As the Delta strain remains a matter of concern across the globe with more than 100 nations bearing the brunt of it, and even in India where several states have extended the Covid-19-induced restrictions over the fear of a third wave, Swaroop says that following norms will help in breaking the chain of transmission.“If we continue to follow Covid-19 protocol and break the chain of transmission, we will not allow the virus to go from one host to the other,” she told ANI.Several reports have surfaced over the past few months regarding the onset of the third wave of Covid-19. The National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM), under the ministry of home affairs, has cautioned in its report to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) that the wave will reach its peak in October. The report, furthermore, quoted a Reuters opinion survey of 40 experts who predicted the third wave to arrive between July 15 and October 13.According to ANI, Swaroop, however, stressed on her point that there is “no way” the wave is going to happen if people “allow it to be controlled.”Also Read | Covid third wave likely this month, may peak in October: ReportIndia on Monday recorded 25,072 fresh coronavirus cases, the lowest in the past 160 days, thereby taking the cumulative tally of the country to 32,449,306, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. As many as 44,157 new recoveries, the total number of recovered patients has reached 31,680,626. The recovery rate has increased to 97.63 per cent, which is also the highest since March last year, the health ministry stated. The active case count stands at 3,33,924, the lowest in 155 days.As far as vaccination is concerned, India has inoculated 58,25,49,595 Covid-19 vaccine jabs to beneficiaries across the country till 8am on Monday. A statement by the health ministry said that this was done through 64,69,222 sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-third-wave-is-completely-avoidable-if-what-this-govt-expert-says-101629730926943.html
23-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine receives full approval from FDA and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.US health agency fully approves Pfizer-BioNTech vaccineThe top US health agency on Monday granted full approval to Pfizer-BioNTech’s two-shot messenger RNA (mRNA) Covid-19 vaccine, making it the first for the United States. Read moreRolls Royce, once owned by Amitabh Bachchan, among 7 cars seized in KarnatakaA Karnataka transport department official said the person driving the Rolls Royce produced a declaration, said to have been given by super star Amitabh Bachchan, that he has sold the vehicle to the Bengaluru realtor. Read moreDigital vaccination certificates issued to Covishield, Covaxin trial participantsA total of 11,349 trial participants have been issued their certificates through Co-WIN, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) noted in a statement. Read more'I'm happy people are talking about me': Ajinkya Rahane on criticismDespite India’s stunning 151-run victory in the second Test at Lord’s, questions continue to hang beside senior batsmen Cheteshwar Pujara and Ajinkya Rahane’s names due to the prolonged dry run from their bat. Read moreInside Shaheer Sheikh's wife Ruchikaa Kapoor's baby shower, featuring cake and balloons. See picsNumerous pictures and videos from Shaheer Sheikh's wife Ruchikaa Kapoor's baby shower have been shared online. The parents-to-be were seen cutting a cake and posing together. Read moreExplained | Caste census: PM Modi's meeting; who wants it & whyA delegation of Bihar’s political parties led by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday to discuss their demand of a caste-based census. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pfizer-s-covid-19-vaccine-receives-full-approval-from-fda-and-all-the-latest-news-101629731220199.html
23-08-2021||India||Rolls Royce, once owned by Amitabh Bachchan, among 7 cars seized in Karnataka||BENGALURU: A Rolls Royce car that once belonged to superstar Amitabh Bachchan was among the seven vehicles seized by Karnataka transport department on Sunday during a drive to check registration papers of luxury cars in the cityThe vehicles were seized by the transport department because the car documents were not available.“We don’t know who it belongs to. There are no documents available with them (drivers). That’s why the vehicles were seized,” said Karnataka transport commissioner N Shiva Kumar.According to the motor vehicle law, vehicle owners are required to obtain a new registration certificate and pay the state’s road tax if a vehicle registered in another state is kept in the state for more than 12 months. The owner can apply for a refund of the road tax from the state where it was originally registered.“Some of these cars bore registration numbers belonging to Maharashtra or Pondicherry. These cars have not paid road tax in Karnataka… (which results in) a big loss to the state exchequer,” he added.The special checking was conducted near UB city mall, a popular shopping destination in Bengaluru.Apart from the Rolls Royce, officials said the other cars seized on Sunday include an Audi, Range Rover, Porsche, Mercedes Benz, and Jaguar. The vehicles have been kept at the Road Transport Office (RTO) in Nelamangala on the outskirts of Karnataka’s capital city Bengaluru.Of the seven, only one car owner has come forward with the documents so far and the documents presented are being verified.Karnataka’s additional transport commissioner (enforcement) Narendra Holkar said the person driving the Rolls Royce could not produce the relevant documents but only had a letter purportedly signed by Amitabh Bachchan stating that the vehicle was sold to himVahan (the Government of India database) does not reflect any details about the vehicle. “So, we have seized the vehicle to examine the claims made by the driver, said Holkar.On Monday, a person who identified himself as a realtor, Babu, said he purchased the car from the superstar in 2019 for ₹6 crore.“The family uses the car on Sundays and when they came out (on Sunday), the department seized the vehicle. In my case, the driver couldn’t produce the original documents. The documents are at home, and I have told them that I will bring them to the RTO,” said Babu. Babu said the vehicle ownership documents were not transferred from the actor to his name when he bought the car.Officials said the vehicle owners may have to pay heavy penalties if they cannot produce the required documentation.“The due process will be followed. In case anyone is found violating rules fines will impose and if they can’t produce any documents, there is an option of auctioning these vehicles. We have done such auctions in the past,” said a senior department official.Luxury cars had last come under the scanner of the Karnataka Police’s Criminal Investigation Department (CID) in Mangaluru in March this year when it probed a case of alleged middlemen selling luxury cars in violation of legal processes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rolls-royce-once-owned-by-amitabh-bachchan-among-7-cars-seized-in-karnataka-101629730525573.html
23-08-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: August 24, 1951 — Korean truce talks suspended; UN accused of bombing Kaesong||Tokyo- U.N command H.Q. announced today the Communists had broken off the six-week-old Korea truce talks “from now on “-but a later Peking Radio broadcast merely said they were “suspended “ for today. The broadcast seemed to confirm the growing impression here that the breach was not irrevocable. The unexpected breach was made by a Communist liaison officer, who had summoned U.N. liaison officers to investigate the evidence that a U.N. plarie had napalmed and strafed the Kaesong neutral zone at 11 o’clock last night. The U.N. officers reported: “The whole incident is a frame-up from first to last,” according to Vice. Adm. Joy, chief U.N. delegate. Later Gen. Ridgway himself issued a special release repeating that a thorough investigation had failed to reveal that any attack had been carried out by U.N. aircraft. An official translation of the Chinese version of the Peking Radio broadcast of the breach-earlier translations had caused confusion about whether it was permanent or temporary-quoted the Communist liaison officer as saying: “I first lodge and also notify you that all meetings for August 23 are suspended. Our side reserves the right, to make all the necessary demands and are still in process of investigation.” It accused the U.S. investigating others of showing “an irksome and irresponsible attitude “ towards the I alleged incident.Another translation said the Americans appeared “disgusted and indifferent.” U.N. ANNOUNCEMENTThe official U.N. announcement said: “Further meetings of both the armistice delegations and the sub-committee were declared of from now on at approximately 2 a.m., August 23, by the Communists on the basis of the charge of bombing of the Kaesong area by U.N. forces. “Col. Chang, Communist liaison officer, speaking from written notes, obviously prepared well in advance made the statement to Col. A. J. Kinney and Col. J. T. Murray, junior U.N. liaison others, who had come to Kaesong at midnight at the request of the Communists to investigate the charges. “ Col. Kinney’s report based on investigation on the spot but in darkness suggests that the whole incident is a frame-up from first to last.”“Col. Chang insisted that a U.N. Command aircraft had attacked Kaesong neutral zone at 11-20 p.m. on August 22, including strikes within the immediate conference , area,” it added.Lt.-Col. Tsai then produced two small bits of metal which, he alleged, had hit the jeep of a senior Communist delegate. Col. Chang could not say whether one or more aircraft were involved. He stated he did not know how many bombs were dropped or how many passes the aircraft blew up. NO BOMB CRATER “ Col. Kinney and Col. Murray were then escorted to within 100 yards of the U.N. Command delegation house and there were shown a rumpled piece of rolled metal about 18 to 30 inches in size covered with oil and lying on the road. Col. Chang asserted this was a napalm bomb. There was no bomb crater near and no scorched earth, but about 25 yards away there was a minor depression in the earth about 24 inches in diameter and perhaps six inches deep. “Col. Murray judges the depression as the possible result of a buried explosive of force about equal to a hand-grenade. Col. Kinney is certain it is not a bomb crater.Near the Communist house other pieces of metal were pointed out, the report added. Two of these appeared to be pieces of a U.N. Command aircraft. Flush riveting, was noted on each piece, both of which about 12 inches square. The third piece was the pin of a rocket. Vice-Adm. Joy reported his liaison officers concluded from the investigation that the scattered evidence may have been planted by having Communist aircraft fly over Kaesong dropping small cans of napalm, or else entirely manufactured on the ground. Returning to the conference house, Col. Kinney stated the evidence plainly was not the result of U.N. bombing, the report added. He pointed out there was no damage evident to any structure, person or i even to crops. SOLDIER QUESTIONED “In the course of the discussion, Col. Kinney asked if anyone present had actually seen an aircraft. A Communist soldier was put forward who declared he had seen an aircraft at 11 p.m. “Col. Kinney asked if this aircraft had shown light and the soldier answered: ‘ Yes, the head- lights were on. “ At this point a European Communist intervened, charging Col. Kinney with tricking the soldier with a trap question. Col Kinney immediately requested Col. Chang to clear the area of news reporters at once. Col Chang complied after some argument.” The report said the U.N. officers asked the Communist to preserve the evidence and renew the investigation by daylight. But he refused, saying the investigation had ended and he had to remove the evidence for analysis. Gen. Ridgway’s announcement said neither Air Force nor Navy planes were over the Kaesong area. The only U.N. guns which could reach the area had not fired a shot for 24 hours. He said flush riveting was not used by the U.N. to manufacture napalm tanks. “They are of rough construction, more economically produced since they are used only once.” Gen. Ridgway referred to the alleged eye-witness of the attack who told liaison officers the aircraft had used headlights-and declared that U.N. planes did not use lights during night operations. PRE-PLANNED MOVEHe also stated the decision to declare all meetings “ off from this time “ was a high level one which could “ not have been arrived at and transmitted to Col. Chang, in the interval between 11.20 p.m. of August 22 and 1.45 a.m. of August 23.” Just before the break-off meeting, Adm. Joy had emphatically rejected three other Communist allegations that the U.N. had violated the Kaesong neutral zone.On the war fronts the Eighth Army reported decreasing Communist resistance in the Yanggu sector. South Korean troops were attacking and had made limited gains. The east front offensive was moving again after being blocked on Tuesday by heavy Communist counter-attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-august-24-1951-korean-truce-talks-suspended-un-accused-of-bombing-kaesong-ridgway-denies-allegation-101629728186103.html
23-08-2021||India||Digital vaccination certificates issued to Covishield, Covaxin trial participants||The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) announced on Monday that 11,349 people, who participated in the clinical trials of Covishield and Covaxin, have been issued their digital vaccination certificates through the Co-WIN platform. These documents, the ministry said, can be downloaded through Co-WIN, Aarogya Setu, Digilocker and UMANG apps.Also Read | Are vaccine doses in the offing for children in India?"Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Serum Institute of India (SII) conducted phase 2/3 bridging studies of Covishield from August 2020. Also, phase 3 clinical efficacy trials for Covaxin were conducted by Bharat Biotech International Limited from November 2020. The Union health ministry received several requests from the trial participants for digital vaccination certificates through Co-WIN," the ministry said a statement."It was decided that the vaccination certificates may be issued to participants who were administered the vaccines during these trials, after the trials were unblinded. ICMR was designated as the nodal agency to collect vaccination data for such participants," the statement further read.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya took to Twitter to applaud the decision. "In a welcome initiative, digital Covid-19 vaccination certificates will now be issued to the clinical trial participants of Covishield and Covaxin. The nation thanks them for their incredible commitment and contribution to Covid-19 vaccine research and treatment," Mandaviya tweeted.In a welcome initiative, digital #COVID19 vaccination certificates will now be issued to the clinical trial participants of COVISHIELD & COVAXIN through Co-WIN.The nation thanks them for their incredible commitment & contribution to COVID-19 vaccine research & treatment. (1/2)Covishield and Covaxin were the first vaccines that were given Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) for the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive, that commenced on January 16. Since then, four additional vaccines have been approved. Covaxin, and ZyCoV-D, that received EUA on August 20, are currently India's only two indigenously made anti-Covid shots.Also Read | Zydus Cadila's 3-dose vaccine gets approval, 1st jab for children in IndiaThus far, a total of 582,549,595 doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in the country, including 795,543 in the last 24 hours, according to government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digital-vaccination-certificates-for-covishield-covaxin-trial-participants-101629724091334.html
23-08-2021||India||DRDO develops biodegradable bags for sale of Tirumala laddus||The Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple in Andhra Pradesh has taken a prime initiative towards a green future. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which manages the temple, has teamed up with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to develop biodegradable bags which will be used to sell the mahaprasadam laddu, officials said. A dedicated sale counter has been set up by the TTD near the laddu counters adjacent to the Tirumala temple where the devotees can first buy these bags before heading to counters to buy the prasadam.Detailing about the initiative, DRDO chairman Satish Reddy said, “Our Advance Systems Laboratory in Hyderabad has been doing a lot of research and inventing ways to find the best environmental friendly replacement for hazardous plastic. To minimise single-use plastic, we have come out with these eco-friendly bags made of starch corn which degrades naturally within 90 days. It is also not harmful even if cattle consume them. After detailed research and rigorous testing of the formula, we have come out with these bags for Tirumala.”It is a significant move by the TTD to shift to biodegradable bags. The body was one of the biggest distributors of single-use plastic covers before 2019. In the period between 2014 and 2018, TTD procured and distributed 9.63 crore polythene laddu covers to the devotees.The new TTD board under the chairmanship of YV Subba Reddy realised that the trust would be causing severe damage to the environment if it continued to promote the use of polythene laddu covers. A blanket ban on the use of single-use plastic covers was imposed in 2019 post which a tie-up was announced with the DRDO.Talking about the harmful effects of polythene bags, Satish Reddy, said, “Usually conventional polyethene bags made from petrochemicals are toxic to the environment and take nearly 200 years to degrade. In contrast, these bags would be offered as a sustainable, cost-effective and ocean-safe alternative to such plastic products.” “Products like these are essential for the survival of mankind. After observing the response from the pilgrims for a few days, we are planning to commence its sales in a full-fledged manner,” noted TTD EO Dr KS Jawahar Reddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-develops-biodegradable-bags-for-sale-of-tirumala-laddus-101629723684933.html
23-08-2021||India||Two of 146 evacuees from Kabul who landed in Delhi test positive for Covid-19||Two people who landed in Delhi on Monday after being evacuated from Afghanistan’s capital Kabul were positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency ANI reported.Sub-divisional magistrate Rajendra Kumar told the news agency that the two passengers have been sent to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital.The infected passengers are among the second batch of 146 Indian nationals who landed in Delhi from Qatar’s capital Doha on Monday. They were evacuated to the middle-eastern country from the war-torn Kabul earlier.“Bringing Indians back from Afghanistan. [The] 2nd batch of 146 Indian nationals, who were evacuated from Afghanistan to Doha, being repatriated today to India. Thank everyone involved for their support,” the Embassy of India in Qatar tweeted on Sunday.Bringing Indians back from Afghanistan. 2nd batch of 146 Indian national, who were evacuated from Afganistan to Doha, being repatriated today to India. Thank everyone involved for their support. @MEAIndia @DrSJaishankar pic.twitter.com/9Jr5XnieB5Nearly 400 people, including two Afghan lawmakers and two Nepalese nationals were brought to India in three independent flights on Sunday as part of the country’s mission to evacuate its citizens as well as Afghan partners from Kabul.A total of 168 passengers, including more than 100 Indians and 23 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, were evacuated from Kabul to Hindon airbase near Delhi in a C-17 Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft. Separately, 87 Indian citizens and two Nepalese nationals were back to Delhi from Tajikistan’s capital Dushanbe in a special Air India flight, news agency PTI reported.Furthermore, as many as 135 Indians, who were flown out of Kabul to Doha a few days ago on United States and NATO-operated aircraft, were also repatriated to Delhi on Sunday.Among the 168 passengers that the IAF aircraft brought back were Afghan lawmakers Narendra Singh Khalsa and Anarkali Honaryar and their families.An evacuee from Afghanistan, who identified themselves as T Sarkar, and was among the 146 passengers who landed in Delhi on Monday, said that a few days before August 14 – the day before the Taliban took over Kabul -- the Indian Embassy told them to “stay prepared to leave Afghanistan at any time.”“There is an atmosphere of fear in Kabul. On August 14, we were evacuated to Qatar from Kabul,” Sarkar was quoted as saying by ANI.Another evacuee, Sunil, said that an US Embassy flight flew them to Qatar from Kabul, following which the Indian Embassy flight went there to bring them back home.The US troops are currently in control of the Kabul airport, while the Taliban have captured the checkpoints leading up to the venue. Over the last few days, several reports have emerged regarding people dying in and around the airport as Afghans make frantic attempts to leave their homeland. In a statement, the British defence ministry said that at least seven Afghan nationals lost their lives in the crowds as tens of thousands tried to leave the country.However, the Taliban put the blame for the evacuation mayhem at the airport on the US troops and claimed that there is “peace and calm” everywhere else in Afghanistan – despite reports of violence already emerging from various regions.Also Read | Taliban blame US for Kabul airport chaos as Afghans race to fleeMeanwhile, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson will be convening a G7 meeting on Tuesday to discuss the ongoing Afghanistan situation. Taking to Twitter on Sunday, he said that it’s “vital” for the international community to help the Afghan people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-of-146-evacuees-from-kabul-who-landed-in-delhi-test-positive-for-covid19-101629722042583.html
23-08-2021||India||Rain revival pushes up kharif sowing to normal levels: Data||Planting of summer-sown kharif crops, which account for half of India’s annual food output, accelerated in August as the monsoon revived, but acreage under key crops are still down 1% over last year due to erratic rainfall, as experts said extreme weather this year could trim yields.The June-September rain-bearing system, which waters nearly 60% of the country’s net-sown area, has been forecast to be normal by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Current official figures of the area under various crops more or less offer a full picture of the sowing season, marked by short spurts of heavy rainfall and a long pause from the middle of June to middle of July, a hiatus though to be linked to climate change.A revival of rainfall pulled up sowing levels significantly of crops such as paddy, soyabean, pulses, oilseeds, millets and horticulture, but farmers have been unable to match the record levels of sowing in 2020. Nearly half of all Indians depend on a farm-based income.Also Read | Govt’s palm oil push based on disputed reportThe national weather agency officially forecast a normal monsoon during 2021, which helps farmers grow plentiful crops. A good harvest drives up rural demand for goods and services, helping the economy grow.Overall, farmers have been able to plant 104 million hectares than the normal area of 101 million hectares as on August 20, higher by 3.2%. However, this is about 1% less than the total area of 104 million hectares sown in 2020. An average of the past five years’ acreage is considered normal, according to the agriculture ministry’s classification.Heavy rains disrupted sowing of cotton, a key commercial crop, and acreage stands at nearly 11.7 million hectares, nearly 7% less than the 12.7 million hectare of last year. A reviving monsoon drove sowing of soyabean, a key oilseed that widely consumed as edible oil, to about 18 million hectares, roughly what is considered normal.Planting of coarse cereals too picked to 16 million hectares, while total pulses stood at 13.4 million hectares, both considered normal.The monsoon is one of the factors that influences the Reserve Bank’s inflation forecast and monetary policy, which determines key interest rates.July is agriculturally the most critical month during the kharif season, since rains during this month determine yields and crop health. Economists are looking to a robust farm growth to cushion the impacts of the pandemic on the overall economy.Rains were fairly poor in many parts in the initial weeks of July. More than the deficiency, this year’s uneven rains have been a cause of concern, agriculturally and climate-wise.“I more or less expected sowing to catch up to stand at normal levels,” said KJ Ramesh, a climatologist and former chief of the IMD.Longer monsoon pauses followed by heavy spells of rainfall are telltale signs of climate change, experts say. “The consensus is that the number of rainy days will decrease because of climate change but overall quantum of rainfall will remain same. So, there will be segments or periods of very heavy rain,” he added.In 2020-21, when India faced a recession due to the pandemic, agriculture was the only sector to post positive growth of about 3.1%. This helped to keep farm incomes steady.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-revival-pushes-up-kharif-sowing-to-normal-levels-data-101629719904902.html
23-08-2021||India||Elgar Parishad case: NIA says JNU, TISS students recruited for terror||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has claimed students of reputed institutes like Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) were recruited to carry out terrorist activities in the country.In its draft charge sheet submitted before a special court in Mumbai earlier this month in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist link case, the premier investigating agency said the accused wanted to establish their own government and "wage a war against the nation"."The accused recruited students from various universities, including the Jawaharlal Nehru University and Tata Institute of Social Science for commission of terrorist activity," it said in the draft, a copy of which was made available on Monday.Also read | From Bhima Koregaon to the death of Stan Swamy, a timeline of key eventsThe NIA has laid down 17 charges against 15 accused, including human rights and civil rights activists, and they have been sought to be charged under various sections of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and the Indian Penal Code (IPC). It has alleged that the accused persons were active members of the banned terror outfit CPI (Maoist). The arrested accused in the case include activists and academicians Sudha Bharadwaj, Vernon Gonsalves, Varavara Rao, Hany Babu, Anand Teltumbde, Shoma Sen, Gautam Navlakha and others. Elderly tribal rights activist and an accused in the case, Stan Swamy passed away in custody on July 5 this year after suffering a cardiac arrest.The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The prosecution claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.Also read | Hany Babu to be shifted back to Navi Mumbai jail, says HCThe NIA said the main objective of the accused was to establish a "Janata Sarkar (people's government) through revolution and armed struggle to seize power from the State". The draft also claimed that the accused attempted to "wage war against the Governments of India and Maharashtra".Framing of charges is the first step before trial commences in the case where the prosecution describes the charges against the accused along with the evidence to be relied upon. After the framing of charges, the court will ask the accused whether they plead guilty or not in the case. The draft further claimed the accused had been playing provocative songs, enacting short plays and skits in Pune during the Elgar Parishad meeting and distributing Naxal literature."That the criminal conspiracy was an intention to bring about secession of a part of territory of India and incite individuals to bring about such a secession," it said. It further alleged that the accused had an intent to strike terror in the minds of people by using explosive substances.The accused have been charged under Indian Penal Code Sections 120-B (conspiracy), 115 (abetment of offence), 121, 121-A (waging war against state), 124-A (sedition), 153-A (arms in procession), 505(1)(B) (statements promoting mischief) and 34 (common intention). They have also been charged under UAPA Sections 13, 16, 17, 18, 18A, 18B, 20 (punishment for terrorist activities), 38, 39 and 40 (punishment for being part of terrorist organisation).(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-parishad-case-nia-says-students-of-jnu-tiss-recruited-for-terror-101629719362737.html
23-08-2021||India||Punjab farmers' protest: Railway to refund ₹53 lakh to over 12,000 passengers||The Ferozepur railway division in Punjab has announced it will refund money to all the passengers who couldn't undertake travel due to farmers' protest from August 20-23.There are such 12,300 passengers, and the amount that will be refunded is ₹53.65 lakh, the official spokesperson of the Ferozepur railway division said.Farmers seeking a hike in sugarcane prices blocked rail tracks and a national highway in Punjab over the weekend, affecting trains and vehicular traffic.According to railway officials, a total of 89 trains were cancelled because of the protest. Those travelling for the festival of Raksha Bandhan bore the brunt of the blockade.Scores of farmers on Friday launched the agitation for an indefinite period to press the Punjab government to accept their demands related to pending dues of sugarcane and hike in cane prices.Farmers sitting on the Jalandhar-Chaheru section blocked the Ludhiana-Amritsar and the Ludhiana-Jammu rail tracks in Jalandhar, affecting several trains, including the Amritsar-New Delhi Swarna Shatabdi EXP SPL (02030), Amritsar-Dehradun EXP SPL (04664), New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi SPL (02013), and the New Delhi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Shri Shakti SPL (02461).Protesting farmers demanded that the Punjab government raise the state advisory price (SAP) for sugarcae and clear payment of arrears to the tune of ₹200-250 crore.They have already rejected the hike of ₹15 per quintal announced by the Punjab government a few days back. Another meeting was held between the protesters and the Punjab government on Sunday, which remained inconclusive.The state government had revised sugarcane rates to ₹325 for the early variety, ₹315 for mid variety and ₹310 per quintal for the late maturing variety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-farmers-protest-railway-to-refund-rs-53-lakh-to-over-12-000-passengers-101629717703017.html
23-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Indian Army grants time scale Colonel rank to 5 women officers and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Indian Army grants time scale Colonel rank to 5 women officersThe Indian Army on Monday granted time scale Colonel rank to women officers. The defence ministry said that a selection board of the Indian Army cleared the way for the promotion of five women officers to Colonel (time scale) rank. Read more.PM Modi has to take decision on caste-based census: Nitish KumarAfter meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said on Monday that the ball is now in the PM’s court and he has to take the decision on the issue of the caste-based census. Read more.Need shrewd, clever moves to defeat BJP in 2024: Sena mouthpieceThe Shiv Sena said on Monday opposition parties would have to make ‘shrewd and clever’ moves if they want to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. It cited the BJP’s defeat in West Bengal and Maharashtra as examples to stress that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah can be defeated in the electoral battlefield. Read more.India vs England: Mark Wood ruled out of third Test against India due to shoulder injuryEngland seamer Mark Wood was ruled out of the third Test at Headingley starting on Wednesday against India with a jarred right shoulder. There were doubts over Wood's participation after he sustained sustained the injury on the fourth day of the second Test at Lord’s but the England team management were hoping for the right-arm seamer to regain his fitness, which wasn't the case to be. Read more.Tata HBX micro-SUV officially unveiled as Tata Punch, takes aim at key segmentTata Motors on Monday officially unveiled its much-awaited micro SUV Punch. While there was enormous speculation about whether it will be named HBX or Hornbill, Tata has opted to call it Punch in a bid to signal what could be on offer in the segment courtesy its upcoming product, scheduled for a launch during the festive period. Read more.Akshay Kumar calls Shah Rukh Khan on The Kapil Sharma Show at fan’s request, host says ‘SRK PCO mein kaam karte hai?’Akshay Kumar, during his recent appearance on The Kapil Sharma Show, got an unusual request from an audience member. A woman wished to speak with her favourite star Shah Rukh Khan and asked Akshay to give him a call and make it happen. Read more.Gauahar Khan opts for full-body workout on birthday, skips rope at 6amWhen not slaying the fashion game, Bollywood diva Gauahar Khan is busy encouraging fans towards a healthier lifestyle and her birthday this Monday is no different. Despite celebrating her birthday till 2 in the night, Gauahar was seen raising the bar of fitness goals a notch higher next morning by jumping rope aka skipping at 6am on Monday to build up her health level and get a high-intensity workout. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-army-grants-time-scale-colonel-rank-to-5-women-officers-101629715992060.html
23-08-2021||India||Rift widens? Chhattisgarh CM, health minister to meet Rahul Gandhi in Delhi||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and health minister TS Singh Deo will come to New Delhi on Tuesday as differences within the state unit of the ruling Congress is likely to have intensified.The two senior leaders are scheduled to meet former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and the party’s state in-charge PL Punia, according to news agency ANI . There have been reports about tensions between Baghel and Deo, who was among the chief ministerial candidates when the Congress returned to power in the state in 2018. Baghel completed two and half years at the helm on June 17. Deo is believed to have reminded Baghel about the power-sharing formula apparently agreed upon in 2018 when another minister, Tamradhwaj Sahu, was also among the contenders for the top post.While both Deo and Baghel have maintained the central leadership would take a final decision on the matter, the duo has been making frequent trips to Delhi to plead for their case.Last week, Deo had sought action against a news portal that had cited him as the source for an article claiming Baghel would resign on August 17. The public relations department asked the portal to issue a corrigendum or else face legal action. Deo called the story carried on August 15 a “planned conspiracy” to “pollute” the state’s political environment. Baghel is in charge of the department.The rift within the ruling party had come to the fore when Deo walked out of the Assembly demanding clarity from his own government over allegations that one of his relatives was involved in an alleged attack on Congress legislator Brihaspat Singh.Deo was unsatisfied with the government’s statement over the alleged road rage incident involving Singh’s convoy on July 24.At present, Chhattisgarh is one of the last remaining states where the grand old party is in power. Another other Congress-ruled state of Punjab is faced with massive factionalism and infighting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-baghel-health-min-deo-to-meet-raga-in-delhi-as-rift-widens-101629716900285.html
23-08-2021||India||'Delta, Alpha variants behind breakthrough Covid cases in India; no new strain'||All breakthrough infections of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease recorded in India so far have been caused by its Delta and Alpha variants, and no new strain of the virus has been reported in the country so far, said a senior official of the department of biotechnology.“So far, for all the breakthrough infections that have been sequenced, there has been no other variant identified but for the Delta, and, in some cases, we know that we have Alpha in the country,” DBT secretary Renu Swarup was quoted as saying by news agency ANI on Monday.A ‘breakthrough’ infection happens when the virus breaches the protection offered by vaccines, leading to infections among inoculated individuals. India has been registering a high number of breakthrough infections, the Indian SARS-CoV2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) said last week, adding vaccination has shown to be effective against severe infection, hospitalisation, and even death.A genomic sequencing of breakthrough infections has found the highly transmissible Delta variant as the cause."As of now, sequencing of vaccination breakthroughs in India is also showing a very high proportion of the Delta variant. Investigations for any new variants are ongoing," INSACOG said, adding that of the 30,230 samples of ‘Variants of Concern and Variants of Interest’ sequenced by the INSACOG, 20,324 were of Delta.Worldover, breakthrough cases of infection have been driven by the Delta and Delta plus variants. In India, Kerala has reported a large number of such cases. According to experts, breakthrough cases of any virus are expected to a certain extent, since even in clinical trials, no vaccine is 100 per cent effective.Cases of breakthrough infection have been soaring in the US since May and that has caused many states to bring back mask mandates and start talks on booster shots since the effectiveness of vaccines diminishes over time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-alpha-variants-behind-breakthrough-covid-cases-in-india-no-new-strain-101629716100326.html
23-08-2021||India||‘That’s final…’: Sidhu’s adviser says on comments over Kashmir, Pakistan||Malvinder S Mali, an advisor to Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, said on Monday his recent controversial comments on Jammu and Kashmir, made on social media, are "final." Meanwhile, Pyare Lal Garg, another advisor, who, along with Mali, was summoned by Sidhu over his controversial remarks, said discussions in the meeting were on issues concerning the development of Punjab.Also Read| Sidhu summons advisors as row erupts over their comments on Kashmir, Pak"Whatever I had to say, I've said on social media, and that is final. If anyone makes a mistake, they should reflect. We must continue to work for the welfare of Punjab," Mali said to the media after the meeting with Sidhu, according to news agency ANI. In a Facebook post last week, Mali had described Kashmir as as a "country of Kashmiri people." He had also questioned why Jammu and Kashmir has been "turned into an open jail" and for how long.Separately, he had also posted a sketch of late former prime minister Indira Gandhi, in which she is seen standing near a heap of human skulls with a gun in her hand. A skull is seen hanging from the gun's muzzle.Whatever I had to say I've said it on social media, & that's final. If anyone makes a mistake, they should reflect.We must continue to work welfare of Punjab: Malvinder S Mali, Punjab Congress Chief Navjot Sidhu's advisor who posted a controversial sketch of late PM Indira Gandhi pic.twitter.com/OUuAsY5s0uGarg, on the other hand, courted controversy for questioning Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh's frequent criticism of Pakistan. "Today, we spoke to Sidhu ji on the issues of the development of the state. When a government does good work, we appreciate it, but if it does poorly, then also we criticise it," ANI quoted Garg as saying after the meeting.Today, we spoke to Sidhu Ji on issues of the development of the state. When a govt does good work we appreciate it, if it does poor work then we also criticise it: Pyare Lal Garg, Punjab Congress Chief Navjot Singh's advisor pic.twitter.com/TXpnrRnuAaBoth Mali and Garg were among four advisers appointed by Sidhu on August 11. The other two appointees are Congress Lok Sabha MP Amar Singh and former IPS officer Mohammad Mustafa. Sidhu himself was made the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief on July 18 following a long-drawn feud with Singh.The respective comments made by Mali and Garg have drawn fierce criticism from the chief minister, as well as Manish Tewari, the Lok Sabha MP from Anandpur Sahib constituency in the northern state. The former, an Army veteran, warned the duo against making "atrocious and ill-conceived" comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ive-said-on-social-media-sidhu-s-advisor-says-comments-on-j-k-are-final-101629712640156.html
23-08-2021||India||Indian Army grants time scale Colonel rank to 5 women officers||The Indian Army on Monday granted time scale Colonel rank to women officers. The defence ministry said that a selection board of the Indian Army cleared the way for the promotion of five women officers to Colonel (time scale) rank.These officers have completed 26 years of "reckonable service", the ministry said in a release.The five women officers selected for Colonel time ccale rank are Lt Col Sangeeta Sardana from the Corps of Signals, Lt Col Sonia Anand and Lt Col Navneet Duggal from the Corps of EME and Lt Col Reenu Khanna and Lt Col Ritcha Sagar from the Corps of Engineers.This is the first time that women officers serving with the Corps of Signals, Corps of Electronic and Mechanical Engineers (EME) and the Corps of Engineers have been approved to the rank of Colonel.Previously, promotion to the rank of Colonel was only applicable for women officers in the Army Medical Corps (AMC), Judge Advocate General (JAG) and the Army Education Corps (AEC)."The widening of promotion avenues to more branches of the Indian Army is a sign of increasing career opportunities for women officers," the defence ministry said."Combined with the decision to grant permanent commission to women officers from a majority of branches of the Indian Army, this step defines the Indian Army’s approach towards a gender-neutral Army," it added.This comes days five after the Supreme Court allowed eligible women to take the examination for admission to National Defence Academy (NDA). The top court, however, said that the result of the examination would be subject to final adjudication of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-grants-time-scale-colonel-rank-to-5-women-officers-101629713988127.html
23-08-2021||India||Jaishankar to brief Parliament floor leaders on Afghan situation on Thursday||Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said on Monday external affairs minister S Jaishankar will brief floor leaders of political parties in Parliament on the prevailing situation in Afghanistan on August 26. Earlier, Jaishankar said the ministry of external affairs (MEA) would brief the lawmakers as instructed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Sharing the time and venue of the meeting, Joshi said Jaishankar would talk to the floor leaders at the main committee room of the PHA in Delhi at 11am on Thursday and email invites were being sent.Floor Leaders of Political Parties would be briefed by EAM @DrSJaishankar on the present situation in Afghanistan, on 26th August, 11am in Main Committee Room, PHA, New Delhi. Invites are being sent through email. All concerned are requested to attend. https://t.co/iBX9NRd0qqAs the crisis in Afghanistan deepens following its takeover by the Taliban and fall of the West-back elected government, led by Ashraf Ghani, several countries have been rushing to evacuate their citizens through the Kabul airport, which has seen unsettling incidents in recent days as locals have become desperate to escape from the rule of the Islamic emirate. Earlier in the day, a member of the Afghan security force was killed and three others were wounded in a firefight with unknown attackers at Kabul airport.Also read | ‘Don’t trust anybody’, says Biden over Taliban’s promises towards AfghanistanIndia too has been evacuating its citizens as well as desperate Afghans, including members of minority communities like Sikhs and Hindus, from the war-torn country.The Narendra Modi government is on the verge of completing its evacuation process with two more flights coming from Afghanistan during the day. So far, six flights -- some run by the Indian Air Force, while others belonging to Air India -- have completed their missions with the evacuation starting on August 16 bringing back over 700 people.Also read | 'Hundreds of fighters' heading to resistance stronghold Panjshir Valley: TalibanThe Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has said that the Indian government is committed to the safe return of all Indian nationals from Afghanistan. The MEA said the main challenge for travel to and from Afghanistan is the operational status of the Kabul airport.India has reportedly been allowed to operate two flights per day from Kabul to evacuate its nationals stranded in Afghanistan. The permission was granted by American and North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) forces, controlling operations of the Hamid Karzai International Airport over the past few days.Also read | India to inoculate all Afghanistan returnees with free polio vaccinesOn August 17, two days after the Islamic militant group completed its smooth capturing of Kabul with minimal resistance, India said it will issue an emergency e-visas to Afghan nationals who want to come to the country in view of the prevailing crisis in their country.All Afghans, irrespective of their religion, can apply for the 'e-Emergency X-Misc Visa' online and the applications will be processed in New Delhi. The visa would initially be valid for six months, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mea-to-brief-parliament-floor-leaders-on-afghan-developments-jaishankar-101629708005168.html
23-08-2021||India||Money laundering case: ED files charge sheet against ex-Maharashtra minister Anil Deshmukh’s aides||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday filed a charge sheet against two aides of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in an alleged money laundering case, news agency ANI reported. Kundan Shinde, who was Deshmukh's assistant, and his personal secretary Sanjeev Paland have been chargesheeted in the case, according to the news agency. Both were arrested by the federal agency on June 26 for their alleged role in the laundering of money on Deshmukh’s directions.The ED registered a case against Deshmukh after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed an FIR against him on April 21 following the allegations that the former Shiv Sena leader directed a police officer to extort ₹100 crore a month from Mumbai’s hotels and bars. The allegations were levelled by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh.Deshmukh has denied all allegations against him multiple times.The ED has claimed that its probe suggests that Deshmukh misused his position as Maharashtra home minister, and through assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze collected ₹4.7 crore from Mumbai’s bars for their “smooth functioning”. Vaze has now been dismissed from the force and is in Taloja Jail for his alleged role in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases.The agency also claims that this money was later sent to two brothers in Delhi who operated bogus companies and later diverted the money as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, an educational trust controlled by the Deshmukhs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/money-laundering-case-ed-files-charge-sheet-against-ex-maharashtra-minister-anil-deshmukh-s-aides-101629704252089.html
23-08-2021||India||PM Modi has to take decision on caste-based census: Nitish Kumar||After meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said on Monday that the ball is now in the PM’s court and he has to take the decision on the issue of the caste-based census. “People in Bihar and the entire country are of the same opinion on this issue. We are grateful to the PM for listening to us. Now, he has to take a decision on it,” Kumar told reporters after the meeting.“The Prime Minister listened to all members of the delegation on caste census in the state. We urged the PM to take an appropriate decision on it. We briefed him on how resolutions have been passed twice in the state assembly on caste census,” he added.Also Read: Always back pro-people moves: Tejashwi at joint address with Nitish post-PM meetThe Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) chief also said that the caste-based census will help in formulating development plans effectively.Kumar was leading a delegation of 10 political parties from Bihar who met PM Modi to discuss the issue of the caste-based census. He wrote to PM Modi on August 4 on the issue of the caste-based census exercise and assured the state’s opposition leaders.Bihar’s deputy chief minister Renu Devi, who belongs to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), has insisted that even if the central government does not accept the demand of a caste-based census the state can hold one on its own like Karnataka. However, Kumar, a BJP ally, on being asked if his government is prepared to hold a state-specific caste-based census, told news agency PTI that it shall be decided when the time comes. “We shall decide when the time comes. Let us first see what transpires at the meeting with the PM," Kumar said on August 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-has-to-take-decision-on-caste-based-census-nitish-kumar-101629704044941.html
23-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Gurugram's Iffco Chowk flyover closed for traffic and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Gurugram: Iffco Chowk flyover closed for traffic after retaining wall collapsesThe Iffco Chowk flyover (Delhi to Gurugram side) was closed for traffic on Monday morning after a portion of its retaining wall collapsed, news agency ANI reported. Read MoreAfter gap of 4 months, Jagannath temple in Puri reopens for all devoteesThe famous Jagannath temple in Puri reopened on Monday after four months for people outside of the pilgrim town if they were carrying a negative RT-PCR report or Covid-19 vaccination certificate. Read MorePanjshir, Afghanistan's valley of resistance, remains a challenge for TalibanThe stage is set for a decisive battle in Afghanistan's Panjshir Valley, which has never been under the Taliban's control. Read More‘India have dealt a psychological blow to them’: Gavaskar says England need to make ‘superhuman effort’ to bounce backUnlike the previous England tours, Team India in 2021 looks much better in terms of balance and bowling attack. Read MoreBellBottom 1st weekend box office: Akshay Kumar's film mints ₹12.65 cr, beats Roohi's opening haulAkshay Kumar's BellBottom has collected ₹12.65 crore over the four-day extended weekend. Read MoreGauri Khan serves a boss lady look in monotone pantsuit for a shoot, Farah Khan reactsFilm producer, India's leading design magnate and Shah Rukh Khan's wife Gauri Khan's sartorial sense is a mix of elegance and modern aesthetics. Gauri recently featured in a photoshoot for a luxury lifestyle brand, Arnaya, and painted a beautiful image in a co-ord monotone attire. Read MoreMercedes AMG GLE 63 Coupe launched in India. Check out price, power and moreMercedes-Benz India on Monday drove in its AMG GLE 63 Coupe at ₹2.07 crore (ex showroom) in a bid to further bolster its lineup of performance cars in the country. Read MoreMan creates Harley Quinn figurine entirely from balloons. Watch amazing clipA bunch of balloons can easily put a smile on one’s face whether they are eight or eighty. Read MoreDoes Joe Biden trust the Taliban? Watch US President’s reply to reporterUS president Joe Biden answered a reporter when asked if he trusted the Taliban. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-gurugram-s-iffco-chowk-flyover-closed-for-traffic-and-all-the-latest-news-101629701768072.html
23-08-2021||India||Always back pro-people moves: Tejashwi at joint address with Nitish post-PM meet||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav has said his party always supported pro-people and pro-poor measures of the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar. The leader of Opposition was part of a 10-party delegation, led by the chief minister, that met Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a nationwide caste-based census.Following the meeting that was attended by representatives of many other parties, including the BJP, Kumar and Yadav spoke to the media jointly. Also read | What Bihar politicians said ahead of meeting with PM ModiWhen asked if Kumar's Janata Dal -United (JD-U) and RJD are getting closer with both parties coming together over the caste census issue, Yadav said the opposition in Bihar had always supported the government over pro-people measures and those in national interest.Delhi | Our delegation met the PM today not only for caste census in the state (Bihar) but in the entire country. We are awaiting a decision on this now: Tejashwi Yadav, RJD after meeting with PM Modi over caste census pic.twitter.com/HRyg77P3D5Kumar said Modi heard them patiently, adding now, the latter would have to take a decision on the issue. “Such a census would help in formulating various development plans effectively. People in Bihar and the entire country are of the same opinion on this issue,” he said.Asked about the Prime Minister's stand on the issue, Kumar said Modi did not "deny it" (caste census) and heard out everyone. “We briefed him on how resolutions have been passed twice in the Bihar assembly on caste census,” Kumar said."Recently a minister from the central government gave a statement that the caste-based census will not be conducted. This made us anxious. Following this, all parties in Bihar including the Opposition met on the issue. It was then proposed to meet Prime Minister on the issue," he added.Also read | Caste census and the vicious cycle of Mandal-Mandir politics in IndiaYadav said it would be a "historic" measure in helping the poor. “If animals and trees can be counted, then so can people,” he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/always-back-pro-people-moves-tejashwi-at-joint-address-with-nitish-post-pm-meet-101629703236067.html
23-08-2021||India||After gap of 4 months, Jagannath temple in Puri reopens for all devotees||The famous Jagannath temple in Puri reopened after four months on Mondayfor people outside of the pilgrim town if they were carrying a negative RT-PCR report or Covid-19 vaccination certificate.The 12th century temple in Odisha’s Puri was closed from April 24 after Covid cases in the second wave of the infection started rising in the state, also resulting in the famous Rath Yatra in June being held without the presence of devotees for the second year in a row.“The darshan timing in the temple has been fixed from 7 am to 8 pm on 5 days a week except for Saturdays and Sundays. This apart, entry of the public into the temple will also remain restricted on the occasion of Janmashtami. We expect around 15,000-20,000 footfalls every day,” said Dr Krishan Kumar, chief administrator of the Jagannatha Temple.He said devotees will be allowed entry into the temple only if they are carrying a certificate showing they are fully-vaccinated or a negative RT-PCR test report, not older than 96 hours. Devotees will also be required to bring their photo ID such as Aadhaar or voter card.A devotee from Bargarh district said she was too elated following the darshan [viewing the divine] of the trinity at the temple. “I had never imagined that I would [finally] get to see the Lord and was waiting for the opportunity,” she said.All devotees are allowed entry through the Singhadwar and to exit through the Uttaradwar of the temple. Barricades have been installed to make sure devotees maintain physical distancing and as many as eight kiosks have been set up to facilitate proper sanitisation.Temple officials said devotees cannot touch statues or idols inside the premises and have been asked not to take offerings like flowers/ bhoga/ diyas inside the Temple. There will be big containers placed at the entrance, where such items can be dropped, if being carried by the devotees.Chewing of Tobacco, Paan and spitting inside the temple premises has been strictly prohibited and a fine of ₹500/- will be levied for each violation.Puri police chief Kanwar Vishal Singh said around 12 platoons of police force have been deployed in and outside the temple. Singh said devotees have been urged to submit their feedback on police service at the temple either by submitting a form or through online QR code scanning systems installed at parking lots and other places.The temple is being reopened at a time when Covid cases are on a decline in the state. On Monday, Odisha reported 761 new cases in the preceding 24 hours with a Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of 1.25%. Out of the 761 cases, 101 are children below 18 years of age. Khurda district recorded 289 fresh infections- the highest in the state, followed by Cuttack (117) and Balasore (52).Apart from the Jagannath temple, other shrines in the state including Ram mandir in Bhubaneswar, Akhandalamani temple in Bhadrak as well as mosques and churches are being allowed to reopen. The Lingaraj temple in Bhubaneswar will reopen for devotees from September 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-gap-of-4-months-jagannath-temple-in-puri-opens-for-all-devotees-101629702803815.html
23-08-2021||India||Indian evacuation from Kabul on verge of completion, 2 more flights today||With Modi’s government’s mission Kabul entering its end phase with two more evacuation flights landing from Afghanistan today, the Ministry of External Affairs and National Security set-up have achieved what looked to be impossible on August 15, the day the Taliban captured Kabul. Two more evacuation flights are expected to land from Kabul on Monday with the total number of Indians evacuated from Afghanistan in the excess of 700. Already, six flights, a mixture of Indian Air Force and Air India, have completed their missions with the evacuation starting on August 16.According to diplomats based in Delhi and Kabul, the evacuation of Indians from Kabul involved multi-pronged diplomatic and security manoeuvres with Indian interlocutors led by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and the national security planners talking to top officials in Washington, Doha, Dushanbe, Tashkent, Ankara and of course Kabul at the same time.Even after the US cut out a deal with the Taliban on exiting Afghanistan, the evacuation process is a complex exercise given the multiple levels of security screenings each evacuee has to pass under the barrel of M-4 carrying trigger-happy Islamist fighters of the Taliban and sundry groups. While the Hamid Karzai international airport operations are being handled by the US Rangers, the first perimeter protection is with Turkish Forces and the second perimeter protection with Taliban, who have multiple blockades and check-posts throughout the Capital en route to Kabul. Even after the buses carrying evacuees manages to reach the airport, the Turkish forces open fire on the Afghan refugees thronging the airport. Since the refugees have little respect for any firing in the air, there have been instances of direct firing to make way for the evacuation process as a result of which many people have been killed. After the Taliban have searched the evacuees and Turkish have let through the vehicle, the US forces do full screening before the passengers are allowed to board the flight.Also read | Panjshir, Afghanistan's valley of resistance, remains a challenge for TalibanLast week before the first Indian evacuation flight took off, EAM Jaishankar was in New York and in constant touch with the Americans, Turks, Qatar and Indian allies in Central Asia to let the flight through. From Delhi, the National security team was also working its way through their US counterparts and through sources in the Taliban leadership to get the flights out. But this was not all.Also watch | Does Joe Biden trust the Taliban? Watch US President’s reply to reporterThe Indian aircraft were not allowed to be parked at Kabul for security reasons as a result of which the Indian Air Force and Air India planes were parked at Dushanbe and Tashkent airports and waiting to go. The situation was made more complex as the IAF planes are not allowed to fly over Pakistani airspace and had to fly over Iran with the special permission of Tehran. This not only resulted in extra flying hours but also IAF landings to be made at Jamnagar and then to Delhi. The Air India pilots also contributed to the evacuation effort as insurance companies voiced concerns over the safety of Kabul airport. Also read | 1 Afghan security force member killed, 3 hurt in firefight at Kabul airportIn spite of all these serious safety concerns in Kabul, a MEA and a security team worked in shepherding all the Indian nationals to the Hamid Karzai airport in time and safely. There were instances when the Taliban searched the Indian evacuees for documents and material as no baggage is allowed. The Indian nightmare in Kabul is now nearly over but dark days for Afghanistan have just begun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-evacuation-from-kabul-on-verge-of-completion-2-more-flights-today-101629700983541.html
23-08-2021||India||Sidhu summons advisors as row erupts over their comments on Kashmir, Pak||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday summoned both his newly appointed advisors, Malwinder Singh Mali and Pyare Lal Garg, to his Patiala residence following a controversy over their recent comments on sensitive issues like Pakistan and Kashmir and a controversial sketch of late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi posted by one of them on social media.Besides leaving the Congress leadership red-faced, the comments and posts made on social media platforms have provided adequate ammunition to leaders of Opposition parties like the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) to hit out at the ruling camp in Punjab. Punjab is slated to see the next Assembly election early next year.In a recent social media post, Mali had waded into the issue of revocation of Article 370 of the Constitution, which gave a special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. Garg had recently questioned chief minister Amarinder Singh’s criticism of Pakistan stating it was was not in the interest of the state.Mali had also posted a sketch of the late PM wherein she is seen standing near a heap of human skulls, holding a gun with a skull hanging on its muzzle.Also read | Amarinder, Sidhu form 'strategic group' for coordination between party and govtAmong Congress leaders who have reacted sharply to the controversy are Singh and Lok Sabha MP Manish Tiwari. The chief minister, who has been at loggerheads for long with Sidhu, has warned the duo against making “atrocious and ill-conceived” comments that were potentially dangerous to the peace and stability of the state and the country. He also called the statements “anti-national”.Tiwari, who represents Anandpur Sahib in the Lok Sabha, wondered if such people have any right to live in the country. "Do such people even have the right to live in the country, forget about being in the party?” the senior party spokesperson was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Sharing a post on Twitter, he also urged Punjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat to introspect whether such individuals should remain a part of the grand old party. "I urge @harishrawatcmuk AICC Gen Secy I/C Punjab to seriously introspect that those who do not consider J&K to be a part of India & others who have ostensibly Pro Pakistan leanings should be a part of @INCPunjab. It mocks all those who shed blood for India," he wrote.Meanwhile, BJP leader Sambit Patra wanted to know whether Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had approved the appointments of Sidhu’s advisors. “Their comments are appalling and paint India in a bad picture. It shows the thought process of the party. Will Rahul Gandhi answer whether he appointed Sidhu's advisors?” Patra said.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal has sought an FIR against Mali. “Does he stand with forces that are working against the nation? Kashmir is an integral part of India. The police should, in fact, register an FIR against him,” he was quoted as saying in a report.Another Akali leader Daljit Singh Cheema said it was none other than Sidhu who had hugged the Pakistan army chief and extended his friendship towards their prime minister when the two nations were not on particularly friendly terms. “When he is like that, why complain about advisors?” Cheema added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-summons-advisors-as-controversy-erupts-over-their-comments-on-kashmir-pak-101629700887312.html
23-08-2021||India||India has administered at least 580 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 580 million Covid vaccine doses by Sunday, August 22. Zydus Cadila’s vaccine, ZyCoV-D, has received approval for emergency use in India and it will be administered to people 12 years and above.Meanwhile, by 7am on Sunday, 581,489,377 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 5,223,612 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 216,366,206 have been given the first dose while 19,327,127 doses were given as the second dose.Also Read | China sees no new local cases of Covid-19 for first time since JulyAmong the healthcare workers, 10,353,366 have been given the first dose while 8,210,216 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,303,885 have got their first dose and 12,560,909 have got their second dose too.On Monday, India reported 25,072 new Covid cases in the last 24 hours, the lowest in 160 days, said the ministry of health and family welfare.The cumulative caseload has increased to 32,449,306, while the national recovery rate has risen to 97.63%, the highest since March 2020. The active cases have declined to 333,924, the lowest in 155 days comprising 1.03% of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020.The death toll climbed to 434,756 with 389 new fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-580-million-vaccine-doses-till-now-101629700403638.html
23-08-2021||India||Blast outside sarpanch’s house in Baramulla leaves a vehicle damaged||A blast outside the house of an independent sarpanch at Shakarwara village in Baramulla has left a vehicle parked outside house damaged.The blast took place late Sunday evening outside the house of Narendra Kour, a sarpanch of Shakarwara village. The army and police were at the spot soon after. Police teams also went to the village around 20 kilometers from town Baramulla and questioned several persons.Also Read | Gupkar alliance likely to meet in Srinagar tomorrowDeputy sarpanch Ajaz Ahmad said that blast took place last night around 9pm. Ahmad said the sarpanch had hoisted flag on August 15 and that could be a reason for this blast. “We all panchayat members are disturbed by this attack.”On Friday, two Hizbul Mujahideen militants were killed in a gunfight with security forces at Khrew in Pulwama district, police said. On Saturday, three Jaish-e-Mohammed militants were killed in a gunfight with security forces in South Kashmir’s Pulwama district, police officials said. The exchange of fire was the latest in a series of gunfights as security forces intensified counter-insurgency operations in the Valley, killing 94 militants so far this year. Eight militants were killed in separate operations this month till Saturday. A policeman and four civilians, including three political workers, have been killed in suspected militant attacks this month alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blast-outside-sarpanch-s-house-in-baramulla-leaves-a-vehicle-damaged-101629698602899.html
23-08-2021||India||BSF opens fire at drone in Jammu’s Arnia sector||The Border Security Force (BSF) early on Monday fired at a flying object along the Indo-Pak international border in Arnia sector of Jammu district.A BSF spokesperson said, “Today morning at about 0530 hrs (5.30am), a blinking red and yellow light in the sky was observed by our forward troops in Arnia sector near the IB. Our troops immediately fired 25 LMG rounds on the flying object due to which it gained some height and went towards Pakistani side. The area is being searched with help of police.”BSF DIG SPS Sandhu said, “The area is being scanned by the security forces but nothing has been found so far.”On July 24, Jammu and Kashmir Police claimed they shot down a Pakistani drone carrying a five kg improvised explosive device in Kanachak area of Akhnoor sector. Kanachak is a border area in Jammu district.Drones have repeatedly been spotted in the region since June 27 when they were used to target the Indian Air Force base in Jammu with explosives which left two personnel injured.The attack was the first such instance of suspected Pakistan-based terrorists deploying unmanned aerial vehicles to strike at vital installations in India. The National Investigation Agency is investigating the case. Jammu & Kashmir Police DGP Dilbag Singh said the drones come from across the border.Over 350 drones have been sighted along the border with Pakistan since 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-opens-fire-at-drone-in-jammu-s-arnia-sector-101629695602932.html
23-08-2021||India||Covid-19: MHA panel warns of third wave peak in Oct, lack of infra to treat kids||A committee set up by the Union Home Ministry has said a third wave of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease may reach its peak around October and children could be affected as severely as adults. In its report that has been submitted to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), the committee has spoken about the critical need of paediatric facilities, including doctors, staff, and equipment like ventilators and ambulances, if a large number of children got infected by the virus. It further said the available infrastructure was “no nowhere close” to the requirement, if the need arose.According to a report in The Times of India, the committee of experts was set up under the National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM) of the MHA. The experts have also written about prioritising a vaccination drive against the virus for children with co-morbidities and those with special needs.Also read | Are vaccine doses in the offing for children in India?While the country’s drug regulators have approved Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D vaccine for children above 12 years of age, the drive is yet to begin. Earlier, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya had hinted that children may start receiving their doses against the virus from September.The experts’ study titled ‘Third Wave Preparedness: Children Vulnerability and Recovery’ found, like several other previous related works, while children may not be severely infected by the virus, they may pass it on to others.Among their recommendations, the experts have said “a holistic home care model, immediate increase in paediatric medical capacities and prioritising mental health issues among children” were key at the moment. They have also proposed a model wherein Covid wards could be structured in a way that guardians of infected children could safely stay with them during the treatment.Stating that children are "not a homogeneous group and the policies cannot be the same for different groups of children, the panel also wrote about protection programmes for children from rural areas and disadvantaged communities, besides coming up with awareness campaigns to make them more familiar with protocols a report in NDTV said.While schools have started reopening in several states across the country, the report has suggested micro-management at the district level as proposed by the World Health Organisation to ensure safety at educational institutes.Also read | Karnataka to track health of 15 mn children to minimise impact of third waveRecently, Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur said the central government was fully prepared to deal with a possible third wave and special emphasis is being laid on strengthening paediatric care.A second wave of the virus earlier this year had wreaked havoc in the country with a large number of deaths being reported due to alleged crisis of oxygen supply, besides lack of critical infrastructure, including ICU beds. Government thinktank NITI Aayog has, meanwhile, suggested that preparations be made for 23 hospitalisations for every 100 positive cases in a future pandemic surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-mha-panel-warns-of-third-wave-peak-in-oct-lack-of-infra-to-treat-kids-101629694242385.html
23-08-2021||India||Caste-based census a must: What Bihar politicians said ahead of meeting with PM Modi||A delegation of leaders from 10 political parties in Bihar is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday at 11am to discuss the issue of conducting a caste-based census. The delegation will be led by chief minister Nitish Kumar and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav will also accompany him.Kumar told reporters on Sunday that a caste-based census should be done at least once as not only Bihar but the whole country will benefit from it. “It is a crucial issue and we have been seeking this for a long time. It if works out, nothing could be better than that. Moreover, it would not just be for Bihar, people in the whole country will benefit from this. It should be done at least once. We will put forward our views from this angle. We will keep our views before the PM on Monday,” Kumar, whose Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) is an ally of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), told reporters.Yadav, the leader of Opposition in Bihar, said earlier this month that he wrote to PM Modi asking for a discussion on the caste-based census. He also said that Kumar has assured all opposition parties of a meeting with the Prime Minister and also written a letter to him on August 4. “If he has not been granted time for a week now, somehow it is an insult to the CM,” the RJD leader was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also Read: Caste census: All eyes on meeting with PMThe young RJD leader warned that if the Centre failed to meet the demand of a caste-based census then they will be “left with no option but to sit on dharna at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi”.Bihar minister and BJP leader Janak Ram struck a more conciliatory tone. "I'm part of the delegation led by Nitish Kumar Ji that will meet PM today. On the issue of the caste-based census, whatever decision the PM takes should be acceptable to us," he told news agency ANI.Mukesh Sahni, president of Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) and minister in Bihar government, told ANI that a caste-based census will help in collecting information on many small castes who have been so far kept away from the purview of development. This will in turn let the government make better policies for them, he said. "I am a minister in Bihar for the animal and fisheries department and we are counting a number of animals to know how many horses, elephants, camels and other animals there are in our state. If you keep information about animals then why not keep information about humans," he added.Congress leader Ajeet Sharma too spoke in favour of a caste-based census insisting that it will bring an end to social hatred and that the ultimate aim of such a census exercise is to ensure reservation in government departments. "I believe that by conducting a caste census, social hatred will end. The purpose of the caste-based census is reservation. In all the government departments, whether it is the central government or the state government, all the people of each class should be given reservations according to the caste census," he said.Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Ajay Kumar also expressed similar sentiments and said that he asked Kumar to meet with the Prime Minister so that caste-based exploitation can be rectified with the help of caste-based census. “We told the CM that we should meet PM because it (caste-based census) is needed, caste-based exploitation takes place even today. A caste-based census will be like a mirror to help rectify this. So, we will meet PM today, under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar,” Kumar told ANI.Besides Kumar and Yadav, JD(U) leader Vijay Kumar Choudhary, former chief minister and president of Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) Jitan Ram Manjhi, Congress legislature party leader Ajeet Sharma, BJP leader Janak Ram, Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) Mahboob Alam, Akhtarul Imam of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, Mukesh Sahni of VIP, Suryakant Paswan of Communist Party of India and Ajay Kunar of Communist Party of India (Marxist), will also be present in the meeting.Members of the delegation were pictured leaving Bihar Bhavan in the capital and arriving at South Block on Monday morning to meet with the Prime Minister. Before heading off for the meeting Yadav told news agency ANI that caste-based census will help in making relevant benefit schemes, and a resolution on the same has already been passed twice in the state assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/castebased-census-a-must-what-bihar-politicians-said-ahead-of-meeting-with-pm-modi-101629693299246.html
23-08-2021||India||Rainfall over NW India likely to reduce from today||Rainfall over northwest India is likely to reduce from today, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). This is mainly because the western end of the monsoon trough will start shifting northwards to the Himalayan foothills from today.The western end of the monsoon trough is lying to the south of its normal position and the eastern end is lying to the north of its normal position. The western end is very likely to shift gradually northwards from today. A cyclonic circulation is lying over northeast Rajasthan.Also Read | Light rain likely in Delhi on Monday and next couple of days, says IMDA trough is running from northeast Rajasthan to Telangana across West Madhya Pradesh and Vidarbha.Due to these meteorological conditions, enhanced rainfall activity is likely over northeast India, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and Bihar from August 24. Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls is very likely to continue over northeast India, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and Bihar till August 24 and increase in intensity thereafter. Current rainfall activity over plains of northwest India is likely to reduce significantly from today.Widespread rainfall however is likely over Uttarakhand and east Uttar Pradesh till August 26. Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely in these areas during the period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rainfall-over-nw-india-likely-to-reduce-from-today-101629690502439.html
23-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi court to hear Umar Khalid's bail plea today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi riots case: Court to hear Umar Khalid’s bail application todayA Delhi court will on Monday hear the bail application moved by former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student leader Umar Khalid in connection with the Delhi riots conspiracy case. Read More'Hundreds of fighters' heading to resistance stronghold Panjshir Valley: TalibanThe Taliban have said that hundreds of their fighters are heading for the Panjshir Valley, which is currently the centre of the resistance in war-ravaged Afghanistan, even as National Resistance Front's Ahmad Massoud has said he wanted to hold negotiations with the hardline Islamist group but that his forces were ready to fight. Read MoreDo Covid-19 vaccine boosters help? This Israeli study has answersData from Israel shows a booster shot of Pfizer Inc’s Covid-19 vaccine has significantly improved immunity and offered protection from serious illness among people aged 60 and above, as the US and other countries have announced plans to give additional doses amid the spread of highly infectious Delta variant. Read More‘He’s got something really special in him’: Karthik names youngster who can play a major role for India in T20 World CupThe T20 World Cup is a couple of months away but the speculations about the star performers in the marquee event have already begun. Read MoreHappy birthday Saira Banu: Did you know actor is London-educated, attended a finishing school?The 1960s, in the history of Hindi cinema, was marked by the advent of colour and Kashmir. Read More'Param Sundari' Hina Khan in sequinned saree mixes ethnic and modern vibes on Bigg Boss OTT setsThe sequinned saree will never go out of style as long as it keeps getting the stamp of approval from the biggest celebrities of the B-Town. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-court-to-hear-umar-khalid-s-bail-plea-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101629688587366.html
23-08-2021||India||Jagannath Puri temple reopens for all devotees from today. Here are the details||The Jagannath Temple in Odisha’s Puri will reopen for all devotees on Monday after remaining shut for almost four months amid the Covid-restrictions as the administration allowed people to enter the shrine gradually. The Jagannath temple reopened on August 12 in the first phase but only family members of the servitors were allowed inside the shrine. The administration allowed residents of Puri to visit the temple in the second phase of the reopening on August 16.As per the standard operating procedure (SOP) by the state government, all devotees will be allowed to enter the shrine from 7am to 7pm from Monday to Friday. The temple will remain closed over weekends for workers to sanitise the premises and the administration will also keep the temple closed during the major festivals in order to avoid crowding.Devotees visiting the temple will be required to produce a certificate of full vaccination status or a negative Covid test report not older than 96 hours. They will also have to carry a government-issued identity card such as Aadhaar.On Sunday, police urged devotees to share their feedback in order to improve their experience of visiting the shrine. “We urge all to give feedback and use this opportunity to further help us in improving the Hassle-Free Darshan Experience for devotees,” the Puri Police said on Twitter.Devotees can give their feedback on police service at the temple either by submitting a form or through online QR code scanning systems installed at parking lots and other places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagannath-puri-temple-reopens-for-all-devotees-from-today-here-are-the-details-101629686799241.html
23-08-2021||India||Light rain likely in Delhi on Monday and next couple of days, says IMD||Delhi is likely to witness light rain or drizzle on Monday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The forecast says that light rain is likely to continue in the city for the next couple of days before the start of another dry spell from August 25. The weather department officials also said that Delhi is likely to see a “near normal to surplus” monsoon season this year.The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 26 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 35 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 24.5 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature was 34.3 degrees Celsius.Delhi’s air quality was in the “satisfactory” category on Monday morning. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI (air quality index) stood at 59 in the satisfactory category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in the good category due to heavy rainfall, and will remain in the good category for next two days as the soil is completely wet preventing any dust lifting. Moreover, the low-pressure centre over north India is developing which will lead to scattered rainfall and the washout process will continue to be active.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-rain-likely-in-delhi-on-monday-and-next-couple-of-days-says-imd-101629686301689.html
23-08-2021||India||Maharashtra registers 4141 fresh Covid cases on Sunday, Mumbai records 1 death||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 4,141 fresh Covid-19 infections and 145 deaths, taking the coronavirus tally in the state to 6,424,651 and the death toll to 135,962. Mumbai’s Covid tally reached 741,164, including 15,947 deaths with 294 infections and one fatality reported on Sunday. It was the first time since March 2020, when the pandemic first broke out last year, that the metropolis reported just a single Covid-19 fatality.There were 167,881 Covid tests done in the state on Sunday, while the number of recoveries clocked 4,780. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 53,182, with Pune accounting for 12,069 of these followed by 6,980 in Thane and 6,974 at Satara. Pune has also seen 18,853 Covid-19 deaths, the most in the state followed by Mumbai- 15,947 and Thane-11,237.A total of 53,007,364 vaccine doses have been administered in the state till Saturday including 14,037,839 residents, who have been fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-registers-4141-fresh-covid-cases-on-sunday-mumbai-records-1-death-101629684561500.html
23-08-2021||India||School reopening update: Karnataka to reopen schools for classes 9-10. Here’s what other states are doing||Several states have allowed schools to reopen as cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases are dropping across the country. School authorities have been asked to maintain strict adherence to the protocol mandated by the government against Covid-19. This includes the mandatory wearing of face masks and social distancing. Some states, including Rajasthan and Bihar, have also made it mandatory for all teachers and school staff to be vaccinated with at least one dose of the jab.Schools in Karnataka are set to reopen from Monday following the announcement by chief minister Basavaraj S Bommai regarding the resumption of classes 9, 10 and pre-university course (PUC). Schools in Uttar Pradesh were also set to reopen on Monday but have now been deferred due to the death of former chief minister Kalyan Singh. The state is observing a public holiday under the three-day mourning period in a mark of respect for the departed leader. The UP government announced the reopening of schools with 50 per cent attendance for intermediate students.Schools in Haryana, Uttarakhand, Puducherry, Punjab, Lakshadweep, Nagaland and Chhattisgarh reopened in the first week of August. Andhra Pradesh also resumed classes on August 16. Bihar also resumed classes for 1-8 in the same week with 50 per cent capacity.Meanwhile, Maharashtra is still in two minds on the decision to reopen schools. On August 17, the state government announced the reopening of schools for classes 5 to 7. However, it later revoked the announcement after its Covid task force advised against it.Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan are expected to begin physical classes for students from classes 9 to 12 with a 50 per cent capacity from September 1.In Delhi, students of classes 10, 11 and 12 have been allowed to visit schools for admission and board-exam related activities only. A Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) committee will submit a report on the strategy for reopening schools, colleges and educational institutions to the chief minister and Lieutenant Governor on August 25. The government will take a call on whether physical classes will be allowed to resume based on the suggestions of the panel.In Gujarat, the government is yet to announce offline studies for Classes 6 to 8 and it has already opened physical classes for 9 to 12 students last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/school-reopening-update-karnataka-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-9-10-here-s-what-other-states-are-doing-101629683839373.html
23-08-2021||NA||Highlights: No data to show Covid 3rd wave to affect pediatric age group||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:No data to suggest pediatric age group to get affected by Covid-19 third wave: Dr Dhiren Gupta, Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram HospitalThere is no data to suggest that the pediatric age group is going to get affected because innate immunity will be there. So acute COVID is unlikely in the pediatric age group (in the possible third wave): Dr Dhiren Gupta, Paediatric Pulmonologist at Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital pic.twitter.com/4UvTOX3mOkAfghan nationals continue their protest outside UNHCR in Delhi for resettlement options to a third countryDelhi: Afghan nationals continue their protest in front of United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) office in Vasant Vihar, demanding refugee status/cards for all Afghans and resettlement options to a third country pic.twitter.com/UrgIRdH32A17 wagons of goods train derailed on the New Bhadan-New Ekdil section of the Eastern Dedicated Freight CorridorAs many as 17 wagons of a goods train carrying iron could and steel sheets derailed on the New Bhadan-New Ekdil section of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC). This is the first instance of a major accident at the newly built DFC.Schools in Tripura to reopen for classes 6-12 from Aug 25 onwards: State school education departmentThe Tripura school education department on Monday said that schools will reopen for students of classes 6-12 from August 25 onwards in adherence with Covid-19 protocols, news agency ANI reported.Jewellery shops in several areas of Hyderabad were closed on Monday in protest against Centre's gold hallmarking guidelinesTelangana | Jewellery shops were closed in several areas of Hyderabad in protest against the implementation of mandatory Hallmarking Unique ID (HUID) today. pic.twitter.com/OGXZ5QwQ4JTerrorists hurl grenade on CRPF bunker in Srinagar; jawan injured: OfficialsTerrorists hurled grenade on a CRPF bunker in Jammu and Kashmir's Srinagar on Monday, thereby injuring one jawan, news agency PTI reported citing officials.Spoke to German Chancellor Merkel on bilateral, multilateral and regional issues, including recent developments in Afghanistan: PMSpoke to Chancellor Merkel this evening and discussed bilateral, multilateral and regional issues, including recent developments in Afghanistan. Reiterated our commitment to strengthening the India-Germany Strategic Partnership.Top Lashkar commander Abbas Sheikh & his aide Saqib Manzoor killed: IGP KashmirTop Lashkar commander Abbas Sheikh and his aide Saqib Manzoor have been killed in an encounter on Monday, Jammu and Kashmir Police said and called the same to be a "big success."Sitharaman gives Infosys till September 15 to fix issues faced by taxpayers with the new e-filing portalHon'ble FM met Mr Salil Parekh MD&CEO @Infosys today & conveyed the deep disappointment & concerns of the Govt &taxpayers about continuing glitches in the new e-filing portal of ITDeptt. While seeking explanation from Infosys,FM demanded that the issues be fixed by 15th Sep,2021. pic.twitter.com/GWe5D9HxCsAAP to contest in all seats of Chandigarh Municipal Corporation pollsThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday announced that it will contest on all seats in the upcoming Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections in December.Centre and ADB signed US$500 million loan to expand Bengaluru's 'Namma' Metro network: Finance ministryGovt of India & Asian Development Bank (ADB) today signed a USD 500 million loan to expand the metro rail network in Bengaluru with the construction of two new metro lines totaling 56-km in length: Finance Ministry pic.twitter.com/Jt3UbzC5CODelhi reports no new fatalities due to Covid-19 for fourth straight dayDelhi reports 17 fresh #COVID19 cases and 41 recoveries todayActive cases: 374Total cases: 14,37,334Total recoveries: 14,11,881Death toll: 25,079 (no new deaths)Positivity rate: 0.04% pic.twitter.com/VwIl7rCTydUS evacuated and facilitated evacuation of nearly 37,000 people from Afghanistan since Aug 14: White House officialFrom Aug 22-23, 28 US military flights have evacuated about 10,400 people from Kabul. 61 coalition aircraft evacuated approx 5,900 people. Since Aug 14, US has evacuated and facilitated evacuation of approx 37,000 people & relocated about 42,000 people: White House officialNational Monetisation Pipeline launched by Union finance minister Sitharaman to strengthen private sector and government partnershipThe Centre on Monday launched the National Monetisation Pipeline in a bid to monetise under-utilised and brownfield public sector assets by private sector companies. The government said that the pipeline is launched with an aim to unlock the value of ‘government investments and public money’ in infrastructure. Read more.Taliban say no new govt will be formed until last US soldier leaves Afghanistan, reports AFP citing sources#BREAKING No new government until last US soldier leaves Afghanistan: Taliban sources pic.twitter.com/y8FdloODAMTMC to attend MEA briefing on Afghanistan crisis on Aug 26: MamataTrinamool Congress (TMC) supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said that her party attend the briefing by Union ministry of external affairs (MEA) on the present situation in Afghanistan on August 26.7 members of Dalit family beaten up in Maharashtra on suspicions of performing of black magic; accused also hails from Dalit family: PoliceMaharashtra: Seven members of a Dalit family were beaten up by villagers in Chandrapur on suspicions of performing black magic"The accused also belong to a Dalit family. 13 people have been arrested & a case has been registered," says Santosh Ambike, API, Jiwati PS, Chandrapur pic.twitter.com/H6JYppnG79SC asks Centre to find solution to blockade of roads due to ongoing farmers' protest against the farm lawsSupreme Court asks Centre to find a solution to the blockade of roads due to the ongoing farmers' protest against the three agriculture lawsThe court was hearing a petition of a Noida resident seeking direction to ensure that the road between Noida to Delhi is kept clear pic.twitter.com/YDSQFb0idmChhattisgarh CM Baghel and state health minister Deo to meet Cong leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi tomorrow, reports ANIChhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel and state health minister TS Singh Deo are coming to Delhi tomorrow. The two leaders will meet Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tomorrow, along with the state in-charge PL Punia.(file photos) pic.twitter.com/dn7SIq189pS Jaishankar to brief Parliament floor leaders on Afghanistan crisis on Aug 26: Pralhad JoshiFloor Leaders of political parties would be briefed by EAM Dr S Jaishankar on the present situation in Afghanistan, on 26th August at Parliament House Annexe in Delhi: Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi (File photo) pic.twitter.com/X2Ogj5WDJvA selection board of Indian Army gave nod to promotion of five women officers to Colonel rankFor 1st-time women officers serving with Corps of Signals, Corps of Electronic&Mechanical Engineers & Corps of Engineers approved to Colonel rank. Previously, promotion to the rank was applicable for women officers in Army Medical Corps, Judge Adv Gen & Army Education Corps: MoDPortion of Delhi's Bhalswa landfill collapsed on nearby slums; no reports of people trapped received yet, reports ANIDelhi: A portion of Bhalswa landfill collapsed on the nearby slums earlier today. Some shanties were damaged. Delhi Police and Fire Department are present at the spot. No reports of people being trapped received yet.46 Indian passport holders to arrive in India todayThree Sri Guru Granth Sahib and 46 Indian passport holders to arrive in India today. We thank the Government of India and the Prime Minster for helping Hindus-Sikhs in Afghanistan. We're in touch with minority people in Kabul who wish to be evacuated, says Manjinder S Sirsa of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Mgmt committee and SAD leaderPM Modi has to take decision on caste-based census: Nitish KumarAfter meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said on Monday that the ball is now in the PM’s court and he has to take the decision on the issue of the caste-based census.Indian evacuation from Kabul on verge of completion, 2 more flights todayWith Modi’s government’s mission Kabul entering its end phase with two more evacuation flights landing from Afghanistan today, the Ministry of External Affairs and National Security set-up have achieved what looked to be impossible on August 15, the day the Taliban captured Kabul. Read MoreED files chargsheet against Anil Deshmukh's aide Kundan Shinde, Sanjeev PalandeEnforcement Directorate (ED) files a chargesheet against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh's aides Kundan Shinde and Sanjeev Palande in an alleged money laundering case.Covid-19: MHA panel warns of third wave peak in Oct, lack of infra to treat kidsA committee set up by the Union Home Ministry has said a third wave of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease may reach its peak around October and children could be affected as severely as adults. Read MoreBSF opens fire at drone in Jammu’s Arnia sectorThe Border Security Force (BSF) early on Monday fired at a flying object along the Indo-Pak international border in Arnia sector of Jammu district. Read More1 Afghan security force member killed, 3 wounded in a firefight at Kabul airport: Report1 Afghan security force member killed, 3 wounded after firefight breaks out with unknown attackers at Kabul airport's at the North Gate, tweets German BundeswehrIndia's daily Covid-19 tally falls to lowest in 160 daysSingle day rise of 25,072 new Covid-19 cases, 389 fatalities push India's tally to 3,24,49,306, death toll to 4,34,756, shows Union health ministry. India's active Covid-19 cases decline to 3,33,924.Road leading to Ram Janmbhoomi in Ayodhya to be renamed after former UP CM Kalyan SinghThe road leading to Ram Janmbhoomi in Ayodhya will be named after former UP CM Kalyan Singh. Besides Ayodhya, one road each in Lucknow, Prayagraj, Bulandshahr and Aligarh will be named after him, announces UP Deputy CM KP Maurya.146 people evacuated from Afghanistan arrive in Delhi146 people evacuated from Afghanistan arrive in Delhi on various flights, reports news agency ANI."We left on Aug 14. A US Embassy's flight took us to Qatar where we stayed at Army base. US Embassy spoke with Indian Embassy after which people from Indian Embassy came to take us," ANI quoted Sunil, one of the evacuees, as saying.Delhi CM Kejriwal to inaugurate India’s 1st-ever smog tower in Capital todayDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will on Monday inaugurate India’s first-ever smog tower at Baba Kharak Singh Marg in the Connaught Place area to help combat rising air pollution in the national capital. Read MoreSince August 14, the SS evacuated approx 30,300 people on military, coalition flightsSince August 14, the US has evacuated & facilitated the evacuation of approximately 30,300 people on military & coalition flights. Since the end of July, we have relocated approximately 35,500 people: White House Official'Hundreds of fighters' heading to resistance stronghold Panjshir Valley: TalibanThe Taliban have said that hundreds of their fighters are heading for the Panjshir Valley, which is currently the centre of the resistance in war-ravaged Afghanistan, even as National Resistance Front's Ahmad Massoud has said he wanted to hold negotiations with the hardline Islamist group but that his forces were ready to fight. Read MoreThunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain predicted for Delhi, and some parts of UP: IMDThunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of Delhi and Baraut, Daurala, Chapraula, Bagpat, Khekra, Anupshahar, Shikarpur, Pahasu, Debai, Narora areas of UP during the next 2 hours: India Meteorological DepartmentMaintaining constant vigilance on threats in Afghanistan: USWe know that terrorists may seek to exploit the situation and target innocent Afghans or American troops. We’re maintaining constant vigilance to monitor and disrupt threats from any source, including ISIS and the Afghan affiliate known as ISIS-K: US President Joe BidenIf not now then when?: US President Joe Biden on leaving AfghanistanThere is no way to evacuate this many people without pain & loss and the heartbreaking images you see, it’s just a fact. My heart aches for those people you see. At the end of the day, if we didn't leave Afghanistan now, when would we? says US President Joe Biden.Bihar CM to lead delegation to talk caste census with PM Modi todayAll eyes are on the proposed meeting between an all-party delegation from Bihar, led by chief minister Nitish Kumar, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Monday to discuss the issue of caste-based census. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-breaking-news-august-23-2021-101629677246086.html
23-08-2021||India||Uttarakhand begins Sputnik V vaccination service with help from Dehradun-based firm||Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Sunday inaugurated the Sputnik V vaccination service started by the Dehradun-based Graphic Era Institute of Medical Sciences. This is the first time a Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccination service has been initiated in the state. The chief minister said that the Covid-19 vaccination drive is running in the state at a good pace. He said Uttarakhand has set a target of 100% vaccination in the state by December. “The state is getting full cooperation from the Centre. The state has got nearly 17 lakh Covid-19 vaccines from the Centre so far this month,” he added. To ensure completion of the vaccination drive in the state, Dhami said vaccination camps are being organised in the remote areas of the state. “The state is fully prepared to deal with the third wave of Covid-19. Efforts are on to further improve healthcare facilities and related infrastructure in the state. State health minister Dhan Singh Rawat said Covid-19 vaccination is being expedited in the state on a continuous basis. “100% vaccination has been completed in Bageshwar district, which has become the first district in the state do so,” he said Subash Gupta, director (infrastructure) Graphic Era Educational Society said they have started Sputnik V vaccination drive in the state. “We are the first one to get the Sputnik vaccine to Uttarakhand. The first dose will cost ₹1145. The second dose, which will also cost the same, can be taken after 21 days of the first jab,” he said. He said on the first day, nearly 100 people took the jab of the Sputnik V vaccine from Graphic Era Institute of Medical Sciences. In Uttarakhand, over 58 lakh people have received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccination, while the number of people who have received both the doses is over 18 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-begins-sputnik-v-vaccination-service-with-help-from-dehradun-based-firm-101629666920843.html
23-08-2021||India||Big fan of PM: 28-yr-old who is walking from Srinagar with hopes to meet PM Modi||Fahim Nazir Shah is walking to Delhi from Srinagar, hoping that his around 815-km journey will get the attention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and he will get an opportunity to meet him."I am a very big fan of Prime Minister Modi," the 28-year-old, who works as a part-time electrician in Jammu and Kashmir's Srinagar, said as he reached Udhampur on Sunday after walking over 200 km.Taking short breaks on his journey, which started two days ago, Shah, a resident of the Shalimar area in Srinagar, believes that at the end of this arduous journey his dream of meeting the prime minister will be fulfilled."I am on my way to Delhi by foot to meet him (Modi) and I hope to attract the attention of the prime minister. To meet the prime minister is my cherished dream," he said, adding that his previous attempts to meet the PM did not fructify.Shah said that he has been following the prime minister on social media over the past four years, and his speech and actions have "touched my heart"."At one time, when he was delivering an address at a rally, he stopped suddenly on hearing the 'azaan' (Muslim call for prayer) leaving the public astonished … that gesture of our prime minister touched my heart and I became his ardent fan," he said.Shah said that over the past two and a half years, he has made several attempts to meet Prime Minister Modi in Delhi. "During the PM's last visit to Kashmir, security personnel did not allow me to meet him," he said."This time I am sure I will get a chance to meet the prime minister," Shah said.Asked about the change in Jammu and Kashmir after its special status was abrogated and made into a Union Territory from a state in 2019, he said the change is visible as Prime Minister Modi has his focus on Jammu and Kashmir. "There is a change in the situation, the development activities are taking place at a good pace and the Union Territory is marching forward," he said.Shah said he would like to discuss the problems of the educated and unemployed youths with the Modi and developing the industrial sector in the Union Territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-fan-of-pm-28-yr-old-who-is-walking-from-srinagar-with-hopes-to-meet-pm-modi-101629666489115.html
23-08-2021||India||Two killed, 4 injured as gas cylinder used to fill balloons explodes in Varanasi||Two people died and four others were injured when a gas cylinder used to fill balloons, exploded near Surabad Bahadurpur in Ramnagar area of Varanasi on Sunday evening, police said. A police officer said a seller was selling balloons near Sujabad Bahadurpur intersection when all of a sudden the gas cylinder exploded. Its pieces hit two people Geeta Devi (45), Kallu (32), Alia (5), Bablu (30) and Naveen Kumar (19).The police officer said that police personnel reached the spot and rushed all six victims to the Trauma Centre, BHU where doctors declared the balloon seller Lalla Seth (30) and Geeta Devi brought dead. The four injured are under treatment at the Trauma Centre, the officer said. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Kashi Zone, Amit Kumar visited the Trauma Centre and enquired about the condition of the injured.In a statement, Kumar said that the four injured included Kallu (32), Alia (5), Bablu (30) and Naveen Kumar (19).Their condition is believed to be stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-killed-4-injured-as-gas-cylinder-used-to-fill-balloons-explodes-in-varanasi-101629665239758.html
23-08-2021||India||Bengal CPI(M) suspends former state secretary’s daughter for article on CM Mamata||The West Bengal unit of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), on Saturday suspended Ajanta Biswas, daughter of former state secretary Anil Biswas, from the party for six months for writing an article on chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Jago Bangla, the daily mouthpiece of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). This is the first time disciplinary action has been taken by the Bengal CPI(M) against a member of a former state secretary’s family, party leaders said. Revered by CPI(M) workers to this day, Anil Biswas was one of the most successful strategists against the TMC. It is widely believed that the TMC managed to build up successful movements after Biswas died in 2006. He was also the editor of Ganashakti, the Bengal CPI(M)’s daily mouthpiece. Ajanta Biswas, a professor of history at Kolkata’s Rabindra Bharati University, wrote the article as part of a series published in July. Her piece projected the chief minister as a maverick and said the agitation she led against farmland acquisition for the Tata small car plant at Singur in Hooghly district contributed largely to her landmark victory against the Left in 2011. The Left Front’s 34-year-long rule ended that year. CPI(M) leaders faced major embarrassment when Jago Bangla printed the four-part series Biswas wrote on women empowerment in Bengal politics. The articles were prominently carried on the editorial page. Biswas was sent a show-cause notice by a CPI(M) area committee in the first week of August. The committee was not satisfied by her reply and recommended a six-month suspension. The decision was upheld by the CPI(M)’s Kolkata district committee on Saturday. The district committee meeting witnessed a debate, party leaders said. Sticking to the CPI(M)’s tradition, no leader commented on record. Biswas, too, did not give any reaction. Biswas has not been active in politics ever since her father died. Prior to that she was a prominent face of the Students’ Federation of India (SFI) unit at Presidency College (now a university) where she studied. The SFI is the students’ front of the CPI(M). While her first three research-based pieces highlighted figures such as Basanti Devi, Sarojini Naidu, Suniti Devi and others from the pre and post-Independence era, the last one focused entirely on Mamata Banerjee. It said that as a firebrand leader Banerjee played a historic role in state politics and ensured empowerment of women and movement at the grassroot level. Reacting to the suspension, TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said, “Instead of taking action against Biswas the CPI(M) should have suspended its leaders because of whom the party faced the rout in the assembly polls.” For the first time since 1946, the Bengal CPI(M) has no legislator in the state assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cpi-m-suspends-former-state-secretary-s-daughter-for-article-on-cm-mamata-101629663140580.html
23-08-2021||India||Mumbai crime branch takes over probe in extortion complaint against Param Bir Singh||The fifth case of extortion which was registered by Goregaon police station against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, dismissed cop Sachin Vaze and three others on the basis of allegations made by hotelier and civic contractor Bimal Agrawal was transferred to the Mumbai crime branch unit 11 for further investigation. The police also arrested accused, Sumit Singh alias Chintu and he was produced in court and remanded in police custody till Monday.A senior officer of the crime branch confirmed the matter and said, they have been recording statements of Sumit Singh to know the exact sequence of events while adding that the other accused in the case will be arrested soon. Bimal Agrawal alleged in his complaint that Singh, Vaze and Sumit Singh alias Chintu, Vinay Singh alias Bablu and Riyaz Bhati had threatened him and extorted monthly payments since January 2020 till March 2021 for “letting him run his hotels in Goregaon and Andheri without any police hassles”. The complainant claimed that he had paid ₹9 lakh in cash and given two Samsung Fold-2 mobile phones worth ₹212,000 to meet their extortion demands. Agrawal further claimed that he had learnt that the accused had also extorted money from other hotel owners and even bookies, in return for letting them run their betting business in Mumbai without any police intervention.Vaze, who is already in Taloja jail, was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Antilia explosives scare case and the subsequent murder of Thane resident Mansukh Hiren.This is the fifth criminal case filed against Singh following one in Marine Drive and four at a Thane police station. Coincidentally, Bimal Agrawal is the co-accused with former Mumbai police commissioner in an extortion case registered in Thane Nagar police station in July, 2021. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested Agrawal in connection with corruption and a hawala racket related to the IPL betting scandal in February 2017 while the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had also arrested him in December 2017 in connection with a money laundering probe in a cricket betting case.The Goregaon police registered a case under Section 384 (extortion), 385 (extortion and threat of physical harm) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-crime-branch-takes-over-probe-in-extortion-complaint-against-param-bir-singh-101629661879487.html
23-08-2021||India||‘Hid uniform... went into hiding’: Afghan officer's account||Last month, when US President Joe Biden said a Taliban takeover wasn’t “inevitable” as NATO troops withdrew from the war torn country, a 27-year-old Afghan National Army officer was on duty at a military base several kilometres from the Capital. Last week, Kabul fell to the Taliban, and the ANA officer went into hiding.The officer, who previously completed his pre-commission training at the Indian Military Academy in Dehradun as part of an initiative between the two countries, says his life has turned upside down, not unlike millions others in his country. But the stakes are even higher for those like him, as Taliban fighters go door-to-door in search of armymen who once fought the terror group and of officials close to the erstwhile Ashraf Ghani government, he says.The ANA officer’s identity and rank in the force are being withheld for his safety.In touch with this writer, he says over instant messaging that he has been moving through different towns since August 15, when the Taliban conquered the Capital and claimed complete control of the country deserted by western forces after two decades.To avoid getting caught, he also hid his uniform and all documents that may give away his identity -- the remnants of his previous life.“We never thought in our wildest dreams that the Taliban would return so easily in just a few days. Our leaders sold us. Since the government was toppled and the top commanders surrendered, we hid our uniform and service weapons. We all then went into hiding from the Taliban,” the officer, whose parents are back home, tells this writer from an undisclosed town near Kabul.Since May, Taliban led a blitzkrieg campaign of capturing provinces in the country -- first, swathes of the countryside fell, and within a week in August, all urban provincial capitals, while American and allied forces withdrew.There are many of his colleagues from the force who have also gone into hiding after the Taliban came into power, he says. They fear a return to what they thought was a bygone era. Taliban ruled the country from 1996-2001 and implemented a harsh regime under Sharia law. Back then, any opposition was brutally stifled, public punishments such as stoning and beheading were not uncommon, and women weren’t allowed to study or work.“Like me, many other from the ANA are hiding in different places of the country. We are not scared at all, but only worried that they will take back the country to the period before 2001. We are waiting for the right time to rise against the Taliban who are still wild animals. We will not accept their rule,” the officer says.Nearly caughtAfter fleeing from his house last week, the officer was travelling in a friend’s car (with two others known to him) across towns for two days, with few belongings and little cash. “Initially, I was hiding for a couple of days in a relative’s home. There I had proper food... From there, I left for a friend’s home a few kilometres away a day ago (Thursday). It was that day when I encountered the Taliban at a checkpoint (in northern Afghanistan),” he says.“They stopped our car and using an expletive, asked us where we are coming from and where we are going. For a moment, we were worried, but we kept our cool and replied to them in a relaxed way to avoid any suspicion. They then allowed us to go after around 3 minutes of questioning us...“Fortunately, I had grown my beard few weeks ago,” he says, adding that his traditional attire of a pathani suit too may have helped him avert Taliban fighters’ suspicion at the check point.Uncertainty aheadThe 27-year-old says he was “shocked” to see weapons, provided by the US to the Afghan army over the years, in the hands of Taliban fighters. These included even America-made M4 assault rifles.“At the checkpoint, where we were stopped, I was shocked to see our weapons in the hands of those Taliban men. But that was the new reality we have to accept in Afghanistan. They got their hands on the modern weaponry provided to us by the Americans. We don’t know what to do, till when to hide like this.”HopeBut soon, his tone changes, and hope creeps in. Defiantly, the officer says he will support Ahmad Massoud, the son of Ahmad Shah Massoud, who was one of the main leaders of Afghanistan’s anti-Soviet resistance in the 1980s.He says: “We are lucky to still have leaders like Ahmad Massoud, who has vowed to stand for the people of Afghans against Taliban in Panjshir valley ( the only province free of Taliban until now).“The people of Afghanistan will soon standup against the Taliban.”Forces holding out against the Taliban in northern Afghanistan said on Saturday that they have taken three districts -- Pul-e-Hesar, Banu and Deh Salah -- in Baghlan province close to the Panjshir valley, where some government forces and other militia groups have gathered. Ahmad Massoud and former vice president Amrullah Saleh have vowed to resist the Taliban from Panjshir, which repelled both Soviet forces and the terror outfit in the 1980s and 1990s.Separate to this, uncoordinated demonstrations have broken out in some eastern cities and the capital Kabul in the last few days. Protesters, including women, have raised the red, green and black colours of the Afghan flag. Although Taliban have no acknowledged the incidents, in some instances reported by the media, their fighters have opened fire to quell the demonstrations -- contrary to their promises of a general amnesty for all Afghan soldiers and government officials.“There (Baghlan) the locals recaptured three districts from the Taliban after they (insurgents) carried door-to-door searches going against their (Taliban’s) promise of general amnesty. That enraged the locals, who then retaliated to capture the three districts.“God willing, this will spread to other areas as well,” the officer tells the reporter, before signing off.The ANA officer is known to the writer since his training days at IMA, Dehradun||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/hid-uniform-went-into-hiding-afghan-officer-s-account-101629660771927.html
23-08-2021||India||Dentists ignore proper work-up, rue govt docs in Bihar; appeal for sensitisation||A government dental doctor has flagged the Indian Dental Association (IDA), saying most dental surgeons, unlike general physicians and surgeons do not prescribe viral marker and other important blood investigations before doing a procedure, risking the patients and themselves. In an e-mail to the national IDA president and secretary on Sunday, Dr Jyotirmay Singh, associate professor, department of orthodontics and dentofacial orthopaedics, Patna Dental College and Hospital, said an average two out of 10 dental surgeons were advising blood investigations before a simple tooth extraction or any other dental procedure. “HIV (to check for AIDS), HBsAg (hepatitis B), HCV (hepatitis C), bleeding and clotting time (time taken for blood to clot during surgery), prothrombin time or PT (to detect a bleeding or excessive clotting disorder) are essential investigations a dental surgeon must prescribe before any procedure. Not doing tests for HIV/AIDS and hepatitis may lead to spread of infection arising out of a cut in the gums and put at risk the doctor and other patients through contaminated equipment,” said Dr Singh. Similarly, blood sugar (affects healing of wound), thyroid profile and complete blood count (to check haemoglobin, platelets, white blood corpuscle levels, etc. for other chronic diseases or long-term oral infection), are equally important, he added.“A simple tooth extraction procedure may require blood transfusion or even be fatal if the blood sugar, blood pressure, PT, bleeding and clotting time parameters are deranged. However, most dental surgeons, at best, prescribe teeth X-ray before doing a procedure like root canal treatment along with cap and bridge, scaling (teeth cleaning) and deep curettage (cleaning of gums), etc.” added Dr Singh. He urged the IDA to disseminate information about the importance of these tests among its members. By not prescribing such blood investigations, most dental surgeons were risking themselves and their patients to serious complications, said Dr Shivendra Choudhary, professor and head, department of dentistry at the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH). “At least 60% dentists in the state lack awareness and do not go for proper work-up by prescribing blood tests before a procedure. We do it at PMCH,” he said. “Some doctors, in private setup, do not want to miss patients by prescribing a battery of tests, which pinches a patient’s pocket because the investigations are expensive. I have personal experience of patients not returning to me for a procedure after consulting me when I have prescribed them essential blood tests. From doctors’ ethics, personal and patient safety, dentists need to follow a protocol and prescribe blood investigations before doing any oral intervention. Patients will come to terms with it when all doctors follow the protocol,” said Dr Choudhary. Dr Nimmi Singh, associate professor, oral medicine and radiology department of dentistry at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), also regretted the lack of awareness among dentists. “Many patients referred to our centre from rural areas are not prescribed viral marker or blood tests. However, at IGIMS, we insist on these tests, along with rapid antigen or real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for Covid-19, as dental surgeons are most prone to airborne and blood-transmitted diseases,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dentists-ignore-proper-work-up-rue-govt-docs-in-bihar-appeal-for-sensitisation-101629660139224.html
23-08-2021||India||Govt’s palm oil push based on disputed report||The Modi Cabinet’s decision last week to promote environmentally ruinous oil-palm plantations in the Andamans was a long time in the making and came on the heels of a go-ahead contained in a scientific body’s report, which environmentalists have disputed.The ₹11,000-crore National Mission on Edible Oils – Oil Palm (NMEO-OP) plan seeks to renew and expand oil palm plantations in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, a fragile archipelago of 572 untrammeled islands, of which only 38 are inhabited. Palm oil, which is cheap, is used in most food items, from chocolate to pizza.India’s quest to increase oil palm isn’t new. A broad policy push came with the Special Programme on Oil Palm Area Expansion between 2011-12 and 2014-15. During the erstwhile 10th and 11th five-year plan periods, the government also ran a programme called ISOPOM, or the Integrated Scheme of Oilseeds, Pulses, Oil Palm and Maize.India’s huge demand has made it the world’s largest importer of vegetable oils, a base ingredient for cooking most common dishes. The country meets up to two-thirds of its domestic demand through imports.During 2020-21, India imported both crude and refined palm oil worth $5.8 billion. Edible oil is the country’s third most high-value import, after petroleum crude and gold.Edible oil plantations tend to replace natural tropical forests, depleting biodiversity. Environmental case studies in forested belts of Sumatra, Borneo and the Malay Peninsula — which produce 90% of global palm oil — have found that cultivation had eliminated pristine forests, pushing out wildlife, from orangutans to birds.The new push will likely require additional clearances from the Supreme Court, which had on May 7, 2002, ordered the phasing out of all “exotic plantations” to conserve the islands’ ecology, an official with the knowledge of the matter said. “Exotic” in this context refers to all species of flora and fauna not native to the islands.The new scheme seeks to bring additional 0.65 million hectares under oil palm by 2025-26 to reach a targeted one million hectares, up from 0.3 million hectares at present. This would result in crude palm oil output rising to 1.1 million tonnes by 2025-26 and up to 2.8 million tonnes by 2029-30.The scheme follows a long series of steps to steer clear of legal and procedural hurdles, HT has learnt.In January 2019, the administration of Andaman and Nicobar Islands had moved Supreme Court seeking a review of its strict conservation orders for the Andamans, the official said on condition of anonymity.The chief secretary of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Jitendra Narain, did not respond to a request for comment till the time of going to press.A second official said the Union agriculture ministry had deputed a scientific team from the Indian Institute of Oil Palm Research for a report on how to grow oil-palm sustainably at the request of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands administration. The panel’s report, finalised in end-2018, stated that agro-climatic conditions in the archipelago were congenial for oil palms.Ecologists dispute this. “The report was more about agricultural suitability. It is not an ecological study,” said Manjula Jaitley, an independent ecologist.Most of the oil-palm plantations in the archipelago, including in Little Andaman, are nearing the end of their natural productive shelf life of about 35 years. They now need to be grown anew.Oil-palm can be grown sustainably but only under strict conditions, including total avoidance of Andaman’s rainforests, said GV Ramanjaneyulu of the Centre for Sustainable Agriculture. However, there are very few non-forested open belts in the Andamans, ecologists say.The country’s second-most senior law officer had told the Supreme Court in October 2018, in a case regarding the rehabilitation of farmers in the islands, that there was hardly any land available for “compensatory afforestation” and “87% of the landmass is a natural notified forest”.According to top ecologist MD Madhusudan, grasslands are officially taken by policy makers to be wastelands, which “they are not” and so oil palm should not be there.The state-run A&N Islands Forest and Plantation Development Corporation Ltd owned about 1,583 hectares of red oil palm plantations in islets, such as Little Andamans. The company had four processing units whose operations were curtailed when the top court ordered the folding up of monoculture plantations.Deposing before a parliamentary committee in 2009, a senior official of the environment ministry had stated that “as per the recommendation of the Shekhar Singh Commission, the existing plantation of oil palm, rubber etc. are to be phased out and the land so released, insofar as it is forest land, be regenerated. No exotic species of fauna or flora should be introduced into the Islands”.The landmark Shekhar Singh commission, which was set up on the orders of the Supreme Court in 2002 and was formally known as the Forests and Allied Matters in the Andaman & Nicobar Islands Commission, had spelt out a series of recommendations to conserve the islands’ anthropological and ecological heritage, such as the preservation of aboriginal characteristics of its population, flora and fauna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govts-palm-oil-push-based-on-disputed-report-101629658758700.html
23-08-2021||India||2 BJP MLAs question CM over weekend, night curfew rules||At least two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators in Karnataka have slammed the Basvaraj Bommai-led government for its weekend and night curfew rules on Covid-19, adding to the growing voices against the chief minister.Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal), the firebrand legislator from Bijapura city, on Sunday urged Bommai not to impose any restrictions on the upcoming Ganesha Chaturthi festival.“I have told the Chief Minister that if he imposes restrictions (during Ganesha festival) then I am not going to heed to it. I am telling the deputy commissioner and the superintendent of police present here that if you impose restrictions on Hindu festivals in Vijayapura then I will not remain silent. You can shoot me to silence me,” Yatnal said on Sunday.He charged the government with allowing others to organise events comprising 10,000 people and said when it comes to Ganesha festival, the administration imposes several restrictions in the name of Covid-19 control.Yatnal asked the district authorities to impose curbs on everyone if they really wish to check the spread of COVID-19 but not in a selective manner.The MLA also claimed that the third wave of COVID-19 will not have any effect on the district bordering Maharashtra as the vaccination is highest there and cases have come down substantially. He even questioned the government if corona comes only on weekends and at night, questioning the decision to impose restrictions in districts bordering Maharashtra and Kerala.Yatnal, who was left out of Bommai’s cabinet, has been an activly challenging the new government. He has also openly questioned the leadership and continues to criticise former chief minister BS Yediyurappa.BJP MLC AH Vishwanth too has questioned the decision on guidelines enforced in Mysuru district, about 125 kms from Bengaluru. The Bommai government has imposed weekend curfew in border districts and night curfew across the state as a measure to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the southern state.The chief minister, however, continues to turn a blind eye on political events by the BJP and the opposition who have flouted norms in Bengaluru and other districts. A Narayana Swamy, the union minister of state for social justice and empowerment has been attracting hundreds and thousands of people to his Janaashirwad Yatra rallies.These political rallies are going on unchecked by authorities who continue to remain vigilant on the public, warning them of punitive action for violating Covid-19 norms in the state. The Congress party in Karnataka slammed the BJP government for its actions against all others but themselves. “Vinay Kulkarni is a senior leader of the party, former minister and is a part of the Congress. It is good that a case of covid violations were slapped against Vinay Kulkarni. But in the same manner why are there no cases being registered against BJP national leaders for violating covid norms in Jana Ashirwad Yatra? Why are there no cases when BJP workers meetings? The government is using the law in whichever way it wants,” DK Shivakumar, the president of the Karnataka Congress said on Sunday. Karnataka has 20,556 active Covid-19 cases after the state reported 1,189 new infections the last 24-hour, the health department said in its bulletin on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-bjp-mlas-question-cm-over-weekend-night-curfew-rules-101629658339433.html
23-08-2021||India||3 robbers killed outside Assam bank in encounter||Three suspected robbers were killed in an encounter in the early hours of Sunday after the Assam Police in Kokrajhar district intercepted a group of men outside a bank in a bid to foil an alleged bank heist, officials said.According to the Kokrajhar police, the incident took place around 2:30 am in Bhotgaon, when the group was on their way to allegedly rob a branch of the Indian Bank.“There was a failed attempt at robbing the bank branch three months ago, and since then we had activated our information network. On Sunday, we got information that a team of robbers were on their way to rob the Indian Bank branch,” said Thube Prateek Vijay Kumar, superintendent of police, Kokrajhar.“When our personnel intercepted the robbers around 800m away from the bank, they started firing at us. Our team also fired back at them in retaliation, in which three of their members got injured. They were taken to RNB Civil Hospital in Kokrajhar, where they later succumbed,” he added.The deceased robbers have been identified as Sirajudaulah Sheikh from Mankachar district and Aminul Haque and Manowar Hussan from Goalpara district. The police said an operation to nab other robbers, who managed to escape from the scene, is on.According to the director-general of police (DGP) Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta, the police recovered two pistols, several rounds of used bullets, oxygen cylinders, gas cutters and other materials from the scene of the incident.There have been a steady rise in police encounters in Assam since May this year after the BJP-led government started a zero-tolerance policy against drugs, cattle smuggling and other heinous crimes. With Sunday’s incident, the number of those killed in such encounters since May 10 rose to 20. At least 31 others have been injured in such incidents across the state during that period.While opposition parties have accused the police of being ‘trigger-happy’, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who handles the home portfolio, has urged police to not to shy away from firing back at criminals while remaining within the ambit of law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-robbers-killed-outside-assam-bank-in-encounter-101629658220763.html
23-08-2021||India||Karnataka gears up to restart physical classes after 4 months||After a gap of nearly four months, the Karnataka government has decided to reopen physical classes for students in Classes 9, 10 and 12 from August 23, that would allow children to be back in their schools for the first time since the second wave of Covid-19 infections.Parents and guardians, however, have questioned the decision of the government.“Let them reopen schools where there is not much impact of Covid-19; but you cannot have one yardstick for the entire state,” Mohammed Shakeel, president of Voice of Parents, an association of parents and guardians, told Hindustan Times on Sunday.He said that Karnataka says it wants to implement the National Education Policy (NEP) which states that students will graduate only in their 12th standard, which gives them no reason to push children below these classes to make them rush back to schools.He, and multiple other parents, have even challenged the right of schools (private) to demand full school feels as well.Shakeel said that by reopening schools, the government is helping these private institutions to collect fees and then when the third wave comes, close them down again.However, according to Karnataka minister for primary and secondary education BC Nagesh, in the last one year, students didn’t receive the same kind of education in their homes, one of them being the technical aspect.“In the last one year, no matter how much we tried we could not give the students the same kind of education in their homes,” Nagesh said on Sunday.He listed a variety of reasons for the same which included the technical aspects like poor or no internet connectivity and the general disconnect between students and teachers in an online setting.The decision to reopen schools come at a time when the number of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka appears to have stabilised but fears of an imminent spike looms large over the state, especially with the impending third wave.Despite being known for its prowess in technology, the pandemic exposed the fault lines in Karnataka’s inequitable development; nearly half of the state’s young students lost an academic year due to internet accessibility--or the lack of it.In July, S Suresh Kumar, the then primary and secondary education minister had stated that around 9.3 million students out of the total 10.05 million across private and public schools in Karnataka, have been accounted for in terms of access to devices, internet, TV, radio and even email.Of the 9.3 million who have been accounted for, only 5,859,907 have smartphones/tablets while around 3,127,524 don’t have any access to such devices. Further, there are just 5,134,386 students who have access to the internet while 3,779,965 students do not have access to the internet, rendering the exercise of online classes as a redundant practice for these children, mostly from rural and backward regions of the state, Hindustan Times had reported on July 2.Reopening of schools has been a contentious issue, especially at a time when there appears to be a resurgence of new Covid-19 infections.Karnataka has 20,556 active Covid-19 cases after the state reported 1,189 new infections the last 24-hour, the health department said in its bulletin on Sunday.The death toll rose to 37,145 as 22 more people succumbed to the virus.The average positivity rate stands at 0.94% and the case fatality rate is 1.85%, according to government data.To make matters worse, the testing numbers in Karnataka too have dropped with just 125,158 tests conducted on Sunday, including 92,842 RT-PCR tests, data shows.While the state positivity rate is below 1%, there are at least eight districts that have a higher than state average, data from the Covid-19 war room shows.Dakshina Kannada, which has been at the receiving end of heavy rains, has an average positivity rate ( in the last seven days) of 3.5% until 5 pm on Saturday while Udupi has 2.71%.Kodagu has a positivity rate of 2.16% while it is 1.64% in Hassan.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai will be visiting schools and colleges on Monday to check if guidelines for Covid-19 safety has been taken into account.Agriculture minister BC Patil as well as the BJP itself , have been asking children to return to school without fear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-gears-up-to-restart-physical-classes-after-4-mnths-101629658219673.html
23-08-2021||India||Govt examining caste census demand, says Karnataka CM||With several stakeholders piling up pressure on the Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP)-led Karnataka government to release the findings of the socio-economic and education survey or caste census, chief minister Basvaraj Bommai on Sunday said that the state government is examining the growing developments around it.“Everybody’s free to meet the Prime Minister. The matter is there in front of court as well as the backward classes commission. We are examining it,” Bommai said on Sunday.The calls made in Karnataka, mirrors those in other states as well where several political parties, including allies of the BJP, have demanded the conducting a caste census.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, on Friday had said that a 10-party delegation would meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi to demand for conducting a caste-based census.Even in the just concluded Parliament session, several parties demanded that the 50% cap on reservation be removed.Former Karnataka chief minister and Congress’ leader of the opposition, Siddaramaiah, on Friday lashed out at the Bommai-led government for not releasing the findings of the 2015 caste census in Karnataka.The Siddaramaiah-led Congress government in Karnataka commissioned the “Socio-Economic and Education Survey”, better known as caste-census, in 2015 at a cost of around ₹150 crore, employing 1,06,000 people for 45 days to pose around 55 questions to 13.5 million households across the state.Caste has a huge bearing on Karnataka’s socio-cultural life and its volatile politics.Siddaramaiah has also been accused of holding back the findings of the report since his term in office ended only in 2018, three years after the report was prepared, allegedly due to pressure from his own partymen belonging to dominant communities, Hindustan Times reported on Saturday.The rise of reservation-related demands by dominant communities like the Panchamasali, one the largest sub-sects within the Lingayats, Vokkaligas, Valmiki and the Kuruba’s has added to the challenges of the Bommai government who has been trying to uphold the promises made by his predecessor, BS Yediyurappa.Any attempt in the past to release the findings of the report has been stonewalled by leaders of dominant communities who have threatened to revive protests.The Panchamasalis have threatened to revive its agitation if the Bommai government does not live up to its promise of changing their reservation status by September 15.A forum of extreme backward classes, who have approached the courts to get the findings of the 2015 caste census, have asked Bommai not to include the Panchamasali into 2A category which would further deprive these voiceless and invisible communities of benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-examining-caste-census-demand-says-karnataka-cm-101629658159270.html
23-08-2021||India||Local body polls first test for CM Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai is likely to face his first electoral challenge in the upcoming urban local body polls in 252 wards on September 3. The election would not just be a test for the newly sworn in chief minister but also an indication if the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been successful in consolidating its grass root level workers and whether its decision to give the top job to someone from North Karnataka would gain the confidence of the people in a region that continues to feel alienated against its more prosperous southern counterparts. Among those urban local bodies going to the polls are Hubbali-Dharwad, Belagavi and Kalaburagi, which are key districts in the northern part of the state. “It will be a three-way fight in Belagavi between BJP, Congress and MES (Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti),” said one Congress worker in the district, requesting not to be named. The decision to field candidates under their own banners and not through proxy this time is likely to add to the challenges of the national parties who have so far pursued a strategy of either supporting the pro-Kannada or pro-Marathi hopefuls. The urban local body polls come months after the ruling-BJP was routed by the Congress in May this year. The Congress had won six (119 out of the 266 total seats) of the 10 urban local body polls conducted in April 27 this year, leaving the BJP with just one and Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) with two victories. This included victories in BJP strongholds like Ballari and Thirthalli, which is in the home district of former chief minister BS Yediyudappa, Hindustan Times reported on May 1. The alleged mishandling of Covid-19 by Yediyurappa, people aware of the developments said, was among the main reasons for the poor outing by the BJP in the April urban local body polls. Already hit with dissent from within the BJP, allegations of mismanagement of timely flood and drought relief and legislators continuing to air their displeasure in public over being overlooked for the Cabinet, the upcoming polls are likely to pile the challenges on Bommai and also presents an opportunity for the chief minister to step out of the shadow of his mentor and predecessor, Yediyurappa. The MES, a pro-Maharashtra outfit that has been fighting to be included with the neighbouring state, have alleged that those in power are trying to “disturb the homogeneity of the society” in Belagavi. “They (ruling party) have bifurcated the wards in an unscientific way, dividing it on basis like majority,” Deepak Dalvi, the president of the MES said. He said that there has been a systematic effort to ensure the MES votes are split or wards have been categorized in a way that it will be disadvantageous for the separatist party. Belagavi is also the home district of the powerful “Jarkiholi brothers” who have, in the past, put their own interests before the party’s. Ramesh and Balachandra Jarkiholi, both with the BJP, have been holding meetings with dissidents after they were left out of the Bommai Cabinet. Urban local body polls and the yet-to-be announced gram and zilla panchayat polls are key to get the pulse of the cadre at grass root levels which would help all three parties understand if their efforts to consolidate support base before the 2023 assembly elections. There is a feeling of neglect in Kalaburagi district, a divisional headquarters, after Bommai decided against anyone from this region in his Cabinet. “If there was a minister from this region, it could have boosted voting,” said a BJP worker from the district. He, however, added that the party is strong in the district and legislators are coming together to work for the polls. In 2019, the BJP managed to oust 11-time winner and Congress behemoth, Mallikarjuna Kharge in the Lok Sabha polls by backing his former aide who jumped to the BJP, Umesh Jadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-body-polls-first-test-for-cm-bommai-101629658099558.html
23-08-2021||India||Entering airport looked nearly impossible: Kabul evacuees||The Taliban segregated an Indian group headed to the Kabul airport for evacuation from the war-torn country, with a journey only a few kilometres-long to the facility appearing impossible because of blocked roads and the presence of militia, people who landed in India after precarious journey out of Afghanistan said on Sunday.India on Sunday brought back 540 people, including 475 of its nationals and two Afghan lawmakers, on four flights from different destinations as part of the mission to evacuate its nationals and Afghan partners from Kabul amid the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan because of a Taliban takeover.“When the situation changed there (in Afghanistan), we decided to go back home. There was no issue of food there. They (Taliban) took the photocopy of our passports and asked us our names besides they checked our passports and asked where we worked. Later, they left,” a passenger told reporters at the Ghaziabad’s Hindan airbase, where the evacuation flights landed on Sunday morning.A total of 168 people, including 107 Indians and 23 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, were flown from Kabul to the Hindan airbase near Delhi in the Indian Air Force (IAF) C-17 Globemaster aircraft. Another group of 87 Indians and two Nepalese nationals were brought back in a special Air India flight from Dushanbe, a day after they were evacuated to the Tajikistan capital in an IAF 130J transport aircraft, officials said. Another 281 Indians, most of them employees of firms from Western countries that were active in Afghanistan, were flown back from Doha to Delhi on two special flights. These Indians had been flown out to Qatar on US and NATO flights over the past few days.Another passenger, Kolkata-based Dominic S Biswas, who was working in Afghanistan as an auditor of food quality for the past 10 months, shared his harrowing few days in the capital city. “I was in Kabul main city. There was a huge crowd at the Kabul airport, and I was stuck up for four days. I was outside the airport and could not move in. There was scheduling and rescheduling...‘Taliban se dar laga, bahut laga (We were very scared of the Taliban)’.”The group also included Afghan lawmakers Anarkali Honaryar and Narender Singh Khalsa and their families.“India is our second home. We have been living there for generations. We pray to God that Afghanistan is rebuilt, and we can go back there to tend to our gurdwaras and temples and serve the people,” Khalsa was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. “I feel like crying...Everything that was built in the last 20 years is now finished. It’s zero now,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Honaryar, a member of the Upper House of Afghan Parliament, told news agency PTI in a video message: “I thank the government of India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Ministry of External Affairs and the Indian Air Force for lifting us from Kabul and saving my life.”Their emotions were shared by many, who hailed the efforts of the Indian government in ensuring their safe arrival.“Situation was deteriorating in Afghanistan, so I came here with my daughter & two grandchildren. Our Indian brothers and sisters came to our rescue. They (Taliban) burnt down my house. I thank India for helping us,” news agency ANI quoted an Afghan national as saying.Dehradun-based Praveen (44), who was among 87 Indians brought back in a special Air India flight from Tajikistan, said “breathing the air of our motherland is just bliss”.A resident of Premnagar area of Dehradun, Praveen was among 40 ex-servicemen from Uttarakhand who worked at the Denmark embassy in Kabul as security assistants.“When we finally touched down New Delhi airport on Sunday at 5.45 am from Tajikistan, it was like we got a second life as the situation in Afghanistan was very serious,” he added.Dilbahadur, also an ex-serviceman, said the journey back home seemed impossible at a point. He went to Afghanistan for the first time just a month ago and said their contingent had to wait for about six hours to enter the airport and were asked by the Taliban to stand separately from the locals.“Outside the airport, the Taliban men told us to stand in a separate place when we told them that we are Indians. They assured us that they won’t harm us and will let us go to the airport. I was not scared but seeing the Taliban... we were a little worried as it was difficult to believe their assurance. If they wanted, they could have shot us as it was normal for them,” he said.“Though we lived only about 2km away from the Kabul airport, it was almost impossible to reach there as all the roads were blocked by either Taliban or the locals. The Indian embassy officials then coordinated with the US Army which came to take us to the airport ensuring our safety,” he added.Explaining the situation near the airport, Dilbahadur said, though the Taliban were not targeting the Indians, they were beating the local residents to stop them from entering the airport. “We felt sorry for the poor locals who were being beaten by the Taliban to scatter them away from the airport. There were small children being carried by their parents trying to enter the airport by jumping over the fence. It was a very heart-wrenching scene.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/entering-airport-looked-nearly-impossible-kabul-evacuees-101629657667677.html
23-08-2021||India||Indians, Afghan refugees brought safely from Kabul||India on Sunday evacuated nearly 540 people, including 475 of its nationals, who were in Afghanistan on four flights from different destinations as the government sped up efforts to bring back all citizens after the situation at Kabul airport deteriorated further.A total of 87 Indians and two Nepalese citizens were flown from the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe to Delhi in a special Air India flight on Sunday morning. They were earlier evacuated from Kabul to Dushanbe in a C-130 Hercules aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Saturday.Another 168 people, including 107 Indians and 23 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, were flown out of Kabul in a C-17 heavy lift aircraft and reached the Hindan airbase later on Sunday.Afghan lawmakers Anarkali Honaryar and Narender Singh Khalsa and their families were among the Sikhs and Hindus. They were escorted into Kabul airport by international forces after the Taliban prevented a group of more than 70 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus from entering the area on Saturday.Another 281 Indians, most of them employees of firms from Western countries that were active in Afghanistan, were flown back from Doha to Delhi on two special flights. These Indians had been flown out to Qatar on US and NATO flights over the past few days.People familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity that there were no specific figures for the Indians who remained in Afghanistan, though the indications were that this would be a low number. Efforts are still on to register all Indians who are still in the war-torn country and evacuate them as quickly as possible along with Afghan nationals, including Sikhs and Hindus.The people acknowledged that Afghan citizens granted Indian visas were facing problems in accessing Kabul airport. “The Taliban are specifically checking for people with Afghan passports and Indian visas and driving them back,” one of the people said.Another problem in evacuations is the journey from different parts of Kabul to the airport because the Taliban have set up check posts across the capital. Adding to the worries of the Indian side are reports that terrorists from Pakistan-based groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Haqqani Network are present among the Taliban.The C-130 aircraft that went to Kabul also flew in a small team of Indian officials who are currently stationed at the airport to help with further evacuations and to liaise with the US and other countries for assistance. US and foreign troops are currently playing a key role in escorting people into the airport, especially those being threatened by the Taliban.Dushanbe will continue to remain a key centre for Indian evacuation flights as there are limited space and time slots at Kabul airport.As reports emerged of Taliban fighters opening fire and using harsh methods to control thousands of people converging on Kabul airport, the US embassy issued a security alert on Saturday advising American citizens to avoid travelling to the airport because of “potential security threats outside the gates”. Around 20 people have died at the airport over the past week.The US alert was issued following intelligence reports that the Islamic State could target Americans or flights in the Afghan capital.US defence secretary Lloyd Austin activated the Civil Reserve Air Fleet, a rarely used programme, to compel six commercial airlines to provide 18 aircraft to speed up the evacuation efforts. The Guardian reported the perceived threat from the Islamic State had led US military planes to “perform rapid, diving combat landings” at Kabul. Other aircraft fired flares on takeoff to confuse possible heat-seeking missiles targeting planes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-afghan-refugees-brought-safely-from-kabul-101629657259490.html
23-08-2021||India||CBSE to reintroduce communicative English, Sanskrit for Class 9, 10||New Delhi: In line with the new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has decided to reintroduce the communicative English and Sanskrit “from the academic year 2022-23 in class 9 and subsequently in class 10 in the year 2023-24”. The board was offering these languages at two levels -- communicative and core -- before discontinuing the communicative option in the academic session 2018-19. While communicative options in language courses offer content about communication skills and day-to-day language usage, core courses focus on poetry, dramas, and concept based reading and writing in the subject.In a letter addressing the principals of all its affiliated schools, CBSE director (Academics) Joseph Emmanuel said, “In pursuance to recommendation of National Education Policy 2020 regarding availability of all subjects and corresponding assessments at two levels as per the needs and interest of students, CBSE is planning to offer English and Sanskrit at two levels from the academic year 2022-23 in class IX and subsequently in class X in the year 2023-24.The Board will offer communicative based curricula which CBSE used to offer in these languages till the year 2018 in these languages.” The letter dated August 3 was shared with the principals last week.“As NEP stresses on using an approach to learning that highlights the importance of real life contexts and enabling students to apply their knowledge in real life scenarios, communicative approach to languages would certainly develop the student’s competence to communicate in the target language (communicative competence), with an enhanced focus on real-life situations,” he added.The NEP was approved by the Union cabinet in July last year.Presently, the board is offering Mathematics (basic and standard) and Hindi (A and B) at two levels. The Union education ministry had in January announced that the CBSE will start offering English and Sanskrit at two-levels as well. “The NEP advocates offering all subjects at two levels to meet the interests and needs of all students. The board is in process of providing such an option in more subjects,” a senior official at the CBSE said.The board has asked all its schools to provide tentative data on the number of students who might be interested in opting for communicative English and communicative Sanskrit in class 9 next year. “We have asked for the details so that the board can ensure that all the required books in communicative English and communicative Sanskrit be available before the beginning of the next academic session,” the official added.Meanwhile, several principals welcomed the move. “This decision to introduce Communicative English and Communicative Sanskrit will not only promote more application-based understanding of languages, but also provide maximum choices to students as advocated by the NEP,” said Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini.Ajeet Kumar Sharma, principal of a government school in Ghaziabad, said, “It will be really good for government school students who are not very comfortable with English (core). They will now be able to perform well in the language with communicative English as an option.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-to-reintroduce-communicative-english-sanskrit-for-class-9-10-101629657198505.html
23-08-2021||India||TN BJP gifts cars to four district secretaries for assembly seat wins||Four of BJP’s district presidents in Tamil Nadu received an SUV each on Sunday as a reward for helping the party win four assembly seats in the April 6 assembly election held in Tamil Nadu, for which results were announced on May 2. Ex-Tamil Nadu BJP chief L Murugan, who has now been elevated as a Union minister of state, had promised an Innova car to district functionaries, who worked to ensure the victory of the party’s MLA candidates in the 2021 Assembly polls. After a gap of twenty years, the BJP entered the assembly in Tamil Nadu this May with four MLAs. BJP contested 20 seats as part of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) led the alliance in Tamil Nadu, and won in Tirunelveli, Nagercoil, Modakurichi apart from a nail-biting contest in Coimbatore South. Murugan had said after their win is a strike against all those who ridiculed that BJP’s symbol lotus will never bloom in Tamil Nadu. Murugan is touring the state as part of the Jan Aashirwad Yatra. At the Chennai BJP office, he distributed the car keys of Toyota Innova Crysta to Maharajan (Tirunelveli), Dharmaraj (Kanyakumari), Sivasubramanian (Erode), and Nandakumar (Coimbatore). “This was done to recognise hard-working district secretaries who won despite the climate here being against us,” said senior BJP leader C P Radhakrishnan. “Previously, such rewards were given by the DMK. It’s the first time we are doing it, and party workers will be enthused.” The cars were purchased using party funds. Such rewards to district secretaries are common in Tamil Nadu, where the DMK and AIADMK have offered gold to party functionaries who bring successful election results. The national party has been trying to get a foothold into the Dravidian heartland after the demise of former chief ministers J Jayalalithaa in December 2016 and M Karunanidhi in August 2018. While it is evident that the Dravidian parties still hold sway in TN, with the DMK winning a majority and the AIADMK finishing second with 66 seats, the BJP’s modest performance has kept its ambition of becoming a dominant force in the state by 2026, alive. The BJP had last won four seats in Tamil Nadu in 2001 in alliance with the DMK. Now the BJP is focused on the upcoming local body polls for which the party has formed a 17-member panel for preparations. The alliance with the AIADMK is likely to continue. “Some more work and attention is all that’s required for the BJP to grow in Tamil Nadu,” said Radhakrishnan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-bjp-gifts-cars-to-four-district-secretaries-for-assembly-seat-wins-101629657081213.html
23-08-2021||India||DMK worker murder case: Two more held||The Chennai City police Saturday arrested a couple in connection with the murder of DMK functionary Sampath Kumar in full public view here last week.Six persons, including Kumar’s neighbours Vinayagam, 47 and his wife, Karpagam,41, are already in police custody. Vinayagam’s relative Dravida Balaji, 50, and his wife, Amirtham, 48, are the latest to be arrested here.A case was registered based on a complaint by Kumar’s son, Gopinath. The accused have been booked under section 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 147 (rioting), 148 (armed with a deadly weapon) and 302 (murder).CCTV footage of the crime, which happened around 9.15 pm at one of the busiest localities in Chennai’s Anna Nagar shows two men on a bike colliding with Kumar and attacking him with machetes. What’s even more bizarre is that almost immediately more men join and attack Kumar multiple times while he is lying motionless on the arterial road even as cars and two-wheelers continue to pass them in the two-way road. “People assumed it’s an accident because he had fallen on the road yet, no one helped him. Sadly, that’s how bystanders are these days,” said inspector Rajeesh Babu. “But it was a food delivery boy who saw the crime and ran to the station and informed us, and we immediately rushed to the spot.”The Anna Nagar police reached the scene and found Kumar dead. From his ID card, they found that he was attacked while he was on his way home in another locality. The post-mortem report of the deceased says that he died due to multiple injuries.The 51-year-old DMK functionary was involved in a drinking water delivery business. “There are multiple motives in this case,” explained assistant commissioner of police Augustine Paul Sudhakar. Preliminary investigations have revealed that Kumar was suspected to have given a tip-off to special police about a criminal named Lenin in his locality, who was arrested last year for heinous crimes but is out on bail. Lenin reportedly often took refuge in Vinayagam’s house. “The neighbours had several civil disputes between them, and they used to quarrel often,” said Sudhakar. All this had driven Vinayagam, 47 to plan Kumar’s murder with his wife Karpagam,41, the police said.The investigating team arrested Kumar’s neighbours Vinayagam, 47 and his wife, Karpagam,41, Vinayagam’s relative Dravida Balaji, 50 and his wife, Amirtham, 48. Four others surrendered in the case--Hari Kumar (21), Sridharan (25), Mohanavel (21) and Naveen Kumar (24). The police have also seized weapons, including two machetes.“More arrests are likely to happen in this case. Lenin is absconding, and we are investigating if he had anything to do with this case behind the scenes,” said inspector Rajeesh Babu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmkworker-murder-case-two-more-held-101629657079192.html
23-08-2021||India||TN begins home vaccination for 80+, 24x7 jabs at hospitals||Tamil Nadu government on Sunday started the door-to-door vaccination for people above the age of 80 in Chennai, and round-the-clock vaccination will be available in government medical college hospitals across the state from Monday, revising its approach to increase inoculation coverage. “These initiatives will not only increase vaccine coverage but will also provide additional facilities to people to be comfortable and vaccinated. Depending on the response, we will decide on rolling it out across the state,” said Dr T S Selvavinayagam, director of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive (DPH). This comes following a state government survey on vaccine hesitancy, which found that the elderly population in Tamil Nadu was the most hesitant compared to other age categories. Hindustan Times had earlier reported, using the CoWin vaccination data, that Tamil Nadu’s coverage of the elderly was the lowest in the country. For every hundred elderly population, the state has administered only 44 doses as of the first week of August. The survey, which was carried out by the DPH in July, showed that hesitancy among those who were above the age of 60 was 27.6%, while for those in the 18-45 age category was 16.9%, and in the 45-60 age category it was 18.2%. Selvavinayagam said that the survey showed the health department that they need to create a set-up where vaccines were available closer to homes. The Greater Chennai Corporation, which already does home vaccination for people with severe disabilities, has been informally vaccinating senior citizens on a case-by-case basis. On Sunday, this was formalised with senior DMK leaders flagging off 15 cars, one for each of the 15 zones of Chennai. A team for each of the zones, comprising medical professionals and civic officials will go around for vaccination. At least 100k people aged above 80 are likely to get vaccinated at home in the next few months, officials said. Medical experts said that senior citizens have avoided getting vaccinated for multiple reasons such as fear of vaccine side effects and safety due to their comorbidities. They added that given schools and colleges are reopening from September 1, the elderly need to be vaccinated so that students don’t spread the infection at home. “Elderly may also not come forward to hospitals either because it isn’t feasible or they’re afraid they will catch an infection from the hospitals,” said Dr Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director, National Institute of Epidemiology. The round-the-clock vaccination centres are expected to be more helpful to employees who work night shifts and travellers. In Chennai, it will come in five government hospitals. “The pace of vaccination coverage will be faster,” health minister M Subramanian told reporters. The state had earlier introduced free vaccination at private hospitals with the help of CSR funds. Since vaccination was rolled out in India, Tamil Nadu was a slow starter in the drive as compared to other states initially due to vaccine hesitancy and later due to short supply. This began to change into a demand for vaccines during the peak of the second wave of coronavirus in May and June which saw more hospitalisation and deaths. Tamil Nadu came close to halting the drive several times since June since vaccines are being fully utilised as and when a consignment arrives. But supply has been better now, say, officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tnbegins-home-vaccination-for-80-24x7-jabs-at-hospitals-101629657020275.html
23-08-2021||India||Active Covid-19 cases drop to lowest in over 150 days: Data||For the first time in over five months, the number of active cases of Covid-19 in the country have dropped below the 350,000-mark, data shows, as the contraction of the outbreak continued even as India neared the key milestone of administering 50% of its adult population with doses of the coronavirus vaccine.As the brutal second wave of the outbreak ebbs in the country, the number of active cases in India has now dropped to 341,189, the lowest since March 20, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.At its worst, the number of active cases in the country had soared to a peak of 3.75 million on May 9. This means that the number of active cases has dropped over 90% from peak levels seen during India’s second wave.Tracking active cases (those people who are still under treatment for the viral disease) in a region is crucial because this figure directly reflects the pressure on the health care system in a region.The development comes at a time when India is nearing a significant milestone of administering at least one shot of the Covid vaccine to nearly half of the country’s adult population.Till Sunday morning, the latest data made available by the Union health ministry show that over 581.5 million shots have been administered to more than 450.7 million people across the country – 320 million people having been partially vaccinated and 130.7 million people received both doses of the vaccine. When seen alongside population projections for 2021 by Census of India, which places the number of adults in the country at 940 million, this means that around 48% of adults in the country have been administered jabs (34% received a single dose, and 14% received both).On Sunday, the country recorded 25,426 new infections of the disease and 385 new deaths, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.The seven-day average of new infections in the country, meanwhile, has dropped to a 156-day low of 31,965 as cases continued to drop nearly across the country. This number, which represents a region’s Covid curve, had touched a peak of 391,819 for the week ending May 9, and has since dropped nearly 92% from peak levels.“Sustained and collaborative efforts by the Centre and the states/UTs continue the trend of less than 50,000 daily new cases that is being reported for 56 consecutive days now,” the Union health ministry said in a statement on Sunday.Even Kerala, which is currently the biggest outbreak centre in the country accounting for nearly half of India’s active cases and was the only state where the outbreak was expanding at an alarming rate, has now started seeing a drop in cases numbers. On Sunday, the southern state recorded 10,402 new Covid-19 cases – the lowest in a single day in over a month.The daily positivity rate – the proportion of samples tested returning positive for the Sars-CoV-2 – on Saturday was at 1.8%. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that when a region’s positivity rate remains below 5% threshold, it implies that the government is testing adequately to control the outbreak. In India, the positivity rate has now remained below the 5% threshold for over 80 days, data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-covid-19-cases-drop-to-lowest-in-over-150-days-data-101629656664435.html
23-08-2021||India||Monsoon likely to enter partial ‘break’ phase from today: IMD||Monsoon is likely to enter a partial “break” phase once again with scanty rainfall expected over northwest and west India for at least a week from Monday onwards, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).There was a “break” in monsoon rains from June 29 to July 11 and a very weak monsoon was witnessed in the first two weeks of August also leading to significant deficit in rains in the month across the country. Monsoon revived over northwest India on August 19 but it is likely to weaken again from August 24, IMD said.“Heavy rainfall is expected till end of Sunday but rainfall over northwest India is expected to reduce significantly from Monday. We are expecting weak monsoon conditions to set in again for at least 5 days. No major rainfall is expected over the west coast or northwest India but the eastern states particularly northeast will receive rainfall. This is mainly due to shifting of the monsoon trough to the north over the Himalayan foothills. So, the plains will remain largely dry,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, IMD.“We are entering a partial break monsoon phase. It will be the third during this season. Due to the monsoon trough shifting to the north most parts of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan will remain dry till the end of month. No significant rain is expected over Gujarat or Maharashtra either. There may be rains over Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. It will be a partial break in monsoon because rains are expected to continue over east and northeast India,” explained Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather.There is a 26.6% rain deficit in August over the country with 27.1% deficiency over northwest India, 35.4% deficiency over central India, 29.9% deficiency over south peninsula and 6.6% deficiency over east and northeast India. During monsoon season since June 1, there has been 8% deficiency in rain over the country with 11% deficiency over northwest India, 11% deficiency over east and northeast India, 10% deficiency over central India and 4% excess over peninsular India.The western end of the monsoon trough is lying to the south of its normal position and the eastern end lying to the north of its normal position. The western end is very likely to shift gradually northwards from August 23. A cyclonic circulation is lying over northeast Rajasthan and adjoining northwest Madhya Pradesh in lower tropospheric levels. Another cyclonic circulation is lying over Tamil Nadu and adjoining Sri Lanka coasts.A trough is running from northeast Rajasthan to south Tamil Nadu and adjoining Sri Lanka coasts across central parts of Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Telangana, Rayalaseema and north Tamil Nadu. Due to these meteorological conditions, rainfall activity over plains of northwest India and adjoining Central India is likely to continue till August 23 and reduce thereafter, IMD predicted.Rainfall is expected to reduce over Maharashtra and the west coast also but scattered to fairly widespread activity very likely over southern Peninsular India during next 5 days. Isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal till August 24.There is likely to be enhanced rainfall activity over northeast India, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and Bihar from August 24. Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls is very likely to continue over northeast India, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and Bihar till August 24, and increase in intensity thereafter with isolated very heavy rainfall over Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh and Assam and Meghalaya till August 2, IMD said.Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is also likely over Assam and Meghalaya on August 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-enter-partial-break-phase-from-today-imd-101629656121280.html
