24-08-2021||India||Narayan Rane gets bail after arrest over 'slap' remark against Uddhav Thackeray||Union minister Narayan Rane was granted bail late on Tuesday night hours after he was arrested over his remarks on Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Rane was arrested at Sangameshwar in Ratnagiri earlier in the day by a team of police from Nashik over allegations that he said he wanted to "slap" chief minister Thackeray for "forgetting the year of India's independence" a day earlier when he travelling for the Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Raigad.Rane was granted bail by the court of the first-class judicial magistrate in Mahad, even as the counsel representing the state government appealed for seven-day judicial custody.However, Rane's counsel pleaded with the court to grant bail to the Union minister on various grounds, including his health.The 69-year-old Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader would approach the Bombay high court with a quashing petition against multiple FIRs registered against him across the state and seeking urgent protection from arrests. At least three FIRs were registered against Rane — one each in Nashik, Pune and Mahad.Rane's comments and his subsequent arrest sparked a political row in Maharashtra with the BJP state leadership coming out in support of the Union minister, claiming that the action was "political vendetta", even as Shiv Sena demanded his expulsion from the Union Cabinet. The BJP didn’t condone Rane’s remarks, but stood by its leader and said the action taken against him was uncalled for when similar remarks by Sena leaders, including chief minister Thackeray, go unnoticed. BJP chief JP Nadda said the party's Jan Ashirwad Yatra would continue, even in the absence of Rane.A former Shiv Sena leader, Rane was expelled from the party in 2005.ALSO READ | Not committed any offence: Narayan Rane on 'would have slapped Thackeray' remarkThe Union minister also said that the police should understand that the BJP, of which he is a leader, runs the government at the Centre. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena’s Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg MP Vinayak Raut said Rane had lost his "mental balance".The BJP, on the other hand, circulated videos on social media to claim that police detained Rane while he was having lunch, and was manhandled.The controversy over Rane's remarks also triggered clashes between Shiv Sena and BJP activists at several places in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narayan-rane-gets-bail-after-arrest-over-slap-remark-against-uddhav-101629827503574.html
24-08-2021||India||Don’t encash Airtel guarantees for 3 weeks: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the government not to encash bank guarantees of Bharti Airtel Ltd for three weeks over the payment of adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues to allow the company to approach a telecom appeals tribunal.The department of telecommunications (DoT), in a August 17 letter to Bharti Airtel, demanded payment of ₹1,376 crore as AGR dues within a week, failing which DoT threatened to invoke the bank guarantees furnished by the telecom operator.Airtel then approached the Supreme Court, claiming that the dues were to be paid by the now-defunct Videocon Telecommunications Ltd. Airtel said it agreed to buy the spectrum held by Videocon in March 2016, and according to the agreement, all dues prior to this period were to be settled by the seller.Allowing Airtel to withdraw its application and approach the Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal, the bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao, S. Abdul Nazeer and M.R. Shah said: “The department of telecommunications shall not invoke the financial bank guarantees of respondent No.53 (Bharti Airtel) for a period of three weeks from today.”Appearing for Airtel, senior advocate Shyam Divan said DoT had wrongfully fastened the liability of ₹1,376 crore on it, and the fresh demand was based on the September 1, 2020 judgement by the top court.The September 2020 order refused any further reassessment of AGR dues and directed telecom service providers to pay 10% of their dues by March 31 and thereafter pay the rest in 10 yearly installments by March 2031. The existing bank guarantees submitted by telcos regarding the spectrum were to be kept alive until any default in payment.Divan submitted that under the spectrum trading agreement, Airtel will be liable to pay only such dues that were incurred after the date of agreement which came into operation on May 16, 2016. The AGR dues, according to him, pertained to the period prior to the agreement, liable to be paid by Videocon.The firm claimed to have fully complied with the September 2020 order by depositing ₹18,004 crore by March 31, 2021, which was far more than the 10% due payable out of the total AGR dues of ₹43,980 crore calculated by DoT.“The demand notice disrupts my working, and I seek a stay of such precipitative order passed by DoT,” Divan argued. With the bench not keen on entertaining his request, Divan submitted that he should be allowed to raise this dispute before TDSAT, and his bank guarantees should not be invoked till then. On this condition, Divan agreed to withdraw his application. The bench said, “We are not going to revisit our judgement.”Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for DoT, opposed the application saying, “The demand is consistent with the Supreme Court judgement.” The bench wanted to know if the government could hold on for a brief period to enable the firm to approach to TDSAT. Mehta said it was up to the company to approach a forum of its choice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dontencashairtel-guarantees-for-3-weeks-supreme-court-101629828821361.html
24-08-2021||India||Doval talks on state-sponsored terrorism at meeting of BRICS NSAs||India's National Security Advisor Ajit Doval on Tuesday hosted a virtual meeting of top security officials of the BRICS nations that focused on collectively dealing with regional and global security challenges including the threat of terrorism and drug trafficking.The meeting was attended by Brazilian security official Gen Augusto Helena Ribeiro Pereira, Russian NSA General Nikolai Patrushev, Chinese Politburo member Yang Jeichi and South African deputy minister of state security Ncediso Goodenough Kodwa, according to a statement issued by the government.India holds the chairship of BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) bloc this year which coincides with the 15th anniversary of the grouping. The meeting of the top security advisors took place before the summit of the heads of the state of BRICS nations that India is scheduled to host later this year under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Tuesday's meeting took place over a week after the Taliban seized control of Afghanistan.People familiar with the development said the meeting reviewed the regional and global political and security scenario with particular reference to current developments in Afghanistan, Iran, Middle East and the Gulf nations and emerging threats to national security.India also took a veiled dig at Pakistan over cross-border terrorism and said that activities of state-supported terrorist groups like Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed threaten peace."Other items on the agenda were cooperation among law enforcement agencies, health safety and healthcare and counter-terrorism. India raised the issue of cross-border terrorism and activities of groups such as the Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed which enjoy state support and threaten peace and security," the statement issued by the Indian government read.ALSO READ | China and BRICS stand with India in its fight against the pandemic: Chinese FMThe representatives adopted and recommended the BRICS Counter-Terrorism Action Plan for consideration by the summit of the heads of the state.The BRICS brings together five of the largest developing countries of the world, representing 41% of the global population, 24% of the global GDP and 16% of the global trade, according to news agency PTI.India has been strongly pitching for deeper cooperation among the BRICS member countries in dealing with terrorism, extremism and radicalisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajit-doval-attends-virtual-brics-meet-on-national-security-101629823708150.html
24-08-2021||India||‘Taliban with us to free Kashmir from India’: Pak govt leader on TV news debate||A leader of Pakistan’s ruling Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) government has said that the Taliban would help the country in ‘liberating’ Kashmir from India. Speaking at a television news debate, PTI leader Neelam Irshad Sheikh said, “Taliban have said that they are with us and they will help us in [liberating] Kashmir.”The clip of the video that was retweeted by Pakistani journalist and former ambassador to US, Hussain Haqqani, has surfaced online and was recirculated by news agency ANI.In the video, the news anchor repeatedly asks Sheikh about the source of her information, even wondering at one point if she read about such a declaration by the Taliban on WhatsApp.“Madam, do you realise what you have said. You have no idea what you just said. This show will air around the world; it will be viewed in India as well,” the news anchor asks the PTI leader.🤦🏽‍♂️ https://t.co/80wjqELqvYHowever, Sheikh emphasises on her statement that Pakistan has the strength of its Army as well as the leadership of Prime Minister Imran Khan to help them “free Kashmir from India”.Sheikh further said that the way Pakistan supported the Taliban when the latter was being hounded in Afghanistan, the militants said they would return the favour by helping Pakistan “make Kashmir a part of its country.”Her remarks come at a time when Pakistan has consistently been blamed for fostering the Taliban in Afghanistan, to the point of providing them with medical aids, weapons and logistics.Also Read | Islamist groups in Pakistan distribute sweets to 'celebrate' Taliban siegeSoon after taking over Afghanistan’s capital city Kabul and declaring rule over the country after nearly 20 years, a Taliban official had termed Kashmir to be a “bilateral and internal matter” and stated that the group is unlikely to focus on the Indian Union territory.Another video recently surfaced online that showed students of radical Jamia Hafsa seminary in Pakistan’s capital Islamabad, celebrating the triumph of the insurgents in Afghanistan by reciting poems and displaying the group’s flags.Watch | Pakistani students celebrate Taliban takeover at radical seminaryThe seminary’s chief hailed the students for their support of the Taliban and said that he wants Islamic Emirate to expand beyond Afghan borders. However, Islamabad administration claimed that they have removed Taliban flags from the seminary’s building.Earlier, Pakistan premier Khan had also indirectly likened the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan by saying that the “shackles of slavery” has been broken in the war-gripped nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-with-us-to-free-kashmir-from-india-pak-govt-leader-on-tv-news-debate-101629818453064.html
24-08-2021||India||Delhi HC asks bank to ensure ₹1.8 crore balance in Afghan embassy’s account||The Delhi High Court has directed Kotak Mahindra Bank to ensure that the total minimum balance in three accounts of the Embassy of Afghanistan shall not be less than ₹1.8 crore, the arbitral award passed in favour of a firm, keeping in view the prevalent political situation there.The court said in case of any exigency, judgment debtor, the embassy, is at liberty to approach the court before the next date of hearing on September 13.Justice Suresh Kumar Kait issued notice to the embassy on a plea by decree holder KLA Const Technologies Pvt Ltd seeking attachment of its movable and immovable assets over the apprehension of execution of award due to the collapse of Afghanistan and rapid take-over of the country by Taliban.The high court noted that the arbitral award pertained to 2018 and despite this year's June 18 directions of the high court, the embassy’s counsel was unable to disclose its assets and pleaded he has no instructions.“...the fact that the prevalent political situation in Islamic Republic of Afghanistan is not clear, this court is left with no option but to take on record the details of assets of judgment debtors so furnished on behalf of decree holder in the present application,” the court said in its order passed on Monday.The court said it was conscious of the fact that Special Leave Petition (SLP) against the June 18 judgment is pending before the Supreme Court and to safeguard the interest of decree holder, it directed Kotak Mahindra Bank to ensure that the total minimum balance amount in three accounts of the embassy, shall not be less than ₹1.80 crore.Advocates Amit George and K K Shukla, appearing for the decree holder, submitted that in view of collapse of Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and rapid take-over of the country by Taliban, execution of the award has come under clouds and for this reason, the application has been filed seeking attachment of accounts of judgment debtors.Advocates Raghvendra M Bajaj, Ejaz Maqbool and Garima Bajaj, representing the Afghanistan Embassy, submitted that the SLP against the June 18 judgment of the high court came up for hearing before the Supreme Court on August 19 and in view of the fact that judgment debtor has no instructions, the same has been deferred for six weeks.He said he has no instructions in the present case and prayed for two weeks’ time.The submission was opposed by the counsel for decree holder on the ground that in the present scenario prevalent in Afghanistan, the firm may not be able to recover the awarded amount and, therefore, the bank accounts of the embassy be attached so that funds can be utilised for recovery in present proceedings.The high court said by its June 18 judgement, the November 26, 2018 award was held to be maintainable and the respondent was granted four weeks’ time to deposit the arbitral award.Further, a direction was also given to respondent to file affidavit of assets on the date of the cause of action, date of the award as well as on the date of passing of the judgment within 30 days but “none of the directions have been complied with”.The court also asked the counsel for the embassy to obtain instructions to assist it on the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-asks-bank-to-ensure-1-8-crore-balance-in-afghan-embassy-s-account-101629819086552.html
24-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: 'Privatization for creating monopolies' says Rahul Gandhi on govt's plan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Creating monopolies...’: Rahul Gandhi’s jab on government’s monetization planCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday dubbed the Narendra Modi government’s ambitious monetization scheme of public assets as an attempt to create a monopoly in critical areas that, according to the former party president, would cut down more job opportunities and wipe out the informal sector. Read moreMandatory 14-day quarantine: Centre issues Covid-19 norms for Afghan evacueesThe Centre said on Tuesday that those evacuated from Afghanistan would have to undergo a mandatory 14-day quarantine at ITBP's Chhawla camp near Delhi. Read moreDidn’t allow him to eat his lunch: BJP angered over Rane’s arrestThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) expressed its anger over the arrest of Union minister Narayan Rane and alleged that he was arrested by the cops midway while he was having his lunch. Read moreIn call with Putin, PM Modi emphasises need for peace, stability in AfghanistanPrime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday backed coordinated efforts to establish peace and stability in Afghanistan in order to ensure security across the region. Read more‘Anything is possible’: Virat Kohli on Ashwin’s inclusion for 3rd Test, says ‘we’ll go in with the right combination’India captain Virat Kohli has hinted that the visitors are likely to go unchanged in the third Test against England which gets underway in Leeds on Wednesday. However, he also added that India might try playing offspinner Ravichandran Ashwin because of the pitch. Read moreDebina Bonnerjee recalls she and her husband Gurmeet Choudhary 'had no work for three years' before RamayanTelevision actor Debina Bonnerjee has recalled that she and her husband and actor Gurmeet Choudhary 'had no work for three years' before they starred in Ramayan. She also said that they didn't have money either. Read moreTroubled by brain fog? Ayurvedic tips to boost your brain powerAre you finding it difficult to concentrate of late or forgetting things? It may be because of brain fog that could affect you post Covid, or due to general anxiety and stress. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-privatization-for-creating-monopolies-says-rahul-gandhi-on-govt-s-plan-and-all-the-latest-news-101629817945087.html
24-08-2021||India||In call with Putin, PM Modi emphasises need for peace, stability in Afghanistan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday backed coordinated efforts to establish peace and stability in Afghanistan in order to ensure security across the region.The two leaders discussed the situation in Afghanistan following the takeover of the country by the Taliban last week during a phone conversation. The two leaders agreed to form a “permanent bilateral channel” for consultations on Afghanistan, according to a readout from the Russian embassy.Russia’s decision to work more closely with Pakistan through the “extended troika” format for Afghanistan has not gone down well with the Indian side. The call between the two leaders marked the first major outreach on Afghanistan from the top Russian leadership in recent months. “Had a detailed and useful exchange of views with my friend President Putin on recent developments in Afghanistan. We also discussed issues on the bilateral agenda, including India-Russia cooperation against Covid-19. We agreed to continue close consultations on important issues,” the prime minister said in a tweet.The Russian embassy’s readout said, “During the exchange of views on the situation in Afghanistan, the sides noted the importance of coordinated efforts which would contribute to the establishment of peace and stability in this country, ensuring security in the region as a whole.”The two leaders expressed their “intention to enhance cooperation on countering the dissemination of the terrorist ideology and the drug threat emanating from the territory of Afghanistan,” the readout said. Modi and Putin further agreed to “form a permanent bilateral channel for consultations” on Afghanistan, it added.The readout said the two leaders touched upon several issues related to the development of the special and privileged strategic partnership between the two countries, including in trade and economy.Modi expressed gratitude to Putin for Russia’s assistance in combating Covid-19, including the supply and production of the Russian vaccine Sputnik V in India and the shipment of medicines and medical equipment. The schedule for upcoming contacts between the two sides at various levels was also discussed.Russia and China have maintained close contact with the Taliban leadership over the past few months. These contacts have continued after the Taliban marched into Kabul last week following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. Russia and China are also among the very few countries that have kept their embassies open in Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-call-with-putin-pm-modi-emphasises-need-for-peace-stability-in-afghanistan-101629818165027.html
24-08-2021||India||India’s evacuation mission continues, another 78 people brought back from Afghanistan||India brought back 78 people, including 25 of its nationals and Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, from Afghanistan on Tuesday and an almost equal number are expected to be evacuated from Kabul by Wednesday, people familiar with developments said.The group was flown out from Kabul to the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe in a C-130 Hercules aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) late on Monday. From Dushanbe, the group was brought to New Delhi on an Air India flight on Tuesday morning.With the window for evacuation flights from Kabul set to close because of the Taliban’s insistence that the US must withdraw all its troops from Afghanistan by August 31, India and other countries have redoubled their efforts to fly out all their nationals and Afghan citizens.A plan to operate a second flight with an IAF aircraft to Dushanbe on Monday night had to be put off because of certain difficulties, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. More Indians and Afghan nationals, including some who are already at Kabul airport, are expected to be flown out on Wednesday, the people said.The Indian side is also looking out for any Indian nationals who may still be in Afghanistan so that they can be brought into the airport for evacuation. The people said that among of the biggest problems faced by those involved in the evacuation efforts were the failure of Indian citizens to heed four security alerts issued in recent weeks, and their failure to register with the Indian embassy in Kabul.Transporting evacuees from different parts of Kabul to the airport also continues to be a problem because of the presence of hundreds of Taliban fighters in the city. The Taliban have also been insisting that Afghan nationals shouldn’t leave the country.External affairs minister S Jaishankar said in a tweet on Tuesday that India’s operation to evacuate people from Kabul had been named “Devi Shakti”. He also lauded the efforts of the IAF, Air India the external affairs ministry in flying out the group of 78 people from Kabul via Dushanbe. The group was received at New Delhi airport by Union minister Hardeep Puri and minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan. The ministers carried a copy of the Sikh holy book, the Guru Granth Sahib, which was brought by the Afghan Sikhs out of the aircraft.Speaking to the media, Puri referred to the status of minorities facing persecution in neighbouring countries and said India takes in everyone, and not just people from certain communities. “I don’t want to get into the politics of what happened in Afghanistan, but as somebody who has lived abroad for nearly four decades intermittently, I know what it is to have as a feeling that you have a home – mother India – to which you can return,” he said.The Afghan Sikhs had thanked India and the prime minister for providing “sanctuary and comfort to people in times of distress, Hindus and Sikhs in particular [and] all other communities also,” he added.India has so far evacuated nearly 620 people, including 500 of its nationals, on flights from Kabul, Dushanbe and Doha. Nearly 200 people – including diplomats, officials and security personnel posted at the Indian embassy and some Indian nationals – were flown out of Kabul within two days of the Taliban marching into the Afghan capital on August 15.The evacuation flights have involved the C-130 and C-17 aircraft of the IAF and Air India’s aircraft. However, flights by military aircraft from the Afghan capital to India have had to take longer routes through Iranian airspace in order to avoid flying over Pakistan. A day after a secret meeting between CIA chief William Burns and top Taliban political leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said on Tuesday that the US must complete its evacuation of people from Afghanistan by the August 31 deadline set by the Biden administration for withdrawing all American troops. Details of Burns’ discussions with Baradar were not released, but news agency Associated Press reported that the meeting represented an “extraordinary moment for a CIA that for two decades targeted the Taliban” and that it gave a “sense of the extent of the wrangling happening ahead of the end of America’s two-decade war” in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-evacuation-mission-continues-another-78-people-brought-back-from-afghanistan-101629817144004.html
24-08-2021||India||Mandatory 14-day quarantine: Centre issues Covid-19 norms for Afghan evacuees||The Centre said on Tuesday that those evacuated from Afghanistan would have to undergo a mandatory 14-day quarantine at ITBP's Chhawla camp near Delhi.The move comes after at least two of the 146 people who landed in Delhi on Monday after they were evacuated from Kabul before they were taken to Doha, tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Officials in the ITBP familiar with the development said that the first batch of 81 people who were evacuated from Afghanistan will be quarantined at ITBP camp in Chhawla for 14 days."Those who tested positive for Covid-19 would be shifted to dedicated hospitals later," an ITBP official told news agency ANI.The Indan government is currently running an emergency operation to evacuate the people from Afghanistan, after it fell to the Taliba. The government has allowed exemption from mandatory pre-boarding RT-PCTR testing — the norm for international travellers — for people who are being airlifted from the war-torn country.ALSO READ | 'Operation Devi Shakti': India evacuates more than 800 people from AfghanistanEarlier in the day, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri said that India has evacuated 626 people, including 228 citizens and 77 Afghan Sikhs, till Tuesday and the process of repatriation is ongoing.Among the evacuees IAF aircraft brought were Afghan lawmakers Narendra Singh Khalsa and Anarkali Honaryar and their families.On Tuesday, India brought 78 people, including 25 Indian citizens, airlifted from Kabul via Tajikistan's Dushanbe in a special Air India flight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandatory-14-day-quarantine-centre-issues-covid-19-norms-for-afghan-evacuees-101629813861662.html
24-08-2021||India||Army accepts delivery of grenades made by private sector firm||The Indian Army on Tuesday accepted the delivery of the first batch of multi-mode hand grenades, manufactured by a private sector firm, at a ceremony held in Nagpur. The move is expected to provide thrust to the goal of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (Self-Reliant India), the defence ministry said in a statement.The ministry signed a contract with Nagpur-based private firm Economic Explosives Ltd (EEL) last October for supplying 1 million multi-mode hand grenades to the army. These will replace a World War II vintage hand grenade design being used by the army. The EEL is expected to execute the order by October 2022. The multi-mode hand grenade has been designed by the Chandigarh-based Terminal Ballistic Research Laboratories (TBRL) - a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) laboratory - and produced by the EEL.The ceremony at Nagpur was attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane and DRDO chief G Satheesh Reddy. EEL chairman SN Nuwal handed over a scale replica of the grenade to the minister to mark the first delivery of ammunition from the private sector. Singh said the grenades were “a shining example” of public-private partnership to achieve self-reliance in defence manufacturing.“Today is a memorable day in the history of the Indian defence sector. Our private industry is coming of age when it comes to defence production. It is an important milestone not only in the field of defence manufacturing but also in achieving ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’,” Singh said. Multi-purpose grenades figured on the first list of 101 types of weapons and ammunition whose import India will ban progressively over the next five years. The government published the list in August 2020. In May 2021, the government notified a list of another 108 defence items that cannot be imported by the armed forces with the ban kicking off from December 2021. The list, called the ‘positive indigenisation list’, will be implemented progressively from December 2021 to December 2025.From raising foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence manufacturing to creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware and notifying two lists of weapons/equipment that cannot be imported, the government has taken a raft of measures to boost self-reliance in the defence sector over the last two years.The first list included artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, light transport aircraft, long-range land-attack cruise missiles, communication satellites, basic trainer aircraft, multi-barrel rocket launchers, a variety of radars, assault rifles, sniper rifles, mini-UAVs and different types of ammunition.The second list consists of several military systems including specified types of helicopters, next-generation corvettes, airborne early warning and Control (AEW&C) systems, tank engines, medium power radar for mountains, medium-range surface to air missile systems and anti-material rifles.India has set aside ₹70,221 crore this year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63 per cent of the military’s capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58 percent of the capital budget, on domestic purchases.The defence minister commended the industry for indigenously developing defence products. “Such products are not just being produced but exported on a large scale. The number of online export authorisations during 2016-19 was 1,210. It has increased to 1,774 in the last two years. This has resulted in defence exports of over ₹17,000 crore in the last two years,” he said....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-accepts-delivery-of-grenades-made-by-private-sector-firm-101629814924466.html
24-08-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: August 25, 1946 — Interim national government formed: Cabinet of 14, 2 Muslim seats to be filled later||New Delhi- “His Majesty the King,” says a communique issued from the Viceroy’s House today, “has accepted the resignations of the present members of the Governor-General’s Executive Council.”His Majesty has been pleased to appoint the following:-Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Dr. Rajendra Prasad, Mr. M. Asaf Ali, Mr. C. Rajagopalachari, Mr. Sarat Chandra Bose, Dr John Matthai, Sardar Baldev Singh, sir Shafaat Ahmed khan, Mr. Jagjivan ram, Syed Ali Zaheer and Mr. Cooverji Hormusji Bhabha, two more muslim members will be appointed later. The Interim Government will take office on September 2.” The announcement is the culmination of the past five month’s negotiations. The wording of the communique is in keeping with the spirit underlying the formation of the first popular Government for India as a whole. The new members are not described as members of the Governor-General’s Executive Council but as “the Interim Government.” Lord Wavell broadcast tonight to the country on the new development. He has every reason to feel personally satisfied since it was he who set into motion in June 1945 a series of discussions which have now met with substantial success. The announcement made today is epoch-making, even though it marks only partial achievement of the Congress aim. The outbreak of the Second World War brought matters to a head in India. The British Government forced this country into the war without consulting either the Indian Legislature or the leaders of the main political parties. In its resolution passed on October 10, 1939, the All-India Congress Committee demanded that “India must be declared an independent nation and present application should be given to this status to the largest possible extent.” August OfferIt was not until August 8, 1940, that the then Viceroy, Lord Linlithgow, made a new declaration of policy. He promised to expand his Executive Council “to include a certain number of representatives of political parties.” The Congress demand for “a Provisional National Government composed of persons commanding the confidence of the various elected groups in the present Central Legislature” - was turned down.But the real mischief done by the Viceroy’s declaration was that it placed a veto in the hands of Mr. Jinnah and the Muslim League by stating that the British Government “could not contemplate the transfer of their present responsibilities for the peace and welfare of India to any system of Government whose authority is directly denied by large and powerful elements in India’s national life. Nor could they be parties to the coercion of such elements into submission to such a Government.” Cripps Mission A succession of reverses in the war and pressure by President Roosevelt, Marshal Chiang Kai-shek and Labour Ministers in the Churchill Government made the British war leader agree to make another offer which Sir Stafford Cripps brought to India in the name of the British War Cabinet. The Cripps Mission failed because no agreement could be reached on the question of a National Government. The British proposals stated that “His Majesty’s Government desire and invite the immediate I and effective participation of the leaders of the principal sections of the Indian people in the counsels of their country, of the Commonwealth and of the United Nations.” The subject of war was, of course, reserved but the effort to give precise definition to the proposal for a National Government failed. Wavell Plan The Sapru Committee appointed at the instance of Gandhiji revived interest in the question of forming a representative Government. On June 14, 1945. Lord Wavell made an announcement proposing that the Viceroy’s Executive Council would be wholly Indianized except for the War portfolio that the portfolio of External Affairs would be in charge of an Indian, that the Viceroy would select his Executive from “amongst leaders of Indian political life at the Centre and in the provinces in proportions which would give a balanced representation to the main communities, including equal proportion of Muslims and Caste Hindus.”But the implementation of the plan was made contingent on general acceptance, which meant that Mr. Jinnah and the Muslim League retained the veto. The Simla Conference, which considered the Wavell offer failed entirely because of Mr Jinnah’s intransigence but the Viceroy, was helpless since Mr. Churchill would not modify the condition that the consent of both the Congress and the League was indispensable.Attlee’s Statement The situation was radically transformed by a speech Premier Attlee made in the House of Commons on March 15. In it he stated that India was free to vote for immediate in- dependence and that no minority would be permitted to place a veto on the progress of the majority. The Cabinet Delegation and the Viceroy were persuaded by Mr Jinnah to modify Premier Attlee’s declaration and gave an assurance to the Muslim League leader that whichever party declined to accept the long-term proposal would be by passed and the proposed Interim Government formed leaving out the intransigent party. When this pledge was given Mr Jinnah was hoping that he would form the Interim Government and the Congress would be out of it. , But as a result of a series of wrong tactical moves Mr Jinnah lost the advantage he thought he had gained. He put himself out of court by, rejecting the long-term proposal. The pledge he had secured from the Cabinet Delegation now proved a boomerang. The Viceroy called upon the Congress President to make proposals for the formation of an Interim Government. The invitation was unconditional and the list of names announced is entirely that recommended by the Congress President. The Congress leader, however, has agreed with the Viceroy’s suggestion that it would be wise not to vary the 6:5:3 ratios which was the basis of the statement of June 16. Everyone hopes that Mr Jinnah and the Muslim League will reconsider their decision and join hands with the Congress and other parties in giving this country a strong National Government. When Lord Wavell made his first attempt to form an Interim Government on June 14, 1945, he said: “All that is so urgently required to be done for agricultural and industrial development and for the peasants and workers of India cannot be carried through unless the whole-hearted cooperation of every community and section of the Indian people is forthcoming.”These words have today an even greater force. There is one satisfaction, however. The personnel of the Interim Government represents the Congress and every minority interest. The Government is as representative as could possibly be made in the circumstances. Representing the overwhelming majority of the people of this country, it will lead the nation by the shortest path to the immediate I achievement of full independence and the development of economic and social policies in the interest of the masses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-august-25-1946-interim-national-government-formed-cabinet-of-14-2-muslim-seats-to-be-filled-later-101629814206597.html
24-08-2021||India||‘Creating monopolies...’: Rahul Gandhi’s jab on government’s monetization plan||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday dubbed the Narendra Modi government’s ambitious monetization scheme of public assets as an attempt to create a monopoly in critical areas that, according to the former party president, would cut down more job opportunities and wipe out the informal sector. He also cautioned that unemployment can lead to social tension and violence. “We are not against privatization. Our (UPA government’s) privatization had a logic and there was no privatization of strategic industry such as the railways. All this privatization is for creating monopolies. You know who owns ports and getting airports,” he said, alleging the Prime Minister is “selling the crown jewels of India.”The Monetization Pipeline, as finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced on Monday, will lease infrastructure assets of central government ministries and state-run companies to create ₹6 trillion fund to build new infrastructure. Among projects, the government plans to lease are 26,700km of roads, 90 passenger trains, 400 railway stations, 28,608 circuit km transmission lines, 286,000km of Bharatnet fibre network and 14,917 towers owned by state-run Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd and Mahanagar Telecom Nigam Ltd.Reacting to Gandhi’s conference, Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said that the Congress itself is a “Non-Performing Asset” which has neither any value outside nor inside.The Congress is trying to become a “champion of confusion and contradiction”, he said. “…while on one hand, the Modi government and the BJP are engaged in the construction of the country, the Congress is involved in the destruction of the country”, Naqvi added.While Sitharaman categorically ruled out any sale of land, her predecessor P Chidambaram termed the exercise as “a grand bargain sale” and quipped, “virtually, no public sector will exist after this.”Gandhi, who has often alleged the government of helping a chosen few industrialists, reiterated the same charges and said “It took 70 years to build this massive infrastructure. People’s money was involved but now these are being sold to 3-4 people. As soon as these become monopolies, employment opportunities would be shrunk. Small business, medium business will not exist,” he claimed. Chidambaram mocked the government’s announcement on infrastructure pipeline and pointed that the government has announced the same special fund for infrastructure on three different occasions. The former finance minister pointed out there are no criteria and goals for the monetization scheme. “We are going to raise ₹1.54 lakh crore every year—can this be a sole goal to sell assets? You don’t embark upon the exercise without consulting stakeholders. This is all hatched in secrecy in this wonderful organization called Niti Aayog,” said Chidambaram. He also added that the National infrastructure pipeline is a project of ₹100 lakh crore. “How can you match ₹100 lakh crore with ₹6 lakh crore in 5 years?Gandhi refused to accept that some of these areas are languishing or underutilized. But later he said, the Congress won’t mind if stadiums are put on lease as they are not strategic assets. He also underlined how the UPA government’s privatization policy only dealt with chronically ill companies or those with minimal market shares. “We didn’t allow the creation of monopolies. But all this privatization is for creating monopolies. You know who owns ports and getting airports,” said Gandhi. Gandhi compared the government’s move with British Raj’s East India Company and said, “Modi believes large monopolies can save this country. You will see a dramatic increase in anger and violence. Modi is an instrument for doing some particular job for these people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/creating-monopolies-rahul-gandhi-s-jab-on-government-s-monetization-plan-101629813903256.html
24-08-2021||India||Policy to fill lakes in parched districts with treated sewage water from Bengaluru continues||The Karnataka government has proposed a ₹1,670 crore project to supply treated water from Vrishabhavathi river in Bengaluru to regions like Tumakuru, Nelamanagala, Chikballapur and Doddaballapur, among others, to help revive depleting water tables in what appears to be the continuation of a policy to supply used water to regions surrounding India’s IT capital, officials privy to the development said.JC Madhuswamy, Karnataka’s minister for minor irrigation, law and parliamentary affairs, said that the department has sent the detailed project report (DPR) to the government for its approval.While the river, which resembles a drain, itself was lost to apathy, unchecked flow of sewage water and industrial pollutants, the new programme is meant to salvage the drain inlets by treating them and pumping around 300 mld (million litres per day) to nearby regions, outside of Bengaluru.“Around 308 mld of secondary treated water will be used to fill up tanks in Chikballapur, Nelamangala, parts of Tumakuru and Doddaballapur,” a senior official at Karnataka’s minor irrigation told Hindustan Times.Successive governments in Karnataka have pursued a policy to prioritise Bengaluru’s insatiable thirst by depriving regions around it. Not to say that Bengaluru does not have a water scarcity problem as most parts of the city are fed with tankers that are filled by overexploiting borewells that also harmed groundwater tables.The closest river to Bengaluru is over 100 kilometres away which has forced governments to continue spending thousands of crores to bring this water to the city and its over 12 million residents.Estimates by the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) states that Bengaluru receives around 700-850 mm of rain each year which is enough to accumulate around 16 tmc ft of water which is almost 70% of its demand of around 19 tmc ft. But the lack of treatment plants and awareness has given rise to a situation where most of the water is let out into drains by most households except large apartment complexes where it is mandatory to have sewage treatment plants.The Siddaramaiah-led Congress government had initiated the Koramangala and Challaghatta Valley (KC Valley) project to pump around 440 mld of secondary treated water to Kolar and Chikkaballapur, drought-prone districts, to fill up lakes and tanks. The treated water was pumped into Lakshmisagar lake in Narsapura of Kolar directly. The project had raised a clear divide between the politically backed groups and scientists who argued the benefits and harms of such an exercise.TV Ramachandra, a scientist at the Centre for Ecological Sciences at the Indian Institute of Science-Bengaluru said that “such projects are good if we are ensuring removal of heavy metals from water.”Ramachandra, who has authored several papers on the water in Bengaluru, said that the Vrishabhavathi belt has a dense population of industries that discharge heavy metals into these streams, which would enter the humans through any produce grown with this water.“We are so irresponsible as a regulatory body that we allow the industries to pollute the water bodies,” he said.The official cited above said that the water from Vrishbhavathi will be used only to fill tanks and not for agriculture or drinking purposes.However, experts do see a problem with such an approach that does not prioritise tertiary treatment of wastewater.The primary treatment removes large particles, chemical ions are removed in the secondary treatment and nutrients are removed in the tertiary treatment, experts said, pointing out the requirement to carry out all three processes to make the most of water.However, inadequately treated water into tanks to rejuvenate groundwater tables is unlikely to have the desired effect.“Vegetables that are grown downstream and also the lake water have heavy metal contents. Those vegetables like pudina (mint) and spinach which we eat will naturally get into our body. Higher instances of heavy metals in our food items are also leading to the escalation in cancers and kidney failures in the region,” he added.Ramchandra said that instances of kidney failure in the city (Bengaluru) which was 1 in 100,000 about 12 years ago stand at around 1 in 5,000 today.The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the city’s civic body, has also prioritised aesthetics over the quality of water in its periodical lake rejuvenation projects, experts said.A report by CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) indicated that there are around 21 lakes out of the 205 existing on paper in which the water was fit for drinking.This claim has been contested by environmentalists, scientists, citizens among others.A report by the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) in 2020 states that there is not even one lake that has water fit for drinking. But fish from these lakes are often consumed in Bengaluru as the licences are auctioned to the highest bidder. In Bengaluru’s BTM Lake, people throng to buy fish like Rohu (Labeo Rohita), Catla (Labeo Catla) and the common carp (Cyprinus carpio) among others in kilograms almost every weekend.Several citizen-initiative groups have aired their concerns over such projects that focus on cosmetic and beautification rather than improving the ecology of the spaces.A July 2021 research paper, titled, “Heavy metal in the food chain-Consequences of polluting water bodies” by TV Ramachandra and N R Narayan, studied the concentration of heavy metal in Varthur lake, near the technology corridor of the city.“The study on heavy metal concentrations in vegetables grown near Varthur lake, Bangalore, has shown significant accumulation of heavy metals in vegetables that correlated well with its soil and lake water concentrations. The prolonged irrigation of vegetables using such contaminated lake water has led to soil contamination, which ultimately resulted in contamination of vegetables due to the uptake and accumulation of heavy metals in edible portions of vegetables. The heavy metal content in vegetables exceeded the safe limits in India,” the paper stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/policy-to-fill-lakes-in-parched-districts-with-treated-sewage-water-from-bengaluru-continues-101629810828777.html
24-08-2021||India||People of north Bengal will decide if they want a separate state: Pramanik||Union minister Nisith Pramanik on Tuesday said people of north Bengal have faced apathy for decades and they will decide whether they want a separate state. “There is no such thing as legitimate or illegitimate about this demand. It also does not matter what I think about it. A lot of leaders may have personal opinions,” Pramanik said at an event to pay homage to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers allegedly killed in post-poll violence in West Bengal this year. “I will give my opinion later. I am with the people of north Bengal. Let them decide what they want.”Pramanik’s comments came two months after BJP Parliament Member John Barla demanded a separate state or Union Territory comprising districts of north Bengal and triggered an angry reaction from the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). Both Barla and Pramanik are Lok Sabha members form north Bengal.In the March-April assembly polls, the BJP bagged 30 of the 54 seats in north Bengal districts as the TMC swept back to power in the state. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP bagged 18 of the state’s 42 seats. The BJP won seven of the eight seats in the region in 2019.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday alleged the BJP has hatched a conspiracy to divide Bengal and said she will not allow anyone to split the state. Banerjee on Monday announced a series of development projects for the region.The Bengal government has allocated ₹776 crores in the state budget for development of north Bengal, said education minister Bratya Basu. “BJP leaders are making contradictory statements. Barla raised the demand for the first time on June 16. On 22 June, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said it was Barla’s personal opinion and the party did not approve it. On August 21, Ghosh said the party would think about Barla’s demand,” said Basu.Ghosh later said the BJP has taken no policy decision on this issue.Since June, several Gorkha groups from the Darjeeling hills as well as the Dalit Rajbanshis in the plains have started demanding statehood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-of-north-bengal-will-decide-if-they-want-a-separate-state-pramanik-101629807941789.html
24-08-2021||India||5 Korean firms invest ₹1,154 crore in Greater Noida, says UP govt||Uttar Pradesh received an investment of ₹1,154 crore in Greater Noida by five Korean firms who have acquired land to set up their factories in the city, the state government said in a release. The companies will provide employment to 8,706 youths, the release further said.These Korean firms - Samkwang India Electronics, KH Vatech India, Cenetech India, Dreamtech and Stereon - have bought 3.51 lakh square metres of land in Greater Noida area, the state government said.While Samkwang India Electronics is setting up its unit at an estimated cost of ₹440 crore, which will employ 4,000 people, KH Vatech India is investing ₹247 crore and Sentech India ₹34 crore to establish their own unit that will provide employment to 786 and 350 people, respectively.The other two - Dream Tech and Stereon - have acquired land in Sector Ecotech 10 to establish their plants at the cost of ₹433 crore. The two units will employ 3,570 youths, the government release said.Apart from South Korean firms, Chinese smartphone makers Oppo, Vivo and Forme have also invested heavily in Greater Noida in the last four-and-a-half years, according to UP government. It is the ₹7,429 crore and ₹2,000 crore investments by Vivo and Oppo respectively that piqued the interest of the South Korean firms, the government added.These investments will help Greater Noida emerge as a data centre hub, the UP government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-korean-firms-invest-rs-1-154-crore-in-greater-noida-says-up-govt-101629807682836.html
24-08-2021||India||SC seeks Centre’s response on Maharashtra plea for OBC census data||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave Centre a month’s time to respond to a petition filed by the Maharashtra government seeking Census data on other backward classes (OBC) in the state with a view to reserving seats for these communities in the state local bodies. Appearing for the Centre, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told a bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna that based on discussions held with the Registrar General and Census Commissioner and the ministry of social justice and empowerment, the Centre would like to put its stand in writing for which he sought three weeks. The bench posted the matter on September 23 giving more than three weeks to reply to the state’s petition. As the exercise of collecting data of OBCs is tedious, the state had approached the top court seeking information about OBCs in Maharashtra that was available with the Centre during the 2011 Census. The state government has invoked the extraordinary jurisdiction of the Supreme Court after having decided to conduct a socio-economic and caste census across the state by the Maharashtra State Commission for Backward Classes (MSCBC). Also Read | SC notice to CBI on Sajjan Kumar’s bail plea on medical groundsThe Maharashtra legislative assembly had last month passed a resolution in the House to approach the Centre for 2011 census data in order to compile empirical data on the OBC population in the state. The 2011 census data has not been released till date by the Centre citing errors. Earlier in March this year, the Supreme Court while considering the extension of 27% OBC quota under the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961 to local bodies in Akola, Washim, Nandurbar, Dhule and Nagpur had held that reservation in these local bodies (for SC/ST/OBC) should not exceed 50% cap mandated by the 1992 Indra Sahwney ruling by the top court. The top court set aside the quota requiring the state to first set up a backward classes commission to compile empirical data on the number and extent of backwardness of OBC population within the state. Against this decision, the state government filed a review petition that was dismissed in May this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-centre-s-response-on-maharashtra-plea-for-obc-census-data-101629807401856.html
24-08-2021||India||Punjab farmers' stir: Amarinder Singh approves higher price for sugarcane crop||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday approved a higher state agreed price (SAP) for sugarcane crop - a key demand made by the state's farmers who have been protesting since Friday. The decision was taken after Singh held a meeting with the farmer leaders."Conceding the demand of sugarcane farmers, Punjab CM @capt_amarinder has approved another hike of ₹35 per quintal in state agreed price (SAP) for crushing season 2021-22. The farmers will now get ₹360 per quintal - ₹2 higher than neighbouring Haryana," Raveen Thukral, Media Advisor to Punjab CM, said on Twitter.Earlier, the state's agriculture department proposed a hike of upto ₹345 per quintal, which the farmer leaders rejected.The farmers have also asked the state government to clear payment of arrears to the tune of ₹200-250 crore.The agitation, which entered its fifth day today, led to disruption of traffic on roads and train tracks. At least 368 trains have been affected so far - 40 of them on Tuesday which had to be cancelled, short terminated or diverted.Sharing the information about the trains being affected due to the farmers' agitation, Northern Railways General Manager, Ashutosh Gangal said that if the main route of the double line is closed, then the railways will not have that much capacity to operate trains as per schedule. "Due to this, we have had to cancel a large number of trains. 368 trains have either been canceled or diverted or have been short terminated. Out of these 215 have been cancelled, causing inconvenience to a large number of passengers," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-farmers-stir-amarinder-singh-approves-higher-price-for-sugarcane-crop-101629806583701.html
24-08-2021||India||BJP chief Nadda demands action from Cong on Sidhu’s advisors||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda on Tuesday criticised the Congress over recent statements made by Navjot Singh Sidhu’s advisors and urged the party leadership to clarify its stance on Kashmir and Pakistan.I would urge the topmost national leadership of the Congress to state clearly whether they support the remarks on Kashmir and Pakistan made by Congress leaders in Punjab? Silence on the matter will be seen as implicit support to such objectionable remarks.In a series of tweets, Nadda said that if the Congress remains silent on the issue then it would seem that the party is supportive of the statements made by Sidhu’s advisors. “I would urge the topmost national leadership of the Congress to state clearly whether they support the remarks on Kashmir and Pakistan made by Congress leaders in Punjab? Silence on the matter will be seen as implicit support to such objectionable remarks,” Nadda said.Recent comments by Punjab Congress leaders, who enjoy the patronage of the topmost state leadership as well as the High Command in Delhi, are reprehensible. They are repeatedly making irresponsible statements that have grave implications on national security.“Recent comments by Punjab Congress leaders, who enjoy the patronage of the topmost state leadership as well as the high command in Delhi, are reprehensible. They are repeatedly making irresponsible statements that have grave implications on national security,” Nadda further added.Nadda’s criticism of the Congress comes amid Sidhu’s newly appointed advisors Malvinder Singh Mali and Pyare Lal Garg making comments on Kashmir and Pakistan respectively. While Mali spoke of revocation of Article 370 and 35A, Garg questioned the Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s criticism of Pakistan.Soon after the statements were made, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh was first among the Congress leaders to condemn the statements and also asked newly inducted Punjab Congress president Sidhu to rein in his advisors.Congress MP Manish Tewari and former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat also condemned the statements made by the advisors. Rawat said that Congress firmly believes that Kashmir is an inalienable part of India. Tewari also slammed both the advisors and questioned whether they have the right to ‘live in India’. Sidhu also summoned his advisors on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-nadda-demands-action-from-cong-on-sidhu-s-advisors-101629805782929.html
24-08-2021||India||SC notice to CBI on Sajjan Kumar’s bail plea on medical grounds||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to respond to the plea filed by Congress leader Sajjan Kumar seeking interim bail or suspension of sentence on account of his deteriorating medical condition.A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy issued notice to the CBI on an application filed by Kumar who is undergoing a life term following his conviction in the 1984 Delhi anti-Sikh riots by the Delhi high court in December 2018.The court said, “Let the medical condition of the appellant (Kumar) be verified and an affidavit be filed by CBI within one week.” The court also asked CBI to take instructions on Kumar’s demand to be treated at Medanta Hospital.Sajjan Kumar, aged 77, in his bail application stated that his condition is critical and he is undergoing treatment in the emergency ICU at Safdarjung Hospital. “Due to his old age and his ill-health, he has become infirm and is incapable of taking care of himself and requires constant human attention for his daily needs such as bathing, going to the toilet, eating, etc,” stated the applicant filed through Kumar’s advocate Ajay Marwah.Also Read | 43,000 offences under POCSO Act registered last year: AG KK Venugopal to SCAppearing for Kumar, senior advocate Vikas Singh told the court that Medanta had the provision for colonoscopy which is not available at Safdarjung Hospital. Singh said he had been incarcerated for the past 31 months without being out on parole or furlough and his family wishes to provide him good medical treatment.The application was opposed by the complainants of the case lodged against Kumar. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for the families of victims, said the accused was roaming free and came to be arrested following the Delhi high court’s order of December 17, 2018 which reversed the acquittal granted by the trial court in 2013.Dave pointed out that in March last year, AIIMS had examined the accused and submitted a report to the apex court indicating that he had no pressing medical concern.But Kumar’s counsel argued that more than a year had passed since then and the present condition of the accused was critical. In his application, Kumar stated that being of old age, his condition was most vulnerable to the coronavirus pandemic and prayed for his immediate release either on bail or on temporary suspension of sentence.CBI was represented by advocate Shradha Deshmukh who accepted notice on the bail application and agreed to file an affidavit before the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-to-cbi-on-sajjan-kumar-s-bail-plea-on-medical-grounds-101629805541700.html
24-08-2021||India||Tamil Nadu BJP leader resigns over sexually explicit chat uploaded on YouTube||K T Raghavan, a general secretary of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Tamil Nadu unit, was on Tuesday forced to resign from his post after his allegedly sexually explicit video chat with a woman following a “sting operation” was uploaded on a YouTube channel.Madan Ravichandran, who joined the BJP last year and runs the channel with over 141,000 subscribers, has claimed to have released the video as part of his probe into allegations of sexual harassment and exploitation against state BJP leaders. He claimed to have video evidence against 15 of them. Ravichandran said he chose to release Raghavan’s video first as the media promotes him as “Mr Clean”.In a tweet, Raghavan denied the charges against him and said he will face them legally. “Dharma will win,” he tweeted. He cited his 30-year career “without any problems” and added the video was released to tarnish his image. “People of Tamil Nadu know who I am. Those who are associated with me know who I am,” he said. Raghavan, a lawyer, said he resigned after meeting with state BJP chief K Annamalai.Also Read | Kodanad case: Accused move Madras HC to examine Palaniswami, SasikalaAs a BJP spokesman in Tamil Nadu, he has been among the faces of the party in the state. He is also part of a committee the BJP has formed to prepare for the local body elections.Ravichandran said the face of the woman in the video has been blurred and her voice muted as she agreed to do the “sting” for public service. He added they showed the video to Annamalai for action since he is a young leader and should not allow older leaders to suppress the issue. Ravichandran cited a purported screen shot of a WhatsApp conversation and added Annamalai said they can release the video.In a statement, Annamalai said Ravichandran met him twice over the issue and asked him to take action. “But he did not submit any video evidence.” Annamalai said he conveyed to Ravichandran that action cannot be taken based only on accusations and this has to be probed. Annamalai added Ravichandran sent him a message later and said that he would release the videos if action was not taken. He said he reiterated action will be taken only after an investigation and told Ravichandran to go ahead. Tamil Nadu BJP has said they will form an enquiry commission to be headed by state secretary Malarkodi as they take these allegations seriously.Congress Member of Parliament Jothimani said they will file a complaint with the police against Raghavan . “There is video evidence that he has misbehaved with a woman and that has to be investigated,” she tweeted. The video has surfaced months after the state BJP issued a legal notice to Tamil daily Dinamalar for an article in June saying the party has allegedly received sexual harassment complaints and will set up a committee to look into them. The BJP called the article false and fabricated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-bjp-leader-resigns-over-sexually-explicit-chat-uploaded-on-youtube-101629804641452.html
24-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Received credible reports of execution of civilians by Taliban, says UN and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Credible reports of executions of civilians by Taliban: UN human rights chiefThe top UN human rights officials on Tuesday said she has received “credible reports” of summary executions of civilians by the Taliban as their actions raise fears of a “return to past patterns of human rights violations”. Read more.Modi, Putin hold 'detailed conversation' on situation in AfghanistanPrime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke on the phone on Tuesday to discuss the evolving situation in Afghanistan in the aftermath of its siege by the Taliban. Read more.Hope for inclusive dispensation representing all sections of Afghan society: India at UNHRCIndia on Tuesday called for an inclusive and broad-based dispensation in Afghanistan that represents all sections of society and asserted that Afghan soil must not be used by terror groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) to threaten any other country. Read more.2021 Triumph Speed Twin to be launched in India on August 31Triumph Motorcycles has announced that it will launch the new Speed Twin motorcycle in the Indian market on August 31st. The new Speed Twin has already been launched in the international markets and has now been listed on Triumph's India website ahead of launch. Read more.'I felt he wasn't trying to get me out': Anderson on bouncer barrage from Bumrah, says 'haven't felt like this' beforeJasprit Bumrah had an excellent Test match against England at Lord's. Not only did he shine with the ball on the last day by picking three important wickets, he also scored an important 34 not-out to help India set a fighting target. But if there is one thing that stood out from the match, it was his battle with England pacer James Anderson. Read more.Khushi Kapoor's new workout session will inspire you to have fun at gym, see picsBoney Kapoor and Sridevi's daughter, Khushi Kapoor, is a true-blue fitness enthusiast, like her sister, Janhvi Kapoor. Don't believe us? Just take a look at Bollywood's favourite Pilates trainer Namrata Purohit's latest post on Instagram, and you will know what we are talking about. Khushi and Namrata indulged in a couple's workout session recently, which will inspire you to have some fun at the gym too. Read more.Mahesh Manjrekar 'on the road to recovery' following bladder cancer surgeryActor-filmmaker Mahesh Manjrekar has undergone a surgery after being diagnosed with bladder cancer. The 63-year-old actor is back home following the medical procedure at the H N Reliance Foundation Hospital in Mumbai last week. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-credible-reports-of-executions-by-taliban-says-un-101629802496696.html
24-08-2021||India||Bombay HC refuses urgent hearing of Narayan Rane’s anticipatory bail plea||The Bombay high court on Tuesday rejected a plea for an urgent hearing of Union minister Narayan Rane’s anticipatory bail application as he faced arrest for his comments a day earlier that he wanted to “give a tight slap” to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for allegedly forgetting the year of India’s independence during a speech.Rane moved the court as Nashik Police Commissioner Deepak Pandey on Tuesday said he has ordered the formation of a team to arrest the minister and to produce him before a court. Three cases, including under India Penal Code’s sections 500 (defamation), 505(2) (mischief), 153-B (1)(c) (remarks likely to cause disharmony, or feeling of enmity or hatred or ill will), have been filed against Rane for the comments.A sessions court in Ratnagiri earlier refused to hear Rane’s anticipatory bail plea. Also Read | Sena-BJP clashes break out in Maharashtra over Narayan Rane’s ‘slap CM’ remarkA high court bench of justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar directed Rane’s lawyer, Aniket Nikam, to follow due procedure before approaching it. A separate application has also been filed for quashing the three cases registered against Rane in Nashik, Pune and Mahad. Nikam approached the court after its lunch break concluded at 2.30 pm and mentioned the two applications seeking anticipatory bail and quashing of the cases. The court asked Nikam to follow the procedure under the law by filing a praecipe to get the matter listed for hearing. Nikam also sought protection from coercive action including arrest pending hearing of the plea.Nikam said for arrest for any offence which involves punishment of under 7 years, police have to issue a notice. He added this has not been issued in Rane’s case and hence the order for his arrest is illegal. Nikam said they will wait till 4.30 pm and approach the bench again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-refuses-urgent-hearing-of-narayan-rane-s-anticipatory-bail-plea-101629804221922.html
24-08-2021||India||Kodanad Case: Accused move Madras HC to examine Palaniswami, Sasikala||As the present political slugfest over the 2017 Kodanad heist-cum-murder case plays out inside the Tamil Nadu assembly, two related but contradictory pleas have been filed in the Madras high court, further muddying the waters.In one of the petitions, three of the ten accused in the case have asked the court to order interrogation of former chief minister and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader Edappadi Palaniswami and late J Jayalalithaa’s close confidante V K Sasikala among others, while the second petition, filed by a witness, seeks a stay on any further investigation in the case and demands fast tracking of the trial.A security guard at former Tamil Nadu CM and AIADMK chief Jayalalithaa’s Kodanad estate was allegedly murdered by robbers on August 17, 2017, followed by more mysterious deaths of an accused and family members of another accused in the case. All the 10 accused in the case hailed from Kerala. However, the case took a murky turn in 2019 when K V Sayan, a prime accused in the case alleged former chief minister Palaniswami’s involvement in the heist-cum-murder incident. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), which had then sought Palaniswami’s resignation over the matter was now "furthering" investigations after returning to power this year, leading to a political storm in the state. The AIADMK has accused the DMK of a witch hunt to frame their leaders for political vendetta, while the ruling party insists it only wants the truth to surface.Deepu, MS Satheesan, and A Samthosh Samy, who along with seven others charge-sheeted in the case are undergoing trial at the session court in the Nilgiris, have now filed a joint revision petition requesting interrogation of nine persons including Palaniswami, Sasikala, Jayalalithaa’s foster son V N Sudakaran, the then-Nilgiris collector and police chief, two employees of the Kodanad Estate alleging the real culprits have been let off by “lethargic” investigations in the case. Their petition was earlier rejected by the Nilgiris sessions court on April 30.“The learned judge of the trial court failed to consider the sensitivity of the case wherein the second respondent (Sayan) has come forward in digital media to depose about the involvement of former chief minister of Tamil Nadu, and dismissed the petition in a mechanical manner,” the petition alleges.The three have claimed that the trail at the Nilgiris court was “hurried”, “influenced” and “monitored” by persons holding power in the former ruling party, a reference to the AIADMK. They also alleged that the police inquired only 41 out of over a hundred witnesses it had listed. Their review petition also cites the death of the family of one of the accused in an accident and alleges political pressure on Sayan apart from claiming that an AIADMK-related person was appointed as the lawyer for one of the accused in the past in an attempt to derail their defence. The petition was filed on August 9 but was circulated to the media this week.After the case returned to the forefront of state politics following the DMK’s victory in assembly elections earlier this year, Palaniswami alleged a “secret statement” had been taken from the main accused, Sayan, with the purpose to frame him in the case. The AIADMK also released a video in which Sayan is purportedly being asked by few persons to name Palaniswami.Meanwhile, the second petition filed by a witness is listed for hearing today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kodanad-case-accused-move-madras-hc-to-examine-palaniswami-sasikala-101629802291561.html
24-08-2021||India||43,000 offences under POCSO Act registered last year: AG KK Venugopal to SC||As many as 43,000 offences registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act in the last year, Attorney General of India KK Venugopal told the Supreme Court on Tuesday.Venugopal provided the information during the hearing of appeals against the controversial Bombay High Court judgment that held that groping a minor's breast without "skin to skin contact" cannot be termed as sexual assault as defined under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.The Attorney-General said that it's an outrageous judgement so far as POCSO is concerned."The judge said skin to skin contact is required. This would mean someone can wear a surgical glove and exploit a child and get away scot-free. The accused tried to bring down the salwar and even then bail was granted. This would be a precedent for magistrates in Maharashtra. Better appreciation would be needed for the definition of sexual assault. There are 43,000 POCSO offences in the last year," he said.The Court was hearing petitions filed by the Attorney General, State of Maharashtra and the National Commission for Women (NCW) against the January 19 judgment passed by the High Court, which held that pressing the breast of a 12-year-old child without removing her top will not fall within the definition of 'sexual assault'.A Bench of Justices UU Lalit and Ajay Rastogi directed its Legal Services Committee to appoint a lawyer to represent the accused in the case.Since the accused are not being represented, the Bench directed SC Legal services Committee to make available services of any senior advocate on its panel along with any other Advocate-on-Record (AOR) to appear on behalf of the accused.The matter will be next heard on September 14.Earlier, the apex court-appointed senior advocate Siddharth Dave to assist it in the case.On January 27, the top court had stayed the operation of the January 19 verdict of the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court after the Attorney General had mentioned and said the order is "very disturbing" and will set a "dangerous precedent".The Attorney General, NCW, Maharashtra, Youth Bar Association of India while challenging the High Court order in the apex court stated that such observations would have a wide impact on the entire society and public at large.Seeking to set aside the High Court order, the appeals said that the observations made by the High Court were "unwarranted" and concern the modesty of a girl child.One of the pleas pointed out that while passing the impugned judgment, the single judge recorded the name of the victim child. As per law, the names of victims of certain offences cannot be published. The pleas also sought to stay on the verdict as interim relief."Single Judge had made various observations, concerning the modesty of a girl child, which is not only derogatory and defamatory but the same are also in utter disregard to the applicable laws," Association's appeal added.Justice Pushpa Ganediwala of the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court, while passing judgement on January 19, had held that there must be "skin to skin contact with sexual intent" for an act to be considered sexual assault. "Mere groping will not fall under the definition of sexual assault," the judge said.The judge modified the order of a sessions court, which had held a 39-year-old man guilty of sexually assaulting a 12-year-old girl and sentenced him to three years of imprisonment.Also Read | ‘No sexual assault’ in minor’s groping: Supreme Court stays Bombay HC orderAs per the prosecution and the minor victim's testimony in court, in December 2016, the accused had taken the girl to his house in Nagpur on the pretext of giving her something to eat and then gripped her breast and attempted to remove her clothes.However, the High Court said since he groped her without removing her clothes, the offence cannot be termed as sexual assault and, instead, constitutes the offence of outraging a woman's modesty under IPC section 354.The High Court acquitted him under the POCSO Act while upholding his conviction under IPC section 354. Section 354 entails a minimum sentence of imprisonment for one year, sexual assault under the POCSO Act entails minimum imprisonment of three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/43000-offences-under-pocso-act-registered-last-year-ag-kk-venugopal-to-sc-101629800727264.html
24-08-2021||India||Hope for inclusive dispensation representing all sections of Afghan society: India at UNHRC||India on Tuesday called for an inclusive and broad-based dispensation in Afghanistan that represents all sections of society and asserted that Afghan soil must not be used by terror groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) to threaten any other country. New Delhi’s position was outlined by Indramani Pandey, India’s permanent representative to the UN in Geneva, while participating in a special session of the UN Human Rights Council on the situation in Afghanistan. India has been watching the security situation in the war-torn country with growing concern following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government and the takeover of Kabul by the Taliban on August 15. It has insisted that any future dispensation in Kabul should be inclusive in order to ensure legitimacy. In his statement at the UNHRC session, Pandey said India hopes “there is an inclusive and broad-based dispensation which represents all sections of Afghan society”. He added, “Voices of Afghan women, aspirations of Afghan children and the rights of minorities must be respected. A broad-based representation would help the arrangement gain more acceptability and legitimacy.” Also Read | ‘Operation Devi Shakti’: India evacuates more than 800 people from AfghanistanAs with all recent official statements from the Indian side following the takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban, there was no criticism or direct reference to the militant group in Pandey’s statement. However, he raised India’s concerns related to the “precarious” security situation Afghanistan. “Stability in Afghanistan is linked to the peace and security of the region. We hope that the situation in Afghanistan does not pose a challenge to its neighbours and its territory is not used by terrorist groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) to threaten any other country,” Pandey said. The world community, he said, must provide full support to the Afghan people’s desire for peace, stability and security and enable women, children and minorities to live in peace and dignity. Pandey said that as a neighbour of Afghanistan, the current situation in the country is of great concern to India. “We are closely monitoring the rapidly evolving security situation in Afghanistan and we continue to call upon parties concerned to maintain law and order, ensure the safety and security of all Afghan nationals, UN personnel and diplomatic staff members, and observe human rights and international humanitarian law in all circumstances in Afghanistan,” he said. Pandey said a “grave humanitarian crisis” is also unfolding, and the world community is concerned about increasing violations of fundamental rights of Afghan citizens. “Afghans are worried about whether their right to live with dignity would be respected,” he said. Thousands of people who have been internally displaced are facing an acute shortage of food, medical care and shelter, and the basic rights of civilians, children and women, including freedom of speech and opinion, access to education and medical care, have been drastically hampered by the current situation. “We call upon all the parties concerned to allow unhindered access to international assistance for all those who are in the need of it,” Pandey said. The envoy noted that India had significantly contributed in recent years to the development of Afghanistan through large infrastructure projects and connectivity, humanitarian aid, human resource development and capacity-building, and smaller high impact community development projects. This included projects in critical areas such as power, water supply, road connectivity, healthcare, education and agriculture, and Indian development ventures covered all 34 provinces of Afghanistan. India also provided 75,000 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan to strengthen food security during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Our millennia old friendship with Afghanistan rests on the strong pillars of people-to-people relationship. India has always stood for a peaceful, prosperous and progressive Afghanistan. India stands ready to assist our friends from Afghanistan in fulfilling their aspirations,” he said. “We hope that the situation stabilises soon and the parties concerned address the humanitarian and security issues.” India was the largest regional donor to Afghanistan with pledges totalling almost $3 billion. Following the Taliban takeover, India withdrew its envoy and diplomatic staff from Kabul last week and has evacuated more than 600 people, a majority of them Indian nationals, from Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-for-inclusive-dispensation-representing-all-sections-of-afghan-society-india-at-unhrc-101629801392926.html
24-08-2021||India||Union minister Narayan Rane arrested for remarks against Maharashtra CM||Union minister Narayan Rane was arrested by the Ratnagiri police in Maharashtra for comments against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Three FIRs were registered in the state - one each in Nashik, Pune and Mahad - against Rane who allegedly talked about slapping Thackeray for forgetting the year of India's independence.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader claimed that Thackeray forgot India's year of independence during his August 15 address to the people of the state. He made the remarks on Monday, during his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' in Raigad district.Rane arrest comes shortly after the Bombay high court refused to give urgent hearing to his plea seeking anticipatory bail. The bench of justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar directed Rane's lawyer Aniket Nikam to follow due procedure before approaching the court.Rane also filed the application to quash the three FIRs registered against him. The court did not hear that petition too.The remarks have led to full-fledged battle between the BJP and Maharashtra's ruling party Shiv Sena. The workers of the two parties clashed in Mumbai and other cities; the Sena wants Rane to be stripped of his portfolio at the Centre and remarks withdrawn."This was the reaction to action. Narayan Rane provoked the Shiv Sainiks. He should withdraw his remarks and if he does not, then he will be responsible for the situation," said Shiv Sena legislator and state minister for home, Shambhuraj Desai.Stones were hurled at the BJP's office in Nashik.The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), one of the three constituents of Maharashtra Vikhas Aghadi (MVA) government along with Congress and Shiv Sena, said Rane's language was insulting."The language used for CM Uddhav Thackeray by Union minister Narayan Rane is insulting not only for the chief minister but also for the people of Maharashtra. It will not be tolerated. No one is above the law and will have to face action irrespective of his position," NCP leader Nawab Malik said.Former Maharashtra chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said the party does not support Rane's comments, but the way he has been targeted, the "it stands behind him 100 per cent".“People who are pointing fingers at Rane should not forget that there have been several instances of Uddhav Thackeray using inflammatory language,” Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-narayan-rane-arrested-for-remarks-against-maharashtra-cm-101629800434173.html
24-08-2021||India||Union minister Narayan Rane moves HC over FIRs against 'slam Thackeray' remark||Union minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Narayan Rane on Tuesday moved the Bombay High Court seeking anticipatory bail and quashing of three FIRs filed against him over his statements that he would have “tightly slapped” chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who he claimed was ignorant of the country’s independence year. Nashik Police Commissioner Deepak Pandey had earlier said a team had been formed to arrest the Rajya Sabha MP and produce him before a court and all due procedure was being followed.The Rajya Sabha MP and former chief minister has defended his stand on the issue and said he had not committed any offence. Also read | Sena-BJP clashes break out in Maharashtra over Narayan Rane's 'slap CM' remarkThe high court refused to give an urgent hearing to the anticipatory bail application, filed by advocate Aniket Nikam on Rane’s behalf. A bench of justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar directed Nikam to follow due procedure before approaching the court. The court was also yet to hear the petition seeking the quashing of FIRs registered at Nashik, Pune and Mahad police stations.The controversy over Rane’s comments against Thackeray made on Monday at a Jan Ashirvad event for newly inducted Union ministers intensified during the day as workers of the Shiv Sena and the BJP clashed at several places in the state and police issued arrest warrants against the Union minister.Rane also complained of uneasiness and a team of doctors was summoned to treat him, said BJP leader Pramod Jathar, adding his sugar level and blood pressure have shot up.Jathar further said the superintendent of Ratnagiri was under immense pressure to arrest the Union minister. “The Ratnagiri SP has reached Sangameshwar to arrest Rane without any arrest warrant. The SP says he is under tremendous pressure for the arrest and he has been asked to arrest Rane in five mins.”“We have moved the HC for anticipatory bail and police should follow the protocol,” he added.Former chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said that while he did not support Rane's comments, he would stand by him as an individual and a representative of the party. “Sharijil Usmani abused Bharat Mata but no FIR was registered against him but you (state govt) filed FIR against Rane,” he said.(With inputs from Mumbai bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-narayan-rane-moves-hc-firs-against-slam-cm-thackeray-remark-101629799575667.html
24-08-2021||India||Hope terrorists don't use Afghan soil for fuelling unrest: India at UNHRC||India said at the special session of the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) on Tuesday that it hopes the situation in Afghanistan does not pose a challenge to its neighbours.The special session of the UNHRC was underway in Geneva to consider the "promotion & protection of human rights in Afghanistan"India's premanent representative to the UN, Indramani Pandey raised concerns over the possibility of Afghan territory being used by terrorist groups, such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), to threaten the peace and stability of any other country."Everyone is concerned about increasing violations of fundamental rights of Afghan citizens. Afghans are worried about whether their right to live with dignity would be respected," Pandey said at UNHRC session.Echoing the urgency shown by India, Afghan envoy to the UNHRC, Nasir Ahmad Andisha, said, "The human rights system cannot and should not 'wait and see'. We need attention and action."The Indian envoy said its "millennia-old friendship" with Afghanistan rests on strong pillars of people-to-people relations. "India has always stood for peaceful, prosperous and progressive Afghanistan. India stands ready to assist our friends from Afghanistan in fulfilling their aspirations," Pandey was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.ALSO READ | Women's rights under Islamic law to amnesty for all: What Taliban said in 1st addressHe said that India also hopes that there would be an inclusive and broad-based dispensation in Afghanistan which represents all sections of the Afghan society, and the one that would respect the voices of women and the aspirations of children while upholding the rights of minorities."A broad based representation would help the arrangement gain more acceptability and legitimacy," Pandey told the session of global diplomats.UNHRC chief Michelle Bachelet said she has received “credible reports” of summary executions of civilians by the Taliban and restrictions on the rights of women following their siege of Kabul on August 15.Last week, UN Secretary-General António Guterres urged the Taliban to exercise utmost restraint to protect lives.Even as the Taliban have said no one would be “harmed”, thousands of people are desperate to flee the country as many Afghans were apprehensive of the Taliban rule.Reports of Taliban fighters attacking women and children in Kabul and other provinces have surfaced over the past one week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-terrorists-don-t-use-afghan-soil-for-fuelling-unrest-india-at-unhrc-101629799010429.html
24-08-2021||India||Modi, Putin hold 'detailed conversation' on situation in Afghanistan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke on the phone on Tuesday to discuss the evolving situation in Afghanistan in the aftermath of its siege by the Taliban.Modi spoke to Putin on the phone about 45 minutes, news agency ANI posted on Twitter.Meanwhile, the Prime Minister also took to Twitter to share snippets of his conversation with Putin."Had a detailed and useful exchange of views with my friend President Putin on recent developments in Afghanistan. We also discussed issues on the bilateral agenda, including India-Russia cooperation against COVID-19. We agreed to continue close consultations on important issues," Modi tweeted.ANI cited Russian government officials to report that Modi and Putin expressed their intention to enhance cooperation on countering the spread of terrorist ideology and drug racket from the territory of Afghanistan. The two leaders reportedly agreed to form a permanent bilateral channel for consultations on issues pertaining to Afghanistan.On Monday, Modi spoke to German Chancellor Angela Merkel about the unfolding security situation in Afghanistan and its implications on the region and the world, apart from discussing bilateral agenda, including cooperation in vaccines against the Covid-19, fighting climate change and and developing clean energy, etc.The two leaders stressed the need for maintaining peace and security, and outlined that the repatriation of stranded people from Afghanistan is the urgent priority.ALSO READ | 'There is no alternative': Russia says resistance to Taliban would fail in AfghanistanIndia has evacuated nearly 550 people, including almost 400 of its nationals, from Afghanistan this week and dozens more are expected to be brought home by Tuesday.Earlier this week, Putin criticised the United States and the NATO allies for sending refugees from Afghanistan to central Asian countries, and said they pose a direct threat to Moscow.Some central Asian nations, including Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan — which share borders with Afghanistan — have raised concerns over the influx of refugees into their countries after fleeing Taliban regime, over fears that Islamic State fighters and other fundamentalists as well as religious extremists could infiltrate into the countries in the guise of refugees.Putin's remarks came despite Russia's ambassador to Afghanistan Dmitry Zhirnov praising the Taliban's siege of Kabul and describing their approach as "good, positive and business-like."Russia has reached out to the Taliban in recent years and hosted its representatives in Moscow several times, the most recent being in July.India was kept out of a key meeting on Afghanistan that was convened by Russia and saw the participation of Pakistan and China in Qatar earlier this month, reflecting certain divergences between New Delhi and Moscow on the evolving situation in the war-torn country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narendra-modi-vladimir-putin-afghanistan-crisis-taliban-siege-101629796646493.html
24-08-2021||India||How 'loss of situational awareness' brought AirAsia, IndiGo flights within 8 km, reveals new report||Two flights over Mumbai airspace came within 8 km of each other when their altitude separation was just 300 feet, according to an Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) report released earlier this month. AirAsia India's Ahmedabad-Chennai flight and IndiGo's Bengaluru-Vadodara flight were involved in this “serious incident” which, as per the report, happened due to the air traffic controller's "loss of situational awareness", reported news agency PTI.The evaluation of the situation by the controller at the Mumbai airport "under the influence of preconceived mind" has been cited as another probable cause behind the incident."The minimum separation between both the aircraft was recorded as 8 km laterally while (it was) 300 feet vertical(ly) when the AirAsia India flight was below the IndiGo flight and it was 6.5 km laterally when the vertical separation was 500 feet when IndiGo flight was below the AirAsia India flight," the report said.Most of the flights from Ahmedabad to southern India overfly Bhavnagar but the AirAsia flight was on a route usually taken by planes descending to land at the Mumbai airport, the report explained. The changed route of AirAsia flight and direct routing of the IndiGo flight coming from the opposite direction resulted in the heading of both flights becoming “reciprocal to each other" at different altitudes.Also Read | Domestic air travel sees record surge since 2nd Covid wave, 50L flew in JulyThe automation system of the air traffic controller issued a "predicted conflict warning" when there was enough lateral separation between the two flights. But the controller at the Mumbai airport ignored the "predicted conflict warning", presuming the AirAsia flight was on its usual route, according to the report. By the time the controller realised the situation, the AirAsia India flight was at 38,008 feet and the IndiGo flight at 38,000 feet.AirAsia flight's traffic collision avoidance system (TCAS) issued a warning to the pilots, prompting them to continue the plane's ascent. As the IndiGo flight maintained an altitude of 38,000 feet, the conflicting traffic was resolved when the AirAsia flight reached an altitude of 38,396 feet, according to the report.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-loss-of-situational-awareness-brought-airasia-indigo-flights-within-8-km-reveals-new-report-101629796375000.html
24-08-2021||India||Gupkar Alliance adopts resolution to restore J&K's status under Article 370, 35A||The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) that held a meeting in Srinagar on Tuesday adopted a resolution to restore the constitutional position of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh under Article 370 and 35A.The alliance’s spokesperson and CPI(M) leader MY Tarigami made the announcement on the resolution at the end of the meeting that was called to discuss the prevailing situation in the Union territory and have wider consultations on the way forward for restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. The meeting was held at alliance chairman and National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah's residence at Gupkar at 11 am.We have adopted a resolution to restore the constitutional position of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh under Article 370 and 35A: People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) Spokesperson, MY Tarigami pic.twitter.com/c3v9bJ02xBThe PAGD is an alliance of six mainstream political parties seeking the restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir which was revoked by the Narendra Modi government in August 2019.Besides the heads of the constituent parties, several middle and lower-rung leaders attended the meeting. Speaking to reporters outside Abdullah's residence, senior vice president of Awami National Conference, a constituent of the alliance, Muzaffar Shah said the agenda of the meeting, apart from the restoration of the Article 370, is to launch a mass contact programme.Asked about the reports of the administration having denied permission for the meeting, he said a democratic meeting cannot be denied."We are holding a democratic meeting and the government cannot stop us from doing it. We will discuss how to reach out to every region's aspirations," Shah said.Earlier, a leader of the alliance had said that the meeting would be different from the earlier ones."This time it is not only the top leadership of the constituent parties which has been invited for consultations, but the middle rung leadership as well," he had said.The meeting has been called to discuss the prevailing situation in Jammu and Kashmir and "have wider consultations on various issues", he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gupkar-alliance-adopts-resolution-to-restore-j-k-s-status-under-article-370-35a-101629795478507.html
24-08-2021||India||Assam to destroy rhino horns stored over four decades||Assam’s forest and environment department plans to destroy animal parts, including around 2,500 rhino horns, seized from poachers, smugglers or extracted from dead animals over the last four decades. State chief wildlife warden MK Yadava said a final decision on destroying the horns will be taken after a public hearing on August 29 and based on recommendations of a state-level committee constituted last month for the purpose. “Based on the public hearing and the recommendations of the committee, the plan to destroy the horns would be finalised.”Officials said around five per cent of the horns needed in court cases and for preservation for educational and scientific purposes will continue to be stored. They will include the horns with unique features like the heaviest and longest among them. Elephant tusks and similar stored items will also be destroyed. Rhino horns are used in traditional medicine in countries such as China and Vietnam. Their high value has been blamed among one of the reasons for rampant killing of rhinos. Assam is home to the world’s largest population of one-horned rhinos. According to a 2018 census, there were nearly 2,650 rhinos in the state. Around 2,400 of them were concentrated in the Kaziranga National Park.Rhinos are listed in the Schedule 1 of Wildlife (Protection) Act as an endangered species. There is an international ban on trade of rhino horns.Also Read | Chakma groups reject proposed relocation move from Arunachal Pradesh, write to PM ModiAssam constituted a committee in 2016 to verify the horns amid doubts over their authenticity and safety. The committee found almost all 2,500 horns were genuine.Experts welcomed the move to destroy the horns. “Scientifically, rhino horns do not have any value. But they have a price in some markets based on superstitions about its medicinal properties. If we preserve them, it will convey the message that we believe in such superstitions. The horns stored in Assam should be destroyed,” said Rathin Barman, joint director, Wildlife Trust of India.Mrinal Talukdar, a member of the committee constituted for the verification of the horns, said they suggested the horns should be destroyed. “Preserving them could give a message to poachers that the horns are indeed of value and could lead to more poaching of the species.”Officials said six zonal committees verified the animal parts between August 18 and August 23 across Assam. The process involved forensic examination, extraction of DNA material, generation of barcode for each part, measurement and weighing of specimens and photography. Officials said the verification was done in presence of magistrates, representatives of deputy commissioners, superintendents of police, members of previous verification panels and members of technical, zonal and state committees. “All the activities are duly photo captured and video graphed. The operation is screened live on big monitors kept outside the halls for public viewing and transparency,” said a forest department statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-destroy-rhino-horns-stored-over-four-decades-101629795451145.html
24-08-2021||India||Three militants killed in gunfight in north Kashmir’s Sopore||Three unidentified militants were killed in a gunfight in north Kashmir’s Seer Jagir village late on Monday, police said.On a specific input, police, CRPF and the army launched a search and cordon operation at Seer Jagir village in Sopore on Monday night. The operation turned into an exchange of fire that continued till morning. Police said the identity of the militants is still being ascertained.A police spokesperson said, “Arms and ammunition were also recovered from the site.” During the exchange of fire, police snapped mobile internet in Sopore town and also suspended the railway service between Srinagar and Baramulla, as the railway line passes through the village.Also Read | RTF commander, deputy were killed in covert operation: J&K PoliceThe killing comes a day after police killed TRF chief Abbas Shiekh and his deputy Saqib Manzoor in Srinagar in an operation. With the toll in Sopore gunfight, police said the number of militants killed in Kashmir this year has reached 100.“Today, by the collective efforts of @JmuKmrPolice, @ChinarcorpsIA, @crpfindia and people of #Kashmir have led to #neutralisation of more than 100 #terrorists in the year of 2021 so far in Kashmir division,” J&K police tweeted while quoting Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar. Police said among the 100 militants killed this year, most are locals and top commanders of different outfits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-militants-killed-in-gunfight-in-north-kashmir-s-sopore-101629794911111.html
24-08-2021||India||'Operation Devi Shakti': India evacuates more than 800 people from Afghanistan||India on Tuesday gave a name to its operation to evacuate its citizens from war-torn Afghanistan. External affairs minister S Jaishankar called it 'Operation Devi Shakti' and saluted the efforts of Indian Air Force and Air India."Op Devi Shakti continues. 78 evacuees from Kabul arrive via Dushanbe. Salute @IAF_MCC, @AirIndiain and #TeamMEA for their untiring efforts," Jaishankar tweeted.Op Devi Shakti continues. 78 evacuees from Kabul arrive via Dushanbe. Salute @IAF_MCC, @AirIndiain and #TeamMEA for their untiring efforts. #DeviShaktiHis tweet came hours after 78 people, including 25 Indian nationals, were brought to New Delhi from Tajikistan's Dushanbe in a special Air India flight on Tuesday. They were flown out of Taliban-controlled Kabul to Dushanbe in an aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) a day before.Three copies (swaroop) of the Sikh sacred scripture Guru Granth Sahib was also brought back, which were received by Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri. He expressed his gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for carrying out rescue operations from Afghanistan and said the government is in constant touch with the remaining people over there."I want to start by thanking Prime Minister who made it possible to carry out these rescue operations to bring our brethren who are in difficult circumstances there (Afghanistan)," said Puri.ਵਿਚਿ ਕਰਤਾ ਪੁਰਖੁ ਖਲੋਆ ||ਵਾਲੁ ਨ ਵਿੰਗਾ ਹੋਆ ||धन्य हैं गुरु के सिख, सरदार हिम्मत सिंह, सरदार कुलराज सिंह और सरदार धर्मेंद्र सिंह जी जिनके द्वारा काबुल से लाये गए गुरु ग्रन्थ साहिब जी के तीन पवित्र स्वरूपों का दिल्ली में आगमन हुआ | गुरु साहिब हमेशा अपने सिखों पर कृपा बनाये रखें। pic.twitter.com/MTgYYtciwM"I want to compliment the Ministry of External Affairs, External Affairs Minister (EAM) S Jaishankar and minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan for having implemented this," he added.On Monday, India evacuated 75 Sikhs amid the deteriorating situation in Afghanistan.India has so far evacuated more than 800 people since the Taliban seized power in Afghanistan. Nearly 200 more Afghan Sikhs and Hindus are still stranded in Afghanistan. These people have taken shelter at the Karte Parwan gurdwara in Kabul, which is close to the airport, according to Puneet Singh Chandhok, president of the Indian World Forum which has been coordinating the evacuation efforts with the Ministry of External Affairs and the IAF.Thousands of Afghans have been crowding around the Kabul airport for nearly a week in a desperate attempt to flee the country fearing the Taliban's brutality.India is carrying out the evacuation missions in coordination with the US and several other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/operation-devi-shakti-india-evacuates-more-than-800-people-from-afghanistan-101629794300934.html
24-08-2021||India||Union ministers receive Guru Granth Sahib from Kabul||Union ministers Hardeep Singh Puri, V Muraleedaran and two other Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders on Tuesday received three copies of Sikh holy book Guru Granth Sahib as they arrived from Kabul along with 75 evacuees from Afghanistan on an Indian Air Force plane.Puri tweeted visuals of him carrying the holy book on his head and called it his privilege. In a tweet, Murleedharan, the minister of state for external affairs, said: “Joined Minister Shri @HardeepSPuri Ji at Delhi Airport in receiving Swaroop of Shri Guru Granth Sahib ji arrived from Afghanistan along with evacuees.”Earlier, pictures of three Sikh evacuees carrying the copies of Guru Granth Sahib on their heads barefooted at Kabul Airport went viral on social media.RP Singh, a BJP leader, said the copies of the scripture will be kept at Guru Arjan Dev Ji Gurdwara, better known as Kabuli Gurudwara in New Delhi’s Tilak Nagar, which shelters hundreds of Afghan Sikh nationals.Around 700 people, including Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, have been brought to India from Kabul. The evacuees include Afghan lawmakers Narinder Singh Khalsa and Anarkali Kaur Honaryar.Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee chief Manjinder Sirsa has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to extend the cut-off date under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act for fast-tracking of citizenship from 2014 to 2021 so that Afghan evacuees can be granted Indian nationality. The law was passed in 2019 to fast-track citizenship process for non-Muslims from three neighbouring countries, including Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-ministers-receive-guru-granth-sahib-from-kabul-101629792871228.html
24-08-2021||India||Assam: Alleged gun smuggler tries to escape from police custody, killed||An alleged arms smuggler arrested on Monday following a joint operation by Border Security Force (BSF) and Assam Police in Karimganj district was killed in an encounter a few hours later, police claimed. The deceased, Nurul Islam, and another accused H Liang Khiyamon were arrested for carrying illegal arms while onboard Silchar-Guwahati train at Assam’s Badarpur. Islam was killed around midnight at Marjatkandi area under Badarpur police station when he attempted to escape, police claimed. Acting on a tip off, BSF and Assam Police jointly recovered 5 pistols, including four 7.65 mm pistols and a pen pistol from 31-year-old Islam, a resident of Baraigram area of the Karimganj district and 22-year-old Khiyamon, a resident of Tuensang district in Nagaland, during a search of Silchar-Guwahati passenger train on Monday morning. The duo was arrested for smuggling arms, police said. A police officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Islam was taken to Marjatkandi area in Badarpur on Monday midnight for further investigation in the case but he tried to snatch a gun from a policeman and tried to escape. “On-duty officers fired at him to prevent him from escaping. Islam sustained severe injuries and was taken to Karimganj civil hospital where the doctors declared him dead,” the police officer quoted above said. Senior state police officers are yet to make any official comment on the purported encounter. One official aware of the developments said, “This happened when the police department attempted a raid at Marjatkandi area based on information given by Nurul Islam. We are not sure if he was shot by police or by his own people because the area was dark. Though, no other police officer or any civilian were injured during this incident. Things are under investigation,” he said.After Islam and his accomplice were arrested on Monday, Karimganj deputy superintendent of police (DSP), D Sharma said the accused were coming from Nagaland’s Dimapur.“...After initial interrogation, the arrested duo confessed to smuggling guns. It is possible that others were also involved in this smuggling,” the DSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-alleged-gun-smuggler-tries-to-escape-from-police-custody-killed-101629792391259.html
24-08-2021||India||3 terrorists killed in J-K’s Baramulla as midnight encounter ends||Three unidentified terrorists were gunned down by security forces on Tuesday during an encounter, which started late on Monday in Jammu and Kashmir’s Baramulla district, police said. “01 more unidentified # terrorist killed (Total 03). Incriminating materials including arms and ammunition recovered. Operation over. Further details shall follow,” the Kashmir Zone Police tweeted on Tuesday afternoon.The site of the encounter was the Seer village in the Sopore area after security forces received inputs about the presence of terrorists there. A search and cordon operation was launched after a heavy exchange of fire.The encounter in Sopore comes hours after the Jammu and Kashmir Police on Monday gunned down two top commanders of the terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba offshoot The Resistance Force (TRF).A senior police official said that Mohammad Abbas Sheikh, the chief of the TRF, and Mohammad Abbas Sheikh, were killed in a “swift intelligence-based operation following a brief shootout” with the police at Aloochi Bagh in Srinagar. The official added that the two terrorists were responsible for several killings and also motivated the youth to join the terror ranks.“We had information about their presence in the area. Ten jawans of the police dressed in civvies quickly surrounded the area and challenged the terrorists, who opened fire. In retaliatory firing, the duo was killed,” Vijay Kumar, the inspector general of police of Kashmir Zone, said while addressing a press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-terrorists-killed-in-j-k-s-baramulla-as-midnight-encounter-ends-101629767702799.html
24-08-2021||India||RTF commander, deputy were killed in covert operation: J&K Police||The killings of chief commander of Resistance Force (TRF), a shadow outfit of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), and his deputy on Monday evening were part of a covert operation, said the police.Terming the operation a big success, police said they tracked down RTF commander Abbas Sheikh following inputs that he was operating in Srinagar and shuttling between central and South Kashmir. Sheikh’s deputy Saqib Manzoor was shot dead along with him on Monday.Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said a 10-member police team raided a specific location in Alochibagh area. “During the raid, the militants were given an opportunity to surrender. However, they started firing at the police team. Our team also retaliated. In a brief exchange of fire, two militants of LeT (TRF) were neutralised,” he said.Also Read | Don’t believe the Taliban’s rhetoric. Women’s rights are under threatSheikh was earlier a Hizbul Mujahideen militant, arrested and released twice. Later, he joined LeT and, according to the police, was operating as the TRF chief. Manzoor had been active since 2020 and helped Shiekh in carrying out attacks in the city. Sheikh was from Kulgam district while Manzoor hailed from Barzulla.“They were involved in killing of several political workers, police personnel and civilians. Saqib Manzoor was involved in the killing of advocate Babar Qadri last year. Besides, both them were also involved in several grenade attacks on security establishments and were also involved in several other terror crimes and civilian atrocities,” police spokesperson said in a statement released after the killing late Monday.Both Sheikh and Manzoor were among the top 10 militants operating in Kashmir, according to the list police released earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rtf-commander-deputy-were-killed-in-covert-operationjkpolice-101629790770850.html
24-08-2021||India||UP police to conduct autopsy of man's body kept in freezer for 22 days by father||The police in Uttar Pradesh will on Tuesday conduct a second post-mortem investigation of the body of a man, which has been kept in a freezer by his father since his death. The father, retired Subedar Shivprasad Pathak, has refused to perform last rites of his son Shivank, alleging that he was murdered.The 32-year-old died in Delhi allegedly under mysterious circumstances, on August 1 and Shivprasad Pathak took the body to his home in Sultanpur where it has been kept in a deep freezer for the past 22 days.He said that the family will perform Shivank's last rites only after they get justice.“Shiv Pratap Pathak, resident of Majhauan village, had kept the body of his Shivank Pathak, 32, in deep freezer at his home for the last 21 days. Shivank died in Delhi on August 1. The post-mortem of the body was conducted in Delhi and foul play was ruled out, but the father claimed that his son was murdered and preserved the body in a deep freezer. It has been decided that a panel of doctors formed under the supervision of the chief medical officer (CMO) of the district will conduct a post-mortem mortem investigation of the body,” Sultanpur district magistrate Raveesh Gupta said on Monday.The DM held a meeting with the district police chief on Monday before directing the CMO to conduct the post-mortem.Before ordering the autopsy, the district administration issued a notice to Pathak on Saturday asking him to perform the last rites of his son or face action.Shivank went to Delhi in 2012, and started working in a call centre, news agency PTI reported quoting his family members. He met Gurleen Kaur in Delhi and the two got married in 2013, PTI further reported.Shivprasad Pathak alleged that since Shivank had a huge property in his name, his wife was eyeing it, according to PTI. He also claimed that his son was murdered but police did not register any case, and the body was handed over to him after the post-mortem examination in Delhi.Local representative of political parties, including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), met the father last week and assured him of their support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-police-to-conduct-autopsy-of-man-s-body-kept-in-freezer-for-22-days-by-father-101629790074767.html
24-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: UAE temporarily suspends on-arrival visa for Indians with US, UK visas and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UAE temporarily suspends visa-on-arrival facility for Indians with UK, US visasThe United Arab Emirates (UAE) has temporarily suspended visa on arrival facility for Indian nationals who have visa or residence permit issued by the United States, the United Kingdom or a European Union member state. This was announced by Etihad Airways on Twitter on Monday. Read moreInfosys hits $100 billion m-cap, fourth Indian firm to reach milestoneThe shares of Information Technology major Infosys hit a record high during intra day trading on Tuesday, which helped the company cross $100 billion in market capitalisation. Infosys is the fourth Indian company to achieve this milestone. Read moreTokyo 2020 Paralympics India Schedule: Indian Contingent Dates, Timings and EventsAfter sending its biggest Olympic contingent to Japan for the Tokyo Olympics, India has now sent its largest Paralympic contingent for the Tokyo Paralympics 2020. Read moreHere's what Sharmila Tagore tells Kareena Kapoor when she says 'I am like your daughter’Actor Sharmila Tagore has spoken about her daughter-in-law, actor Kareena Kapoor. She mentioned the qualities she loves about Kareena and how she is like a daughter to her. Read moreHyundai i20 N Line breaks cover; six colours, sportier steering and suspensionHyundai i20 N Line was officially unveiled in India on Tuesday and will be the first of several N Line models to touch down here in the times to come. Read moreBeyoncé becomes first Black woman to wear iconic Tiffany Diamond, pays homage to Audrey HepburnAmerican singer Beyoncé and her husband, Jay-Z's new Tiffany campaign dropped yesterday, and it has already stirred a storm online. The Grammy-Award winner made fashion history with the shoot, as she became the first Black woman to wear the iconic 128.54 carats Tiffany Diamond. Read moreVideo shows elephant having a gala time splashing in a pool. WatchSome videos make the Internet a joyful place and this clip of an elephant enjoying in a pool of water as well as mud is one of them. Shared on Twitter by Oregon zoo, the clip features Samudra the elephant. And that’s not all. The video is a tribute to the happy elephant on his 13th birthday. The clip will leave you smiling widely. Read moreAfghans in India seek refugee status, UNHCR says neighbours must keep doors openAfghan nationals continued their protest outside the UNHCR office in Delhi's Vasant Vihar. Desperate and fearful protesters demanded refugee status for Afghans and resettlement options in a third country. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-uae-temporarily-suspends-on-arrival-visa-for-indians-with-us-uk-visas-and-all-the-latest-news-101629789285977.html
24-08-2021||India||Guru Granth Sahib, 44 Afghan Sikhs flown out of Afghanistan. Blessed, says Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri||As India evacuated hundreds of people, including Afghan Hindus and Sikhs, three copies of Guru Granth Sahib were also flown out of Kabul, where the situation has been chaotic with a number of people dying and making a desperate dash out of Taliban controlled Afghanistan. Union ministers Hardeep Singh Puri and V Muraleedharan received the copies of Guru Granth Sahib and 44 Afghan Sikhs who reached India from Kabul on a special Air India flight after a stopover in Tajikistan’s capital city of Dushanbe."Blessed to receive & pay obeisance to three holy Swaroop of Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji from Kabul to Delhi a short while ago,” Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted along with a video showing him carrying a copy of the holy book. Puri also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for carrying out rescue operations from Afghanistan and said the government is in touch with those in the country. The minister also said all the copies of Guru Granth Sahib have undergone the Covid-19 test.ਵਾਹੁ ਵਾਹੁ ਬਾਣੀ ਨਿਰੰਕਾਰ ਹੈ ਤਿਸੁ ਜੇਵਡੁ ਅਵਰੁ ਨ ਕੋਇ ।।Deeply privileged & fortunate to welcome the three holy Swaroop of Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji from Kabul at ⁦⁦@DelhiAirport⁩ along with Sh ⁦⁦@VMBJP⁩ Ji, Sh ⁦@dushyanttgautam⁩ Ji & members of Sikh Sangat. pic.twitter.com/mWhTwpnoOsNews agency PTI reported citing people familiar with the development that the three copies of Guru Granth Sahib will be taken to Guru Arjan Dev Ji Gurdwara in the Capital’s New Mahavir Nagar.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader RP Singh and president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management committee Manjinder Singh Sirsa were also present at the airport. "I request PM & HM to amend CAA and extend the cut-off date from 2014 to 2021 so that people coming from Afghanistan get benefitted & lead a safe life here and their children are able to study here," Sirsa later said in a tweet."The Afghan Sikhs will stay at a hotel in Karol Bagh till further arrangements are made," Kanv Bhalla, an entrepreneur coordinating rehabilitation efforts on behalf of New York-based philanthropist Mandeep Singh Sobti.Also read | Will US compensate loss of Kabul by action on China?The Afghan Sikhs were among the 78 people, including 25 Indian nationals, to be brought to India. They were evacuated from Taliban-controlled Kabul to Dushanbe in an aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) a day before. "Helping in the safe return from Afghanistan. AI 1956 enroute to Delhi from Dushanbe carrying 78 passengers, including 25 Indian nationals. Evacuees were flown in from Kabul on an @IAF_MCC aircraft," Arindam Bagchi, the ministry of external affairs (MEA) spokesperson, tweeted earlier in the day.Also watch | Afghans in India seek refugee status, UNHCR says neighbours must keep doors openPuneet Singh Chandhok, the president of the Indian World Forum, an organisation coordinating the evacuation efforts with the ministry of external affairs and the IAF, said there are nearly 200 more Afghan Sikhs and Hindus who are still stranded in Afghanistan. Chandhok said they have taken shelter at the Karte Parwan Gurdwara in Kabul, which is close to the airport. Around 75 more Afghan Sikhs and Hindus are likely to be evacuated soon, Chandhok said.People taking shelter inside the gurdwara have said that the 10-kilometre drive to the Kabul airport through various checkpoints is one of the biggest challenges in the rescue efforts, according to news agency PTI. Those checkpoints are mostly manned by Taliban fighters.India has stepped up efforts to evacuate its citizens as well as its Afghans from Kabul amid the rapidly deteriorating security situation in the Afghan capital and other parts of the country. India has so far evacuated hundreds of people from Afghanistan since August 16, a day after Kabul was overtaken by the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guru-granth-sahib-flown-out-of-afghanistan-blessed-says-hardeep-singh-puri-101629787390550.html
24-08-2021||India||Another FIR registered against poet Munawwar Rana for comparing Taliban with Valmiki||A case has been registered in Madhya Pradesh’s Guna against poet Munawwar Rana for allegedly comparing Taliban with Valmiki, who wrote Ramayana, under Indian Penal Code’s Sections 505 (2) (public mischief) and the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.Police superintendent (Guna) Rajesh Mishra said the case will be forwarded to the police in Lucknow as the alleged comments were made there. The case was registered on Bharatiya Janata Party Scheduled Caste Morcha general secretary Sunil Malviya’s complaint.Also Read | Will US compensate loss of Kabul by action on China?Malviya said by comparing Taliban with Valmiki, Rana insulted Valmiki community and the Hindu religion. “The statement of Rana hurt our religious sentiments.”Rana told a TV channel that Valmiki “became a God after he wrote the Ramayana, before that he was a dacoit. A person’s character can change. Similarly, the Taliban, for now, are terrorists but people and characters change. When you talk about Valmiki, you will have to talk about his past. In your religion, you make anyone God. But he was a writer, and he wrote the Ramayana, but we are not in competition here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-fir-registered-against-poet-munawwar-rana-for-comparing-taliban-with-valmiki-101629787350760.html
24-08-2021||India||UAE temporarily suspends visa-on-arrival facility for Indians with UK, US visas||The United Arab Emirates (UAE) has temporarily suspended visa on arrival facility for Indian nationals who have visa or residence permit issued by the United States, the United Kingdom or a European Union member state. This was announced by Etihad Airways on Twitter on Monday."The UAE authorities have decided to temporarily suspend the Visa-on-arrival facility for passengers who are arriving from or been in India in the past 14 days," a tweet from Etihad Help said in response to a user's query.The UAE authorities have decided to temporarily suspend the Visa-on-arrival facility for passengers who are arriving from or been in India in the past 14 days. We're working to update our website, please keep an eye on https://t.co/hWA7ZGfiaF for latest regulations. *AriIt did not provide any reason or further details for the decision, but said that the details will be updated on the airline's website.Last week, Etihad had announced that Indian nationals with a visa or residence permit issued by the US, UK or an EU member state are eligible for UAE visa."If you’re an Indian citizen, you are now eligible to apply for a visa when you arrive in the UAE, including Abu Dhabi. To qualify, you must have a US Visitor Visa or Green Card , or holding a UK or EU residence valid for at least 6 months ,and your passport must have at least six months validity," the airline's website had said.Earlier this month, the UAE eased Covid-19 restrictions by issuing new travel protocol that allowed passengers from India and five other countries. However, all flyers were asked to undergo a Polymerase Chain Reaction test on the day of arrival and on the ninth day after arrival in the UAE.The passengers were also asked to produce a negative PCR test certificate with 48 hours validity and also undergo a Rapid PCR test at the departure airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uae-temporarily-suspends-visa-on-arrival-facility-for-indians-with-uk-us-visas-101629785382967.html
24-08-2021||India||Not committed any offence: Narayan Rane on 'would have slapped Thackeray' remark||Union minister Narayan Rane, who has been booked for his remarks against Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, said on Tuesday that he has not committed any offence. The Rajya Sabha member said reports in the media are based on false information.Rane sparked off a row with his remarks about slapping Thackeray for what he claimed as the latter's ignorance of the year of India's Independence. Three FIRs have been registered against him - in Nashik, Pune and Mahad (in Raigad district)."I have not committed any offence. The reports of my arrest are false. I have not received any intimation of the legal action or arrest notice," Rane said today.The Union minister also said that the police should understand that his party (the Bharatiya Janata Party) is running the government at the Centre."The police first should check my statement to see if it leads to the criminal offence. They should understand that our government is at the Centre," said Rane."CM Thackeray too had given similar statement against BJP leader Prasad Lad a few weeks ago. Why no action was taken against it?" he askedAlso Read: Narayan Rane is trying to create confusion within MVA, says Eknath ShindeTalking about the FIRs against his Jan Aashirwad Yatra in Mumbai, the Union minister said the programme will continue as per the schedule.The Cyber Police in Nashik has booked Rane under sections 500, 505(2), 153 (b) (1) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) after a complaint from the local unit chief of Shiv Sena, following which the police commissioner issued an order to arrest the Union minister and formed a team. In Pune, the FIR has been registered under sections 153 and 505 of the IPC, following a complaint by Yuva Sena. The third FIR in Mahad was also registered on a complaint from a Shiv Sena worker.The state leadership of the BJP has come out in support on Rane, saying the action is out of political vendetta."Uddhav Thackeray had use similar language against Prime Minister Narendra Modi during Lok Sabha elections in 2019. His language in Dussehra rally was equally objectionable," said Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil."No state government/authorities can arrest any Union cabinet minister as per the constitutional provisions," Patil added.The ruling Shiv Sena, meanwhile, demanded Rane explusion from the Union Cabinet. "I will meet PM Modi today and submit a letter in behalf of my party," said party leader Vinayak Raut.Reports say that a team of Nashik police has left for Chiplun in Konkan region, where Rane is present now. Nashik police commissioner Deepak Pande asked deputy commissioner Sanjay Barkund to form a team to arrest Rane and produce him before court."Considering the seriousness of the issue, I have asked DCP level officer Sanjay Barkund to constitute a team and produce Rane before court after arresting him," said Pandey in his order.He added that the police will ensure that the privilege of the minister/parliamentarian is not breached, and added that Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu will be informed in case Rane is arrested.Rane started his political life in Mumbai with the Shiv Sena under Bal Thackeray in the late 1960s. He entered the Maharashtra Assembly in 1990 as a Sena MLA. In February 1999, he was sworn in as Maharashtra's 13th chief minister. That stint was short as the then Shiv Sena-BJP combine lost the state Assembly elections held later that year.In 2005, Rane parted ways with the Shiv Sena following irreconcilable differences with the Thackerays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-committed-any-offence-nayaran-rane-on-would-have-slapped-thackeray-remark-101629782961076.html
24-08-2021||India||India adds over 25k new Covid cases for 2nd straight day, logs 354 more deaths||India on Tuesday recorded 25,467 fresh cases and 354 more fatalities due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the caseload and death toll to 32,474,773 and 435,110 respectively, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. It is the second consecutive day that the daily Covid-19 tally in the country was above the 25,000-mark.Tuesday’s case count is 395 less than that of Monday’s when 25,072 people were detected Covid-19 positive, the lowest in 160 days. On the other hand, the deaths on Tuesday are 35 less than that of Monday’s when 389 patients succumbed to the viral disease.Also Read| Comorbid kids to be first to get vaccine: Panel chiefNearly 40,000 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, and the total recoveries from the viral disease have climbed to 31,720,112. The active caseload, on the other hand, has further declined to 319,551, the lowest in 156 days comprising less than 1.03 per cent of the total cases.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 509,391,792 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far of which 1,647,526 were tested in the last 24 hours.As India continues to battle the ongoing second wave of the pandemic, which took its worst shape in April and May this year, an expert panel, set up by an institute under the Union home ministry predicted that the third wave would hit the country anytime between September and October and advised that the pace of vaccination should be significantly increased.Also Read| Covid-19: MHA panel warns of third wave peak in Oct, lack of infra to treat kidsThe expert panel, which has been constituted by the National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM), said that children will have a similar risk as adults as paediatric facilities, doctors and equipment including ventilators “are nowhere close” to what may be required if a large number of children are infected with Covid-19.In its report submitted to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), the panel also pointed out that only 7.6 per cent of the country’s population was fully vaccinated and warned that if the inoculation drive is not ramped up, the country might record 600,000 cases on a daily basis in the third wave.According to the health ministry’s data at 7am, 588,997,805 vaccines have been administered to people till now of which 456,151,209 have received the first dose and the remaining 132,846,596 are fully vaccinated. More than 6.38 million people were vaccinated in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-adds-over-25k-new-covid-cases-for-2nd-straight-day-logs-354-more-deaths-101629777685525.html
24-08-2021||India||'New Era': Covid-19 vaccination slots can now be booked on WhatsApp||Booking slots for vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will become easier now as the government partnered with Facebook-owned messaging application WhatsApp for the same.The tie-up among the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, citizen engagement platform MyGovIndia and WhatsApp will enable eligible individuals to get an appointment for a dose of the vaccine via phone.Taking to Twitter, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya wrote on Tuesday, “Paving a new era of citizen convenience. Now, book COVID-19 vaccine slots easily on your phone within minutes."Paving a new era of citizen convenience.Now, book #COVID19 vaccine slots easily on your phone within minutes.🔡 Send ‘Book Slot’ to MyGovIndia Corona Helpdesk on WhatsApp🔢 Verify OTP📱Follow the stepsBook today: https://t.co/HHgtl990bbThe chief executive officer (CEO) of WhatsApp Inc also put out a similar message. "Today we’re partnering with @MoHFW_INDIA and @mygovindia to enable people to make their vaccine appointments via WhatsApp. Spread the word," Cathcart tweeted.Besides booking slots, vaccinated individuals can also download their vaccine certificates through the same mechanism, Cathcart said, adding over three million Indians have already availed the service.Today we’re partnering with @MoHFW_INDIA and @mygovindia to enable people to make their vaccine appointments via WhatsApp. Spread the word: https://t.co/2oB1XJbUXD https://t.co/yvF6vzPHI1Also Read: Paytm launches Covid-19 vaccine slot booking feature: All you need to knowOn August 5, MyGov and WhatsApp had introduced the ability for users to download vaccine certificates from the chatbot; and so far, over 32 lakh certificates have been downloaded by users across the country.MyGov CEO Abhishek Singh said the new tie-up will enable digital inclusion since WhatsApp is much easier to navigate, and thanked the messaging app for creating the chatbot to help facilitate citizen's access to vaccination.“MyGov Corona Helpdesk is now also aiding in the process of vaccine booking and finding vaccination centres and slots and downloading vaccination certificates. It is enabling digital inclusion in the true sense as most people find the AI-based interface enabled on WhatsApp easier to navigate. We are thankful to WhatsApp for their continued support in helping us unlock the true potential of this chatbot for citizen help and engagement throughout the trying times of the pandemic," Singh, who also heads the government’s Digital India Corporation (DIC), was quoted as saying by Mint.To book slots on WhatsApp, one has follow these below-mentioned steps:Vaccine slots were so far being booked via the government-owned Co-WIN Portal or Arogya Setu/Umang Mobile Application and the Paytm App. Alternatively, one can get registered for a shot on-site at the vaccination centre.As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, India has, so far, inoculated about 58.89 crore beneficiaries against the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-slots-can-now-be-booked-on-whatsapp-know-more-101629781297418.html
24-08-2021||India||India has administered at least 588 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 588 million Covid vaccine doses by Monday, August 23. With ZydusCadila’s vaccine, ZyCoV-D getting emergency use approval last week for children aged above 12, the Centre said on Monday that kids with comorbidities will be vaccinated firstMeanwhile, by 8pm on Monday, 588,221,623 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 5,610,116 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 3,962,091 got their first dose while 1,648,025 got their second dose.Also Read | New Zealand witnesses highest jump in Covid-19 cases since April 2020In the 18-45 age group, 219,881,683 have been given the first dose while 20,268,984 doses were given as the second dose.Among the healthcare workers, 10,353,668 have been given the first dose while 8,231,444 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,306,660 have got their first dose and 12,635,749 have got their second dose too.On Tuesday, India added 25,467 new Covid cases, while the active cases declined to 319,551, comprising 0.98% of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, according to the Union health ministry data.The total tally of Covid cases has risen to 32,474,773. The death toll has climbed to 435,110 with 354 fresh fatalities to the virus, according to the data updated at 8am on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-588-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101629780930437.html
24-08-2021||India||Punjab farmers' protest: 27 trains cancelled on fifth day of stir | 10 points||The farmers' agitation in Punjab over sugarcane prices entered its fifth day on Tuesday, impacting rail services and road traffic. Chief minister Amarinder Singh is scheduled to hold meeting farmer leaders over the sugarcane issue and clearance of dues.The indefinite stir was launched by the farmers in Jaladhar on Friday, who are sitting on key highway stretches and train tracks. The last meeting on Monday to a final call on the new state assured price (SAP) for the sugarcane crop remained inconclusive.On Tuesday, the officials in the Ferozepur division said that they had to cancel and divert a number of trains due to the ongoing agitation.Here are the latest developments on the farmers' stir in Punjab:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-farmers-protest-27-trains-cancelled-on-fifth-day-of-protest-10-points-101629777064337.html
24-08-2021||India||Subdued monsoon over NW India till Friday, says IMD||Subdued monsoon is likely over northwest India, central India and remaining parts of peninsular India including Maharashtra and Gujarat till August 27, according to India Meteorological Department.The western end of the monsoon trough is lying to the south of its normal position and the eastern end lying to the north of its normal position. The western end is very likely to shift gradually northwards from today and the eastern end is likely to shift southwards from August 26. Subdued rain is expected over northwest India because the monsoon trough is shifting northwards which will lead to scanty rains over the plains. A cyclonic circulation is lying over northwest Rajasthan and neighbourhood. Strong southerly/south-westerly winds from Bay of Bengal to northeast India are very likely to continue till tomorrow.Also Read | Ambiguous definition means oil-palm plantations will count as forest coverDue to these meteorological conditions, widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely to continue over northeast India, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim till August 27.Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) is also likely over Assam and Meghalaya till tomorrow. Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rain is likely to continue over Bihar, east Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand till Friday.Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls over Tamil Nadu and Kerala is likely on Thursday and Friday.Subdued rainfall is very likely over rest of the country covering plains of northwest India, central India and remaining parts of Peninsular India including Maharashtra and Gujarat at least till Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/subdued-monsoon-over-nw-india-till-friday-says-imd-101629775950142.html
24-08-2021||India||FIRs against Union min Narayan Rane over 'slapping ignorant CM Thackeray' remark||Three FIRs have been registered against Union Minister Narayan Rane over his remarks about giving “a tight slap” to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who he claimed was ignorant of the country’s year of independence. The complaints were registered in Pune, Nashik and Mahad.Nashik Cyber police registered an FIR on a complaint from the Shiv Sena's local chief, following which the police commissioner issued an order to arrest the Union minister and formed a team, led by DCP Sanjay Barkund, for the same.Another FIR was registered under sections 153 and 505 of the Indian Penal Code at the Chaturshringi Police Station of Pune city, following a complaint by Yuva Sena, according to news agency ANI. The third FIR was lodged at Mahad based on a complaint filed by a Sena worker.The Union minister later said he had no information about any legal complaint being registered against him, adding that he was not a conman and had not committed any crime. "I have no information that an FIR has been registered against me. I am not a common man. I have not committed any crime. Is it not a crime if someone does not know about August 15? I had said that I would have slapped - these were the words and it is not a crime," he said.Rane triggered the controversy while addressing a Jan Ashirvad Yatra of the BJP in Raigad district on Monday. The BJP leader, who was recently inducted into the Narendra Modi cabinet, and former Shiv Sena chief minister said Thackeray forgot the year of independence during his August 15 address to the people of the state and had he been present at the spot, he would have slapped him.Also read | 36 FIRs filed so far against BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Mumbai“It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire about the count of years of independence during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given (him) a tight slap,” Rane said.Thackeray had to check the year of independence with his aides midway during the speech that day, Rane said.Rane’s remarks drew sharp reactions from the ruling Shiv Sena, whose workers put several posters in Mumbai and other places, calling him a ‘kombdi chor’ (chicken stealer), a reference to the poultry shop he ran in Chembur five decades ago, during his initial stint with the Bal Thackeray-led party. The Sena’s Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg MP Vinayak Raut said Rane has lost his mental balance. “To impress BJP leadership, Rane has been attacking Shiv Sena and its leaders. He has lost his mental balance after his induction into the Modi-led ministry. Modi should show him the door,” Raut said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-against-union-min-narayan-rane-over-slapping-ignorant-cm-thackeray-remark-101629775308815.html
24-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: PAGD to hold meeting today to discuss way forward and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PAGD to hold meeting today, discuss way forwardThe People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) is set to meet in Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar on Tuesday to discuss the prevailing situation in the Union territory (UT). Read MoreProposal to amend UP government’s policy to turn Ayodhya into solar cityLarsen & Toubro (L&T) is preparing a detailed project report (DPR) to transform the temple town of Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh into a solar city. Read More US President Joe Biden to meet G7 leaders today to discuss AfghanistanUS President Joe Biden is all set to hold a meeting with the Group of Seven (G7) leaders on Tuesday to discuss evacuation efforts in Afghanistan. Read MoreIndia Predicted XI for 3rd Test against England: Will India hand debut to Suryakumar to replace Cheteshwar PujaraAfter conquering Lord’s, Virat Kohli’s Team India has arrived in Leeds for the third Test against Joe Root’s England which begins from Wednesday. Read MoreSpider-Man: No Way Home trailer out, Tom Holland, Benedict Cumberbatch ride into the multiverseThe trailer for Spider-Man: No Way Home was released on Tuesday, a day after it was leaked online. Read MoreMadhuri Dixit teams the most dramatic blouse with embellished lehenga, Nora Fatehi reactsIf there is one Bollywood actor who has nailed the art of traditional dressing, it is Madhuri Dixit Nene. Read More‘If someone hides…’: MP Home Minister justifies beating of Bangle sellerMadhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra justified the thrashing of a bangles’ seller in Indore. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pagd-to-hold-meeting-today-to-discuss-way-forward-and-all-the-latest-news-101629774077714.html
24-08-2021||India||Air India flight with 78 people evacuated from Afghanistan lands in Delhi||As many as 78 people, including 25 Indian nationals, are brought to New Delhi from Tajikistan's Dushanbe in a special Air India flight on Tuesday. They were flown out of Taliban-controlled Kabul to Dushanbe in an aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) a day before. "Helping in the safe return from Afghanistan. AI 1956 enroute to Delhi from Dushanbe carrying 78 passengers, including 25 Indian nationals. Evacuees were flown in from Kabul on an @IAF_MCC aircraft," Arindam Bagchi, the ministry of external affairs (MEA) spokesperson, tweeted.Bagchi also posted a short clip of passengers on board the flight shouting Sikh slogans like Waheguru Ka Khalsa, Waheguru Ki Fateh. pic.twitter.com/N5t3wGzpnKIndia is expected to evacuate more people, including its own nationals and dozens of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, from Kabul. On Monday, Indian authorities evacuated 75 Sikhs amid the deteriorating situation in war-torn Afghanistan.Also watch | Taliban recapture 3 districts as Panjshir resistance refuses to surrenderAlso read | US President Joe Biden to meet G7 leaders today to discuss AfghanistanThree copies of the Guru Granth Sahib and 75 people, including 46 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, will also be evacuated from Afghanistan on an IAF plane. “Three Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji are being escorted to the IAF aircraft at Kabul Airport. Forty-six Afghan Hindus and Sikhs along with stranded Indian nationals are blessed to return on the same flight,” Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted.Also read | Afghanistan's neighbours must keep borders open for refugees: UNHCRPuneet Singh Chandhok, president of the Indian World Forum, said nearly 200 more Afghan Sikhs and Hindus are still stranded in Afghanistan. “These people have taken shelter at the Karte Parwan Gurdwara in Kabul, which is close to the airport,” he told news agency PTI.India evacuated nearly 540 people, including 475 of its nationals, on several flights from Kabul, Dushanbe and Doha on Sunday. Nearly 200 people – including diplomats, officials and security personnel posted at the Indian embassy and some Indian nationals – were flown out of Kabul within two days of the Taliban capturing Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-flight-with-78-people-evacuated-from-afghanistan-lands-in-delhi-101629774345596.html
24-08-2021||India||Will begin delivery of S-400 missile system to India by year end: Russian firm||The deputy CEO of the air and space defense concern Almaz-Antey, Vyacheslav Dzirkaln on Monday said Russia will begin to deliver surface-to-air missile defence system (SAM) S-400 by end of the year 2021."I can confirm that we will deliver [the S-400 system to India] by the end of 2021 in accordance with the schedule and contractual obligations of the Russian side," Dzirkaln said while interacting at International Military-Technical Forum "ARMY-2021".He also said that at the present Indian military personnel training is underway in operating the S-400."As for the training, the first group of Indian specialists have completed the training. The second group is undergoing training. I would not talk about the number of people but it is a sufficient number for the Indian armed forces to effectively operate our equipment. I would like to say that the results shown by the first group of Indian specialists after the training were very high. I would like to note the [high] level of training of Indian specialists," the deputy CEO said.In October 2018, India had signed a USD 5.43 billion deal with Russia for five S-400 regiments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-begin-delivery-of-s-400-missile-system-to-india-by-year-end-russian-firm-101629772577572.html
24-08-2021||India||TRS MLA Ramesh’s plea over citizenship row to be heard by Telangana high court today||The Telangana High Court will on Tuesday hear the writ petition filed by Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) legislator Chennamaneni Ramesh on the cancellation of his Indian citizenship by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA).Ramesh went to Germany for employment in the early 1990s and obtained German citizenship in 1993 after surrendering his Indian passport. He returned to India in 2008 and applied for Indian citizenship which was granted to him by the MHA. He has been representing the Vemulawada assembly constituency since 2009.The MHA cancelled his Indian citizenship in September 2017 on the ground that he possessed German citizenship and had not followed the stipulated norms while obtaining his Indian citizenship. According to the Citizenship Act, a person who applies for Indian citizenship will have to be present in India at least for 12 months before the date of application. However, Congress leader Adi Srinivas filed a complaint with the MHA stating that Ramesh still held a German passport and had visited Germany within the stipulated period of 12 months.In September of 2017, a committee appointed by the MHA found Srinivas’ claims to be true and concluded that Ramesh obtained Indian citizenship “by playing fraud upon the Government of India and concealing crucial material facts of his visits abroad during the last twelve months immediately preceding his application for Indian citizenship”.Following which Ramesh filed a review petition with the MHA and also moved the Telangana High Court where he was granted a stay order. Justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili of Telangana high court while hearing his writ petition on August 10 asked N Rajeshwar Rao, assistant solicitor general of Telangana, to urge the Indian embassy to seek clarification from the German consulate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trs-mla-ramesh-s-plea-over-citizenship-row-to-be-heard-by-telangana-high-court-today-101629772864259.html
24-08-2021||India||Maharashtra says it is ready to deal with possible 3rd Covid-19 wave||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 3,643 fresh Covid-19 infections including 27 cases of the Delta Plus variant while the state government said it was fully prepared to tackle the possible third wave of the pandemic, which could result in as many as 400,000-500,000 country-wide infections daily, requiring 200,000 dedicated intensive care unit (ICU) beds nationally to deal with a 23% projected hospitalisation rate, as per an assessment by a Niti Aayog group.“We have taken steps to fill the vacancies (of medical staff), ensure maximum level of oxygen, additional budget as well as making available the medicines to face the surge in cases,” Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said, and added that the government was fully geared up to meet any challenges from a possible third wave. Niti Aayog’s Empowered Group-1, headed by V K Paul has also projected a state-wise requirement of ICU beds in different states for the third wave. As per their assessment, the most-- 33,000 ICU beds will be required in Uttar Pradesh followed by 17,865 in Maharashtra and 17,480 in Bihar.Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, said citizens should follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour to beat the third wave. “Citizens should act responsibly by wearing masks, observing social distance and not taking part in mass gatherings,” said Dr Mandot. “The government needs to speed up the vaccination drive as this will mitigate the possibility of the third wave,” he added.The Covid-19 second wave this year infected more people as well as caused more deaths compared to the first one last year.Mumbai on Monday saw 225 fresh Covid cases with 4 deaths, taking the death toll in the city to 15,951, while the state-wide toll reached 136,067. Maharashtra has so far recorded 6,428,294 Covid-19 infections including 49,924 active patients.Pune with 11,746 active patients tops the chart followed by Thane with 6,942 and Satara with 5,800. Pune also accounts for 18,864 Covid related deaths—the most for any city of Maharashtra, followed by 15,951 in Mumbai and 11,241 in Thane.A total of 153,558 Covid tests were conducted on Monday across the state.Of the 27 Delta Plus cases detected on Monday, six each are from Amravati and Gadchiroli, five are from Nagpur, four are from Ahmednagar, three from Yavatmal, two from Nashik and one from Bhandara..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-says-it-is-ready-to-deal-with-possible-3rd-covid-19-wave-101629771449999.html
24-08-2021||India||Change in Chhattisgarh? Bhupesh Baghel, TS Singh Deo in Delhi today||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and state health minister TS Singh Deo will meet the Congress leadership in Delhi on Tuesday morning amid rumours of an ongoing tussle between the two leaders for the change of leadership in the state. Chhattisgarh Congress in charge PL Punia will be present at the meeting. As Baghel completed two years as the Chhattisgarh chief minister on June 17, the tension between the CM and Singh Deo started brewing. Speculations have been rife that there has been a consensus for the top post based on a two-and-a-half-year power-sharing formula between Baghel and Singh Deo.Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel left for Delhi on Monday evening and TS Singh Deo has already reached the national capital.“After a long time, I am going to Delhi. (Last month) I visited Himachal Pradesh to take part in the funeral of Virbhadra Singh ji as a representative of Sonia Gandhi during which I met Priyanka (returning to Delhi),” Baghel told reporters at Raipur’s Swami Vivekanand airport before taking off for Delhi. “This time the meeting is with Rahul Gandhi. There will also be a meeting with AICC general secretary KC Venugopal and state's in-charge PL Punia,” Baghel said.Also read | Chhattisgarh sends notice to news portal for report citing TS Singh DeoThe Chhattisgarh chief minister was also asked whether Singh Deo will also be present during the meeting with Gandhi. “I have information of meeting with Rahul ji only,” he replied to the query.On his part, Singh Deo, when asked about the meeting in Delhi on Tuesday, said, “You should ask Punia ji (PL Punia), he is the correct person to provide more details.”Also read | Chhattisgarh govt rejects allegations against TS Singh Deo levelled by Cong MLAThe differences within the Congress party spilled over when Singh Deo walked out of the state assembly on July 27. He demanded clarity from his government over allegations that one of his relatives was involved in an alleged attack on Congress legislator Brihaspat Singh. Singh alleged that his convoy was attacked at the behest of Singh Deo in Surguja district, which is the health minister’s assembly constituency.The issue was resolved after PL Punia intervened and Singh Deo returned to assembly after Singh apologised for his remarks against the minister.The Congress won the assembly polls held in December 2018 with a thumping majority and then the state Congress president Bhupesh Baghel was made the chief minister. The Congress has 70 MLAs in the 90-member assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/change-in-chhattisgarh-bhupesh-baghel-ts-singh-deo-in-delhi-today-101629766735598.html
24-08-2021||India||PAGD to hold meeting today, discuss way forward||The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) is set to meet in Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar on Tuesday to discuss the prevailing situation in the Union territory (UT). A PAGD leader told news agency PTI on Sunday that the meeting will take place at alliance chairperson and National Conference (NC) patron Farooq Abdullah’s residence at 11am.“This meeting will be a different one from the earlier ones. This time it is not only the top leadership of the constituent parties which has been invited for consultations but the middle rung leadership as well,” the alliance leader cited above said on Sunday. He pointed out it has been left for the member political parties to select their leaders for Tuesday’s meeting and said 150-200 leaders are expected to participate.Also Read| Carry out exercise in free, fair manner: NC, Cong to J&K delimitation panel“It (the meeting) will discuss the way forward and it is the first such attempt in the Kashmir valley by the alliance to get a broader perspective on the issues. We wanted to have this kind of consultation before but various factors like Covid prevented such a gathering,” the PAGD leader also told PTI.The PAGD is a consortium of mainstream political parties, which have been seeking the restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, which was revoked by the Narendra Modi-led Centre back in 2019. The parties include the National Conference, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Jammu and Kashmir Awami National Conference, Jammu and Kashmir People’s Movement and the Communist Party of India (Marxist).Tuesday’s meeting comes days after the PAGD on August 5 held a discussion on the second anniversary of the abrogation of Article 370 by the Centre and the bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir into a UT. Addressing reporters, CPI(M) leader MY Tarigami said that despite the tall claims of the Centre, the situation in J-K was worsening day by day. He also questioned where were the opportunities for investment and employment, which the Centre claimed the removal of Kashmir’s special status would bring.Also Read| Centre throws door open to J&K election, statehoodPrime Minister Narendra Modi chaired an all-party meeting on Jammu and Kashmir on June 24, which was the first high-level interaction held between the Centre and Kashmir’s political leadership since 2019, when the former scrapped Article 370 and 35A. During the meeting, top leaders from J-K pushed for the restoration of the region’s special status. They also highlighted problems regarding the delimitation process and demanded the reinstatement of full statehood of Jammu and Kashmir before elections are held.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pagd-to-hold-meeting-today-discuss-way-forward-101629766525181.html
24-08-2021||India||Ambiguous definition means oil-palm plantations will count as forest cover||The National Mission on Edible Oils- Oil Palm (NMEO-OP), approved by the Union Cabinet last week, will increase the area under oil palm cultivation by an additional area of 6.5 lakh hectare (ha) by 2025-26, bringing a total area of 10 lakh ha under oil palm plantations in the country -- and thanks to the current definition of forest, the plantations that studies have found lead to deforestation and loss of biodiversity, will be classified forests.The Forest Survey of India defines forest cover thus: “All lands, more than 1 ha in area with a tree canopy density of 10% irrespective of ownership and legal status. Such lands may not necessarily be a recorded forest area. It also includes orchards, bamboo and palm.”“If the oil palm plantations meet our definition of forests, they will be integrated in forest cover. There is no plan as on today to change or review our definition of forest cover,” said Pankaj Agarwal, director general, Forest Survey of India. The total forest and tree cover in the country as per FSI’s 2019 report is around 80.7 million ha (807276 sq km). There was an increase of 0.56% in forest cover and 1.26% in tree cover as compared to 2017 according to FSI.Independent experts said fragile biodiversity rich areas like the North-East states and Andaman & Nicobar Islands (both specifically named in last week’s cabinet note) will bear the brunt.And the fear is that much like in other parts of the world (West Papua, a province of Indonesia is a case in point) , primary forests will be replaced with oil palm ones.“Oil palm plantations are not being proposed on empty lands. They have to negotiate prevailing ownership or use rights, irrespective of the land being forest, revenue, hill council, private or any other form of ownership. In countries where oil palm has been pushed through there are many documented cases of serious injustices and land conflicts (both individual and community level). What also needs to be emphasised is that conversion of land for oil palm or any other such large-scale commercial plantations in India do not require an Environment Impact Assessment based environment clearance as is mandated for highways, dams or industries,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.According to a paper by TR Shankar Raman and Jaydev Mandal, which was published in May 2016 in the journal Ornithological Applications, oil palm plantations in Mizoram had just 10 species of birds, followed by teak plantations (38), jhum (50), and rainforests (58). Forest bird abundance in the jhum landscape was similar to that in a rainforest, on average 304% higher than in oil palm plantations, the study found. According to Nature Conservation Foundations, jhum is a rotational system of organic farming involving the cutting and burning of forests for farming.According to a study “The environmental impacts of palm oil in context” by several biodiversity experts published in Nature Plants last year, between 2008 and 2017, oil palm expanded globally at an estimated rate of 700000 million hectares a year; palm oil is the leading and cheapest edible oil in much of Asia and Africa. Oil palm expansion’s direct contribution to regional tropical deforestation varies widely, ranging from an estimated 3% in West Africa to 50% in Malaysian Borneo. Species threatened by oil palm plantations made up 3.5% of the taxa and 1.2% of all globally threatened taxa (27,159 species) in 2019 including orangutans, gibbons and the tiger. The clearance of forests and drainage of peatlands for oil palm emit substantial carbon dioxide also.“Entire lowland forest, except for Taman Negara NP, in Peninsular Malaysia are lost to oil palm plantations. They are one of the biggest drivers of loss of biodiversity in Sumatra. We should not simply ape the Malaysian or Indonesian model of oil palm plantations. No natural forests, whether it’s a protected area or not, should be replaced with oil palm plantations. If done in an unplanned manner, this will have disastrous consequences on India’s biodiversity,” said Bivash Pandav, director of Bombay Natural History Society.The Union environment ministry is also focusing on facilitating plantations outside forest areas. The ministry invited an expression of interest (EOI) to prepare a draft amendment to the Indian Forest Act 1927. One of the key areas of amendment will be to encourage forest sector economic growth in the country -- especially getting non-government actors/ private sector/ civil society/ individuals to take up afforestation/tree planting and/or to develop/manage private forests on non-forest lands on their own.A forest policy has also been in the works which will support plantations and agroforestry in non-forest areas by government and private bodies. “The draft forest policy is being internally circulated for comments. It will be shared for public comments once approved,” said a senior official from forest policy division of the environment ministry who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambiguous-definition-means-oil-palm-plantations-will-count-as-forest-cover-101629751494817.html
24-08-2021||India||MGNREGS work demand surged during 2nd Covid-19 wave||The second wave of the Covid pandemic triggered a surge in demand for work under India’s rural job guarantee programme , with the 1.545 billion days of work generated exceeding the estimate by almost 5% as workers in rural areas avoided cities out of fear of Covid-19.Experts believe that the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme will require a top-up with demand for work likely continuing to remain strong.The rural job scheme generated 1.545 billion days of work against the official estimate of 1.473 billion days between April and July this year. with the demand led by some of the country’s larger states such as Rajasthan, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.“Higher demand in work-days is related to the second wave. But even during the second wave, the uneven rate of Covid incidence is reflected in the MGNREGS job map. Demand is low in states with high incidence, creating a negative correlation between MGNREGS and the pandemic,” said, former rural development secretary Jugal Kishor Mohapatra.With the economy still not recovered fully , and some workers not keen on travelling out of their villages, experts and politicians are pitching for more work. Parties such as the Congress and those that are part of the Left Front have suggested that in areas where there is a high demand for work, the annual cap of 100 days of work for individuals can be increased to at least 150 days. A government functionary said that in case of natural disasters, such flexibility can be offered under MGNREGA and the government only needs to treat the pandemic at par with a natural disaster.While the demand for work has outpaced estimates, in the last two months, as the Covid-19 wave has ebbed, it has correspondingly slowed. Government data shows that while 50.5 million workers demanded jobs in June, reflecting the peak demand for this year, in July, only 42.6 million people sought work under the world’s largest guaranteed job scheme.Rural development secretary NN Sinha, however, pointed out that “during the monsoon season, the job demand is usually low. A number of people are engaged in the agriculture sector. Also, a number of MGNREGS activities can’t be undertaken in the monsoon.”The monsoon coincides with the sowing season in India, resulting in an increase in agricultural work.Mohapatra is of the opinion that over the next few months more people will demand work under MGNREGS than the current estimate. “The budget will definitely require a top-up as a large section of the rural population would like to stay back home. While a number of migrant workers have not returned from the cities so far, shrinking opportunities can change the situation.”The government had allocated ₹73,000 crore for MGNREGS for this financial year, out of which the ministry has already released ₹49,800 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mgnregswork-demand-surged-during-2nd-covid-19-wave-101629750705379.html
24-08-2021||India||Sidhu aides’ remarks spark new Punjab row||Patiala:  A political row raged on Monday over controversial comments on Kashmir made by Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s advisers, Malvinder Singh Mali and Pyare Lal Garg, with the party saying it will consider taking action, and senior leaders sharply criticising the remarks.Late in the evening, Mali took direct potshots at Sidhu’s rival and chief minister Amarinder Singh and made personal attacks on the 79-year-old leader on social media. In a Facebook post last week, Mali had said Kashmir was a “country of Kashmiri people” and called both India and Pakistan its illegal occupiers. In a separate post, he put a sketch of late prime minister Indira Gandhi standing near a heap of human skulls with a gun in her hand. Garg had questioned the chief minister’s criticism of Pakistan. Sidhu summoned the two newly appointed functionaries to his residence in Patiala and spoke to them for roughly three hours. The meeting came a day after Singh condemned the remarks and said they were detrimental to the peace and stability of the country. The CM also called the remarks “atrocious” and “anti-national”. Congress MP Manish Tewari also condemned the comments. “I urge Harish Rawat, AICC gen secy in-charge Punjab to seriously introspect that those who do not consider J&K to be a part of India and others who have ostensibly pro-Pakistan leanings should be a part of Punjab Congress,” Tewari tweeted. The Congress appeared to distance itself from the row. Rawat hinted at taking “strict action” against Mali if the comments were proven. “I would like to clarify on behalf of the party that J&K is an integral part of India. Nobody has the right to cast doubt on its status, let alone issuing a statement,” Rawat told news agency ANI. Rawat also warned of action over Indira Gandhi’s sketch. “She was one of the most popular leaders, a mother figure to us. If somebody insults her, we condemn it. Action will be taken if this is proven”, he added. Sidhu didn’t comment on the row. The advisers said they discussed issues concerning Punjab’s development with Sidhu. “Some political leaders and parties have started issuing ‘fatwa’ against him instead of initiating a dialogue. Dialogue is the best option to resolve issues,” Mali said. Garg said: “When a government does good work, we appreciate it. But if it performs badly, we criticise it.” Following Amarinder’s objection to his remarks, Mali on Sunday shared an old Facebook post, saying, “Punjab is asking - don’t beat around the bush and answer why the convoy was looted.” Singh and Sidhu were locked in a tussle for control of the party unit, which appeared to have been resolved on July 18when the latter was named state unit chief. But tensions continue to run high and Singh has made his displeasure clear. The row over the advisers is the latest indication that despite months of negotiation by the Congress leadership, the state unit continues to be riven by factionalism. Mali and Garg were appointed by SIdhu on August 11 as part of additions he made to the party organisation after taking charge as state unit chief. He has six other advisers. Punjab goes to the polls in early 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-aides-remarks-spark-new-punjab-row-101629746847401.html
24-08-2021||India||Bihar all-party delegation meets Modi, pushes for caste-based census in India||An all–party delegation from Bihar led by chief minister Nitish Kumar called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday to push for a caste-based census, saying they were satisfied with a “patient hearing” but underlining that the final decision rested with the PM.Members of 11 parties, including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), met Modi for around 40 minutes. Speaking to media after the event, Kumar, whose party runs a coalition government with the BJP in Bihar, said a demand for caste-based enumeration existed not just in his state but also the rest of the country. “We are grateful to the Prime Minister for listening to us. Now, he has to take a decision,” he said.The meeting happened in the backdrop of mounting pressure on the Union government to accept the demand for a caste census ahead of critical elections in seven states next year. “There is likelihood of another set of parties meeting the PM on the same issue,” said a person aware of details. Another person familiar with what happened during the meeting said the PM heard arguments put forth by the delegation. “He did not question what was explained by the leaders, but said the issue comes under the purview of the home ministry and will have to be discussed with the home minister as well,” this person added. A delegation of JD(U) members called on home minister Amit Shah earlier this month to discuss the issue.Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav, who has joined hands with bitter rival Kumar to press for a caste census, was also part of the delegation and said the enumeration will be in “interest of the nation” and a step “that will benefit the poor.”“When animals and trees are counted, then why not castes? When the government has no scientific data on the population, how can it make welfare policies?” he said. Yadav also said the perception that a caste-based enumeration will lead to social unrest is flawed. “When states will have the caste data, then only will they be able include castes in their OBC [other backward class] list. If caste census will lead to unrest, then the same logic applies to religion as well,” said Yadav.The demand for a caste census is decades old, especially among OBC groups, but has gathered momentum in recent months, coinciding with the BJP’s outreach among OBCs, a critical votebank in poll-bound states such as Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. The last full caste census was done in 1931; since Independence, India has only counted scheduled castes and tribes.Sections of the BJP support the demand but the party has not explicitly taken a stand on the issue, given its sensitivity and the possibility of triggering anger among influential upper castes. But the party finds itself cornered by a growing coalition of parties, including allies such as the JD(U), Apna Dal, All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and the Republican Party of India- Athawale. The YSR Congress and the Biju Janata Dal, considered friendly parties, have also lent their support to the Opposition’s demand. These parties have argued that a count of castes last carried out in 1931 will give a correct assessment of how castes are numerically poised and which groups have benefitted the most and the least from quotas based on the Mandal commission recommendations that paved the way for 27% reservation for OBCs in government jobs and educational institutions. Among those who spoke in favour of the exercise on Monday were Mukesh Sahani (Vikasheel Insaan Party), former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi (HAM) and Ajit Sharma (Congress). The BJP, which supported two resolutions on the demand passed in the Bihar assembly, was represented by Janak Ram.The demand for caste-based enumeration is a politically sensitive issue for the BJP as its outreach towards the OBCs is seen as attempts at consolidating support from the constituency, perceived to have immense political heft that can sway elections in key states such as Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra. Political commentators credit the BJP‘s big win in the 2014 and 2019 general elections to the massive support that it drew from the OBC communities. As per a Lok Niti - CSDS survey the BJP managed 22% of the OBC votes in 2009 Lok Sabha elections as opposed to 42% that was drawn by the regional parties but during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections 44% of the OBCs voted for the BJP while only 27% voted for the regional parties.“Statistics given by the government shows that reservation notwithstanding OBCs make up just 9.42% and 8.95% of all group A and B government jobs,” said a JDU leader.Within the BJP too, there is an apprehension that not agreeing to the count could upset the OBC vote bank. “In Uttar Pradesh where OBCs are estimated to be around 50% of the population, the party is particularly concerned about eliciting the support of the non-dominant OBC castes who make up for more than half of the total OBC population,” said a BJP leader on condition of anonymity.The BJP’s political opponents accuse it of taking an anti-OBC stance but the party has referred to the appointment of 27 OBC ministers in the Union Cabinet, restoring the right of states to draw up their own OBC lists, and extending OBC reservation in medical and dental education as proof of the government’s commitment towards OBCs. Aware of the competition it faces from parties such as the RJD and the Samajwadi party in the race for OBC support, the BJP recently organised meetings to introduce OBC and Dalit ministers to the masses. The party also launched an all-round offensive to take on the SP and the RJD – which count on large dominant OBC castes for support --- by pointing out that during their rule, only a handful of communities benefitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-all-party-delegation-meets-modi-pushes-for-caste-based-census-in-india-101629746489940.html
24-08-2021||India||Decoding the purpose and politics of caste census||An all-party delegation from Bihar; led by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 23 to demand a caste census in the country. While speaking to the press after the meeting, the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Tejashwi Yadav, leader of opposition in the Bihar assembly, suggested that the caste census could be a part of the normal decadal census, which anyway counts religious groups and Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) separately.Such suggestions, while they appear logical , may not help achieve the objective of a caste census: enhance our understanding of India’s socio-economic inequalities. Here are five charts which explain why.India has not conducted a caste census after 1931, but this does not mean there are no reasonable estimatesThe British used to enumerate caste in their decadal censuses between 1881 and 1931. This practice was discontinued thereafter and independent India did not restore it as part of the regular census. What the census does count, however, is the number of people belonging to SC-ST groups. This share was 21.54% in the 1971 census and gradually increased to 25.26% in the 2011 census. The trend is not surprising, as the SC-ST population continues to be the most economically backward in the country, and fertility rates are higher when income levels are lower.The fact that the census does not count social groups other than SC-ST does not mean that there are no reasonable estimates of the broad social break-up of India’s population. Various government surveys such as the ones conducted by the National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) and National Family and Health Survey (NFHS) collect data on broad share of SCs, STs and Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in the population. The summary findings from the latest NFHS and NSSO rounds are given below.Of course, shares by caste such as those collected by NFHS and NSSO are survey based estimates unlike the census. The latter is actually an enumeration of every person in the country. It is this fact which allows the former to be questioned politically.What is often forgotten in this debate is the fact that today’s NFHS-NSSO estimates of caste shares are not very different from what the Mandal Commission Report assumed them to be, based on an extrapolation from the 1931 census numbers.Reconciling caste-census demands with reservationsDemands for a caste census are deeply linked with the policy of reservations in government jobs and educational institutions. This is not a benign statistical enumerationThere are two factors which matter: a continuing quest for including more social groups into the list of those eligible for reservations and demands for relaxing the Supreme Court mandated 50% quota on reservations in India. The former is bound to generate more traction for the latter, as inclusion of more communities into the reserved category will shrink the probability of the groups which were there earlier gaining from reservations. The Mandal Commission’s recommendation of providing 27% reservations for OBCs was a direct result of the 50% cap on reservations.The report says this unequivocally.“The population of OBCs, both Hindu and non-Hindu, is around 52% of the total population of India. Accordingly 52% of all posts under the Central government should be reserved for them. But this provision may go against the law laid down in a number of Supreme Court judgments wherein it has been held that the total quantum of reservation under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) of the Constitution should be below 50%. In view of this, the proposed reservation for OBCs would have to be pegged at a figure which when added to 22.5% for SCs and STs, remains below 50%. In view of this legal constraint, the Commission is obliged to recommend a reservation of 27% only, even though their (OBC) population is almost twice this figure.”It is in this context that the recent demand for doing away with the 50% cap on reservations -- the groups demanding this are the most consistent in demanding a caste census too -- needs to be seen.But reservations are for Other Backward Classes not Other Backward CastesOBCs, especially in the realm of politics, are always seen as a social group. This does not hold when it comes to constitutional provisions for reservations. Constitutionally speaking, OBC reservations are not at par with reservations for SC-ST groups in India. The biggest proof of this is the fact that unlike in the case of the SC-ST population, OBCs belonging to the creamy layer – a threshold which looks at various things, but primarily income limits – cannot avail of reservations. This underlines the importance of class rather than a simple caste aspect when it comes to OBC reservations.Reservations and OBC politicsThe biggest information black hole around implementation of OBC reservations is not the overall benefits to OBCs as a result of reservations. Reservations have clearly helped.“Representation of SCs and STs is more than the prescribed percentage of reservation, (15% and 7.5%, respectively). The representation of OBCs in the Central Government services is 21.57%, which is less, as compared to the prescribed percentage of reservation for them. However, reservation of Other Backward Classes (OBC) has shown an increasing trend since it started in September, 1993. As per available information, representation of OBCs, as on 1.1.2012, was 16.55%, which has increased to 21.57%, as on 01.01.2016”, Union Minister of State Dr Jitendra Singh in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha on July 17, 2019.The gap in knowledge is the extent to which these benefits have helped sub-castes within the larger group currently classified as OBCs. It is this fact which led to the Narendra Modi government setting-up the Justice Rohini Commission on sub-categorization of OBCs in 2017.There are 2,633 Other Backward Castes in the Central List and earlier this year the commission proposed to divide them into four subcategories numbered 1, 2, 3 and 4 and split the 27% into 2, 6, 9 and 10%, respectively. If accepted, the recommendations are likely to have a major impact on politics, especially in north India where the rise of powerful OBC groups such as Yadavs defined the 1990s.The Commission’s term was extended by another six months on July 14. As is obvious, the recommendations of the Justice Rohini Commission will unleash a major political churn, as dominant OBCs, who the commission believes have benefitted disproportionately from the current policy, might end up losing their advantage within the broad OBC group.Data from CSDS-Lokniti suggest that the BJP stands to gain by tilting the OBC reservation gains away from dominant OBC groups such as the Yadavs in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The BJP’s support among lower and upper OBCs was 22% in 2009. By 2019, the party enjoyed support of 47% lower OBCs. This number had increased to 41% for upper OBCs. Among Yadavs in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, the BJP actually lost support between 2014 and 2019: from 14% to 9% in Bihar and 26% to 24% in Uttar Pradesh.Politics apart, clubbing caste census with normal census can’t do justice to the cause of equity within OBCsThe fact that OBC reservations must also take into account class and not just caste, and the current government has already set the ball rolling for restructuring the existing 27% OBC reservations, means that a simple enumeration of OBCs along with SC-ST groups in the census will not help the cause of equality among OBCs.Any such exercise must also collect detailed information on economic status of various sub-castes, which is not possible in the census. This is something the Socio-Economic Caste Census of 2011 promised to do. But its findings were never released. However, we have more than enough evidence to question claims that the communities which are classified as OBCs have the same economic status.For example, a 2018 World Bank paper by Shareen Joshi and others found that intra-caste divisions can play a bigger role in creation of inequality than inter-caste factors. “While average figures for the broad caste groups confirm to the received wisdom, with upper castes being most well off and STs being the worst off, intra-caste or jati based trends do not always conform to this broad hierarchy”, a HT story on August 6, 2018 noted based on the paper’s findings.To be sure, the World Bank paper’s findings might have been affected by its mandate to provide baseline estimates of poverty in Bihar, which might have led to a disproportionate focus on poorer households.However, evidence from larger surveys such as the NFHS also underlines the prevalence of differentiation in economic status of OBCs across India’s states. For example, an HT story dated April 4, 2019 calculated relative share of OBCs in the top 20% households by wealth and found significant divergences across states, suggesting that the economic status of OBCs is not uniform across the country.These numbers clearly show that the politically convenient demand for clubbing a caste census with the normal census, and using it to justify either a reorganization or expansion of OBC reservations, might help political ends, but will not take India towards a more egalitarian and well-informed affirmative action policy framework.And if at all a comprehensive caste census with economic attributes is conducted, and the findings seek to disenfranchise or reduce the existing benefits available to certain groups, the country could have a huge social-political disruption to deal with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decoding-the-purpose-and-politics-of-caste-census-101629741365130.html
24-08-2021||India||60% chance of ‘below normal’ rains: Skymet||Skymet Weather Services, a private weather forecasting company, in an updated forecast on Monday said that there is a 60% chance of ‘below normal’ rains during monsoon at around 94% of the long period average (LPA) with an error margin of +/- 4%.In April, Skymet Weather had forecast that monsoon is likely to be ‘normal’ or ’above normal’ for the third consecutive year and monsoon rain from June to September is likely to be 103% of the long period average of 880.6 mm.The monsoon this year had a timely onset and made a good start with June ending above normal at 110% of the long period average (LPA). July, however, was marred with a pronged break till July 11. Therefore, the month finished with below normal rainfall at 93% of LPA.June and July ended with 110% and 93% of LPA against Skymet’s forecast of 106% and 97%, respectively. There was a ‘break monsoon’ phase during the first fortnight of August, leading to a monsoon deficiency of 9% till the middle of the month.“In terms of geographical risk, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Odisha, Kerala and northeast India are likely to be hit with deficient rains. The chance of drought over Gujarat and West Rajasthan appears imminent. However, the spatial distribution of rainfall over the rainfed areas of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh has been adequate. Accordingly, the food production in the agri-bowl of central parts may not be stressed and skewed,” Skymet Weather said in a statement on Monday.There is a 9% rain deficiency over the country with Gujarat recording 47% deficiency, Odisha 31%, Kerala 28%, Manipur 58%, Arunachal Pradesh 25%, Assam 20% and Nagaland 23%. Sub-division wise, northwest India has registered a 11% deficiency, central India 11% deficiency, east India 11% deficiency and northeast India 4% surplus.The India Meteorological Department (IMD), in its long range forecast issued on June 1, projected that monsoon rainfall over the country as a whole is most likely to be normal (96 to 104 % of Long Period Average (LPA)). Quantitatively, the monsoon season over the country as a whole is likely to be 101% of the LPA with a model error of ± 4%. IMD officials said monsoon seasonal rainfall may be close to normal.“As of now, August rainfall is likely to be below normal. There may be some rain towards the end of August but we don’t expect the deficit to be met. The models are indicating normal rains in September. Overall monsoon may be near normal or slightly below normal,” DS Pai, head of climate and research services at IMD Pune, said.Normally, the monsoon trough comes down to the plains when low pressure systems develop over the Bay of Bengal. “This time, fewer low-pressure areas formed — two against the normal of four — and they were not that active. They moved towards Uttar Pradesh and weakened abruptly. This led to breaks during monsoon and less rain overall. The monsoon trough shifted northwards,” Pai explained.IMD considers 96 to 104% of LPA to be ‘normal’, 90 to 96% in ‘below normal’ category and less than 90% in ‘deficient’ category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-chance-of-below-normal-rains-skymet-101629744687030.html
24-08-2021||India||Karnataka CM lays out plan to help in implementation of NEP||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said that the state would launch a research & development policy for synergy between institutes undertaking such work as well as help implement the National Education Policy (NEP-2020).“If we want NEP to succeed, we must make it reach every child across the state. Digitisation is important in education for which we will bring a new digitisation policy,” Bommai said on Monday.Dharmendra Pradhan, the Union minister for education, skill development and entrepreneurship virtually launched the admission process for higher education for the year 2021-22 under the Unified University and College Management System, making Karnataka the first state to implement the policy.“Karnataka has taken a lead role and has become a laboratory in implementation of NEP. India has a huge number of about 310 million who belong to the student community (class 1 to higher education) and with 25 million being newly added every year, the real challenge lies in making the benefits of NEP reach to all these. The success of NEP will enable creating a new global order,” Pradhan said, according to a statement by the Karnataka government.The launch of the new system comes at a time when the state government has been forced to resume physical classes in schools in Karnataka due to lack of connectivity for around 40% of students mostly living in rural and backward regions.The chief minister also said that broadband networking would be made available in all corners of the state. Bommai said there are about 180 R&D centres in Bengaluru but lamented the lack of any connect with students.“There are over 180 R&D centres in Bengaluru related to every sector but what is the connect between the students and the R&D centres? I want a synergy between students and the R&D centres,” he said.Bommai hailed the launch of NEP as “liberation day” and that it would free the education system from “vertical silos, compartmentalization and closed jacket structure of teaching-learning process”.“Digitisation plays a crucial role in education today apart from business and governance. Therefore (the) government will bring out (a) Digitisation Policy to enhance network connectivity in each village,” he said.Bommai said that such programmes will be given due preferences in the coming budgets despite constraints.He also announced that tablet PCs will be given this year also for those joining first year degree courses. “The policy which has been introduced under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, after 34 years, has been drafted after wider consultations and considering more than 300,000 suggestions. The vice-chancellors will have to play a crucial role in its’ effective implementation,” Dr. CN Ashwath Narayan, the minister of higher education, who unveiled the MoU of Internationalization of Higher Education said. He added that the NEP will break the barriers and bring together science-arts-humanities, curricular-extra curricular, theoretical knowledge-skill development etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-lays-out-plan-to-help-in-implementation-of-nep-101629744627075.html
24-08-2021||India||Karnataka resumes physical classes for senior students||Schools and Pre-University (PU) colleges in Karnataka, except in five districts having more than two percent Covid test positivity rate, reopened on Monday after a gap of five months. In the first phase, physical classes have been reopened for students of classes 9 and 10. The government however decided not to reopen schools and PU colleges in Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Kodagu, Dakshina Kannada, and Mysuru as the Covid-19 positivity rate is above 2%. On the occasion, chief minister Basavaraj S Bommai visited several schools to take stock of the safety measures. Talking to media, he said, that reopening of for students provided freedom after lockdowns. “Students are very happy. It’s like, they have got a freedom today from Covid-19. August 15 is celebrated as a freedom for the country but for our students from classes 9, 10, 11 and 12 it’s real freedom for them with the opening of schools,” he said. Bommai added that online classes had posed several problems for the students, especially for those facing network problems. “In the physical classes, they can interact better with their teachers. Apart from better teaching and understanding, students are happy that they are now with their friends,” the chief minister said. As per the data released by the Education Department, on the first day, 21.08% attendance was reported for the class 10 while for class 9, the attendance was at 19.5%. Out of the 961,748 students who have enrolled for class 9, 188,077 attended classes on Monday. For class 10, 203,777 out of the 966,481 registered students attended classes. The highest attendance was reported in Uttara Kannada, which recorded 53.38% and 54.07% attendance in classes 9 and 10 respectively. During his interaction, CM Bommai asked teachers, staff, and students to follow Covid-19 norms. “There will be an experts’ committee meeting by the month-end. Looking at the situation, we will take a call on two things -- one is regarding border districts and second is classes for class 1 to the class 8,” the chief minister said. Bommai said if the reopening of schools becomes successful, August 23 will be celebrated as Education Day just as September 5 is observed as Teachers’ Day. He also said that this day is important as it will liberate children from Covid-19. The government decided to start the classes from Monday on the recommendation of the Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19. The TAC had said that the teachers and other staff in the schools and PU colleges should be vaccinated first. Further, it said the classrooms should be sanitized, social distancing and hand hygiene should be maintained and everyone should wear masks compulsorily. The primary and secondary education minister BC Nagesh visited a few schools in the city and interacted with students. On the directions of the chief minister, the district in-charge ministers visited a few schools in their respective districts on Monday. In November 2020, degree colleges were opened and later in January 2021, class 10 and pre-university colleges were opened for a brief period. The experiment could not continue for long as the second wave had hit the country and Karnataka was among the worst affected states reporting over 50,000 cases and about 500 fatalities daily. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-resumes-physical-classes-for-senior-students-101629744507420.html
24-08-2021||India||Yatnal targets ‘intellectuals’ on Afghan crisis, stokes row||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Karnataka Basangouda Patil (Yatnal) on Monday courted fresh controversy as he targeted the intellectuals in India by saying that those who were propagating to bring stranded Afghani nationals should be “gunned down”.“The intellectuals in our country are not born to Hindus nor to our country but to the Taliban,” Yatnal said on Monday.“If you ask me, those Talibans in our country, how they were shot down there (Afghanistan), these people should be shot down here. If we do not gun them down, then our Hindu religion or India will not survive,” he said.Known for his hardcore right wing views, Yatnal has courted controversy with his statements many times in the past with his provocative speeches that go unchecked.The statements come at a time when there is a raging debate in India whether to allow people from the war-torn country into India after the Taliban regained control over the middle eastern nation.Yatnal said that Congress leaders like Rahul Gandhi, Siddaramaiah and DK Shivakumar who call themselves secular will not comment on the topic.“If Narendra Modi was not the Prime Minister they would have imported all the Talibans,” he said.“In any situation, other than Hindus and Sikhs, people from other religions should not be allowed to enter our country. If they (Muslims) say that they want to accept Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, let them come but look they are leaving their wife’s and running,” Yatnal said.He even said that Bollywood actors like Amitabh Bachchan and others portray Pathans as brave warriors. He said that actors like Aamir Khan and other Khans who said that it was becoming unsafe for their children to live in India should send their children to Afghanistan to find out how safe it was there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yatnal-targets-intellectuals-on-afghan-crisis-stokes-row-101629744447955.html
24-08-2021||India||Parents question reopening of schools, fee issue reignites||Decision by the Karnataka government to reopen physical classes for students from Monday has made a section of parents and guardians question if the urgency has something to do with the government favouring the powerful lobby of private educational institutions in the state. They have also called it a ploy by the state governments to help the lobby with payment of fees before a fresh wave of infections forces another lockdown. “This move to open the schools is purely seen as an attempt to favour the private school managements’ lobby to collect the fee,” Mohammed Shakeel, the president of Voice of Parents said. “The government is concerned about mid-day meals not reaching children, child marriages and child labour, in the event of schools not functioning or not able to provide or children unable to receive online education, this criteria is not applicable to students in private unaided schools. We cannot be made scapegoats in the hands of private schools most of who are charging unlawful fees,” Shakeel added. Physical classes for students in higher grades have resumed in many parts of the country which also points to the failure of the government in bridging technological divide, experts said. The government appointed technical advisory committee (TAC), in its recommendations submitted to authorities on June 22, argued that education is the fundamental right of the child and stated that reopening physical schools would optimise learning, physical and mental health as well as for nutritional aspects of children.“Any further delay in school reopening may push children into malnutrition, child labour, child marriage, child trafficking, begging etc., making their condition further Worse,” according to the report.According to the TAC, there are 23,838,995 people below the age of 18 in the state with an estimated population of 70,259,592, accounting for around 34%.In July, S Suresh Kumar, the then primary and secondary education minister had stated that around 9.3 million students out of the total 10.05 million across private and public schools in Karnataka, have been accounted for in terms of access to devices, internet, TV, radio and even email. Of the 9.3 million who have been accounted for, only 5,859,907 have smartphones/tablets while around 3,127,524 don’t have any access to such devices, leaving around 40% of the students out of the system for almost an entire year. Further, there are just 5,134,386 students who have access to the internet while 3,779,965 students do not have access to the internet, rendering the exercise of online classes as a redundant practice for these children, mostly from rural and backward regions of the state, Hindustan Times had reported on July 2. BC Nagesh, Karnataka’s minister for primary and secondary education on Sunday said that the government could not teach all students online “no matter how much it tried”. The gap in such basic necessities also highlights the inequitable distribution of resources in a state that prides its prowess in technology and arguably one of the most industrious in the country. Karnataka has seen parents associations take private schools to court over the demand of payment of full fees. The two sides have locked horns and even resulted in a show of strength of sorts when both carried out protest marches in Bengaluru last year. Shashi Kumar, the state convenor of the Karnataka Private School Managements, Teaching and Non-Teaching Staff Coordination Committee (KPMTCC) on Monday told Hindustan Times that the decision to reopen schools was backed by the government, experts, doctors and even the members of the Covid-19 task force. Kumar, also a member of the state task force on Covid, said that it was a unanimous decision to reopen schools from primary sections but the government has resumed only classes above class 9. “Our only regret is that the recommendation we had given as a task force; those recommendations are not completely implemented. We are concerned only on the quality of implementation,” Kumar said on Monday. He added that it was a “wrong” notion that the government heeded to demands by private schools to reopen. He said that the bulk or nearly 95% of all private schools were budget ( ₹10000- ₹30,000 per year) and have minimum school fees payment and poor admissions. He added that the bulk of the parents are fighting not to pay school fees but school managements are finding it difficult to operate. “Except a few hundred schools which are in demand, like National Public School and others, parents of those schools have paid fees in full,” Kumar said. He even added that several parents are yet to clear even the partly arrears of previous years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parents-question-reopening-of-schools-fee-issue-reignites-101629744446934.html
24-08-2021||India||SC refuses to cancel ex-mayor, corporator’s bail in Bengaluru riots case||The Supreme Court on Monday rejected Congress legislator’s plea and refused to cancel bail of former Bengaluru Mayor Sampath Raj and former corporator Abdul Raqueeb Zakir in a case connected to the 2020 Bengaluru riots, which claimed four lives. A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy dismissed the petition filed by Congress’ Pulakeshinagar MLA R Akhanda Srinivasmurthy, who had challenged the grant of bail to Raj and Zakir by the Karnataka high court in February. “In view of the submissions of parties and taking into consideration the alleged role and the period for which they were in custody, we are not inclined to interfere with the impugned order of the high court,” said the bench in its order. On August 11 last year, an angry mob, enraged over an alleged derogatory social media post shared by Srinivasamurthy’s nephew, burnt down more than 60 vehicles as well as DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations in Bengaluru apart from the house of the MLA. The violence claimed four lives and left several injured.Appearing for Srinivasmurthy, senior advocates Devadatt Kamat and R Basant argued that Raj harbored ill-will against the MLA due to political reasons and created the riots on the pretext of the social media post by his nephew. The lawyers contended that Raj and Zakir were the chief conspirators who incited a mob to set ablaze the houses of the MLA and his sister. The mob also burnt down two police stations. The lawyers added that the two could manipulate the witnesses and evidence due to their political connections. Senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Ranjit Kumar appearing for Raj and Zakir, denied the charges against the two. The lawyers submitted that Raj and Zakir’s names were not mentioned in the first information report (FIR) and it was only when the chargesheet was filed, they had been named in the case for the first time. The lawyers added that there is no evidence to connect them to the riots and that they had already remained behind bars for two months. Rohatgi also said that all three; Srinivasmurthy, Raj and Zakir belong to the Congress party and the charges against his client was a result of political bickering. Representing the Karnataka government, advocate VN Raghupathy maintained that the state had opposed the bail before the high court and it is still against the grant of bail to Raj and Zakir.The bench, however, noted that when it first issued notices on Srinivasmurthy’s petition, it was brought to its notice the high court had not released the reasoned bail orders even after a fortnight of granting bail. “Since the detailed orders have now been uploaded on the high court website, nothing remains to be adjudicated therein,” said the court. It noted that the accused have remained in custody for more than two months and since the investigation was also over in the case, there was no need to interfere with the bail orders of Raj and Zakir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-cancel-ex-mayor-corporator-s-bail-in-bengaluru-riots-case-101629744388669.html
24-08-2021||India||Lack of papers led to luxury cars’ seizure||Karnataka transport department on Sunday seized seven luxury vehicles, including a Rolls Royce car alleged to have been formerly owned by Amitabh Bachchan, for failing to provide valid transfer documents, a senior official said. The transport department conducted a special drive near UB city mall, a popular shopping destination in the city, to seize the high-end vehicles, which are now parked at the Road Transport Office in Nelamangala on the outskirts of the city.Transport Commissioner N Shiva Kumar said the vehicles were seized because there were no documents available. “We don’t know who it belongs to. There are no documents available with them (drivers). That’s why the vehicles were seized,” “Some of these cars bore registration numbers belonging to Maharashtra or Pondicherry. These cars have not paid road tax in Karnataka and amount to a big loss to the state exchequer,” he added. Among these seized cars, one Rolls Royce stood out since it was allegedly registered in the name of Bachchan in 2019. Additional transport commissioner (enforcement) Narendra Holkar said that when the car was seized, the driver didn’t have the relevant document, but a letter signed by Bachchan stating that the vehicle was sold to the former. “Vahan (the government of India database) is not reflecting any details about the vehicle. So, we have seized the vehicle to examine the claims made by the driver,” said Holkar. On Monday, talking to the media, a person identified as Babu said that he had purchased the car from the actor in 2019 for ₹6 crores. “The family uses the car on Sundays, and when they came out, the department seized the vehicle. The driver couldn’t produce the original documents. The documents are at home, and I have told them that I will bring them to the RTO,” said Babu. A Bengaluru-based builder, Babu said that even though the car was purchased from the actor, the documents were not transferred to his name. In case the so-called owners are unable to prove their ownership with necessary documents, the transport department can auction the vehicles after seeking necessary approvals from the court. “The due process will be followed. In case anyone is found violating rules, fines will be imposed, and if they can’t produce any documents, there is an option of auctioning these vehicles. We have done such auctions in the past,” said a senior department official In March, the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) in Mangaluru was probing a case of alleged middlemen selling luxury cars in violation of legal processes. At that time, it was said a Jaguar was bought by a Bengaluru-based private company worker from a middleman for ₹14.5 lakh. The original owner of the car could not be traced. The official on Sunday said that only one car owner has come forward with the documents so far, and the documents presented were being verified. During the raid, cars manufactured by Rolls Royce, Jaguar, Audi, Range Rover, Porsche, Mercedes Benz, and Jaguar were seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rollsroyce-among-7-luxury-cars-seized-101629744387555.html
24-08-2021||India||Centre mulls new rules on financial resolution plans||The government is considering objective and transparent guidelines for committee of creditors (CoC) – mainly banks and financial institutions -- signing off on resolution plans under India’s bankruptcy code, after some excessive haircuts agreed to by such CoCs were questioned by the National Company Law Tribunal and even a parliamentary panel, two people familiar with the matter said.According to the two, who asked not to be named, there are legitimate concerns that need to be addressed especially in the light of the recent NCLT verdict in the matter of Shiva Industries and Holdings Ltd. CoC, made up of financial creditors, is the supreme decision-making body in the corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP).NCLT, Chennai, on August 12 rejected a one-time settlement (OTS) agreed between the erstwhile promoters of Siva Industries and its lenders and ordered liquidation of the company. In April, IDBI Bank-led lenders, who made up the CoC, discussed and approved a proposal of Siva Industries where creditors agreed to take a 93.25% haircut to settle dues of ₹4,863.87 crore. That means the banks would have recovered only ₹328.21 crore.According to a Mint report on June 18, India’s bankruptcy resolution system remains marred by meagre recoveries and protracted delays, despite attempts to fine-tune the regime that debuted in 2017. On June 15, NCLT also questioned the extensive haircut (95.85%) that lenders agreed to take in the insolvency resolution of Videocon group companies. The Anil Agarwal-promoted Twin Star Technologies proposed to pay ₹2,962 crore against admitted claims of ₹64,838 crore, implying a 95.85% loss to all Videocon creditors, the report said.As per Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) data, in over 363 major NCLT resolutions since 2017, banks have taken an average haircut of 80%. Some of the large haircuts include Deccan Chronicle (95%), Lanco Infra (88%), Ushdev International (94%) and Zion Steel (99%), the report said.The people mentioned above said that since CoC comprises financial creditors who are often banks and financial institutions that are regulated by the department of financial services (DFS) and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), one of these could frame guidelines for them. DFS is an arm of the finance ministry.The ministries of finance and corporate affairs, RBI and DFS did not respond to an email query on this matter.“Banks must follow some guidelines so that they cannot take arbitrary decisions in the name of commercial wisdom such as negotiating a settlement with absconding promoters of Sterling Biotech. Thankfully, this was rejected by NCLT. If promoters are absconding, how can banks get access to them?” one of the two person asked.His reference was toa rejected OTS proposal related to Sterling Biotech where CoC settled for a 64% haircut of over ₹9,000 crore due with the promoters, who were absconding.“The verdict, in the case of Shiva Industries, also implied that ‘commercial wisdom’ of the CoC cannot be absolute,” the second person said, citing NCLT’s August 12 order. It said, “There is always a system of constant checks and balances where there must not be a capricious or arbitrary power given in hands of CoC to accept or reject settlement.” HT has reviewed a copy of the order.A parliamentary panel has also made some suggestions to further strengthen the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), including having a framework to ensure that commercial decisions of the CoC should be more transparent and objective. All such matters are under consideration, the second person added. HT reported the parliamentary panel’s observations on August 4.“In the Committee’s view, keeping in mind the experience gathered so far, there is an urgent need to have a professional code of conduct for CoC, which will define and circumscribe their decisions, as these have larger implications for the efficacy of the Code,” the panel said in its report.Pavan Kumar Vijay, the founder of legal and corporate advisory firm Corporate Professionals Group, said, “IBC may take some time to recover trust but is definitely a viable option. Since the law is evolving, so too is the commercial wisdom of the CoC which definitely requires discipline.”“Banks/FI’s in any case take a long time to decide whether to approve or reject a plan. Their decision involves commercial interest of all the creditors. Some additional discipline if imposed, would not harm stakeholders but would further streamline and ease the process of decision making,” he added.Mohit Saraf, founder & managing partner of Saraf & Partners, isn’t convinced“A new directional code instead of present prescriptive IBC code with framework/professional code of conduct for CoC will work but a new framework for code of conduct with old prescriptive laws will spell the death knell for resolutions and will only aggravate the size of the hair cut,” he said. Prescriptive laws follow step by step approach. Directional laws, on the other hand, provide flexibility to jump a process or timeline based on commercial wisdom, he explained.“The way the bankers have flexibility to give loans, the same way they need to have the flexibility to resolve insolvencies. We need to learn to respect the commercial wisdom of our bankers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-mulls-new-rules-on-financial-resolution-plans-101629744386412.html
24-08-2021||India||Slugfest after TN boy dies while putting up DMK flag||The death of a 13-year-old boy due to electrocution while helping DMK cadre erect banners in Tamil Nadu’s Villupuram district has led to a political furore in the state, with the AIADMK and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) asking chief minister M K Stalin to take action against those responsible. The deceased boy, Dinesh of class 9, was helping party workers decorate a road to welcome higher education minister K Ponmudy for a marriage function in Villupuram. A live wire fell on the boy. The minister has announced a compensation of ₹1.5 lakhs to the boy’s family. Villupuram police said that the incident happened on Friday. “An FIR has been filed two days ago,” an official said without going into details. However, the incident came to light only on Sunday.He was rushed to a local government hospital but died before his family reached him. Following a post mortem, the boy’s body was handed over to his mother. The image of the mother crying over her child’s white clothed wrapped body has been circulating on social media.Stalin on Monday urged the party cadre to end the practice of erecting banners and cutouts for leaders, which is a widespread political culture in Tamil Nadu. The DMK has been instructing its cadres not to erect banners and flags for party events. “This causes disturbance to the public and sometimes it threatens life and ends up tragically,” Stalin said in a statement expressing shock over the boy’s death. The opposition parties recalled an incident from two years ago when a 23-year-old woman Subshshree died after an AIADMK banner fell on her in Chennai, which triggered a massive outrage. BJP spokesperson in Tamil Nadu Narayanan Thirupathy recalled that when the young woman died, Stalin, then in the opposition, had asked how many more lives will be lost to the power-hungry and anarchist rule of the AIADMK. “Giving compensation will not give the family any consolation. The culprits have to be arrested immediately,” said Thirupathy. The BJP alliance, led by the AIADMK, said that all lives are equal no matter which party is in power. “Why shouldn’t they be prosecuted under The Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act,” said AIADMK spokesperson D Jayakumar. Several activists in the state have rallied against erecting illegal poles and banners. “Only if swift action is taken against wrongdoers can this be prevented in the future. The person who erected the pole and the contractor who hired the boy to tie up the flag must be prosecuted,” said Jayaram Venkatesan, convener of anti-corruption NGO Arappor Iyakkam that has been fighting against illegal banners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/slugfest-after-tn-boy-dies-while-putting-up-dmk-flag-101629744146924.html
24-08-2021||India||Hurriyat rejects charges of selling MBBS seats amid reports of ban||A faction of the Hurriyat Conference led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq on Monday rejected charges that the separatist group was “selling” MBBS seats in Pakistan colleges to Kashmiri students and funnelling the money into terrorism .The denial came a day after reports quoted officials as saying a ban under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act may be imposed on both factions of the Hurriyat Conference. The reports said a recent probe into the granting of MBBS seats to Kashmiri students by institutions in Pakistan indicated that the money collected from aspirants was being used for funding terror organisations.“All Parties Hurriyat Conference(APHC) led by incarcerated chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq completely rejected and denounced the propaganda being promoted in print and other media by authorities, that it’s executive leadership, who could recommend aspiring Kashmiri candidates to medical and technical colleges in Pakistan, would ‘sell’ the admission seats to students for money,” the separatist group said in a statement.On Sunday, news agencies quoted unnamed officials as saying that both the factions of the Hurriyat are likely to be banned under Section 3(1) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, or the UAPA. The separatist conglomerate broke into two factions in 2005 with the moderate group being led by the Mirwaiz and the hard-line by Syed Ali Shah Geelani.“APHC said that it wants to put on record that this is completely unfounded, and can be verified by those students or parents whom they have recommended, many among them being from among economically weak sections,” the statement quoted above added.The hard-line Hurriyat, to which Syed Ali Shah Geelani belongs, did not issue any reaction but eyewitnesses said that the organisation removed its sign board ‘Tehreek-e-Hurriyat’ from its office at Hyderpora.The united All Parties Hurriyat Conference was formed in 1993 with 26 separatist groups and then split after a section of Hurriyat put up a proxy candidate in 2002 assembly elections. Mirwaiz led one group and Geelani another. Tehreek-e-Hurriyat, a constituent of hard-line Hurriyat Conference, was formed by Geelani in August 2004 after he left politico-religious organisation Jamaat-e-Islami. Geelani stepped down as Tehreek-e-Hurriyat chief after 14 years in March 2018.The Centre banned Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front and Jamaat e Islami under UAPA after the Pulwama attack in 2019.The APHC said that its chairman Mirwaiz, who is also the chief priest at Jamia Masjid Srinagar, has all along been giving recommendation letters to students for colleges and universities in Saudi Arabia, Malaysia, Turkey and elsewhere.It also stated that the sentiments of the people of J&K with regard to the resolution of the Kashmir dispute in a peaceful and fair manner “cannot be altered despite repression, legal tactics or propaganda”.“Led by the Miwaiz, APHC will always represent those aspirations and seek their fulfillment through its principled stand of dialogue and deliberations among the stakeholders of the conflict,” it said.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) registered cases and arrested several separatist leaders in 2017 in a militant funding case. Those in jail are Geelani’s son-in-law Altaf Ahmed Shah, Mirwaiz’s aide Shahidul Islam, hardline Hurriyat former spokesman Ayaz Akbar, Mehrajuddin Kalwal ,Peer Saifullah, businessman Zahoor Ahmed Watali and Nayeem Khan. JKLF’s Yasin Malik and Dukhtaran e Millat chief Asiya Andrabi were arrested later.Member of Parliament and National Conference leader Hasnain Masoodi said that banning was not an option in a democracy. “By banning an organisation, the thought is not going to die. It is better to deal with a narrative with a counter narrative,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hurriyat-rejects-charges-of-selling-mbbs-seats-amid-reports-of-ban-101629744087896.html
24-08-2021||India||ED seizes ₹82.5L cash, house of alleged conman in Tamil Nadu||The Enforcement Directorate officials on Monday raided a high-profile conman, Sukesh Chandrasekhar, in the outskirts of Chennai, the agency said in a tweet. Following the raids, they seized a luxurious beachfront bungalow, 16 luxurious cars, ₹82.5 lakhs in cash, two kg gold and other high-end items.“The raids are a follow-up action based on a case filed by us,” said a senior official of the enforcement directorate, who did not wish to reveal more details. He added that Chandrasekhar is currently in jail. With a history of forgery and a known fascination for cars, Chandrasekar, who hails from Karnataka, has been accused in several criminal cases, including extortion across metro cities. He is known to return to crime in various cities after he received bail. Chandrasekar has faced charges of scamming people by being a middleman, targeting businessmen and is accused of posing as a relative of political leaders and even as a Supreme Court judge.He was earlier accused of running an extortion racket of several crores, despite being behind bars in Tihar jail. He was also arrested by the Delhi police in the two-leaves symbol bribery case in 2017. Chandrasekhar had allegedly acted as a middleman by taking money from TTV Dhinakaran to bribe the Election Commission to allot the AIADMK’s two-leaves party symbol to his faction headed by his aunt V K Sasikala.At that time the symbol was frozen, following the death of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s in office, and the AIADMK had split into factions. The symbol eventually went to the faction led by Edappadi Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam, who continue their dual leadership of the AIADMK while Dhinakaran went on to float a party with Sasikala’s supporters called Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) with an aim to retrieve the AIADMK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-seizes-82-5l-cash-house-of-alleged-conman-in-tamil-nadu-101629744087432.html
24-08-2021||India||DRDO develops biodegradable bags for Tirumala prasadam||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which manages the Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple in Andhra Pradesh, has teamed up with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to develop biodegradable bags which will be used to sell the mahaprasadam laddu, a prime initiative future. A dedicated sale counter has been set up by the TTD near the laddu counters adjacent to the Tirumala temple, where the devotees can first buy these bags before heading to counters to buy the prasadams.Detailing about the initiative, DRDO chairman Satish Reddy said, “Our Advance Systems Laboratory in Hyderabad has been doing a lot of research and inventing ways to find the best environmental friendly replacement for hazardous plastic. To minimise single-use plastic, we have come out with these eco-friendly bags made of starch corn, which degrades naturally within 90 days. It is also not harmful even if cattle consume them. After detailed research and rigorous testing of the formula, we have come out with these bags for Tirumala.”The TTD was one of the biggest distributors of single-use plastic covers before 2019. In the period between 2014 and 2018, the TTD procured and distributed 96.3 million polythene laddu covers to the devotees.The new TTD board, under the chairmanship of YV Subba Reddy, realised that the trust would be causing severe damage to the environment if it continued to promote the use of polythene laddu covers. A blanket ban on the use of single-use plastic covers was imposed in 2019, post which a tie-up was announced with the DRDO.Talking about the harmful effects of polythene bags, Satish Reddy, said, “Usually, conventional polyethene bags made from petrochemicals are toxic to the environment, and take nearly 200 years to degrade. In contrast, these bags would be offered as a sustainable, cost-effective and ocean-safe alternative to such plastic products.” “Products like these are essential for the survival of mankind. After observing the response from the pilgrims for a few days, we are planning to commence its sales in a full-fledged manner,” noted TTD EO Dr KS Jawahar Reddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-develops-biodegradable-bags-for-tirumala-prasadam-101629744030494.html
24-08-2021||India||HC admits petitions against Gujarat Prohibition Act as ‘maintainable’||The Gujarat high court on Monday held as maintainable a batch of petitions challenging the provisions of Gujarat Prohibition Act, 1949, which bans the manufacture, sale and consumption of liquor in the state.A division bench comprising chief justice Vikram Nath and Justice Biren Vaishnav said the court held the petitions as “maintainable and be heard and decided on merits,” as it rejected the state government’s objections to the same.The final hearing was initially posted for September 20 but was postponed to October 12 after advocate general Kamal Trivedi sought more time for the state to explore the option of approaching the Supreme Court.“If at all the government is thinking of testing it before a higher court, it needs some accommodation,” Trivedi said.To this, the chief justice asserted, “Who is stopping you from that? That is your right”.The bench had earlier reserved its order on the preliminary question of maintainability on June 23. Pointing out that the Supreme Court had upheld the Act in its 1952 judgment, Trivedi had argued that a law validated by the top court could be held invalid, “but for that purpose, the forum is the Supreme Court and not this court”.“It is not permissible for (high) court to examine the validity of any law or any new law or additional grounds when it has been upheld by the apex court in the past,” Trivedi said.The petitioners, however, argued that the matter should be taken up on merits, as the provisions challenged in the pleas are materially different from what they were in 1951 as they have been amended over the years. They added that the right to privacy was not recognized as a fundamental right in 1951 when the Supreme Court upheld the validity of the provisions in the prohibition law.The batch of petitions have challenged the constitutional validity of sections section 12, 13 (total prohibition on manufacture, purchase, import, transportation, export, sale, possession, use and consumption of liquor), 24-1B, 65 of the Gujarat Prohibition Act, 1949, and sought them to be declared as ultra vires Article 246 of the Constitution.The provisions are “arbitrary, irrational, unfair, unreasonable, and discriminatory...and despite prohibition being in place for more than six decades, a steady supply of liquor continues to be available through an underground network of bootleggers, organised criminal gangs and corrupt officials”, the petitioners who were represented by senior advocates such as Mihir Thakore, Mihir Joshi, Devan Parikh and Saurabh Soparkar said.“With expanding interpretation of the right to life, personal liberty and privacy, as contained in Article 21 of the Constitution, a citizen has a right to choose how he lives, so long as he is not a nuisance to the society. The state cannot dictate what he will eat and what he will drink,” one of the pleas said.At one point of time during the earlier hearing in June, Trivedi had said: “This concept of right to privacy is not like a bull in a china shop. It is subject to reasonable restrictions based on social environment; otherwise tomorrow, somebody will say you should not harass me if I am taking drugs, psychotropic substances within my four walls,” he said.It was also pointed out that the people of Gujarat “are extremely happy with the prohibition law”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-admits-petitions-against-guj-prohibition-act-as-maintainable-101629744028844.html
24-08-2021||India||TN govt moves SC against Mekedatu dam project||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday reiterated in the state assembly that it will not allow Karnataka to build the Mekedatu dam and the state has moved the Supreme Court against an order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) which disposed of an appeal on whether Karnataka has started constructing the project. Tabling the first separate policy note of the water resources department, and presenting the demand for grants, water resources minister, Durai Murugan, asserted that Tamil Nadu will ensure that the state’s rights are not compromised in the decades-old inter-state water disputes with Karnataka and Kerala. “The Government of Tamil Nadu is taking all necessary action to prevent Karnataka from constructing a dam at Mekedatu or any other place, in the Cauvery basin of Karnataka,” Durai Murugan said. The state argues that the construction of the dam violates the final order of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal in 2007 and a judgement of the Supreme Court in 2018.This comes after the NGT (Southern Zone) took up suo motu cognisance that Karnataka has started construction work for the dam based on media reports. In May this year, an order was passed for a committee to be constituted to look into whether any construction activity has started without obtaining the necessary clearance. It was also meant to assess and submit a report if there have been environmental damages due to this. But, based on the review application filed by Karnataka, the NGT’s principal bench in New Delhi in June disposed of the matter, citing that the issue was before the Supreme Court. The state said since it was disposed of without allowing Tamil Nadu to file a reply, they went on an appeal earlier this month.This comes after the DMK led an all-party delegation to the capital to meet Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to not give clearance to Karnataka and chief minister M K Stalin in his first meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, had conveyed Tamil Nadu’s opposition. Stalin had also not agreed to bilateral talks with ex-Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa. The intense battle continues with his successor Basavaraj Bommai, expressing they will continue with the plan.Karnataka has maintained that the Mekedatu balancing reservoir-cum-drinking water project will not affect Tamil Nadu and it is meant to generate 400 MW of power and additionally utilise 4.75 tmcft of water for drinking and domestic needs in the state and particularly Bengaluru. Tamil Nadu has argued that the dam would disrupt the natural flow of water from the upper riparian state and affect its agrarian community. In another issue where Karnataka has opposed Tamil Nadu’s plans, Durai Murugan said that the Tamil Nadu government will go ahead with the project to link Cauvery with Gundar within the state. To alleviate the water shortage in Tamil Nadu, Murugan said the new government was committed to inter-linking of peninsular rivers like Mahanadhi, Godavari, Krishna, Pennar, Palar, Cauvery, Vaigai, and Gundar. He also announced that 1,000 check dams and barrages will be constructed in the state in the next 10 years to conserve water. Barrages will come up across Cauvery, Kollidam, and Thamirabarani in the first phase. The minister said drones will be deployed to monitor water bodies in the state. Raising a dispute with another neighbouring state, the minister also said that Kerala’s “obstructionist attitude” was delaying works related to the Mullaperiyar Dam.He raised the issue of pending work that is required to raise the water level to FRL 152 ft. These works have been recommended by the Central Water Commission and ordered by the Supreme Court in 2006 and 2014. Chief minister M K Stalin had urged Modi in his meeting to instruct the concerned departments to give clearance to Tamil Nadu to carry out the work to restore the water level in the dam.“To strengthen the Baby Dam, 23 trees have to be felled down. Though necessary efforts have been taken to obtain necessary clearances, due to the obstructionist attitude of the state of Kerala, it is getting delayed,” the minister said. A petition seeking an order to the government of Kerala to cooperate for felling the 23 trees and repairing the Ghat road to the Dam site is pending in the Supreme Court. A joint inspection in June was carried out by the forest officials from Tamil Nadu and Kerala for details on the trees. Tamil Nadu is taking efforts to get the clearances of Union environment and wildlife departments regarding this pending work. Murugan added that a meeting with top Kerala officials to resolve water-related issues will be held shortly in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-govt-moves-sc-against-mekedatu-dam-project-101629744027244.html
24-08-2021||India||SC pulls up Allahabad, U’khand HCs for staying arrests in murder cases||The Supreme Court on Monday expressed shock at the high courts of Allahabad and Uttarakhand routinely issuing stay orders on the arrest of people accused of heinous crimes such as murder. “Despite our orders repeatedly holding that no such order can be passed, the High Courts in Uttar Pradesh (Allahabad) and Uttarakhand are continuously passing such orders,” remarked a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah.The court’s remarks came while hearing an appeal against a July 23 order passed by the Uttarakhand high court on a plea for quashing the first information report in the murder of a man that named three people as accused. The high court had noted that the prayer for quashing the FIR was “innocuous” and was not pressed for by the accused, but it still allowed them protection from arrest till August 10. The Supreme Court noted that the offence in the case was of murder and the high court should have been more circumspect. “It is a shocking order passed by the High Court,” the apex court remarked while noting that the order allowed the accused to surrender by August 10 and also get a decision on their bail plea on the same day, if filed. “Further, it goes on to say that if bail is refused, the papers should be sent to a Sessions Judge the same day who will deal with the bail expeditiously.”Praveen Salar, the complainant in the case and the brother of the victim, appealed in the Supreme Court against this order. His family, as well as the accused, were business rivals, each owning brick kilns in Haridwar. Salar in his appeal filed through advocate Suhaas Ratna Joshi questioned the high court order staying arrest in such a serious crime and said he wasn’t even heard before the order was passed. At this, the apex court issued a notice to the Uttarakhand government and posted the matter for hearing on September 3.The bench noted that orders such as this fly in the face of a recent Supreme Court decision authored by a three-judge bench in the Neeharika Infrastructure v State of Maharashtra (April 2019) case that specifically restrained the high courts from passing interim orders of stay of arrest or “no coercive steps” while dealing with writ petitions filed by the accused for the quashing of criminal cases.Neeharika Infrastructure had lodged an FIR against three people in Mumbai for allegedly selling off high-value real estate by fraud. The high court granted the accused protection from arrest in September 2020, which was challenged by the company in the apex court. Incidentally, the April 2019 judgment was authored by Justice Shah and the bench was headed by Justice Chandrachud while Justice Sanjiv Khanna was the third member. In the Neeharika case, the Bombay high court had passed an order of “no coercive action” without giving any reasons on a petition to quash the criminal case, which hampered the police investigation. The apex court had said that when an investigation is in progress and the facts are hazy, “the High Court should restrain itself from passing the interim order of not to arrest or...and the accused should be relegated to apply for anticipatory bail under Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) before the competent court.” Placing a bar on such action by the high courts, the three-judge bench had said that the high court “is not justified in passing the order of not to arrest or ‘no coercive steps’ either during the investigation or till the investigation is completed and/or till the final report/chargesheet is filed...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-pulls-up-allahabad-u-khand-hcs-for-staying-arrests-in-murder-cases-101629743847106.html
24-08-2021||India||Comorbid kids to be first to get vaccine: Panel chief||Children with comorbidities will be given priority in the vaccination drive for those below the age of 18, the chairman of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI), NK Arora, said on Monday. Zydus Cadila’s Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D, which received emergency use approval last week, is the first vaccine in India to be cleared for children aged above 12.Arora added that Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is also likely to be available for use in children by the year-end, and the regulatory approval process for this could start anywhere between September and October.“Children with comorbidities will be given preference when paediatric vaccines are introduced in the system, be it Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D or Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin or the other one that Serum Institute of India is testing in children,” said Arora.Two vaccine candidates were tested among children in India: Covaxin and ZyCoV-D. The two are also the only ones of the six now approved in India to be developed indigenously. Public health experts say children should get vaccinated against the disease when they become eligible in order to reduce their vulnerability in a possible third wave of infections as they remain the only group that is completely unvaccinated.Government experts will be holding discussions on how to introduce Zydus’s vaccine as it is a three-dose intradermal vaccine to be administered in 28-day gaps. “We also need to see how to introduce ZyCoV-D in the immunisation drive,” said Arora.Zydus said that it also planned to seek approval for a two-dose regimen of its vaccine.Last week, Bharat Biotech’s chairman and managing director, Krishna Ella, and director of Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology (Pune), Dr Priya Abraham, said that Covaxin was likely to be approved for children by September.“The final phase of our clinical trials is over. We are hoping that by the month-end or by next month, we should get the licence for vaccine use in children. This is the only vaccine in the world that can be given to children between 2 and 18 years,” Ella said in an interview to Doordarshan news on Wednesday.As Bharat Biotech has collaborated with ICMR to develop Covaxin, Abraham also confirmed that the Covaxin trial results in children were expected soon.“Hopefully, the results (of the trials) are going to be available very soon. These will be presented to the regulators. So, by September or just after it, we may have Covid-19 vaccines for children,” she added.The Covaxin trial had 525 children volunteers while ZyCov-D’s trials — as part of the phase II/III clinical studies — included 1,000 volunteers in the 12-18 age group.Arora said that another area that is getting more and more attention is the need for booster doses and studies have been initiated in the country to determine that.“We will rely strictly on our own data that is generated locally on the need for booster doses,” he added.However, experts said that the first the priority should be to vaccinate all eligible people.“Booster may be required but that will happen later; first we need to think about covering all our high-risk population groups and adults,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonary and sleep medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/comorbid-kids-to-be-first-to-get-vaccine-panel-chief-101629743729149.html
24-08-2021||India||Kharif sowing rises as rain picks up||Planting of summer-sown kharif crops, which account for half of India’s annual food output, accelerated in August as the monsoon revived, but acreage under key crops are still down 1% over last year due to erratic rainfall, even as experts warned that extreme weather this year could trim yields. The June-September monsoon rains, which water nearly 60% of the country’s net-sown area, have been forecast to be normal by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Current official numbers of the area under various crops more or less offer a full picture of the sowing season, marked by short spurts of heavy rainfall and long pauses from late June to mid-July, and then again, in the first half of August. The revival of rainfall has improved sowing levels of crops such as paddy, soyabean, pulses, oilseeds, millets and vegetables, but farmers have been unable to match the record levels of 2020. Nearly half of all Indians depend on a farm-based income. The national weather agency officially forecast a normal monsoon during 2021. A normal monsoon means a strong sowing season and a good harvest which drives up rural demand for goods and services, helping the economy grow. Overall, farmers have been able to plant 104 million hectares by August 20, exceeding the normal area of 101 million hectares by 3.2%. However, this is about 1% less than the total area of 104 million hectares sown in 2020. An average of the past five years’ acreage is considered normal, according to the agriculture ministry’s classification. The five-year average in this case is 101 million hectares. But heavy rains disrupted sowing of cotton, a key commercial crop, and its acreage stands at close to 11.7 million hectares, almost 7% less than the 12.7 million hectares of last year. A reviving monsoon drove sowing of soyabean, a key oilseed that is widely used for edible oil, to about 18 million hectares, roughly what is considered normal. Planting of coarse cereals too picked to 16 million hectares, while that of pulses stood at 13.4 million hectares, both considered normal. The monsoon is one of the factors that influences the Reserve Bank’s inflation forecast and monetary policy, which determines key interest rates. July is agriculturally the most critical month during the kharif season, since rains during this month determine yields and crop health. Economists are looking to a robust farm growth to cushion the impacts of the pandemic on the overall economy. Rains were fairly poor in many parts in the initial weeks of July. More than the deficiency, this year’s uneven rains have been a cause of concern, agriculturally and climate-wise. “I more or less expected sowing to catch up to stand at normal levels,” said KJ Ramesh, a climatologist and former chief of the India Meteorological Department, the national weather-forecast agency. Longer monsoon pauses followed by heavy spells of rainfall are telltale signs of the climate crisis, experts say. “The consensus is that the number of rainy days will decrease because of climate change but overall quantum of rainfall will remain same. So, there will be segments or periods of very heavy rain,” Ramesh added. In 2020-21, when India faced a recession due to the pandemic, agriculture was the only sector to post positive growth of about 3.1%. This helped to keep farm incomes steady.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kharif-sowing-rises-as-rain-picks-up-101629743667685.html
24-08-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu aides’ remarks spark new Punjab row||A political row raged on Monday over controversial comments on Kashmir made by Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s advisers, Malvinder Singh Mali and Pyare Lal Garg, with the party saying it will consider taking action, and senior leaders sharply criticising the remarks.Late in the evening, Mali took direct potshots at Sidhu’s rival and chief minister Amarinder Singh and made personal attacks on the 79-year-old leader on social media.In a Facebook post last week, Mali had said Kashmir was a “country of Kashmiri people” and called both India and Pakistan its illegal occupiers. In a separate post, he put a sketch of late prime minister Indira Gandhi standing near a heap of human skulls with a gun in her hand. Garg had questioned the chief minister’s criticism of Pakistan.Sidhu summoned the two newly appointed functionaries to his residence in Patiala and spoke to them for roughly three hours. The meeting came a day after Singh condemned the remarks and said they were detrimental to the peace and stability of the country. The CM also called the remarks “atrocious” and “anti-national”.Congress MP Manish Tewari condemned the comments. “I urge Harish Rawat, AICC gen secy in-charge Punjab to seriously introspect that those who do not consider J&K to be a part of India and others who have ostensibly pro-Pakistan leanings should be a part of Punjab Congress,” Tewari tweeted. The Congress appeared to distance itself from the row.Rawat hinted at taking “strict action” against Mali if the comments were proven. “I would like to clarify on behalf of the party that J&K is an integral part of India. Nobody has the right to cast doubt on its status, let alone issuing a statement,” Rawat told news agency ANI.Rawat also warned of action over Indira Gandhi’s sketch. “She was one of the most popular leaders, a mother figure to us. If somebody insults her, we condemn it. Action will be taken if this is proven”, he added.Sidhu didn’t comment on the row. The advisers said they discussed issues concerning Punjab’s development with Sidhu. “Some political leaders and parties have started issuing ‘fatwa’ against me instead of initiating a dialogue...,” Mali said. Garg said: “When a government does good work, we appreciate it. But if it performs badly, we criticise it.”After the CM’s objection to his remarks, Mali on Sunday shared an old Facebook post, saying, “Punjab is asking — don’t beat around the bush and answer why the convoy was looted.”Mali and Garg were appointed by Sidhu on August 11 as part of additions he made to the party organisation after taking charge of the state unit. He has six other advisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-singh-sidhu-aides-remarks-spark-new-punjab-row-101629743504688.html
24-08-2021||India||Not Taliban state, says court; denies bail to accused in hate slogans case||A Delhi court refused to grant anticipatory bail to Hindu Raksha Dal president Bhupinder Tomar alias Pinky Chaudhary in a case of alleged anti-Muslim sloganeering in the Capital, saying that India was “not a Taliban state”.Chaudhary was purportedly seen making inflammatory remarks in an interview to a local news channel on August 8, the day incendiary slogans were raised at a rally named ‘Bharat Jodo Andolan’ called at Jantar Mantar to protest “colonial-era laws”.The video was placed as evidence before the court by the police who opposed Chaudhary’s pre-arrest bail plea.“We are not a Taliban state. Rule of law is the sacrosanct governing principle in our plural and multicultural society. While the whole of India is celebrating Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav, there are some minds still chained with intolerant and self-centric beliefs,” additional sessions judge Anil Antil said in his August 21 order released on Monday.Videos of the anti-Muslim sloganeering were circulated widely on social media, which triggered outrage and resulted in the Delhi Police registering a case on August 9 and the arrest ofsix people, including lawyer and former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay, who was granted bail on August 11.Rejecting relief to Chaudhary, the court said that “the complicity of accused in the alleged case crime is prima facie apparent from the material placed before it”.It said the accusations are serious and the offence alleged is severe in nature, and history shows that such incidents have flared up communal tensions leading to riots “and causing loss to life and property of the general public”.The court also reiterated that freedom of speech is a fundamental right, but it is not “absolute”.“Nor can it be extended to transgress upon fundamental rights of other people; nor can it be expanded to the acts prejudicial to the maintenance of peace, harmony and public order; nor can it be permitted to invade and erode the secular fabric of our society. In the garb of the libertarian concept of free speech, the applicant/accused cannot be allowed to trample the Constitutional principles, which promote inclusiveness and common brotherhood,” the 10-page order noted.The judge noted that Chaudhary’s interview was loaded with “high octane communal barbs; laced with inflammatory, insulting and threatening gestures”; and was “indicative of the calculative design on the part of the applicant to promote hatred and ill will...”The court also observed that going by the tone and tenor of Chaudhary’s speech and the use of threatening words, “there is (a) strong possibility, if released on bail, at this stage, the applicant/accused shall hamper the investigation, and shall influence and/or threaten the witnesses”.Advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain, who appeared for Chaudhary, contended that his client wasn’t involved in the offence and was in no way associated with the event. He alleged that the 11-minute interview clip of Chaudhary was added by the investigating officer to strengthen his case.He also alleged that the police were harassing his client by regularly visiting him at home, office, and other places.Opposing the pre-arrest bail plea, public prosecutor KK Sain said that Chaudhary had gone to Jantar Mantar with other members of his outfit and joined the rally as planned earlier to use it to create communal disharmony.“...accordingly, they incited the youth to propagate against a particular religion, despite the sanction to gather refused by the competent authority,” Sain had argued.The court observed that the investigation is at a nascent stage and other people are yet to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-taliban-state-says-delhi-court-denies-bail-to-accused-in-jantar-mantar-hate-slogans-case-101629743366258.html
24-08-2021||India||Must respect decision of an interfaith couple: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Monday said it will always respect the decision of an adult couple to live together and not investigate a marriage just because the man and the woman belong to different religions.“As a system and as an institution, we must respect the decision of a couple,” observed a bench of justices Uday U Lalit and Ajay Rastogi while refusing to entertain a petition by a woman’s parents, who claimed that their daughter, a Hindu, was forcibly converted to Islam and married to a Muslim man against her will.The habeas corpus petition by the parents alleged that the woman was illegally confined by the man and there must be an investigation into the circumstances of their alleged marriage after forceful conversion.But the court remarked: “As a system, we should not be prying into the privacy of a couple if a man and woman want to live together. We have to respect their decision as adults.”The bench relied on a statement given by the woman to the police officers in Chandigarh where the couple lived together.The ruling comes against the backdrop of some states passing laws that make inter-faith marriages difficult -- the Gujarat High Court recently stayed some provisions of a new state law recently on this count -- and the spectre of love-jihad. Several right wing groups believe that there is conspiracy where Muslim men hide their faith, and woo, marry, and subsequently convert women of other religions, usually Hinduism.The counter-affidavit, filed by advocate Shantanu Sagar for the Union territory of Chandigarh, attached the statement written by the woman, stating that she is living with the man of her own her free will and there is no coercion. The woman also said that her parents were against this alliance but she got married to the man in January and is now happily living with him.The affidavit also adduced the couple’s marriage certificate registered in Jammu and Kashmir, which is the man’s home state, apart from their birth certificates that show the woman is 25 years old and the man, 28.“Look at her statement. She has reported to the police that she is married of her own will. Look at the way the letter has been written. The letters are all straight and there are no cuts. The letter shows its author is not under any kind of stress or coercion,” the bench said.It asked the counsel for the parents if they were disputing her handwriting on the statement given to the police. “Since you are not doubting the handwriting, we cannot be of any assistance to you. A person, who is forced to make a statement, will not write like this. This is a clear case of a man or a woman being in complete sense and in control while writing a letter,” the bench told the parents’ counsel, Sudarsh Menon.After Menon said he could not dispute the handwriting, the court said that it is not a case for interference by the court and that the decision made by the couple should be respected. The counsel then opted to withdraw the petition.In February, another bench in the top court underscored the right of adults to choose their life partners while adding that it is time society learns to accept intercaste and interfaith marriages without hounding the couples.That bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul observed that “educated young boys and girls are increasingly choosing their life partner on their own”, which might be viewed as a deviation by the society and the parents, but the police authorities were duty-bound to keep such couples out of harm’s way if there was no violation of the law. In that instance, the bench was hearing a case of an intercaste marriage from Karnataka. The couple approached the top court, seeking protection from a criminal case lodged by the woman’s father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/must-respect-decision-of-an-interfaith-couple-sc-101629740128153.html
24-08-2021||India||Farmers protest: SC asks Centre, states to ensure agitations don’t block roads||The Supreme Court on Monday said that it is the responsibility of the Centre and the states to ensure that agitations do not block movement on public roads, as it took a grim view of the continuing farmers’ protests along Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy also turned down a suggestion to call upon the farm leaders of the two “prominent” unions, which have been spearheading the protests over three contentious agricultural laws since November last year. It insisted that the Centre and the states should rather put their heads together to work out a solution to road blockades.“The solution lies in the hands of the Union of India and state governments. They should coordinate with each other to ensure that if the protests are on, the traffic should not be stopped in any manner so that to and fro for people is not disturbed and does not cause any inconvenience to them,” said the court in its order.Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh since November in protest against three controversial central laws that aim to liberalise the farm economy, and traffic at many points, including at Chilla border in Noida, have been diverted, adding significantly to commuters’ travel times.The bench was considering a woman’s complaint that it has been taking her almost two hours, instead of 20 minutes, to travel from Noida to Delhi due to frequent blockades and protests when it called upon solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who was appearing for the Union government and Delhi Police.“What has been going on Mr Mehta? You have to find a solution. Courts cannot find a solution. There are some courts which have passed certain orders but it will work only if the governments find a solution,” Justice Kaul told the S-G.Mehta, on his part, suggested that the court may consider calling two “prominent” farmers’ unions involved in the protests to attend the case hearing. The court, however, did not accede to this request, commenting there could be some other unions that may make different claims.“You have to find a solution, they might have the right to a place to agitate, but the roads cannot be blocked like this,” the bench told the S-G while adjourning the matter to September 20 after Mehta said he will need two weeks to get further instructions.“We are putting this matter on September 20. That’s enough time. Please work out something,” Justice Kaul told the S-G.Petitioner Monicca Agarwaal, who works in an information technology firm, has stated in her petition that she needs to commute between Delhi and Noida for work but the travel time has become a “nightmare” for her.She rued that various directions passed by the top court in several cases, including the Shaheen Bagh protest, to keep public roads clear, have not been followed. Her plea added that the petitioner being a single mother with medical issues was having a harrowing time on account of the failure of the authorities in complying with the Supreme Court’s orders.During the hearing of this petition in April, the bench had emphasised that protesters cannot block roads and continually inconvenience the public while regretting that despite several judicial pronouncements on keeping public roads free, the situation did not seem to improve.The Union government and Delhi Police took a stand that the authorities were trying their best to remove blockades and make the commute in Delhi-NCR smooth.In its affidavit, the UP government said that efforts were underway to make the farmers understand the “grossly illegal act of blocking roads” but most of the protesters are aged farmers. “Diversions have been created to allow for smooth movement of traffic between Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi via the Maharajpur and Hindon roads as NH 24 was still blocked,” the affidavit stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-sc-asks-centre-states-to-ensure-agitations-don-t-block-roads-101629738865739.html
24-08-2021||India||Martial community whose lineage is intertwined with army regiment||The young officers’ course is mandatory for all new lieutenants joining the Indian Army, but for a group of handpicked officers belonging to the 37 Coorg Regiment of the army’s artillery arm, the four-week course traditionally gets extended by two more weeks with a visit to Madikeri, a hilly town in Karnataka.These young officers spend time in the hills learning about the origins of their regiment and the tales of legends like Field Marshal KM Cariappa and General KS Thimayya, who emerged from these very hills.Even though contested in the modern age, the Indian army’s regiments are formed and named after the communities of the soldiers recruited into these units.The martial race was a designation that was created by army officials in British India after the Indian Rebellion of 1857, in which they classified castes into two categories, with the ‘martial race’ being typically brave and well-built for fighting. Even now, the Indian Army designates its regiments as Sikh Light Infantry, Gorkha Rifles, Madras Regiment, Rajputana Rifles, and so on.Even though not familiar within Karnataka, the Kodavas or the Coorgies is considered a marital race and have a regiment named after them – the 37 Coorg Regiment. This is the only regiment for the Kodavas.The unit traces its origins back to 1794 when it was raised by the British to counter Tipu Sultan’s attack against the Kodava kingdom. Initially raised as infantry, the unit went on to fight against Tipu in the fourth Mysore war, where he was eventually killed.Until 1901, the regiment was designated as the 11th Madras Infantry and in 1902, the regiment was reorganised, and the basis of recruitment changed from Tamil and Telugu to only Coorg soldiers. The restructured regiment was then renamed the 71st Coorg Rifles in 1903.The new regiment was given dark green uniforms with scarlet facings. Red fezzes, which were an unusual item of uniform in the Indian Army, are reported to have been worn by the sepoys. Subsequently, described as an ‘in-out-of-the-run’ unit, they were disbanded in 1904 because of insufficient recruits.In 1942, Coorgs were again recruited into the newly raised 1st Coorg Battalion. Like the 71st Coorg Rifles, the new battalion had a badge incorporating crossed Coorg knives. In 1946, it was converted to the 37 Coorg Anti-Tank Regiment Unit of the Royal Indian Artillery. It is now a part of the modern Indian regiment of artillery and wears the uniform of the artillery.The regiment’s attachment to the land it represents is such that their war cry is “CauveryMata ki Jai” (Hail mother Cauvery) since river Cauvery is an integral part of the Kodava culture.Subedar Major (Retd) KC Kalappa, a retired gunner from the regiment said that it was a matter of pride for the Kodava community to have a regiment in their name, but over the years, the number of recruits from the community is reducing. “In the early 1970s, the regiment had people only from the Kodava community and the community took pride in it. But over the years,the number of recruits is coming down and now the unit consists of soldiers from all four south Indian states,” said Kalappa.Even though the regiment has recruited from all south Indian states, the regiment maintains the tradition of the Kodava community. For example, on the regiment’s raising day, the officers, and non-commissioned officers, regardless of their ethnicity, wear the traditional ‘Kupya Chale’,which consists of a traditional jacket and headgear. The officers wear Pichangatti (a traditional knife), and instead of handing baton, when a new commanding officer takes over, a Pichangatti is handed over as a sign of change in command.“I’m a Punjabi but I was the commanding officer of the Coorg regiment for three years and whenever I visit Kodagu, I feel like a Coorgi because of the traditions of the regiment. The house of the commanding the officer is called a Mercara house, named after the Mercara town in the Coorg,” said Major General Sanjay Sharma (retd).According to Maj Gen Sharma, the unit is so closely affiliated with the Kodagu community that it is a tradition for the unit to take part in the annual hockey tournament in Kodagu. “For the Kodavas, the annual hockey tournament is very important it is part of their culture. In this tournament, various families of Kodagu compete against each other. So, for the past few years, the regiment gives an award for the first goal scored in the tournament and it is a matter of pride for the people because the regiment named after their community is taking an interest,” he said.Over the years, however, the composition of the unit has changed. According to Maj Gen Sharma, currently, the number of Kodavas is only about 15-20% in the unit, and three other south Indian states fill other vacancies. “Over the years, the number of recruits has come down. But all men of the regiment, whichever state they are from, celebrates all Kodava festivals and call themselves Coorgs with pride,” he said.Describing the 37 Coorg Medium Regiment as a matter of ‘pride for Karnataka’, ex-Sergeant of the Indian Air Force Mandetira Subramani and the president of VeKare Ex-Servicemen’s Trust (VKET), has emphasised the need to post a few more willing young officers, junior commissioned officers (JCOs) and jawans from the community to the regiment and make it more meaningful. “We are trying to promote the heritage of the unit among the youngsters and trying to get more people to join the regiment and continue the legacy,” said Subramani.Even though the number of the Coorgies in the regiments is coming down, the regiment still holds on to the traditions of the community and takes pride the representing the decedents of river Cauvery on the battlefield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/martial-community-whose-lineage-is-intertwined-with-army-regiment-101629570434076.html
