25-08-2021||India||Law and order in Bengal not conducive to polling in 7 assembly seats, says state BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) West Bengal unit on Wednesday officially informed the central leadership in Delhi that the situation in the state was not conducive to polling in the seven assembly seats that are lying vacant since May. Bengal BJP leaders held an organisational meeting during the day and informed the central leadership that they cannot organise campaigns as post-poll violence is continuing. Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “The Election Commission of India sought our party’s opinion on holding assembly polls and by-polls in Bengal. BJP central leaders asked for a feedback from the state unit. We said our workers are facing threats and our leaders are being arrested on various charges. Campaigns cannot be held under these circumstances.” “We have not said polls should not be held. That decision will be taken by the ECI,” Bhattacharya added. In the March-April polls, the BJP bagged 77 seats while the Trinamool Congress (TMC) won 213. However, polls were held in 292 of the state’s 294 seats as two TMC candidates died of Covid-19 in Murshidabad district before the polls. Two TMC candidates from North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas died of Covid-19 after the polls and it was found that they had won. Though the BJP wrested 77 seats, its score came down to 75 as two legislators resigned from the assembly to retain their Lok Sabha seats. One of them is Nisith Pramanik who took oath as Union minister of state for home affairs during the cabinet reshuffle on July 7. The seventh seat where polls will be held is Bhawanipore in south Kolkata. It is chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s old seat but this year she contested from Nandigram in East Midnapore district and was defeated by her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari who is now leader of the opposition in the state assembly. Adhikari won the Nandigram seat in 2016 and was made a cabinet minister. State power minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay contested the Bhawanipore seat and won it. However, he stepped down so that Banerjee can contest again and return to the assembly. To continue as chief minister, she has to win a seat within six months from the date of announcement of the poll results. Since the Left parties and Congress could not win even a single seat, the contest in these seven seats is likely to be bi-polar. The TMC is keen to face the polls. “The ECI should announce the election schedule by August 31. Only four months are left. The assembly polls and by-polls can be held as these seats are located in areas where the Covid-19 pandemic is under control,” Banerjee said on Monday. TMC leaders said Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy and Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy will move the ECI in Delhi later this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-and-order-in-bengal-not-conducive-to-polling-in-7-assembly-seats-says-state-bjp-101629915795205.html
25-08-2021||India||Rane’s arrest justified but custody not needed: Court||The arrest of Union minister Narayan Rane over his derogatory remark against Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was justified but his custodial interrogation is not needed, a court at Mahad observed as it granted bail to the 69-year-old late on Tuesday.“Considering the reason for arrest and other reasons, I found that the arrest is justified,” magistrate S S Patil said in the order, a detailed copy of which was made available on Wednesday. Noting that while a few sections under which Rane was booked were non-bailable, they were not punishable with life or death. “Considering these factors, no prejudice would be caused to the prosecution if the accused is released on bail,” the court said, adding that “the accused shall not commit a similar type of offence”. Rane was arrested on Tuesday from Ratnagiri district following his remarks that he wanted to slap the chief minister for allegedly confusing the number of years since India got independence during the latter’s August 15 address.The police sought his custody for seven days, which the court refused and remanded him to judicial custody till September 4. Rane’s advocates then moved a bail application. The plea was heard and Rane was granted bail on a surety of ₹15,000. He was directed to appear at the office of Superintendent of Police in Alibaug (Raigad) on August 30 and September 13.Meanwhile, the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday adjourned till September 17, the hearing of Rane’s plea for quashing of cases filed against him after the Maharashtra government said it would not take any “coercive action” against the Union minister in connection with a first information report (FIR) registered in Nashik.Nashik Cyber Police has booked the Union minister under sections 500 (defamation) and 153 (b) (1) (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Information Technology Act. Cases against Rane were also filed in Pune and Mahad.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ranes-arrest-justified-but-custody-not-neededcourt-101629915794122.html
25-08-2021||India||Odisha man jumps into wife’s funeral pyre, succumbs to burn injuries||Unable to bear the loss of his wife who died of a cardiac arrest, a 60-year-old tribal man from Kalahandi, who was an elected member of the local gram panchayat, jumped into the burning pyre of his wife hours after her death. He later succumbed to his injuries.Kalahandi SP Vivek Saravana said, Raibati Sabar, 57 of Sialjodi village of Kalahandi district, passed away on Tuesday after suffering a cardiac arrest. Her husband Nilamani and four sons along with other relatives took her remains to the village crematorium for the last rites. After completing the customary funeral rituals, Raibati was laid to rest on the pyre.As the family members were on their way home from the crematorium, Nilamani took everyone by surprise and ran back to the pyre. “By the time the family members could react, Nilamani had suffered severe burns,” said Saravana.Incidentally, Sabar and his wife lived separately. SDPO of Dharmagarh D Chopdar said he is looking into the incident. “Not much can be revealed at this stage. Police are still investigating,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-man-jumps-into-wife-s-funeral-pyre-succumbs-to-burn-injuries-101629911473770.html
25-08-2021||India||India, Brazil and South Africa NSAs slam cross-border terrorism||Top security officials of India, Brazil and South Africa on Wednesday said terrorism, particularly cross-border terror activities carried out through state sponsorship, continues to be the most potent threat to global peace and security, in a veiled reference to Pakistan. The issue figured at a virtual meeting of National Security Advisers of the IBSA hosted by NSA Ajit Doval. The IBSA (India, Brazil, South Africa) has emerged as a key tripartite grouping for the promotion of cooperation in a range of areas. It was the first meeting of the NSAs of the member state of the grouping. The meeting was convened as part of the preparations for the next IBSA Summit. India is the current chair of the IBSA. "Participants agreed that terrorism, in particular, cross-border terrorism undertaken through state sponsorship, continues to be the most potent threat to global peace and security and must be fought through united efforts," the MEA said in a statement. It said the three countries also resolved to enhance cooperation in intelligence sharing, exchange of best practices amongst concerned national agencies and focus on capacity building. The meeting identified maritime security as an important area of future cooperation. "It was agreed to strengthen mechanisms to combat piracy and drug and human trafficking and ensure the security of sea lanes of communication and energy and sustainable exploitation of marine resources, including fishing," the MEA said. It said the next round of the trilateral 'IBSAMAR' maritime exercise will be held at the earliest."India also invited Brazil and South Africa for the MILAN naval exercise in 2022. India proposed cooperation among the defence industries based on respective strengths of each country and pooling of resources for joint development of platforms, including naval platforms," the MEA said. It said the NSAs also agreed to enhance practical cooperation in cyber security and accepted India's offer to organise an 'experts group meeting' on cyber security. They also agreed to further strengthen coordination within the UN on cyber and ICT issues. "During the meeting, discussions were held on maritime security, fight against terrorism and transnational organised crime, and cyber security," the MEA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-brazil-and-south-africa-nsas-slam-cross-border-terrorism-101629906966047.html
25-08-2021||India||‘Be more practical’: SC nudges UP govt, Allahabad HC to reduce appeal pendency||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday described the pendency of 1.83,000 criminal appeals in the high court of Allahabad and its Lucknow bench as “astronomical” and nudged the court administration and the Uttar Pradesh government to look at ways to remedy the situation.“These are astronomical figures. We would like the high court to iron out the issues causing the pendency. We don’t think this kind of a problem exists in any other high court,” a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy said on Wednesday.The bench, which has been hearing bail petitions of 18 life convicts who have spent over 10 years in jail in Uttar Pradesh, on July 26 sought broad parameters to expedite bail hearings in cases where the appeals have been pending for a long duration. Only one among the 18 has undergone a jail sentence of fewer than 10 years.On Wednesday, the judges said they wanted some norms to be laid down to ensure the period spent behind bars can be considered while ruling on bail pleas.“These matters are coming to us only because the appeals are not being heard for decades together. People can’t be in jail for such a long time,” the bench observed.Uttar Pradesh additional advocate general Garima Parshad echoed the state’s reservations on a proposal suggested by the high court for release of prisoners who have served 10 years in jail.Parshad said there were 7,214 convicts serving time who have been in jail for 10 years or more.“If this bracket is taken, more than 7,000 convicts will be released. A large number of such convicts are hardened criminals, rapists, repeat offenders, kidnappers, massacre, more than three murders, habitual criminals who do not deserve to be released on bail.”The two-judge bench asked the government to look at it from a “different angle”.“More than 7,000 persons are crowding your jails. They may be people who have had no parole. You can always segregate the cases of hardened criminals or others by specifying categories. Be more practical, this will ultimately decongest your jails,” the top court said. It added that the high court can devise a policy to be adopted for this purpose since it would be difficult for the Supreme Court to prescribe a uniform policy for all high courts.Senior advocate Viraj Datar who appeared for some of the 18 convicts told the court that most convicts have spent a minimum of 10 years in jail. He complained that some of the parameters suggested by the UP government were more onerous compared to the probation rules which entitle a prisoner for early release on good conduct.Datar also underscored that UP did have a sentence review board to consider the premature release of prisoners who have served 14 years but this is hardly done. The UP government rebutted this charge, insisting that lawyers of convicts had to share the blame since they sought adjournment by filing bail pleas.Once bail is granted, some convicts are untraceable, Garima Parshad added.The bench, however, did not appear convinced that the government was doing enough.“What prohibits the state from classifying the prisoners and releasing them on parole. A person cannot remain a habitual criminal after 15 years in jail. People who have resources move for bail. There may be several within the 10-year category who cannot afford the resources and have not been once out on parole.”The bench asked the UP government to take proactive action, including the processing of remission applications of eligible prisoners without waiting till September 22, the next date of hearing.The top court also took the Allahabad high court on board and asked them to independently consider the suggestions given by the state and the petitioners. Once the process of hearing bail pleas of life convicts is ironed out, the court said it intends to remit the pending pleas of the 18 convicts to the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-more-practical-sc-nudges-up-govt-allahabad-hc-to-reduce-appeal-pendency-101629907033160.html
25-08-2021||India||Quad to kick off Malabar tomorrow, 1st tri-service drills with UK in October||India, the United States, Japan and Australia will kick off the latest edition of the Malabar naval drills off the Pacific Ocean island of Guam on Thursday, with the exercise involving destroyers, frigates, corvettes, submarines, helicopters, long-range maritime patrol aircraft and elite special forces elements including the US Navy SEALs and the Indian Navy’s marine commandos (MARCOS), top officials familiar with the developments said on Wednesday. India is also preparing to conduct its first tri-service exercise with the United Kingdom in the Arabian Sea in October-end, said one of the officials cited above, asking not to be named. The Royal Navy will send a carrier strike group led by HMS Queen Elizabeth for the drills that will be conducted from October 21 to 27. India has so far conducted tri-service drills only with two other countries --- the US and Russia. The Quad navies had carried out complex naval drills under the Malabar banner in November 2020 in the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal. Two Indian warships, INS Shivalik and INS Kadmatt, will be taking part in the 25th edition of the Malabar exercise along with the P-8I maritime reconnaissance aircraft and MARCOS. “A wide range of surface, sub-surface and air operations will be carried out by the participating navies during the exercise. Special operations teams --- US Navy SEALs, Indian MARCOS and Special Boarding Units of the Japanese Maritime Self-Defence Force (JMSDF) --- will carry out visit, board, search and seizure (VBSS) training and simulated hostage rescue operations,” said a second official. The US Navy will be represented by an Arleigh Burke-class destroyer, two tankers and P-8A long-range maritime patrol aircraft, the JMSDF will field a helicopter carrier, two destroyers, a submarine and Kawasaki P1 maritime patrol aircraft, and the Royal Australian Navy is taking part in the drills with a frigate. The exercise ends on August 29. China has been monitoring the activities of the Quad countries. Beijing has been wary of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad that was revived in late 2017 by India, the US, Australia and Japan, and these suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level in 2019. Speaking at an Observer Research Foundation (ORF) event in New Delhi on the eve of the Malabar exercise, Admiral John C Aquilino, commander, US Indo-Pacific Command, said, “There is no better ally and no worse adversary than the US (in the Indo-Pacific region).” An official release issued by US INDOPACOM on Aquilino’s India visit quoted him as saying, ‘Our network of allies and partners are our greatest strength and a centre of gravity in the Indo-Pacific. Our relationship with India is based on aligned values and presents an important model for building enduring partnerships. As we increase interoperability, information-sharing, and access with allies and partners across the globe, this partnership enhances our capabilities, improves our coordination, and shows that we are stronger when we stand together.” The exercise will involve the participation of the US Navy’s MH-60R helicopters, which the Indian Navy is also inducting to modernise its ageing helicopter fleet. A month ago, the US delivered two MH-60R helicopters to the Indian Navy at the Naval Air Station North Island, San Diego. Last year, India ordered 24 Lockheed Martin-Sikorsky MH-60R helicopters from the US to strengthen the navy’s anti-submarine/anti-surface warfare and surveillance capabilities. The government-to-government contract for the helicopters is worth around ₹17,500 crore. The drills planned with the UK in the tri-service format in October will include air defence exercises, anti-submarine warfare drills, anti-surface operations, amphibious operations, humanitarian assistance and disaster relief operations (HADR) in a contested environment and other joint manoeuvres, said a third official. India and France are also laying the groundwork for a new format of military exercises involving their armies, navies and air forces in what will be a major boost for defence cooperation between the two countries. In April 2021, France, India, the US, Japan and Australia carried out complex maritime drills, Exercise La Pérouse, in the eastern Indian Ocean Region (IOR) to enhance interoperability among their navies. “The frequency of our bilateral and multi-lateral exercises has gone up over the years. We are now conducting up to 30 such exercises annually,” said the second official. From carrying out naval drills with like-minded countries to reaching out to states in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), the Indian Navy is focusing on checking China’s rising ambitions in the region and sending out a strong message that Beijing’s power play in South China Sea cannot be replicated in the Indian Ocean. “We are carefully monitoring Chinese presence in the IOR, including the movement of their warships for anti-piracy deployment in the Gulf of Aden, research ships and intelligence-gathering vessels. On Wednesday, the Indian Navy tracked a Chinese space-tracking ship enter the IOR,” the official added. Last November, navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh said a “great power competition” was playing out vigorously in IOR, where the navy has stepped up surveillance to check China’s ambitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-to-kick-off-malabar-tomorrow-1st-tri-service-drills-with-uk-in-october-101629906793616.html
25-08-2021||India||P Chidambaram arrives in Goa to ‘strategise’ for assembly polls||PANAJI: Former Union finance and home minister P Chidambaram arrived in Goa on Wednesday to hold talks with the state Congress leadership and take stock of the party’s preparations for the assembly elections slated for early next year. Chidambaram, who was appointed as the senior All India Congress Committee (AICC) election observer for Goa on 9 August, met AICC desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao, AICC observers Prakash Rathod and Mansoor Khan, state party president Girish Chodankar, and leader of opposition in the Goa assembly Digambar Kamat among others. The former finance minister, who is on a two-day visit, didn’t speak to the media. But later, Goa Pradesh Congress Committee secretary M K Shaikh said Chidambaram will meet various leaders and party functionaries. “He will interact with PCC office-bearers, frontal organisations, district and block presidents, and will take inputs to work out strategies for the forthcoming assembly elections. He is specially appointed by AICC to oversee election strategies for the Goa assembly elections,” Shaikh said. The task ahead is arduous for the former FM as the state Congress has been weakened by the departure of most of its elected MLAs to the Bharatiya Janata Party .The party had won 17 seats in the 2017 assembly elections and also won another seat in 2019 that became vacant due to the death of former defence minister Manohar Parrikar of the BJP. But between 2017 and 2019, 13 Congress MLAs deserted the party and joined the BJP, bringing down the MLA count to just five. Of the five, four are former chief ministers and senior figures in Goa’s political circuit. The party also suffers from a lack of cohesion, with several leaders expressing lack of faith in state president Girish Chodankar, and the fear is this will only worsen as the elections come nearer. This is Chidambaram’s first visit to the state after his appointment, and he is expected to help iron out differences among the party’s rank and file. The ruling BJP has, however, said it is unfazed by the senior leader’s visit. “Somebody asked me, ‘Chidambaram has been appointed (by the Congress) for strategy. What about you all?’ I told them that even if Rahul Gandhi is sent here, it will not make any difference, because we have a Rahul Gandhi in every booth. They have only one Rahul Gandhi, we have many. All of our workers are masters at their jobs,” Goa BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pchidambaram-arrives-in-goa-to-strategise-for-assembly-polls-101629906073149.html
25-08-2021||India||HT This Day: August 26, 1984 — All passengers, crew of jet freed||Twelve pro-Khalistani hijackers of the Indian Airlines Boeing-737 surrendered to authorities in the United Arab Emirates this evening and released all 68 passengers and six crew members unharmed, about 38 hours after they had seized the aircraft over Pathankot. The released hostages are expected back in the Capital early tomorrow morning. Seven hostages, including five women and an infant, freed at Lahore and Karachi, have already arrived in Delhi this evening. The hijackers were taken into custody by the local authorities and whisked away. The welcome development followed nearly eight hours of nonstop negotiations between the hijackers and leaders of the UAE Government led by Defence Minister, Sheikh Mohammad Bin Rashid Al-Maktoum, who were ably assisted by Indian Ambassador, Mr Isharat Aziz, and Capt. B. K. Bhasin, Director of Flight Safety of the Indian Airlines. India’s Minister of State for External Affairs, who was in Dubai was returning home from Rumania, also joined the talks. During the negotiations which appeared to be on the verge of collision on several occasions, the hijackers stuck to their demands, including safe passage to the Untitled States and assurance that the UAE Government would respect its promises. The UAE authorities in consultation with other concerned parties is understood to have promised a seven-day asylum to the pro-Khalistani Sikh hijackers before their departure to the United States. The passengers were allowed to leave the aircraft .soon after the hijackers and the UAE Government came to a workable understanding. First a batch of 25 passengers came out of the Boeing and they were almost immediately followed by the remaining passengers and members of the crew. The released hostages were taken in two airport authority buses to the air-conditioned international transit lounge for rest and refreshments.The Delhi-Chandigarh-Srinagar plane, which was seized by 12 kirpan-wielding Sikh extremists soon after it left Chandigarh yesterday morning was taken to Lahore, where it was refuelled after nine and a half hours. The hijackers then forced it to fly to the Gulf via Karachi. At Karachi, it was again given jet fuel. The Dubai airport authorities switched off the runway lights and raido contact and refused landing permission. The plane hovered over the Dubai airport for 40 minutes before it landed on the darkened runway with fuel running low. After landing the plane was cordoned off by security personnel at an isolated spot on the airport. An Indian Airlines relief aircraft carrying senior officials of the Government of India and Indian Airlines including Capt. Bhasin, also landed at Dubai airport within minutes of the landing of the hijacked aircraft. New Delhi was constantly in touch with Dubai and a special committee functioning under the Cabinet kept reviewing the minute to-minute changing situation. This was the second hijacking of an Indian Airlines aircraft within seven weeks. On July 5, an Indian Airlines airbus on a Srinagar-Delhi flight was hijacked to Lahore, where pro-Khalistan hijackers had released all passengers unharmed. The Boeing, initially carrying 122 passengers, was on a Delhi-Srinagar hopping flight via Chandigarh and Jammu. Sixty seven passengers had disembarked at Chandigarh and 31 joined the flight for Jammu and Srinagar. The plane was hijacked minutes after it took off from Chandigarh. Some of the hijackers were believed to have boarded the plane at Chandigarh as four passengers had given fake addresses. The hijackers allowed five passengers, including a three-member family, to leave the aircraft at Lahore and two women, holding British passports at Karachi. It was the second hijacking experience for Capt. V. K. Mehta and the third for steward D. K. Mehta. WASHINGTON: The State Department refused to comment on reports from Dubai that as part of the deal for the release of the passengers and crew of the hijacked Boeing the hijackers would be allowed to come to the US and that when they arrived they would be arrested. US officials said the negotiations at the Dubai airport were done by local authorities not by the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-august-26-1984-all-passengers-crew-of-jet-freed-101629905893602.html
25-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: K'taka CM orders probe on Mysuru gangrape and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.College girl, on bike with friend, allegedly gangraped in Mysuru, CM orders probeReports said the girl is not from Karnataka and stays there for studies. The incident took place on Tuesday at around 7pm when she was returning from Chamundi hills along with her friend. Read more here.US intelligence report on coronavirus origin inconclusiveA WHO report had earlier said the virus most likely travelled from animals to humans and that the possibility of a lab leak was ‘extremely unlikely’. Read more here.Former India and England cricketers react after India's 78 all out in first innings in LeedsThe likes of Wasim Jaffer, Irfan Pathan, Michael Vaughan, Kevin Pietersen took to Twitter to express their views after England seamers ran through the Indian batting line-up, bowling them out for 78. Read more here. Zeeshan Khan evicted from Bigg Boss OTT after violent fight with Pratik Sehajpal, shows injuries on InstagramActor Zeeshan Khan was evicted from the Bigg Boss OTT house on Wednesday after he got violent with Pratik Sehajpal and Nishant Bhat during a task. Read more here. Shashi Tharoor’s pic of smashing coconut sparks meme fest, MP shares his ‘favourite ones’Shashi Tharoor took to Facebook to share his ‘favourite’ memes inspired by his pic of smashing coconut. Read more here. Not just Apple Music, your HomePod can now play music from Gaana, JioSaavnThe Apple HomePods can now do more. While you can still use the HomePod to AirPlay content from your smartphone, Apple Music and Apple Podcasts are not the only content streaming services you can take advantage of by asking Siri to pull up what you want to listen to. Read more here. Amid Sidhu-Amarinder fight, Congress reveals who will lead party in Punjab elections||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-k-taka-cm-orders-probe-on-mysuru-gangrape-101629904349061.html
25-08-2021||India||Food for 82.3 million poor lost during transit in 4 years, Parliament panel says||Around 411,810 tonnes of wheat and rice were wasted as transit and pilferage losses in the past four years, a Standing Committee report on food, consumer affairs and public distribution, tabled in Parliament earlier this month, revealed.The report also highlighted that the loss of foodgrains led to an estimated ₹1,109.82 crore in the past four years, till October 2020, and subsidised commodities were enough to feed 82.3 million people if distributed properly. The Centre provides around 5kg of wheat of rice at subsidised rates under its Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana.“The government should take significant steps to mitigate transit and storage losses and save taxpayers’ money,” the committee stated in its report.The report also showcased the condition of the country’s food storage and transit infrastructure, as well as the decentralised procurement scheme (DCP).Under the DCP, the states procure, store and distribute foodgrains themselves under the Centre’s targeted public distribution system (TPDS) and other welfare schemes. The decentralised system of procurement has the objectives to ensure that Minimum Support Price (MSP) is passed on to the farmers, to enhance the efficiency of procurement and to encourage procurement in non-traditional states, thereby extending the benefits of MSP to local farmers as well as to save on transit losses and costs.The Standing Committee report shows that so far only 23 states have implemented it – 15 to procure rice and eight to procure wheat – despite the scheme being in place for the past 23 years.The Parliament panel raised questions on the actions taken against the officials responsible for the transit losses. It found out that around 153 cases were filed in 2018-19 while 144 were lodged in 2019-20 and 44 in 2020-21 (till September 2020). Of these, 18 cases of unjustifiable losses are still pending while a total of 89 cases of storage losses registered till September 2020 are pending.ALSO READ | Ration scheme in all states soon: CentreReacting to the findings, the Standing Committee suggested the Food Security of India (FSI) come up with new standards, guidelines and checklists to mitigate the transit and pilferage losses of foodgrains and make officials and workers more aware. Moreover, it asked for a framework to deal with pending cases of corruption, excise duty and related matters against the officials.Meanwhile, the Union ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution responded to the report in Parliament to say that it has taken several steps to check corruption in FCI godowns.“Farmers are now provided with the MSP online while the agencies are paid through an online system. The quality-related parameters of cereals are put up on public domain,” Union minister Piyush Goyal said, adding, “Procurement process is being inspected regularly and action taken against those who are found guilty of adulteration. The produce is tagged at every step of the process – from the mills to depot.”Several steps have also been taken to monitor the distribution including regulating selling in the open market by limiting it through a modulated e-auction, Down To Earth reported quoting the ministry. “CCTV cameras are also installed in all the godowns. In addition, committees have been formed to redress the grievances of the contractors.”However, despite measures taken by the Centre, losses to the tune of ₹280.94 crore was incurred due to transit wastage in 2020-21 (till October 2020), the committee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/food-security-public-distribution-system-foodgrain-parliament-standing-committee-101629902146626.html
25-08-2021||India||Govt hikes cane prices, but rules out increase in sugar rates||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a 1.7% increase in the assured price millers pay to sugarcane growers in the 2021-22 season to ₹290 per quintal (100 kgs), a move that will benefit about 50 million farmers in the country. The government also ruled out any immediate increase in sugar prices for household consumers. Consumer affairs and food minister Piyush Goyal announced the new cane rates but when asked if there would be a commensurate hike in the sugar selling price, he answered: “Not necessarily.” India is the world’s largest sugar consumer, but 90% of the sweetener goes into commercial food products while 10% is bought by households. Sale and output of the commodity is tightly regulated by the government. India has produced ample sugar in the range of 28-31 million tonne of sugar in the past couple of years, while domestic consumption is about 26 million tonne. Cane prices are a big issue for farm unions, who are an influential voting bloc especially in western Uttar Pradesh, where Assembly polls are due. Extreme weather in Maharashtra in the past two months could affect domestic prices in the new season, experts say. “Maharashtra is a key monitorable for domestic sugar production and prices. Currently, over 20% of the area under sugarcane in Maharashtra has been affected because of heavy rainfall,” said Hetal Gandhi, an economist with Crisil Research Ltd. The so-called fair and remunerative price of ₹290 per quintal, the price which millers mandatorily pay to farmers, will be applied for a basic recovery rate of 10%, which is the amount of sugar extracted from a given quantity of raw cane. If mills are able to extract less than 9.5% of sugar from cane, farmers would be paid ₹275 per quintal. White sugar prices reached $504 per tonne in August 2021, according to industry trade data, because of which exporters were able to earn ₹37 per kg without any subsidy against the domestic price of ₹31-32 per kg. “That has led them to sign export contracts above the target of 6 million tonne set by the government for sugar season 2021, which ends in September,” Gandhi said. The Cabinet in 2020 had approved a ₹3,500 crore subsidy package for sugar export by millers amid a glut, a farmer-friendly move amid a persistent stand-off between large farm unions and the government over three recent farm-reform laws. India is expected to export over 7 million tonne of sugar till September. Hence, there would be no need for subsidy by the government for the additional 1 million tonne. India has offered sugar export subsidies for a third year in a row to pare surplus stocks and ensure domestic prices don’t crash. Export subsidies are necessitated when exports becomes unviable because international prices are lower than domestic prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-hikes-cane-prices-but-rules-out-increase-in-sugar-rates-101629902416872.html
25-08-2021||India||CDS flags concerns about terror spillover from Afghanistan to India||India is concerned about terrorist activity in Afghanistan spilling over into the country after the Taliban takeover and contingency plans are in place to deal with the scenario, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat said on Wednesday. The CDS’s comments came days after Taliban wrested control of the Afghan capital Kabul, capping a swift takeover of most major cities in that country. Rawat, the country’s senior-most military commander, said India anticipated the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan but its rapid pace delivered a surprise. “From the Indian perspective, we were anticipating the Taliban takeover. We were concerned about terrorist activity overflowing into India from Afghanistan. Our contingency planning is ongoing, and we are prepared for that,” Rawat said. He was speaking at an Observer Research Foundation (ORF) seminar on India-US Partnership: Securing the 21st Century, sharing stage with Admiral John C Aquilino, commander, US Indo-Pacific Command. The two military leaders held a separate meeting on Wednesday and discussed matters related to peace and security in the region as well as bilateral military defence cooperation. “Everything that has happened (in Afghanistan) was anticipated. Only the timelines changed and certainly surprised us because we were anticipating this (takeover) happening a couple of months down the line,” Rawat said at the ORF event. In an assessment done as recently as last month, the Indian side had concluded that the Taliban would shift its campaign to capture territory from rural areas to urban centres and provincial capitals only by the end of August, after the completion of the withdrawal of US forces. The Indian side had also expected that there would be air support for Afghan security forces from the US if the Taliban entered urban areas. Assessments done by both the Indian and Afghan sides also suggested that the fighting would continue for at least two to three months, till winter set in. However, the Taliban rapidly stepped up its offensive this month, seizing one provincial capital after another, both in the southern part of Afghanistan, the traditional stronghold of the group, and the north, where it had faced greater resistance in the past. This was done by concluding agreements with warlords and commanders of the security forces, and thousands of troops simply surrendered without a fight at a time when the Ashraf Ghani government showed no indication of taking the fight to the Taliban. Rawat said the group, which was ousted from power in Afghanistan by US-led coalition forces in 2001, was the same Taliban that existed 20 years ago. “All that has happened is that partners have now changed. It is the same Taliban with different partners…We will make sure that any activity which is likely to flow out of Afghanistan and find its way into India will be dealt with in the manner in which we are dealing with terrorism in the country,” the CDS added. India should stay prepared for terror spillover from Afghanistan into Jammu and Kashmir via Pakistan, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd). “But working on a matrix of probability and possibility, the probability is there but possibility of terror inflow in J&K in the near future appears distant. The reason is that taking over control of Afghanistan by Taliban was easy but establishing control will be difficult. The group will channelise its energy to establish control there,” Jaswal said. He said India has a window of opportunity to finish off home-grown terrorism is J&K before the Taliban attempts to send a few leaders to exploit that network in India. With the Taliban now firmly in control of most of Afghanistan, the biggest concern for Indian security agencies is the presence of between 7,000 and 10,000 terrorists from Pakistan-based groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed, Haqqani Network, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi and Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan. These groups have targeted Indian interests in Afghanistan in the past, and some like LeT had carried out attacks on Indian soil. Mullah Mohammad Yaqoob, the son of Taliban founder Mullah Mohammed Omar and the head of the group’s military operations, is believed to work closely with both LeT and JeM commanders. These two terror groups have also helped the Taliban with fund-raising, recruitment and military advice. The ORF event on India-US partnership also put the spotlight on China expanding its military capabilities at a swift pace, including strategic weapons and building a fleet of aircraft carriers to operate and dominate waters thousands of miles away from its shores. “It is the largest military buildup since World War II, both in the conventional and the nuclear domain. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s words don’t really match their deeds,” said Aquilino, raising questions about Beijing’s intentions. Rawat said India was quite capable of dealing with China and Pakistan in the conventional domain. “Strategic weapons are weapons of deterrence, not for engaging nations in combat. We have two neighbours armed with strategic weapons. India is evolving its own strategies and has a triad,” he said. India’s nuclear triad gives it the capability to carry out nuclear strikes from land, air and sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-flags-concerns-about-terror-spillover-from-afghanistan-to-india-101629899532429.html
25-08-2021||India||Onam spike? Kerala records 31,445 fresh Covid infections, highest since May 20||Kerala on Wednesday reported 31,445 new Covid infections, which is an over 30 per cent spike from Tuesday's 24,296 fresh cases. With this, the test positivity rate crossed the 19 per cent mark.Among districts of the State, Ernakulam recorded the highest number with 4,048 cases followed by Thrissur (3,865), Kozhikode (3,680), Malappuram (3,502), Palakkad (2,562), Kollam (2,479), Kottayam (2,050), Kannur (1,930) Alappuzha (1,874), Thiruvananthapuram (1,700), Idukki (1,166) Pathanamthitta (1,008) and Wayanad (962). Of the new cases, 123 were health workers, 138 from outside the State and 29,608 infected through contact with the source of the contact not being clear in 1,576 cases, the release said. There are currently 4,70,860 people under surveillance in various districts. Of these, 4,44,278 are in home or institutional quarantine and 26,582 in hospitals, according to Kerala's health bulletin.Also Read: For pandemic-hit Kerala, it’s a make-or-break OnamSpike not unexpectedThe spike is not unexpected as state and centre health experts had already warned that Kerala might see a sudden rise in the number of cases following Onam like it happens every time after any festivity. The state government restricted Inam celebrations to some extent but shops and other establishments were allowed to function. And what was expected as a spike has now become an apparent explosion of new infections.Is Kerala seeing the third wave of Covid?The last time Kerala recorded over 30,000 cases on a day was May 20 when it reported 30,491 fresh infections. Wednesday's tally is even higher than that, which is worrying. Since July last week, Kerala has been witnessing a steady rise in the number of cases, for which the Centre sent an expert team to the state. Investigating the situation, the central team found that the state government did not follow proper containment measures; the seropositivity in the state was low; and the high population of senior citizens-- all contributed to the rise.Cases of breakthrough infections are also high in Kerala, which was pointed out as one of the factors behind Kerala's July spike. Kerala's Covid situation is fodder for political battle as Kerela leaders have been claiming that the situation is not as bad as it is being projected. On Wednesday, Union minister of State V Muraleedharan took to Twitter and blamed Pinarayi Vijayan for his "illogical strategy".The government had put in place some strict rules making negative RT-PCR or vaccination certificates mandatory for visiting shops. While these created a flutter in state politics, the Covid-19 situation of Kerala did not improve much.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/onam-spike-kerala-records-31-445-fresh-covid-infections-highest-since-may-20-101629898312511.html
25-08-2021||India||College girl, on bike with friend, allegedly gangraped in Mysuru, CM orders probe||A student has allegedly been gangraped by a group of miscreants in the Mysuru district of Karnataka while she was travelling along with a male friend on his bike on Tuesday, reports said. According to police, the incident took place in the evening around 7pm when the duo was returning from Chamundi hills. A gang of six men, who were reportedly in an inebriated state, stopped the bike and asked for money. When the male friend said that they have no money on them, the miscreants reportedly attacked him and hit the girl. Then they reportedly took turns to rape the girl on the spot.A case of gangrape has been registered at Avalahalli Police Station, Mysuru. Both the girl and her male friend are being treated at a private hospital, reports said. Mysuru police commissioner Dr Chandragupta visited the spot and formed multiple teams to probe the case, PTI reported.It's unfortunate incident. An FIR has been registered. We've sent senior officials including ADGP Pratap Reddy to Mysuru. I'm also going to Mysuru tomorrow. We'll take strict action against the culprits: Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on gangrape of a student in Mysuru pic.twitter.com/182ZsEJbp5The accused are missing. "It's an unfortunate incident. An FIR has been registered. We've sent senior officials including ADGP Pratap Reddy to Mysuru. I'm also going to Mysuru tomorrow. We'll take strict action against the culprits," Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra said.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, who is in Delhi, said he has directed the director-general of police Praveen Sood to initiate an investigation. "Based on the statement, a case has been registered. I have directed the DGP that whoever has perpetrated it, they should be identified and stringent action should be taken against them," Bommai said.The girl is not from Karnakata and stays in Mysuru for studies, reports said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/college-girl-on-bike-with-boyfriend-allegedly-gangraped-in-mysuru-unfortunate-says-home-minister-101629897458540.html
25-08-2021||India||Time for schools to reopen in phased manner, says Covid-19 panel chief||The time has come for schools to resume classes in a phased manner, the chief of Centre's working group on coronavirus disease (Covid-19) said on Wednesday.Dr NK Arora, who heads the working group under the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI), cautioned that the parents and other members of the family of the school students should get themselves vaccinated against Covid-19.Dr Arora also suggested that teachers, non-teaching staff as well as drivers associated with schools should be vaccinated to create a protective ring around the students, even as he said that "children don't get a severe disease or get very sick with Covid-19."Earlier in the day, Union health and family welfare minister Mansukh Mandaviya had urged the states and Union territories to get all the school teachers vaccinated on priority before September 5, when India celebrates Teachers' Day.He said the Centre would provide an additional two crore doses of Covid-19 to the states this month.Meanwhile, Dr Arora announced that ZyCoV-D, Zydus Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine approved for children in the age group of 12-17 years, would be rolled out in October. The vaccine received emergency-use approval on August 20.He added that the NTAGI would conduct a meeting soon to chalk out a plan for introducing the ZyCoV-D vaccine in the Centre's ongoing inoculation drive by prioritising children with comorbidities. The NTAGI chairman said it is estimated that less than 1% of around 12 crore adolescents in the age group of 12-18 years in India may have comorbidities, according to news agency PTI."Healthy children will be given vaccines only after the immunisation drive for adults is complete," Dr Arora said.A first-of-its-kind DNA vaccine that produces the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 to elicit an immune response, ZyCoV-D is an intradermal vaccine that would be using a ‘needle-free injector’, which its Ahmedabad-based manufacturer Cadila Healthcare Ltd said would help in reducing side-effects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-vaccine-zycov-d-ntagi-nk-arora-school-reopening-101629894487467.html
25-08-2021||India||'Aims to increase interoperability': Indian Navy on Malabar Exercise 2021||The Indian Navy on Wednesday laid out the details of this year Malabar Exercise, which is scheduled to take place from August 26 to 29. The 2021 edition of the naval drills, its 25th, is called “Malabar 21.”“The aim this year is to increase the interoperability amongst the participating navies, developing common understanding and SOPs for Maritime Security Operations. Malabar 21 will witness exercises all the three domains covering maritime warfare: live-weapon firing, anti-air and anti-submarine warfare drills, and joint manoeuvres and tactical exercises,” the Navy said in a statement, according to news agency ANI.MALABAR-21 will witness exercises covering all three domains of maritime warfare including-live weapon firing, anti-surface, anti-air and anti-submarine warfare drills, joint manoeuvres and tactical exercises: Indian NavyMalabar 21 will take place in Guam, an unincorporated territory of the United States, which lies off the Pacific Ocean. Two Indian Navy Ships (INS), Shivalik and Kadmatt, arrived in Guam on August 21 for the exercise.#INSShivalik and #INSKadmatt arrived at Guam islands, USA on 21 Aug 21 as deployment to nations in #SouthEastAsia & the Pacific Ocean. The ships will participate in the annual #Exercise MALABAR-21, between navies of Australia, India, Japan & USA. https://t.co/Z5KuRYF2Vi pic.twitter.com/sRrTdg6iuVThe Indian Navy, along with its counterparts from Australia, Japan and the US, participates in the Malabar drills, which first took place in 1992. The next two editions were in 1995 and 1996. 2002 was the fourth time it took place. Since then, it has taken place annually.Initially a bilateral event involving only India and the US, it was expanded to Australia, Japan and Singapore joined in 2007. Japan subsequently participated in 2009 and 2011 and, from 2014, has been a regular participant. It became a permanent member in 2015. While Singapore has participated only once, Australia re-joined in 2020, making its second appearance.Australia, India, Japan and the US together form the “Quad.” Malabar 2020 was the first time all four Quad members participated in these drills. The exercise was held in two phases: November 3-6 and November 17-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aims-to-increase-interoperability-indian-navy-on-malabar-exercise-2021-101629894944331.html
25-08-2021||India||Narayan Rane threatens Thackeray govt over Sushant Singh Rajput's former manager Disha Salian's death case||Union minister Narayan Rane on Wednesday said he would ensure that the Disha Salian death case reaches a logical conclusion. "I won't stop unless the guilty are punished," the centre of Maharashtra's new 'slapgate' Narayan Rane said. Disha Salian used to be Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput's manager. Just a week before Sushant Singh Rajput's death on June 14, 2020, Disha Salian was found dead.Narayan Rane has been openly claiming that Disha was raped and murdered. The case has been closed as the autopsy report ruled out murder and any sexual assault and asserted that Disha Salian committed suicide."Disha Salian did not commit suicide. She was raped and murdered. One of the young ministers from the current Maharashtra government attended the party where Disha Salian was also present... Maharashtra government trying to save the culprit," Narayan Rane had said in a press conference in August last year. Linking the unnatural deaths of Disha Salian and Sushant Singh Rajput, the former chief minister of Maharashtra claimed that they were murdered.Narayan Rane's son Nitesh Rane too had voiced a similar opinion and claimed that Disha had dialled 100 on that night and her boyfriend, who was missing after her death, was aware of what happened to her on that night.The Union minister raked up the case again after he was arrested by Police for his comment against Thackeray. “It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire about the count of years of independence during his (August 15) speech. Had I been there, I would have given (him) a tight slap," Rane said on Monday. On Tuesday, he was arrested and was granted bail.The arrest sparked off a major controversy, following which the Maharashtra government told the Bombay high court on Wednesday that it would not take any coercive action against Rane.(With inputs from Surendra P Gangan)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narayan-rane-threatens-thackeray-govt-over-sushant-singh-rajput-s-former-manager-disha-salian-s-death-case-101629894705420.html
25-08-2021||India||Will resign on order from Sonia Gandhi, Rahul: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said on Wednesday he would step down as the state head when Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and senior party leader Rahul Gandhi ask him to do so.Regarding speculations about leadership change in the state based on a two-and-a-half-year power-sharing formula, Baghel said such talks were made by those trying to bring political instability, but they would never succeed.Chhattisgarh: Congress workers welcomed CM Bhupesh Baghel upon his arrival in Raipur after meeting Rahul Gandhi in Delhi"I'll step down when Sonia&Rahul Ji order me. Those talking about 2.5-2.5 years plan are trying to bring political instability but will never succeed,"he said pic.twitter.com/yOahtOMj7ZBaghel made the statements following a grand welcome that was accorded to him in Raipur upon his return from Delhi where he and state health minister held meetings with central leaders amid reports of a growing power tussle between the two.Earlier in the day, it was reported, the duo was scheduled to meet Congress general secretary KC Venugopal in the national capital. They met Rahul Gandhi in the presence of Venugopal and Chhattisgarh in-charge PL Punia on Tuesday.Later, Punia said there was no discussion about a change of guard during the meeting and wide-ranging discussions were held with Gandhi on the several schemes and projects being implemented in Chhattisgarh.Tensions between Baghel and Singh Deo have simmered since the formation of the government in December 2018, but have never boiled over. Both leaders have taken the stance that all decisions about the government’s future will be taken by the party high command, and they will follow the instructions from Delhi. However, speculation of a new arrangement has been rising since June 17, the day the CM completed two-and-a-half years of his term.The rift within the ruling party had come to the fore when Deo walked out of the Assembly demanding clarity from his own government over allegations that one of his relatives was involved in an alleged attack on Congress legislator Brihaspat Singh.Last week, Deo had sought action against a news portal that had cited him as the source for an article claiming Baghel would resign on August 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-resign-on-order-from-sonia-gandhi-rahul-chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-101629894454259.html
25-08-2021||India||National Monetisation Pipeline: After Rahul, CM Mamata joins list of detractors||The National Monetisation Pipeline which was announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman earlier this week faced criticism from West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday. The Trinamool Congress supremo said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is mistaking national assets as their own assets or of the Prime Minister’s. She called the decision ‘unfortunate’.Govt unveils ₹6L-crore monetisation scheme“These are not PM Modi’s or the BJP’s assets. These are national assets which belong to the country. The Prime Minister cannot sell the national assets. It is an unfortunate decision and I am shocked. Many people will join me in condemning this decision,” Mamata said while addressing a press conference.Similar sentiments were expressed by Congress Lok Sabha MP from Wayanad Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday who criticised the National Monetisation Pipeline claiming that it will prove harmful for the youth as it will not create enough employment opportunities.National Monetisation Pipeline launched to 'monetise' under-utilised public sector assets“We are not against privatization. Our (UPA government’s) privatization had a logic and there was no privatization of strategic industry such as the railways. All this privatization is for creating monopolies. You know who owns ports and airports,” Rahul Gandhi said, according to a report by HT. He also accused the government of selling India’s crown jewels. He alleged that infrastructure which took over seven decades to build was being sold to ‘3-4 industrialists’.Congress leader from Rajasthan, Sachin Pilot also lashed out at the Centre on Wednesday claiming that the asset monetisation programme was giving away assets to the private sector at ‘throwaway’ prices. “Centre should help poor and middle-class people instead of handing over the assets of the country to select people,” Pilot said.Union finance minister lashes outUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman lashed out at Rahul Gandhi while speaking to reporters in Mumbai. Sitharaman was meeting the heads of public sector banks (PSBs) on Wednesday to take stock of the financial performance of the lenders. “Does he understand what monetisation is? It was the Congress which sold the country’s resources and received kickbacks from it,” Sitharaman said. She also said that the Congress-led government monetised the Mumbai-Pune expressway to raise ₹8,000 crore earlier and also floated a request for the proposal for New Delhi Railway Station in 2008.National Monetisation Pipeline: What is it and how will it benefit the country?During the launch of the National Monetisation Pipeline Sitharaman clarified that there will be ‘mandatory hand back’ and no assets were being sold. “The ownership of the assets will continue to remain with the government. There is a mandatory hand back rule. The national monetisation pipeline focusses on brownfield assets where investment was made and is languishing or remains under-utilised,” Sitharaman said.The Centre aims to raise ₹88,000 crore by leasing infrastructure assets of central government ministries and state-run companies under a ₹6 trillion National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) this year. The government has put roads, railways, power, oil and gas pipelines and telecom under the asset monetisation pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-monetisation-pipeline-after-rahul-cm-mamata-joins-list-of-detractors-101629894115769.html
25-08-2021||India||No coercive action against Narayan Rane: Maharashtra assures Bombay HC||The Bombay high court on Wednesday adjourned the hearing of Narayan Rane’s plea for quashing cases filed against him over his comments about slapping chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after the Maharashtra government said no coercive action will be taken against the Union minister related to the First Information Report (FIR) filed against him in Nashik.A division bench of justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar granted an urgent hearing of the petition.Senior advocate Amit Desai, who appeared for the Maharashtra government, said the state would not take any coercive action against Rane in connection with the FIR registered in Nashik as no further offence was committed.Rane’s lawyer, Satish Maneshinde, told the bench that the judicial magistrate at Mahad, who granted bail to Rane after he was arrested on Tuesday, has cautioned his client against making further comments.The Nashik Cyber Police booked Rane including under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 500 (defamation), 153 (b) (1) (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration), and the Information Technology Act. More cases were filed against him in Pune and Mahad.Also Read | The tale of a threat, an arrest, and an old and new rivalryRane’s petition said the charges against him entail punishment under seven years and hence he should have been given a notice before his arrest as per the law. But he added it was not done.Rane was arrested from Sangameshwar on Tuesday while he had stopped for lunch. While the police were about to arrest Rane, an anticipatory bail application was moved before the Ratnagiri sessions court, but it was rejected. Rane was taken to Mahad, where he was produced before the magistrate, who granted him bail.The high court registry on Tuesday refused to admit Rane’s petition for quashing cases against him without original FIR copies. The petition was filed on Wednesday along with the copies.Desai informed the bench he received the papers only an hour before the hearing and he was not aware of the sections under which the petitioner was booked in Nashik. He assured the court that no coercive action would be taken against Rane in this case.Maneshinde submitted they fear Rane could be arrested in connection with other FIRs and sought protection from arrest till the next hearing in connection with all cases on September 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-coercive-action-against-narayan-rane-maharashtra-assures-bombay-hc-101629893953170.html
25-08-2021||India||Assam-Mizoram border villages set own rules to normalise situation||One month since the firing incident between Assam and Mizoram and people from border villages have decided to find a middle ground on their own. Village level public representatives of both the states met at Lailapur in Assam past Sunday and agreed to compromise on some issues. They said, “We need each other so we are ready to compromise to restore peace and normalcy.” A delegation of Vairengte Joint Village Council led by their chairman R Lalfamkima was in Lailapur to attend a meeting with representatives of Assam’s villages where they agreed to put the border dispute aside and allow people from either side to enter villages. Officially, an outsider requires an Inner Line Permit (ILP) to enter Mizoram, but the regulation won’t be this stringent for these villages. Also Read | More than 300 schools reopen in MizoramR. Lalfamkima said, “What happened on July 26 was unfortunate...We have decided to make our own rules which will be applicable only for the people of a few villages from both the sides. We have informed the Mizoram chief minister about our decisions and he has appreciated our attempt.”Lalfamkima also said they have formed some groups... “If someone comes from Assam’s side, we will get the information before the visit. Our teams will take care of the security of the visitors. But this will be applicable only for temporary visits.”On the possibility of permanent solution to the border issue, Lalfamkima, said, “It is not possible to draw a permanent solution to the border dispute until both the states agree on one point... Mizoram believes that the border should be divided based on the demarcation by British government’s Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation (BEFR) in 1875, while Assam believes on a district demarcation done by British government in 1933.” Former president of Chandnighat Gaon Panchayat (near Lailapur) Raju Laskar led the Assam team. He said, “People from Mizoram visit Assam’s markets to buy essentials. Some trades and businesses are dependent on customers from Mizoram’s side. People from our side go to Mizoram to find work. We cannot forget what happened on July 26 where six of our police officers died. Governments from both the states are trying to find solution which will take long time.”While Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga appreciated the decision taken by the villagers, no political leader from Assam’s side has yet responded to this proposal.After the meeting, representatives of Vairengte Village Council in Mizoram visited chief minister Zoramthanga on Monday. But Assam village representatives are yet to write to state chief minister Himanta Biswa Sharma. On July 26 this year, police forces of both the states came face to face and six Assam police personnel died in firing. In retaliation, a 10-day undeclared economic blockade prevailed on Assam side. Ministers from both the states met in Aizawl on August 5 to find a solution. Things started normalising and thousands of trucks carrying essential for Mizoram safely entered to the state. But the governments of both the states failed to find a solution to the dispute. Pictures:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assammizoram-border-villages-set-own-rules-to-normalise-situation-101629893471738.html
25-08-2021||India||Will continue Jan Ashirwad Yatra, played key role in Sena's rise: Narayan Rane||Union minister Narayan Rane said on Wednesday the Jan Ashirwad Yatra that he had been organising with his colleagues from the Centre will resume on Friday in Sindhudurg. Rane was arrested on Tuesday for making controversial statements against the Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray only to be granted bail late in the night.“My party has stood by me firmly during this entire episode of my arrest. I have played a key role in the Shiv Sena's rise. The people who got me arrested were nowhere on the scene at the time,” said Rane, a former chief minister of the Sena-BJP alliance government. He also said he was not arrested, but he had accompanied police to the court in his own car at their request.Earlier in the day, the Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court it would not take any coercive action against the Rajya Sabha MP in the FIR lodged in Nashik over his controversial remarks. Multiple FIRs have been registered against the BJP leader across the state.A division bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar was hearing a petition filed by Rane, seeking to quash the FIR registered in Nashik and all other cases that may be lodged in future. Rane has sought interim protection from arrest. On Tuesday, the court said that while the arrest was “justified”, his custodial interrogation was not necessary.Also read | 36 FIRs filed so far against BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra in MumbaiThe newly inducted Union minister sparked a furore in the state after he allegedly said on Monday that he would have “tightly slapped” Thackeray for being ignorant of the year of India’s independence. The statement led to several clashes across Maharashtra, followed by heated exchange of words between the Shiv Sena and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “Whatever I said about the chief minister was out of the respect I have for my country. I cannot tolerate disrespect to the country,” said Rane, a former Sena leader before switching loyalty to the Congress and then moving on to the BJP.On Tuesday too, Rane had defended his statement stating that he had not committed any offence. Regarding Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis' comment that the BJP dis not support Rane's statement, but the "party stood by him 100 per cent", Rane said, "I have not said anything wrong. However, if Fadvanis says it is wrong, then I will accept it as he is our 'margdarshak' (guide)."He asked why no action was taken against Thackeray after he asked his workers to attack BJP leaders. “Why no action was initiated when he called Union home minister Amit Shah shameless?” he said, adding the BJP would not allow Maharashtra to witness violence that had engulfed West Bengal after the Assembly election held earlier this year.He further said the verdict in all cases (lodged by the Shiv Sena) filed against him has been in his favour. "This is an indication that the country is run by laws," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He also raked up the death of celebrity manager Disha Salian and promised to ensure justice in the case. “I will ensure that the Disha Salian case reaches a logical conclusion. I won't stop till the guilty are punished," Rane added.(With inputs from Mumbai bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-continue-jan-ashirvad-yatra-played-key-role-in-sena-s-rise-narayan-rane-101629891636284.html
25-08-2021||India||Mumbai Youth Cong working president quits post after Bandra MLA chosen youth wing chief||The Congress on Wednesday appointed party’s Bandra east MLA Zeeshan Siddiqui as president of the Mumbai unit of the party’s youth wing, following which the incumbent working chief Suraj Singh Thakur quit his post. Siddique, 27, the youngest MLA in the assembly, was appointed president of the Mumbai Youth Congress. He is a first-time MLA from Bandra East constituency, and the son of senior Congress leader and former legislator from Bandra West, Baba Siddique. In a statement dated August 15, Indian Youth Congress appointed Siddique as president and Thakur as working president of the Mumbai Youth Congress. On Wednesday morning, Zeeshan Siddique tweeted, “I would like to thank Sonia Gandhi madam, my leader Shri @RahulGandhi ji, @Allavaru ji, @IYC president @srinivasiyc bhai for appointing me as president of @IYC_Mumbai.I also want to thank all 88,517 Youth Congress members who voted for me & made sure that I get the highest votes.” Following his appointment, Thakur who was the present working president, resigned from his position on Wednesday morning, saying he was “disappointed with the decision” and uncomfortable working with a “non-political” and “inexperience” person. In his resignation letter to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Thakur said, “I always believed that the foot soldiers, organisational persons and experience have been considered more over the fame and oriented politics in Congress. But the recent decision has disappointed me a lot and I am totally uncomfortable working with a non-political and inexperienced person in the key organisation of Congress.” Regarding his appointment, Siddique said, “There are a lot of like-minded youth in Mumbai, from families in the city, who align with the Congress ideology, and are looking for ways to connect and work with the party. My first aim, as president is to widen the base of the Congress party. Working towards our performance in the upcoming BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) elections, where Congress is contesting alone is also on our cards.” Siddique said, Thakur’s resignation is “unfortunate” and he along with the Congress leadership will try and convince Thakur to come back on board. “I have worked within the Congress Youth wing for a decade, and held three leadership positions during this time. I also got the highest number of votes, with a large margin, in the elections for the position of President that were held in December,” Siddique said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-youth-cong-working-president-quits-post-after-bandra-mla-chosen-youth-wing-chief-101629891312590.html
25-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: All 78 evacuees from Afghanistan at ITBP camp test Covid negative and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.All 78 quarantined evacuees from Afghanistan test negative for Covid-19: ITBPThe evacuees at Chhawla camp of the ITBP included 24 Indians and 54 Afghan nationals. All of them were tested for the virus upon their arrival at the Delhi airport. Read moreNarayan Rane arrest: Will send 75,000 letters to CM Uddhav Thackeray, says BJPAddressing a press conference, BJP MLA Ashish Shelar said these letters won't let Thackeray forget how many years its has been since India gained independence. Read moreSunil Gavaskar, Nasser Hussain indulge in heated debate before start of India-England 3rd TestTwitter was abuzz after Gavaskar and Hussain’s banter on Sony Sports Network before the toss of the India-England third Test at Headingley in Leeds on Wednesday. Read moreManoj Bajpayee files criminal defamation case against Kamaal R Khan for calling him 'ganjedi', among other thingsKRK, in a series of tweets, had compared Manoj's hit show The Family Man to 'soft porn' and had also commented on his wife, and about his daughter's relationship status. Read moreRugged e-scooters launched, may make conventional scooters seem expensiveeBikeGo on Wednesday launched Rugged electric scooters in the Indian market in two versions - G1 and G1+, with a starting price of ₹79,999. Read moreWoman shares video of her husband’s kind gestureThere is something incredible about the videos that showcase people’s random acts of kindness. Those are the clips that often leave people with a huge smile on their face.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-all-78-evacuees-from-afghanistan-at-itbp-camp-test-covid-negative-and-all-the-latest-news-101629889735391.html
25-08-2021||India||When Uddhav apparently said he felt like 'hitting Yogi Adityanath with chappal'||As Union minister Narayan Rane's arrest over his 'would have given Thackeray a tight slap' comment has created a controversy, the internet has dug out a 'blast for the past' moment for Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. In 2018, when Thackeray was not the chief minister, he outraged in a similar fashion like Rane did when Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had apparently garlanded Shivaji wearing chappals."He garlanded (photo of) Shivaji Maharaj while wearing chappals. I felt like taking the same chappals and hitting his face with it. He is no yogi, he is a bhogi. Had he been a yogi, he would have given up everything and gone and sat in a cave. But he has gone and sat in the CM's chair," Uddhav had reportedly said at that time.When Uddhav Thackeray gave a wrong statement against CM Yogi, why was no action taken against him? #ArrestUddhavThackrey pic.twitter.com/OjFpQNZZEBUddhav Thackeray should be locked up in Lucknow jail for this comment on Yogi Adityanath Ji...#NarayanRane #UddhavThackeray #Maharashtra #ShivSena pic.twitter.com/ITVdYOFxqqDigging old news articles, videos, Twiteratis, BJP leaders demanded Uddhav Thackeray's arrest for the same reason as Narayan Rane.Narayan Rane's arrest: Son Nitesh posts 'karara jawab milega' videoRane was arrested on Tuesday a day after he criticised Uddhav for not knowing the years of independence. “It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire about the count of years of independence during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given (him) a tight slap," he said.The Union minister got bail on Tuesday at midnight and the magistrate said the arrest was justified but the custodial interrogation was not.Earlier on Tuesday, the Nashik Police issued a notice to Narayan Rane based on the FIR against him under IPC Sections 500 (defamation), 505(2), (public mischief) and 153(B) (1) (c) (remarks likely to cause disharmony, or feeling of enmity or hatred or ill-will). "It is revealed that there are reasonable grounds to question you to ascertain the facts and circumstances from you, in relation to the present investigation," the notice stated. The minister acknowledged the notice and said he would cooperate with the investigation and would not repeat such an offence in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-uddhav-thackeray-said-he-felt-like-hitting-yogi-adityanath-with-chappal-101629888595907.html
25-08-2021||India||Two men arrested in Manipur with box full of remdesivir, Covid vaccine vials||Two men have been arrested in Manipur, allegedly with medicines used in treatment of Covid cases, said police sources on Wednesday.The arrest was made by a combined team of narcotic and affairs of border (NAB) police station and Singjamei police station in Canchipur area near Heijingang Super Market along Imphal-Moreh sector of the National Highway-2 around 2.50pm past Sunday, August 22.The men have been identified as Mohammad Feroz Khan (30), and Imran Khan (22), both from Tengnoupal district.The police team also seized a van, two cartons containing 48 packets of remdesivir vials, 100 bottles marked ‘SII ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 Corona Virus Vaccine (Recombinant) Covishield 5ml- 10 doses. They were allegedly transporting the seized items towards Myanmar through Moreh, a border town of Manipur. “On further questioning, they disclosed that the seized items were handed over to them at Hatta (in Imphal east district) by one Subhamkumar Anand, a Bihar native who currently lives in Imphal,”said a police source.Anand has also been arrested, said the source. A case has been registered at Singjamei Police Station in Imphal for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-men-arrested-in-manipur-with-box-full-of-remdesivir-covid-vaccine-vials-101629889451267.html
25-08-2021||India||Rakesh Asthana as Delhi top cop: Apex court asks HC to decide on plea in 2 weeks||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Delhi High Court to decide within two weeks a pending plea challenging the appointment of senior IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as the police commissioner of Delhi.Asthana was appointed as the top officer of the national capital on July 27, four days before his superannuation on July 31. He would have a tenure of one year as the police chief.A bench comprising Chief Justice NV Ramana and justices DY Chandrachud and Surya Kant granted permission to NGO 'Centre for Public Interest Litigation' (CPIL) to move the Delhi High Court to intervene in the pending plea against Asthana’s new role.Appearing for the Centre, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said more time be given to the high court as the government would have to file its response to the pending plea there.The petition, moved by advocate Prashant Bhushan, urged the court to set aside the Centre's order to appoint Asthana after extending his service period. The Delhi Assembly had also passed a resolution against the appointment and asked the Union ministry of home affairs to reverse the decision.The Supreme Court had ruled in 2019 that only officers who have at least six months of service left before their superannuation should be considered for the post of director-general of police.The 1984-batch IPS officer, who had shifted to Union cadre from Gujarat, was earlier serving as the director general of Border Security Force, before being appointed as the police commissioner of Delhi.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-asthana-as-delhi-top-cop-apex-court-asks-hc-to-decide-on-plea-in-2-weeks-101629888841577.html
25-08-2021||India||Anticipated Taliban takeover but ready to deal with terrorism spilling out of Afghanistan, says CDS Rawat||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat said that insurgency spilling out of Afghanistan into India would be dealt in a same way India deals with terrorism at present. He also said that India would welcome additional support in the form of intelligence input as it does its part in fighting the global war against terrorism.“As far as Afghanistan is concerned, we'll make sure that any activity likely to flow out of Afghanistan and find its way into India will be dealt with in the manner in which we're dealing with terrorism in our country,” Rawat was quoted as saying at the Observer Research Foundation (ORF)’s event ‘The India-US Partnership: Securing the 21st Century’ by news agency ANI. His request was directed at the Quad nations. He was also accompanied by Command Admiral John Aquilino who is the commander of the US Indo-Pacific.Rawat also said that India anticipated the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. India on Tuesday made it clear at the United Nation Human Rights Council session that it expects that Afghanistan’s soil won’t not be used to foment terrorist activities aimed at creating instability in the region.Indramani Pandey, India’s permanent representative to the UN in Geneva, outlined that New Delhi expects that the rights of Afghan women, aspirations of Afghan children and the rights of minorities will be respected. India also gave shelter to Afghan refugees who fled the war-torn country after the Taliban laid siege to it.The Taliban, however, informally requested India last week to retain its diplomatic presence in Afghanistan. Senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai told Indian authorities that it was aware of India’s concerns regarding its officials and diplomats in the country, according to a report by HT. Stanekzai was responding to concerns that fighters from the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Lashkar-e-Jhangvi (LeJ) were deployed at check posts set up by the Taliban on the route to the international airport in Kabul.The Taliban who have full control of Afghanistan are awaiting to announce its council of ministers on August 31, the deadline day for the US and NATO troops to evacuate Afghanistan. The US Army and NATO troops, who entered the nation and once ousted the Taliban from power, have been asked by the Taliban to evacuate the country fully by August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anticipated-taliban-takeover-but-ready-to-deal-with-terrorism-spilling-out-of-afghanistan-says-cds-rawat-101629888032339.html
25-08-2021||India||Two criminals injured in separate encounters with Assam Police||Two dreaded criminals were injured during two separate police raids in the last 24 hours in Assam at a time when the government’s zero tolerance policy against drugs, cattle peddlers and other notorious criminals has led to accusations of state support for “trigger-happy” culture in the police force.Nur Hussain, 42, who is accused of leading a gang of 20-25 criminals involved in robbery, drug smuggling, land grabbing was hit by a bullet in a leg when a raiding police party retaliated to firing from his gang at Ahomgaon village in Nagaon district on Tuesday night, police said.“Due to personal enmity, Hussain and his henchmen assaulted a few persons on Tuesday at Dhing and injured seven of them. The gang also fired at the other group, threatening to kill them. We started an investigation after coming to know about the incident,” said Anand Mishra, Nagaon superintendent of police.“Based on input that Hussain is at Ahomgaon, a police team was sent to arrest him and his associates. But when the police team approached the village, they were fired at, forcing them to retaliate. We later learnt that Hussan received a bullet injury on his knees,” he added.Hussan was admitted at Nagaon civil hospital and the police are trying to arrest other members of his gang.In the second incident at Rangjuli in Goalpara district in the early hours of Wednesday, Amar Thapa, an accused in multiple cases of extortion and kidnapping in Assam and Meghalaya, was injured in police firing while trying to escape from custody.“Thapa was released from a Meghalaya jail recently and was planning to conduct a kidnapping in our area. Based on intelligence inputs, we arrested him from a house in Rangjuli, where he was hiding. But he tried to flee towards paddy fields located behind the house,” said VV Rakesh Reddy, superintendent of police, Goalpara.Reddy said the police team fired at Thapa in self defence after he opened fire while attempting to escape. “Thapa sustained injury on his right leg in the firing. He’s admitted at Goalpara civil hospital at present,” he added.There has been a sharp rise in police encounters in Assam after May when the new Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government adopted a “zero-tolerance policy” against drugs, cattle smuggling and other heinous crimes.Chief minister Himanta Biswa has asked the police not to hesitate from firing back at criminals, triggering criticism from opposition parties who allege that the police have been given license to become “trigger happy”.In all, 21 suspected criminals have been killed and nearly three dozen others have been injured in police encounters since May 10 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-dreaded-criminals-injured-in-separate-encounters-with-assam-police-101629888132613.html
25-08-2021||India||All 78 quarantined evacuees from Afghanistan test negative for Covid-19: ITBP||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) said on Wednesday all the 78 evacuees, including women and children, from Afghanistan who have been quarantined at its Chhawla camp following their arrival on Tuesday have tested negative for Covid-19.Earlier, there were reports that a number of these people who had been tested for the virus at Delhi airport were infected by the virus, but all of them were asymptomatic.An official statement from the ITBP said, "78 evacuees were shifted to ITBP's Chhawla-based camp till Tuesday late night. Of total evacuees, 24 are Indians and 54 Afghan nationals that include 53 males, 14 females and 11 children. All had gone through Covid-19 test at Indira Gandhi International Airport and were reported negative."Also read | 'This is why CAA was necessary': Hardeep Singh Puri as India evacuates people from AfghanistanThe government has made it mandatory for those who are coming from Afghanistan to undergo 14-day institutional quarantine. On Monday, two persons of the 146 passengers who landed in Delhi from Afghanistan were found to be infected by the virus.The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has said the Indian government is committed to the safe return of all Indian nationals from Afghanistan following its takeover by the Taliban, besides evacuating minorities like Afghan Sikhs and Hindus.Also read | 'Operation Devi Shakti': India evacuates more than 800 people from AfghanistanHowever, it said the main challenge for travel to and from Afghanistan at the moment was the operational status of the Kabul airport.India has been allowed to operate two flights per day from Kabul to evacuate its nationals stranded in Afghanistan.The permission was granted by American and North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) forces, which have been controlling operations of the Hamid Karzai International Airport after the Afghan capital fell to the Taliban on August 15.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-78-quarantined-evacuees-from-afghanistan-test-negative-for-covid-19-itbp-101629886736809.html
25-08-2021||India||Rakshabandhan week saw surge in air traffic at Mumbai airport||With travel restrictions easing in various states, there has been an upward trend in passenger traffic at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA).According to sourced data from the city airport, about 316,118 passengers passed security checkpoints at CSMIA during the Rakshabandhan week (August 16 to August 22). This is six times more than that of the last year when only 55,875 travelled between July 31 and August 6 owing to Covid-19 related lockdown restrictions.Also Read | No FIR yet in Thane’s missing Covid vaccine doses caseData from August 20 to 22 this year saw an influx of passengers from across the country with 142,321 passengers travelling in and out of the airport. “This weekend saw the highest arriving passengers from Delhi with 12,118, followed by Bengaluru with 6,674 and Goa with 5,484 passengers. The top three destinations were Delhi with 12,389 passengers, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad with 5,199 and 3,770 respectively,” CSMIA spokesperson said.“With major festivities approaching, and government extending flying capacity to 65%, CSMIA is expected to witness a surge in travel to destination across India during the festive period,” the spokesperson added.According to ratings agency ICRA, there is a continued recovery in passenger numbers. ICRA viewed that the average number of passengers per flight during July 2021 was 104, against an average of 98 passengers per flight in June 2021. Domestic passenger traffic grew around 56-57% at around 4.8-4.9 million in July, compared to around 3.1 million in June 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakshabandhan-week-saw-surge-in-air-traffic-at-mumbai-airport-101629884530846.html
25-08-2021||India||Central GST Commissionerate detects multi-crore tax evasion||The Central Goods and Services (CGST) Commissionerate has detected evasion of GST worth several crores by a firm in Uttarakhand’s Uddham Singh Nagar district. It recovered ₹5 crore in a search operation carried out simultaneously at nine locations across Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand, and Delhi. People aware of the matter said the Commissionerate has detected tax evasion of around ₹8 crore.Deepankar Aron, commissioner Central GST Commissionerate (Dehradun), said the modus operandi entailed taking fraudulent input credit of GST on fake supplies. “This fraudulent credit was then utilised to pay the output duty liability of the various outward supplies effected by the unit, thereby obviating the need to pay the requisite duty in cash leading to the evasion of revenues.”Also Read | Probe to find out if cos availed illegal exemption on pulse oximeter importsAron said based on intelligence, an investigation was initiated against Galwalia Ispat Udyog Pvt Ltd, Kashipur. “As per the inputs available, it appears that the firm fraudulently availed input tax credit on the basis of invoices issued by either non-existent firms or by firms without actual supply of goods.”He said accordingly, investigations were initiated by conducting simultaneous searches at three locations in Kashipur, which includes two premises of Galwalia Ispat Udyog Pvt Ltd and the residential premises of its directors, Yogesh Kumar Jindal and Akshay Jindal, on August 17. “In addition, searches were also conducted at the locations of its suppliers located in Delhi, Aligarh, Moradabad, Amroha and in Garhwa (Jharkhand).”Aron said during the searches conducted at Kashipur, various incriminating documents were recovered. Statements of the directors of the firm and other employees were also recorded.The searches at the declared premises of Shree Shyam traders, Delhi, and Shree traders, Aligarh, revealed them to be non-existent. “Another supplier, Govind trader in Garwha (Ranchi) admitted to the modus operandi of issuing fake invoices without actual supply of goods and admitted to the GST liability,” said Aron.Aron said when confronted with the evidence on record, Yogesh Kumar Jindal voluntarily paid ₹ 5 crore towards his GST duty liability so evaded. Further investigations are underway in the matter, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-gst-commissionerate-detects-multi-crore-tax-evasion-101629883990649.html
25-08-2021||India||Video showing minister ordering for Rane’s arrest goes viral, BJP seeks action||A video clip showing Shiv Sena leader and Maharashtra minister Anil Parab purportedly issuing orders for Union minister Narayan Rane’s arrest on Tuesday has gone viral and triggered an angry reaction from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The BJP said it will now move the court over the alleged political pressure on police to arrest Rane. Parab, who is also the guardian minister of Ratnagiri where Rane was arrested and a close aide to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, is purportedly heard giving instructions to arrest Rane even without any warrant and for the use of force.Also Read | Shiv Sena legislator threatens to kill Union minister Narayan Rane“What are doing? Why are you not arresting him? Why are you not taking him in custody? You will have to do it. Which order they are asking for? There is no need for any such order as the high court and session court have turned down their plea for bail. Use police force and arrest him,” Parab is purportedly heard telling someone over the phone as he receives a call in the middle of a press conference in Ratnagiri. The conversation was caught on the camera of a Marathi channel. It is unclear to whom he was giving the purported instructions.BJP’s Maharashtra chief Chandrakant Patil said they will move court against Parab for misusing the police force. “The ruling party (Shiv Sena) is taking the law into its hands. The government is being run using the police force. How can a minister ask the police officers to use force to arrest a Union minister? We are seeking court intervention in this entire episode.”BJP leader Vishwas Sawant registered a case against Parab in Nalasopara and sought action against him for allegedly ordering Rane’s arrest.Parab was unavailable for comments despite repeated calls and messages. HT also reached out to Shiv Sena for comments. The copy will be updated once it reacts.BJP leader Pramod Jathar on Tuesday claimed Ratnagiri police superintendent told them there was tremendous pressure on his force from “the higher-ups” to immediately arrest Rane.Rane was arrested on Tuesday for saying he wanted to slap Thackeray. The ruling Shiv Sena workers went on a rampage over the remark that set off another political face-off between the ruling three-party alliance in the state and the opposition BJP.Rane became the first sitting central minister to be arrested in two decades since Murasoli Maran and TR Baalu were picked up in a midnight raid in Chennai by the Tamil Nadu Police in 2001. The 69-year-old was produced in a court in Mahad in Raigad on Tuesday night and granted bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-showing-minister-ordering-for-rane-s-arrest-goes-viral-bjp-seeks-action-101629882490320.html
25-08-2021||India||Covid in children mostly mild, but good to be prepared: WHO's Soumya Swaminathan||Citing sero surveys done by other countries, the top doctor said in an interview children can get infected and transmit the infection, but it would still be very mild in most cases. “There is a small percentage that gets sick and get inflammatory complications and few will die, but much much less than the adult population,” she added.“But it is good to prepare,” she said, adding hospitals should remain prepared for paediatric admissions and with paediatric intensive care units, whose utility would serve the health system in many ways for other illnesses children have. “We should not panic about thousands of children crowding into ICUs," she said.‘Remdesivir has marginal benefits, expensive’Speaking about antiviral drug Remdesivir that has been widely used to treat coronavirus (Covid-19), the WHO chief scientist said it had “marginal benefits” for infected patients who were not sick enough to be on ventilator and it did not reduce mortality rates.She said a solidarity trial showed Remdesivir did not reduce mortality, but may have a marginal benefit in a subgroup of patients who were ill enough to need oxygen but not as severe to be on ventilation.Dr Swaminathan also said the drug did not work very well for either moderately or severely ill patients, besides being very expensive. “Drugs like Dexamethasone and Oxygen are the two essential ones that save lives,” the top doctor said.Also Read: Learning to live with Covid? India may be entering endemic stage, says top docA solidarity trial conducted last year by the public health body had found that Remdesivir, Hydroxychloroquine, Lopinavir/Ritonavir and Interferon had little or no effect in helping Covid-19 patients combat the infection. Final results of this trial are expected to come out towards the end of August.At the height of the second wave earlier this year, India had witnessed a shortage of Remdesivir as families of those infected lined up for hours to buy vials of the drug. India stopped importing Remdesivir in early April to help deal with domestic shortage.The drug was originally developed to treat Hepatitis C and was also tested as a possible treatment for Ebola. On November 20, 2020, WHO asked countries to stop recommending it, insisting that the drug offered “small and uncertain benefits” outweighed by the “possibility of important harms”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-in-children-mostly-mild-but-good-to-be-prepared-who-s-soumya-swaminathan-101629880065940.html
25-08-2021||India||Amarinder to lead Cong's Punjab Assembly battle: Rawat as fresh trouble brews||A fresh round of turmoil has engulfed the ruling Punjab Congress days after a major controversy erupted over certain comments made by two advisors of the state party unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.A number of legislators have reportedly come to Delhi to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi, while a few cabinet ministers have left for Dehradun to speak to the party’s Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat to speak about their issues against the chief minister.Rawat said the party had an idea that certain issues may come up following the organisational changes brought about in the state unit, even as he assured the next Assembly election in the state would be led by chief minister Amarinder Singh.We will contest 2022 Punjab elections under the leadership of Captain Amrinder Singh: AICC in-charge of Punjab, Harish Rawat pic.twitter.com/iQqE8u4f3V"This thing happens in the party. When we brought in changes in the Pradesh Congress Committee, we had an idea about possible issues that may turn up. We will find a solution. Everyone trusts Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. But we will look into why suddenly a large number of MLAs are disappointed. We will try to resolve the issues," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Captain Amarinder Singh, Navjot Sidhu aides spar as Punjab crisis deepensThis came a day after the MLAs and ministers raised a banner of revolt against the chief minister, as they held a meeting in Chandigarh and sought a replacement of the former, saying they had “lost faith in him” over the issue of unfulfilled promises.Meanwhile, Punjab Congress general secretary Pargat Singh said there was resentment in MLAs against the chief minister over non-settlement of issues."Due to the non-settlement of issues, there is resentment in MLAs. I suggest the Congress high command under the supervision of the AICC observer, the chief minister should call a meeting of all MLAs and decide after discussing with them," he said.Also read | Congress isn’t yet out of the seismic zone in PunjabWhen asked about meeting the party high command in Delhi, the Congress MLA said, "Definitely, some people have gone to Delhi and I will also go there. There is no problem with it. We should not divert the issues. Captain Amarinder Singh is our chief minister and we do not disagree with it but work has to be done."The four ministers, known detractor of the CM, who met Rawat in Delhi are Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi.The fresh developments came amid severe criticism from several corners, including the Congress, about two advisers of Sidhu for making controversial remarks on sensitive issues like Kashmir and Pakistan.The chief minister had also recently raised his concerns in front of the Congress interim president about the statements made by Sidhu after his appointment as the party’s state unit chief.Sidhu was appointed as president of the party's Punjab unit last month ahead of Assembly elections due next year. His appointment came after months of infighting in the state unit as the former cricketer had openly rebelled against Amarinder Singh's government over several issues.Only recently, it had seemed the tension had eased following the formation of a 10-member “strategic policy group” for better coordination between the party and the state government, but there seems to be no end to the internal rivalry in the state unit with less than a year left the next Assembly election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-to-lead-cong-s-punjab-assembly-battle-rawat-as-fresh-trouble-brews-101629881399395.html
25-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Kerala CM ‘clearly failed’ to protect people’s lives, remarks Union minister||Union minister V Muraleedharan on Wednesday hit out at Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the worsening coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the state and said that the state government “clearly failed” to protect people’s lives.Kerala, which has been contributing the maximum number of cases towards India’s daily Covid-19 tally, recorded 24,296 infections on Tuesday, marking the highest single-day spike since May 27, when 24,166 people were detected Covid-19 positive.Tuesday’s case count in Kerala is also the biggest single-day surge by any other state or Union Territory in the country.Also Read| ‘People must follow Covid norms; can’t put them on gunpoint’: Experts on KeralaTaking to Twitter, Muraleedharan said, “Alarming Covid-19 situation in Kerala. @vijayanpinarayi has clearly failed to protect people’s lives. Kerala alone recorded 24,296 cases and 173 deaths yesterday. @vijayanpinarayi’s illogical strategy and motivated media propaganda costing dearly to the nation.”Alarming #COVID19 situation in Kerala, @vijayanpinarayi has clearly failed to protect people's lives.Kerala alone recorded 24,296 cases & 173 deaths yesterday@vijayanpinarayi's illogical strategy & motivated media propaganda costing dearly to the nation.#VijayanfailsKerala https://t.co/ioDNVfMTYMV Muraleedharan has been one of the strongest critics of the Kerala government with regard to managing the pandemic. In July, the Union minister pointed out that despite Kerala accounting for a ‘lion share’ of infections across India, the state government was yet to adopt a scientific approach to contain the pandemic. His comments came as the government loosened Covid-19 restrictions for the Bakrid festival.Amid increasing caseload in Kerala, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya visited the state last week and announced a package ₹267.35 crore for the Pinarayi Vijayan government to strengthen its fight against the viral disease.“Additionally, ₹1 crore will be made available to each district of Kerala for creating a medicine pool,” Mandaviya tweeted on August 16 after he held an interaction with chief minister Vijayan, state health minister Veena Geroge and other officials.Mandaviya also said that Kerala will be given top priority in allocation of vaccine doses. “For prioritising the health of children, paediatric ICU to be established in district hospitals with a 10 kilo-litre liquid oxygen storage tank facility,” the Union health minister wrote on the microblogging site.Kerala has so far recorded 3,851,984 cases due to the coronavirus disease which include 19,757 deaths, 3,672,357 discharges and 159,335 active cases. The Covid-19 positivity rate stands at 18.04 per cent and 134,706 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-clearly-failed-to-protect-people-s-lives-remarks-union-minister-101629876908321.html
25-08-2021||India||Rajasthan official suspended for asking women to give up property rights||The Rajasthan government on Tuesday suspended a revenue department official days after he issued a press release on August 21 appealing public to get women to voluntarily relinquish their share in the property of their parents. Dilip Singh Prajapati, who was posted as the tehsildar of Digod in Kota district, issued the appeal on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan. Officials said the appeal violated rules and amounted to indiscipline. They said during the suspension period, the official will get only half of his salary.Prajapati cited religious and family traditions and said for generations women did not claim their share in immovable assets of their parents and would instead get it from that of their in-laws.Women’s rights group slammed Prajapati and demanded action against him.Also Read | Former Rajasthan minister gets bail in Bhanwari Devi case“We welcome the government’s decision of suspension, but the collector should also apologise because the act of the tehsildar was contrary to the constitutional morality of a government employee, which he takes an oath to uphold,” said activist Kavita Srivastav. She said special training about women’s rights and empowerment should be imparted to government officials.Prajapati said his only intention was to lessen family disputes and strengthen bonds. “The appeal was only for those who willingly want to relinquish their property rights.” He added the government plans to start a campaign from October 2 to address issues of farmers. “In view of this campaign, I issued many appeals and releases to create awareness among the public related to law and process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-official-suspended-for-asking-women-to-give-up-property-rights-101629881050565.html
25-08-2021||India||Shiv Sena legislator threatens to kill Union minister Narayan Rane||The controversy over Union minister Narayan Rane’s remarks continued for the second day on Wednesday with a Shiv Sena legislator threatening to kill the leader.Though Rane secured a bail late on Tuesday, workers of both Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) continued to protest. Rane was arrested for saying he would have slapped chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray for being ignorant about the number of years India has been independent. The BJP, while asserting it doesn’t endorse Rane’s statement, alleged that the arrest was politically motivated and termed it as a misuse of power. While talking to media, Sena Hingoli legislator Santosh Bangar dared Rane to remove his security and face him. “We have the strength to come and bash you at your house. You keep your police protection aside. I, Santosh Bangar, a Sena activist will come alone and if I don’t remove your guts then I will never take my name again,” Bangar was seen threatening on various Marathi TV channels.Also Read | ‘Slap CM’ row: Fresh notice to Rane; court says arrest justified, not custodyBJP legislator Ram Kadam said the party would like to see action taken by the Sena-led government. “These are empty threats but since they are made by a legislator, we would like to see what action will be taken against Bangar for threatening a Union minister,” he said. Sena defended Bangar by calling it a reaction. “Shiv Sainiks are emotional about their chief and Narayan Rane provoked them with such insulting remarks. It is Rane’s fault that he is facing such a backlash,” said Sena spokesperson Manisha Kayande.BJP state chief Chandrakant Patil alleged that the police denied medical treatment to Rane during his detention. He also assailed Thackeray for his pat given to Yuva Sena workers. “These people had gone to ransack Rane’s house and here we have the chief minister congratulating them. This means he is endorsing violence. How can law and order be maintained in such a situation?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-legislator-threatens-to-kill-union-minister-narayan-rane-101629880390283.html
25-08-2021||India||Urdu speaking men attack Kabul office, seize Afghan passports with Indian visas||Red alert has gone up within Indian security agencies handling immigration after several unidentified Urdu speaking persons forced their way into an office in Kabul dealing with Indian visas for distribution on behalf of the Indian Missions in Afghanistan and seized un-estimated numbers of Afghan passports with stamped Indian visas. The incident occurred on August 15, the day the Taliban captured Kabul after US forces beat a hasty retreat.According to persons aware of this development, the Indian immigration agencies have been alerted to this seizure of Afghan passports with Indian visas as there is serious concern that these documents could be used to forge fake passports for terrorists in future. While it is not clear which group could be involved in this attack on the Indian visa outsourcing agency in Kabul, the needle of suspicion points towards Pakistan as the intruders were Urdu speaking. “There is a strong possibility that the Afghan passports with Indian visas could be used to forge passports for terrorists by changing the photograph on the travel document,:'' said a source from Kabul. Raisina Hill and security agencies are tight-lipped about the incident.According to Kabul watchers, a week after the capture of Kabul by the Taliban, a number of shadowy groups are now seen to be operating in the capital city of Afghanistan with large scale searches being carried out. It is learnt that these groups are seizing passports and other travel documents in searches of travel agencies and their owners in Kabul.The Indian Home Ministry was already on alert when the evacuation exercise was started by the Ministry of External Affairs and National Security teams on August 16 with each passenger screened for his past and travel documents. The Indian mission in Kabul, on its part, is searching its data to dig out names of those Afghans who were given the Indian visas and to the outsourcing agency for distribution. The data is being searched and names are being identified so that those Indian visas could be cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/urdu-speaking-men-attack-kabul-office-seize-afghan-passports-with-indian-visas-101629879807554.html
25-08-2021||India||Vaccinate all school teachers by September 5, health minister urges states||Union health and family welfare minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Wednesday that the Centre would provide two crore doses of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to the states this month.Taking to Twitter, Mandaviya said the vaccines are in addition to the Centre's existing scheme of providing monthly doses to the states and Union territories.इस महीने हर राज्य को वैक्सीन उपलब्ध करवाने की योजना के अतिरिक्त 2 करोड़ से ज़्यादा वैक्सीन की डोज़ उपलब्ध कराई जा रही हैं।हमने सभी राज्यों से अनुरोध किया है कि 5 सितंबर को मनाये जाने वाले शिक्षक दिवस से पहले सभी स्कूली शिक्षकों को प्राथमिकता देकर वैक्सीन लगाने का प्रयास करें।The health minister also urged the states to get all the school teachers vaccinated on priority before September 5, when India celebrates Teachers' Day.The government decided to shut schools across the country in March last year ahead of a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19, classrooms shifted to virtual space.While some states partially reopened schools for students of senior classes in a staggered manner, after observing protocol necessitated to check the spread of Covid-19 infection, around October last year, a complete shutdown was ordered in April this year when the devastating second wave of Covid-19 ravaged country.However, with Covid-19 cases going down, some states have begun resuming physical classrooms now even as concerns over vaccination against the virus and a possibility of a third wave looms large.Health ministry data show that more than 58.07 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been provided to states and Union territories so far, while India's cumulative vaccination coverage surpassed the 59-crore mark on Tuesday since the country launched the vaccination in January this year.Meanwhile, India on Wednesday recorded 37,593 cases of Covid-19 in the previous 24 hours, taking the total caseload to 32,512,366 while the active cases stood at 322,327.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccinate-all-school-teachers-by-september-5-health-minster-urges-states-101629877269705.html
25-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Union minister Narayan Rane gets fresh notice of summons and all the latest news||'Slap CM' row: Fresh notice to Rane; court says arrest justified, not custodyA day after being granted bail over “slapping the chief minister” remark, Union minister Narayan Rane received a fresh notice of summons from the Nashik police on Wednesday. An ANI report said the notice was sent to the senior BJP leader in connection with an FIR and Rane had been asked to appear at the police station on September 2. Read MoreLearning to live with Covid? India may be entering endemic stage, says top docIndia might be entering the endemic stage of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, chief scientist of the World Health Organisation (WHO) Dr Soumya Swaminathan said on Wednesday. The senior official said this particular stage will be marked by low or moderate levels of transmission, with no peak or exponential growth as witnessed during the second wave that had wreaked havoc in the country. Read MoreIndia makes e-Visa must for Afghan nationals, all previous visas invalidatedThe Centre on Wednesday said all Afghan nationals must travel to India only on an e-Visa owing to the evolving security situation in Afghanistan. The government said that the introduction of the e-Emergency X-Misc visa has streamlined the application process, thus it has been decided to make the e-Visa mandatory for all Afghan nationals coming to India. Read MoreFormer Afghan minister Syed Ahmad Sadat works as pizza delivery guy in GermanyA former minister in Afghanistan is working as a pizza delivery person in Germany. The photos of Syed Ahmad Shah Sadat, who worked as communications and technology minister in Afghanistan, were posted by Al-Jazeera Arabia on Twitter. Read MoreGauahar Khan kickstarts Maldives birthday trip with Zaid Darbar in ₹2.7k red mini dressIndian model and actor Gauahar Khan escaped to the Maldives with her husband Zaid Darbar to ring in her 38th birthday. The couple took to Instagram to share several pictures and videos from the birthday trip. For her arrival in the island nation, Gauahar chose a pretty red dress and looked ready to have a blast. Read MoreHere’s why doctors are saying viral ‘Milk Crate’ challenge is too dangerous to tryIf you are someone who is a regular user of various social media platforms, then you may be aware that every now and then different viral challenges take over the platform. While some of them are fun and entertaining to try, a few can be quite dangerous. Case in point, the new trend called Milk Crate Challenge that is leaving people injured in some cases. Read MoreThe Family Man 2's Samantha Akkineni apologises for hurting sentiments, says 'lot of noise stopped' after show's releaseActor Samantha Akkineni, who played the role of a Sri Lankan Tamil liberation fighter in The Family Man season 2, has apologised for 'hurting anyone's sentiments'. She added that after the release of the web series, 'a lot of the noise stopped'. Read MoreHere's why Maruti Suzuki isn't thinking EVs for India just yetMaruti Suzuki India may be the biggest player among the carmakers in the country, but it is not yet keen to join the electric vehicle race. At a time when the government is also pushing for EVs with offers of incentives, Maruti wants to play the wait-and-watch game. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-union-minister-narayan-rane-gets-fresh-notice-of-summons-and-all-the-latest-news-101629876437144.html
25-08-2021||India||Learning to live with Covid? India may be entering endemic stage, says top doc||India might be entering the endemic stage of the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19), chief scientist of the World Health Organization (WHO) Dr Soumya Swaminathan said on Wednesday. The senior official said this particular stage will be marked by low or moderate levels of transmission, with no peak or exponential growth as witnessed during the second wave that had wreaked havoc in the country.“We may be entering some kind of stage of endemicity where there is low level transmission or moderate level transmission going on but we are not seeing the kinds of exponential growth and peaks that we saw a few months ago," Swaminathan said in an interview.The United States’ Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) defines an endemic as “the constant presence and/or usual prevalence of a disease or infectious agent in a population within a geographic area”.In other words, a population slowly learns to live with the disease. An endemic is the observed level of a disease and never the desired level, since desired level of any disease will always be zero. When the disease rises above expected levels, it becomes an epidemic or an outbreak, and when the epidemic spreads to several countries it becomes a pandemic.The WHO chief scientist said India’s diverse population and varying immunity levels in different parts makes it quite likely that the situation might continue like this with “ups and downs in different parts of the country”. Swaminathan added cases might rise particularly in places where the population is more susceptible to infection due to being less exposed to the first and second waves, and low vaccine coverage.Also Read: India's daily Covid-19 tally jumps by 12,000 cases; new deaths rise too“As far as India is concerned that seems to be what is happening and because of the size of India and heterogeneity of population and immunity status in different parts of country in different pockets, it is very very feasible that the situation may continue like this with ups and downs in different parts of the country, particularly where there are more susceptible population, so those groups who were perhaps less affected by first and second waves or those areas with low levels of vaccine coverage we could see peaks and troughs for the next several months," she told reporters.Countries all over the world are slowly learning to live with coronavirus and relaxed restrictions. Focus is gradually being shifted to containing infections and expediting the vaccination process. Countries like Thailand, Australia, Singapore and many others have also started to look at coronavirus as an endemic, and insisted that the general population will have to start learning how to live with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/learning-to-live-with-covid-india-may-be-entering-endemic-stage-says-top-doc-101629875895940.html
25-08-2021||India||India makes e-Visa must for Afghan nationals, all previous visas invalidated||The Centre on Wednesday said all Afghan nationals must travel to India only on an e-Visa owing to the evolving security situation in Afghanistan. The government said that the introduction of the e-Emergency X-Misc visa has streamlined the application process, thus it has been decided to make the e-Visa mandatory for all Afghan nationals coming to India.Also Read | Afghan refugees protest before UNHCR office in Delhi for security, resettlementPreviously issued visas to all Afghan nationals, not presently in India, stand invalid with immediate effect, the government declared. It added that the decision was taken keeping in view reports that surfaced, indicating that certain passports of Afghan nationals have been misplaced.For Afghan nationals who wish to travel to India, an official release issued by the ministry of external affairs pointed to the authorised visa application portal of the Indian government."Afghan nationals wishing to travel to India may apply for e-Visa at www.indianvisaonline.gov.in," the government release stated.India introduced the new category of e-Visa earlier this month for Afghan nationals to streamline and fast-track the application process for their entry into India.“MHA reviews visa provisions in view of the current situation in Afghanistan," the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) said in a statement this month, adding, that "a new category of electronic visa called 'e-Emergency X-Misc Visa' introduced to fast-track visa applications for entry into India.”Also Read | Which countries are taking in Afghan refugees and which countries are not?Foreign nationals applying for a visa on a purpose that is not specifically covered under any other existing visa category may be granted the 'X-Misc' visa for an appropriate duration, according to the home ministry's visa policy.“Such a visa may be granted only with a single entry and for the specific duration, taking into account the purpose of visit," the MHA policy document on the X-Misc visa reads. "If the visa is granted for a period of stay exceeding 180 days, the foreigner will have to register himself/ herself with the FRRO/ FRO concerned within 14 days of arrival. This visa will be non-extendable and non-convertible to any other type of visa.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-makes-e-visa-must-for-afghan-nationals-all-previous-visas-invalidated-101629873427347.html
25-08-2021||India||'Slap CM' row: Fresh notice to Rane; court says arrest justified, not custody||A day after being granted bail over “slapping the chief minister” remark, Union minister Narayan Rane received a fresh notice of summons from the Nashik police on Wednesday.An ANI report said the notice was sent to the senior BJP leader in connection with an FIR and Rane had been asked to appear at the police station on September 2.Also read | Narayan Rane's arrest: Son Nitesh posts 'karara jawab milega' videoThe fresh summons came around the same time a detailed copy of the Mahad court’s Tuesday night order granting the former chief minister bail was made available. The court said that while Rane’s arrest over his controversial remarks against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was “justified”, his custodial interrogation was not necessary.Magistrate SS Patil said in the order that while a few sections under which Rane was booked were non-bailable, they were not punishable with life or death.“Considering these factors, no prejudice would be caused to the prosecution if the accused is released on bail,” the court said, adding "the accused shall not commit a similar type of offence".Also read | Not committed any offence: Narayan Rane on 'would have slapped Thackeray' remarkRane was arrested on Tuesday afternoon in Ratnagiri district after multiple FIRs were registered against him at several places, including Nashik and Pune, based on complaints filed by Shiv Sena leaders for his remarks against Thackeray.The Union minister, who was previously with the Sena before switching over to the Bharatiya Janata Party, had on Monday accused Thackeray of ignorance about the year of India's independence at an event and said he would have given him a “tight slap" had been present at the spot.Also read | Sena-BJP clashes break out in Maharashtra over Narayan Rane's 'slap CM' remarkThe remarks sparked massive controversy with Sena and BJP workers clashing across the state and the senior leadership of the two camps engaging in a war of words.While Sena leaders strongly condemned Rane's remarks with party leader Vinayak Raut seeking his removal from the Union Cabinet, the BJP leadership condemned Maharashtra Police for the alleged illegal detainment of Rane.Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil even called the bail of Rane a 'slap' by the court on the face of the state government.While granting bail to the Union minister on a surety of ₹15,000, the court ordered Rane to be present at the Ratnagiri police station for inquiry on August 31 and September 13 and cautioned him not to commit a similar kind of offence in the future.The magistrate, while refusing to grant Rane's custody to the police, noted that the alleged statement of the accused (Rane) was made before the media. “The informant (complainant in the case) himself alleged in the FIR that the accused made the statement before the media and it was viral on social media. Considering the nature of the offence, I do not find it necessary to hand over the accused in police custody,” the magistrate said in the order.The police opposed the bail plea, arguing that the accused was a Union cabinet minister and was making such irresponsible statements which would create disharmony in the society. The court in its order directed Rane to cooperate with the probe into the case and if police want a voice sample of the minister, then he (Rane) shall assist. “The only rider is that the police shall give seven-day prior notice to the accused,” it said. The court also noted that the police had not followed directions given by the Bombay High Court with regard to maintaining a proper case diary. “Admittedly, the case diary produced before me are two papers which are not paginated,” the magistrate said. Rane faces four FIRs in Maharashtra over his remarks, which triggered a political row and protests across the state on Tuesday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/slam-cm-row-fresh-notice-to-narayan-rane-court-says-arrest-justified-101629873619810.html
25-08-2021||India||Bihar panchayat polls: Election schedule announced, here's all you need to know||The state election commission in Bihar issued a notification on Tuesday regarding the upcoming panchayat elections, where it said that a total of 11 phases of polling will be held this time. The first phase of polling will be held on September 24, while the 11th will be held on December 12, according to the election commission.Here's a break-down of the upcoming panchayat elections in Bihar: DatesFirst phase of voting: September 24Second phase of voting: September 30Third phase of voting: October 8Fourth phase of voting: October 20Fifth phase of voting: October 24Sixth phase of voting: November 3Seventh phase of voting: November 15Eighth phase of voting: November 24Ninth phase of voting: November 29Tenth phase of voting: December 8Eleventh phase of voting: December 12The counting of votes for Bihar panchayat elections will be done two days after the voting in each phase, according to the Bihar election commission.Flood-hit districts to skip polls on first phaseThe 28 flood-affected districts in Bihar will not go to the polls in the first phase, as per the notification on panchayat elections issued by the election commission. These districts are -- Buxar, Bhojpur, Patna, Nalanda, Saran, Siwan, Gopalganj, Vaishali, Muzaffarpur, East Champaran, West Champaran, Sitamarhi, Shivhar, Darbhanga, Madhubani, Samastipur, Supaul, Saharsa, Madhepura, Kishanganj, Purnia, Katihar, Araria, Lakhisarai, Sheikhpura, Begusarai, Khagaria, and Bhagalpur.NominationThe Bihar panchayat poll preparation process begins today (that is, Wednesday, August 25), and the model code of conduct (MCC) has already come into effect in the state. The nomination papers for the post of the sarpanch, the mukhiya, the panchayat committee members, and other ward members can be filed starting today from 11am to 4pm. The deadline for filing the nomination papers ends on August 31, according to the notification issued by the Bihar state election commission.Nearly 10 lakh candidates are expected to file their nominations for 259,260 posts under the categories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-panchayat-polls-election-schedule-announced-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-101629867578366.html
25-08-2021||India||16 Afghan evacuees test positive for Covid-19 in Delhi, all asymptomatic||At least 16 of the 78 evacuees from Afghanistan who landed in India on Tuesday are said to have tested positive for coronavirus. Among them are three Afghan Sikhs who had carried the Swaroops of Guru Granth Sahib from Kabul and were received by Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri at the Delhi airport.As mandated by the government, all the evacuees, none of whom have so far shown any symptoms of the virus, have been quarantined. The tests were conducted upon their arrival at the Indira Gandhi International airport in Delhi.A report in the Indian Express quoted a BJP national spokesperson saying the trio -- Dharmender Singh, Kulraj Singh and Himmat Singh -- who brought the Swaroops of Guru Granth Sahib, the central holy scripture of Sikhism, from Afghanistan were found to be infected by the virus.Also read | 'This is why CAA was necessary': Hardeep Singh Puri as India evacuates people from AfghanistanA PTI story had said on Tuesday at least 10 of the evacuees had tested positive, the figure is likely to have gone up. A representative of the Indian World Forum, an organisation coordinating evacuation efforts with the Ministry of External Affairs and the Indian Air Force (IAF), said, “Some people have tested positive for the infection. However, there is no clarity on their count.”On Monday, two persons among the 146 people who had landed in the national capital following their evacuation from the war-torn country, had tested positive for coronavirus.An Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) official said 81 people, who came from Afghanistan on Monday and Tuesday, have been sent to the ITBP's quarantine facility at Chhawla in south-west Delhi.A memorandum issued by the Union Health Ministry on Monday said people arriving from Afghanistan would have to undergo a mandatory “minimum 14-day institutional quarantine” at the ITBP facility.“Any person testing positive or detected as symptomatic shall be shifted to dedicated Covid Care Centre or Covid hospital of NCT of Delhi,” the memorandum read.The PTI report said two Indian nationals, who were among the people brought to India from Afghanistan, have been admitted to the Covid ward in LNJP Hospital in the capital. "These two patients are male and their condition is stable. They were brought to the LNJP Hospital yesterday," a source was quoted as saying by the news agency.Also read | 'Operation Devi Shakti': India evacuates more than 800 people from AfghanistanAs many as 78 people, including 46 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, flew into Delhi from Kabul via Dushanbe on an Air India flight along with three copies of Sikh scripture Guru Granth Sahib on Tuesday.Besides Puri, Union minister V Muraleedharan was present at the airport to receive the three copies of the Sikh scripture and the batch of Afghan Sikhs.The three copies of Guru Granth Sahib will be taken to Guru Arjan Dev Ji Gurdwara in New Mahavir Nagar, according to Chandhok.Nearly 200 more Afghan Sikhs and Hindus are still stranded in Afghanistan. These people have taken shelter at the Karte Parwan gurdwara in Kabul, which is close to the airport, he said.According to people sheltered in the gurdwara, the 10-kilometre-long drive to the international airport through various checkpoints is one of the biggest challenges in the rescue efforts.Around 75 more Afghan Sikhs and Hindus are likely to be evacuated soon, Chandhok added.Till Tuesday evening, India had brought over 800 people from Afghanistan as part of the evacuation mission that began on August 16, a day after Kabul fell to the Taliban.Thousands of Afghans have been crowding around the Kabul airport for nearly a week, in a desperate attempt to flee the country fearing the Taliban's brutality.India is carrying out the evacuation missions in coordination with the US and several other friendly countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-afghan-evacuees-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-delhi-all-asymptomatic-101629868242765.html
25-08-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 tally jumps by 12,000 cases; new deaths rise too||After seeing over 25,000 cases for the past two days, India's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) went up by nearly 12,000 cases on Wednesday. In the last 24 hours, India recorded 37,593 new cases of Covid-19, taking the caseload to 32,512,366, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8am.On Tuesday, 25,647 infections were recorded.As many as 648 patients died and 34,169 recovered from the viral disease in the said period on Wednesday, according to health ministry data. With this, the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries has climbed to 435,758 and 31,754,281 respectively. The active caseload has also increased to 322,327 and constitutes 0.98% of the caseload.Also Read| India adds over 25k new Covid cases for 2nd straight day, logs 354 more deathsThe weekly Covid-19 positivity rate stands at 1.92% and has remained below the 3% mark for the past 61 days. The daily positivity rate has also been below this limit for the last two months and is currently at 2.10%.On Monday, 25,072 people were detected Covid-19 positive, the lowest single-day count in 160 days, as per the health ministry.However, the low number of infections on Monday could also be attributed to the lesser number of tests carried out. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 1,295,160 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Monday across the country. On Tuesday and Wednesday, authorities tested 1,647,526 and 1,792,755 samples, the ICMR added.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/tG4n7dLZ5BThe daily deaths due to the coronavirus disease also saw a major rise on Wednesday. The health ministry’s update showed that 648 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours, 294 more than that of Tuesday’s when 354 patients died. On Monday, 389 patients died.Meanwhile, a total of 595,504,593 vaccine doses have been administered to eligible beneficiaries across the country till now of which 13,47,01,810 are fully vaccinated and the remaining 460,802,783 have only received the first dose. Nearly 6.2 million beneficiaries were given the jab in the last 24 hours. The Union health ministry informed on Tuesday that over 571.5 million vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union Territories (UTs) so far through the Centre and through direct state procurement category, adding 10,084,700 doses were in the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-tally-jumps-by-12-000-cases-new-deaths-rise-too-101629865533474.html
25-08-2021||India||Heavy rainfall wreaks havoc in Dehradun, SDRF rescues trapped people||Uttarakhand's capital Dehradun witnessed incessant rainfall on Tuesday night, which caused extensive waterlogging and prompted the administration to deploy State Disaster Response Force (SDRF). Reports quoting the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the rain continued for seven hours.Due to heavy rains, drain water started entering the houses and buildings in many places.The SDRF team rescued 10-12 people trapped in the State Health Authority building located in the IT Park, which was inundated, news agency ANI reported. There was heavy waterlogging in the area, it further said.देहरादून में भारी वर्षा से आये जलसैलाब से राज्य स्वास्थ्य प्राधिकरण भवन IT पार्क में फंसे लोगों को सुरक्षित निकालते SDRF जवान। pic.twitter.com/i3BHgv4LYzThe rescue team also shifted people living in huts built on both sides of the river under the Bindal bridge to safer places.The IMD has, meanwhile, warned of heavy rainfall in Uttarakhand for five days - from August 24 to August 28. It said that the rainfall will be accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning.For northwest, central India and the west coast, the weather department has predicted subdued monsoon over the next five days. In its weather forecast on Wednesday morning, the IMD said that the monsoon trough is "very likely" to run close to foothills of Himalayas on Wednesday and Thursday.Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls is very likely to continue over Bihar, East Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand till Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rainfall-wreaks-havoc-in-dehradun-sdrf-rescues-trapped-people-101629867952874.html
25-08-2021||India||‘You acted like his eldest son’: Kalyan Singh’s son praises Yogi Adityanath||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister late Kalyan Singh’s son Rajveer Singh, who is also the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Etah, praised chief minister Yogi Adityanath for personally supervising all arrangements for his father’s last journey, spread across three days, and for remaining present throughout till his last rites were performed.“Someone, who didn’t take part in the last rites of his own father due to pressing official commitments, remained by the mortal remains of my Ram Bhakt (devotee) father for three days, and in doing so, he fulfilled the responsibility of being his eldest son. For this, me and my family will forever remain grateful,” Rajveer wrote in a facebook post. “I am forever grateful to such Yogi,” he added.In April 2020, during the first Covid wave, when Adityanath’s father Anand Singh Bisht died, the chief minister, while grieving his father’s death, had cited official responsibility for not attending his father’s funeral - a point that Rajveer highlighted.Rajveer said Adityanath not only escorted Kalyan’s mortal remains from Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) hospital to Singh’s Lucknow residence, where the body was kept overnight, but also got the ‘shaanti path’ (a ritual for peace of the departed) started the same night itself.“He then escorted Kalyan’s body to Vidhan Bhawan and UP BJP office, then flew to Aligarh where the mortal remains were taken to on Sunday, supervised all the preparations before bidding adieu to the late leader like a family member,” Rajveer said.Kalyan Singh was the BJP’s one of the tallest other backward class (OBC) leaders and a key participant in the Ayodhya Ram Temple movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-acted-like-his-eldest-son-kalyan-singh-s-son-praises-yogi-adityanath-101629868088957.html
25-08-2021||India||India has administered at least 594 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 594 million Covid vaccine doses by Tuesday, August 24. The same day, India’s first indigenous mRNA-based Covid vaccine candidate has been found safe in its interim Phase 1 clinical trials, and the national drug regulator has granted approval to its maker, Pune-based Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, to begin Phase 2/3 trials, the Union minister of science and technology said.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Tuesday, 594,765,751 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 5,467,551 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 3,829,038 got their first dose while 1,638,513 got their second dose.Also Read | Afghan evacuees object to mandatory quarantineIn the 18-45 age group, 2,867,784 were given the first dose while 777,822 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 223,359,860 people have been given the first dose while 21,137,082 have got their second shot as well.Among the healthcare workers, 10,354,204 have been given the first dose while 8,249,276 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,309,215 have got their first dose and 12,705,601 have got their second dose too.India reported 37,593 new Covid cases in the past 24 hours, said the government statement on Wednesday. The number of Covid deaths reported in the same period was 648.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-594-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101629866048986.html
25-08-2021||India||NITI Aayog, WRI launch forum for decarbonisation of transport sector||Indian government’s think-tank NITI Aayog, in collaboration with World Resources Institute (WRI), launched the Forum for Decarbonising Transport in the country on Tuesday.“Through this forum, the WRI India team, along with NITI Aayog and other project partners, will work in close coordination with all the stakeholders to formulate strategies and develop appropriate business models to accelerate electric mobility in India,” read the official government statement.It further said that the forum aims to create a platform to initiate dialogues for the development of uniform policies and help achieve specific results in reducing carbon emissions from the transport sector.India is currently engaged in building a domestic renewable automotive industry with the aim to become the world’s largest electric vehicle manufacturing and supplying hub. Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari recently told HT Auto EV Conclave that battery electric vehicle and fuel-cell vehicle technologies are all set to overtake fossil-run vehicles in the country by 2050.NITI Aayog CEO (chief executive officer) Amitabh Kant said the launch of the forum was a defining milestone for the electric mobility ecosystem in the country. “This will help in the development of innovative business models for targeted results and the holistic growth of the electric mobility space in India. Through effective collaboration, cooperation and convergence, we must work together to usher clean mobility in India,” he added.Explaining the need of the stakeholder forum in decarbonising transport, Amit Bhatt, executive director of the Integrated Transport division of WRI India said, “The Forum for Decarbonisation of Transport will act as the conduit for bringing diverse voices and needs to adopt an integrated approach for greening the transport sector in India.”The forum is a part of the Nationally Determined Contribution -Transport Initiative for Asia (NDC-TIA) project which focuses on developing a coherent strategy of effective policies and the formation of a multi-stakeholder platform for decarbonising transport in the region. It is a joint programme of seven organisations that will engage China, India, and Vietnam in promoting a comprehensive approach to decarbonising transport in their respective countries. The project is part of the International Climate Initiative (IKI).NITI Aayog has been at the helm of the promotion of electric vehicles and sustainable mobility through the National Mission on Transformative Mobility and Battery Storage.The launch was held virtually and inaugurated by NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant. Dignitaries from various ministries and NDC-TIA project partners, along with stakeholders from the mobility and the energy sector, were present during the launch.The Indian government last year rolled out a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for various industries including an outlay of over ₹57,00 crore for the automobile and auto-component industry over a period of five years. Around ₹18,000 crore was approved for development of advanced cell chemistry battery storage manufacturing. Gadkari said these incentives further aim to encourage indigenous development of EVs so as to bring down their upfront cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niti-aayog-wri-launch-forum-for-decarbonisation-of-transport-sector-101629863546468.html
25-08-2021||India||Afghan evacuees object to mandatory quarantine||The 14-day institutional quarantine mandated for Afghan evacuees has not gone down well with many of them saying they are fully vaccinated. The government has cited the unknown immunisation status of the evacuees and the extent of the Covid-19 pandemic in Afghanistan and said they will have to undergo the quarantine. Officials said among the evacuees, 16 tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Two of them have been admitted to Delhi’s Lok Nayak Hospital while others were asymptomatic.A woman, who said she spent five sleepless nights at the Kabul airport along with her two-year-old son before her evacuation, said she is fully vaccinated and has been administered Johnson & Johnson vaccine. She added she also tested negative for Covid-19 upon arrival. “Yet a police constable would accompany me even if I went to the washroom,” she said, requesting anonymity. She said she could not feed her son for three days as they travelled to India via Tajikistan. “... we reached the Delhi airport at 9 am (on Tuesday). Until 10 pm (Tuesday), we were not allowed to go… While they served us breakfast. We did not get lunch.”Another Afghan national said he too has received two doses of Covishield vaccine and also tested negative, but he was still quarantined at an Indo-Tibetan Border Police camp in New Delhi.Also Read | India, Russia to assess Taliban actions before any recognition moveAn evacuee shared the pictures from the quarantine centre and complained about a lack of privacy. “There are no curtains separating the beds or any walls or rooms for us to feed our babies at ease,” said the third evacuee.Another evacuee said the government has deployed six policemen for every 10 Afghan nationals. He added he is 28 and unvaccinated since people in his age group are yet to be vaccinated in Afghanistan. But he also tested Covid-19 negative. The 28-year-old said his family has been living in India since last year when they lost some of their relatives in a blast near a gurudwara in Kabul. “...families of such victims were relocated to Delhi including mine. But I found no job here. So, I returned home. Many of us have houses here but despite that government is sending us to a camp for quarantine. How can our sisters sleep in a corridor with no walls.” He said the government should quarantine them in a gurudwara.He said some of those in their group of around 50 Afghan Sikhs, who arrived in New Delhi on Tuesday, sent them videos of the centre. “There are insects...and rats...under the beds,” he told HT from the Delhi Airport as he waited for his paperwork to be completed.A fifth evacuee said they have been exhausted. “We struggled to even make it to the Kabul airport. We have not slept for over a week and hardly ate anything. The government should understand this and make some better arrangements.”The 28-year-old said rather than putting them in a camp, they should quarantine them in a gurudwara. HT tried to reach out to officials for comments but there was no immediate response. The copy will be updated if they respond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-evacuees-object-to-mandatory-quarantine-101629863888459.html
25-08-2021||India||Narayan Rane's arrest: Son Nitesh posts 'karara jawab milega' video||Union minister Narayan Rane's son Nitesh posted a video on Twitter shortly after midnight to attack the Maharashtra government over the arrest of his father on Tuesday. The video posted by Nitesh is part of a scene from the film Rajneeti and shows actor Manoj Bajpayee warning "Karara jawab milega (strong answer will be given)."pic.twitter.com/mrcVtozfKKNarayan Rane was arrested on Tuesday for saying he wanted to slap chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, prompting Shiv Sena workers to go on a rampage, and setting up another political face-off between the ruling three-party alliance and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Rane was arrested in Golavali in Ratnagiri district, where he was travelling as part of the Jan Ashirwad rallies newly inducted Union ministers are addressing across the country.Rane, who holds the micro, small and medium enterprises portfolio, was the first sitting central minister to be arrested in two decades, since Murasoli Maran and TR Baalu were picked up in an infamous midnight raid in Chennai by the Tamil Nadu Police in 2001.The 69-year-old was produced in a court in Mahad in Raigad on Tuesday night and granted bail.However, the magistrate court ordered the Union minister to present at the Ratnagiri police station for inquiry on August 31 and September 13.It also cautioned Rane not to commit a similar kind of offence in the future.The minister had on Monday accused Thackeray of ignorance about the year of India's independence at an event and said "I would have given a tight slap".Also Read: 3 FIRs in Mumbai after clashes between Sena, BJP workers over Rane's remarksFIRs were registered against Rane at several places, including Nashik and Pune, based on the complaints filed by Shiv Sena leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narayan-rane-s-arrest-son-nitesh-posts-karara-jawab-milega-video-101629863026168.html
25-08-2021||India||Madras high court verdict on OBC quota in medical college seats expected today||The Madras high court will on Wednesday deliver its verdict on a contempt petition filed by Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) against the Centre, demanding 50 per cent reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in the All India Quota (AIQ) medical seats.DMK has said in its petition that the 27 per cent of the seats offered by the Centre for admission of students against the surrendered seat under AIQ for undergraduate medical courses in Tamil Nadu is unacceptable.DMK's counsel P Wilson told the bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice PD Audikesavalu on August 3 that the state government will not accept anything short of 50 per cent, if not 69 per cent, as recommended by the first bench of the high court back in July last year.The high court had, in July last year, ruled that OBCs are entitled to reservations in AIQ seats and ordered the implementation of the scheme from 2021-22 academic year. But, claiming there were no compliance with the court's order, the DMK filed ta contempt plea this year.Also Read: Why states that can't control population get more seats in Parliament: Madras high courtA bench headed by then chief justice of Madras high court AP Sahi held in its July 27, 2020 that the issue had to be resolved between the state and the Centre with the participation of representatives from the medical and dental councils of India. It had also suggested a committee be constituted for providing the terms of implementation of the reservation as claimed by the petitioners.It had also stated that the panel can fix the percentage of reservation.When the matter came up for hearing on July 19 this year, the high court gave Centre time to make clear its position about the mode and manner of implementation of the OBC reservation quota in accordance with the 1993 State Act for admission of students to medical and dental colleges in the state.As per the 1993 State Act, OBC reservation for Tamil Nadu is fixed at 69 per cent, which was done on the basis of the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and of Appointments or Posts in the Services).Also Read: Madras high court issues directions to ‘release caged parrot CBI’After another week-long extension, the Centre told the court on August 18 that a 27 per cent quota will be extended for OBC students. However, DMK’s counsel contended that the order of 27 per cent runs against the high court and Supreme Court’s order which stipulates that 50 per cent of seats be reserved for OBC students. Additional Solicitor General KM Nataraj told the judges on behalf of the Centre that granting a 50 per cent quota to OBC students will exceed the limit set by the Supreme Court in the Marathas case.Following this DMK’s counsel questioned the propriety of implementing quota for Economically Weaker Section (EWS) students. To which Nataraj responded that the provision for EWS quota has constitutional backing and that he need not justify that reservation in the present case which was confined only to OBCs. He also stated that the question of contempt does not arise since the Centre has provided 27 per cent quota for OBC students. After listening to both sides, chief justice Banerjee and justice Audikesavalu decided to pronounce their orders on the issue on August 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-high-court-verdict-on-obc-quota-in-medical-college-seats-expected-today-101629861141193.html
25-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mysuru mayoral polls today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mysuru mayoral polls today, JD(S) likely to go with CongressMysore, officially Mysuru, is set to go into polls on Wednesday, August 25, to elect the new mayor of the city in southern Karnataka. Read MoreMaharashtra Covid daily death rate a cause for concernMaharashtra on Tuesday recorded 119 Covid-19 deaths as experts point out the “worrying” average daily death rate. Read More'Locals never raised their voices': Former Afghan mayor on Taliban takeoverAfghanistan's first woman mayor, who fled to Germany recently, has blamed the people of her country for the Taliban's return to power. Read MoreAamir Khan's brother Faissal Khan opens up about their equation, Aamir's divorce: 'My own marriage didn't work'Actor Aamir Khan and his brother Faissal Khan have had a tumultuous relationship. Read MoreNora Fatehi glams up her co-ord check crop top and pants set with bold red lips, see picsDancer-turned-actor Nora Fatehi's love for prints shines through her vast collection of eclectic pieces in her wardrobe. Read MoreG7 nations warn Taliban of blocking funds against terror in AfghanistanLeaders of G7 nations met virtually to discuss the Afghanistan crisis. G7 warned the Taliban against human rights violations & harbouring terror. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mysuru-mayoral-polls-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101629860335489.html
25-08-2021||India||Maharashtra Covid daily death rate a cause for concern||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 119 Covid-19 deaths as experts point out the “worrying” average daily death rate. Even amid a waning second wave, there have been 3,250 deaths this month, translating into an average of 135 fatalities a day — a number that does not bode well for the state, say experts.The state on Tuesday recorded 4,355 new cases, bringing the tally to 6,432,649. Mumbai recorded 272 new cases and one death. There were 187,121 tests done across the state on the day while the number of recoveries clocked 4,240.Also Read | Took 2 vax doses, certificates show jabbed once: Couple in MaharashtraActive cases have now reached 49,752 with Pune leading with 11,962, followed by Thane and Satara with 6,971 and 5,472 cases respectively.The state’s death toll has now reached 136,355 with Pune again leading with 18,965 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 15,952 and Thane with 11,245.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-daily-death-rate-a-cause-for-concern-101629860348035.html
25-08-2021||India||Assam inks pact to waive loans of 1.4 m women borrowers to fulfil poll promise||As promised in its assembly poll manifesto, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in Assam inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with 38 microfinance institutions and banks on Tuesday to waive off loans taken by poor women in the state.Signing of the MoU will lead to implementation of the Assam Micro Finance Incentive and Relief Scheme, 2021, prepared earlier by the government and benefit nearly 1.4 million borrowers.Speaking on the occasion, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the scheme will have a ₹12,000 crore credit portfolio, including about ₹7,200 crore to be spent by the government.“The relief scheme will ensure continuity of micro-finance for supporting economic activities of poor households and help eligible customers in overcoming stress in the microfinance sector due to various operational reasons” he said.Sarma said the scheme emphasises responsible lending by financial institutions in compliance with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and industry regulations in letter and spirit, while promoting responsible borrowing and timely repayment culture.CM said all eligible borrowers can take loans up to ₹1.25 lakhs from up to 3 lenders under the scheme and those with a track record of regular loan repayment will be provided a one-time incentive to the extent of their outstanding balance, capped at ₹25,000.Similarly, borrowers whose repayments to the banks are overdue but do not fall in the category of non-performing assets (NPA), the state government will pay the overdue amount.Further, borrowers whose accounts have become NPAs will need to apply through a format verified and certified by the lender. Government will then consider providing partial relief or full relief based on detailed evaluation, the scheme proposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-inks-pact-to-waive-loans-of-1-4-m-women-borrowers-to-fulfil-poll-promise-101629860107942.html
25-08-2021||India||Mysuru mayoral polls today, JD(S) likely to go with Congress||Mysore, officially Mysuru, is set to go into polls on Wednesday, August 25, to elect the new mayor of the city in southern Karnataka. The municipal authorities announced the poll schedule last week for the post of mayor, which fell vacant after the high court disqualified the election of Rukmini Madegowda of the JD(S) in May. In accordance with the schedule, the mayoral polls in Mysuru are set to take place at 12pm today at the Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar auditorium in the city.The Mysuru mayoral polls, scheduled to be held in June, were delayed by the Karnataka high court in view of the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and the related restrictions.The post of mayor in Mysuru is reserved for a woman from the General Category. Rukmini Madegowda, of the JD(S), was disqualified as mayor by the Karnataka high court while she was just three months into her new office, having been elected on February 24 earlier this year. In her absence, Anwar Baig of the Congress, the erstwhile deputy mayor, was appointed as the acting mayor until a new mayor was set to be elected following the mayoral polls.In a strategy not much different from that in February, the JD(S) and the Congress are likely to stitch an alliance against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), to keep the latter out of the mayoral post in the city corporation.In line with a press release issued by the Mysuru city corporation (MCC) on August 17, candidates willing to pitch in for the elections were allowed to file their nomination papers from August 17 to August 24. They can also finish filing their papers between 8am and 10am today, the election day, according to the release. The release further said that the MP, MLAs, MLCs, and corporators who have voting rights, have been issued the notification about the poll schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mysuru-mayoral-polls-today-jd-s-likely-to-go-with-congress-101629856892535.html
25-08-2021||India||Subdued monsoon likely over NW India at least for next 5 days||Monsoon is likely to be subdued over northwest India, central India and the west coast during the next five days, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).The western end of the monsoon trough is lying to the north of its normal position and the eastern end is lying along the foothills of Himalayas. The monsoon trough is very likely to run close to foothills of Himalayas by Wednesday and continue to remain there till Thursday. Due to formation of a cyclonic circulation over west central and adjoin northwest Bay of Bengal on Friday, the eastern end of the monsoon trough is likely to shift southwards. Also Read | Monsoon normal for now, despite a ‘break’Strong southerly/southwesterly winds from Bay of Bengal to northeast India are very likely to continue to prevail. Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is very likely to continue over northeast India, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim till Friday and reduce thereafter with isolated heavy rainfall over the region.Isolated extremely heavy rain is also likely over Assam and Meghalaya during Wednesday and Thursday. Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls is very likely to continue over Bihar, east Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand till Friday. Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall activity with Isolated heavy rain over Tamil Nadu during the next five days and over Kerala and Mahe is likely till Saturday. Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning over east India is expected during the next three days.Subdued rainfall activity is likely to continue over northwest, central India and the west coast during the next five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/subdued-monsoon-likely-over-nw-india-at-least-for-next-5-days-101629859507908.html
25-08-2021||India||India, Russia to assess Taliban actions before any recognition move||Russia and India have decided to consult each other over Taliban’s actions in Afghanistan and assess where there is any marked change in the Sunni Pashtun Islamist force since they first came to power in 1996 before deciding to recognise the new Emirates of Afghanistan.The two countries have also decided to set up combined teams comprising of foreign ministry and national security officials of each country to conduct a detailed assessment of the Afghan situation so that future course of action with the Taliban Islamic government is decided by both India and Russia.These crucial decisions were taken after Russian President Vladimir Putin called up Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday and held detailed conversation over telephone on Afghanistan situation and its impact on both South and Central Asia ahead of the G-7 summit. President Putin has been discussing Afghanistan situation with leaders of Central Asian Republics, who are extremely worried about the impact of rise of an Islamist terrorist force in Kabul, and European leaders like French President Emmanuel Macron and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi. The conversation between PM Modi and President Putin has been described by diplomats as extremely cordial and warm, with both leaders appearing to be on the same page on Afghanistan.The call by German Chancellor Angela Merkel to both PM Modi and Russian President Putin was a farewell call from the German leader and was set up before the Taliban seized Kabul with the US forces virtually running out of Afghanistan.While Russian National Security Advisor Gen Nikolai Patrushev was in touch with his US counterpart Jake Sullivan this week, the discussion was tactical in nature with Moscow offering a helping hand to US forces trying to evacuate civilians from Kabul. A similar conversation took place between Russian Defence Minister and his UK counterpart.During the conversation between the two leaders, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told President Putin that India was concerned about Islamic radicalization in the region and how Taliban affiliated terrorist groups in Pakistan could use the developing situation to spread terrorism. It is understood that President Putin agreed with PM Modi’s assessment and expressed concern over radicalization in the Central Asian Republics.President Putin made it evident that Russia is still to assess whether there is any change in the methodology of Taliban from the past before taking steps to recognize the Islamist regime. He said that Russia would consult India before any such decision is taken and hence the combined national security and intelligence teams of the two countries were asked to carry out this assessment. During 1996-2001, the Taliban carried out a reign of terror against minorities and women. The Taliban then went after their political opponents by castrating and publicly hanging former Afghan president Mohammed Najibullah, an Ahmedzai Pashtun, from a traffic light pole on September 26, 1996.While India is in discussion with the US, EU leadership and at the UN on Afghanistan development, one must remember the role both Russia and India played in bolstering the anti-Taliban Northern Alliance in the 1990s along with Iran. All three countries have a legitimate stake in Afghanistan as neighbors and understand the perfidious role of Pakistan in Taliban 2.0.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-to-assess-taliban-actions-before-any-recognition-move-101629858296074.html
25-08-2021||India||Schools in Himachal Pradesh to stay closed till September 4||The Himachal Pradesh government has decided to further extend the closure of schools in the state till September 4, informed State Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj on Tuesday.He also elaborated on the filling up of the 4,000 vacant posts of different categories of teachers.Bhardwaj further said that "The Himachal Pradesh government has also decided to fill up 4,000 posts of different categories of teachers including 820 posts of drawing teachers and 870 posts of physical education teacher posts in the Education Department"."Out of these 4000 posts, 2640 posts of teachers would be filled in Elementary Education Department," he added."1360 posts in Higher Education Department would be filled up on a contract basis to ensure quality education to the students nearer to their homes," the Urban Development Minister said.Meanwhile, the state has reported 281 new Covid-19 cases, 253 recoveries, and 4 deaths in the last 24 hours.The state has recorded 2,054 active cases, total positive cases stand at 2,12,260 and the total death toll in the state due to disease is 3,562.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-in-himachal-pradesh-to-stay-closed-till-september-4-101629857740095.html
25-08-2021||India||BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari removed from chairman’s post in Bengal cooperative bank||Suvendu Adhikari, leader of the Opposition in the West Bengal assembly, was removed on Monday as chairman of the Contai Cooperative Bank Ltd in East Midnapore, his home district, in an emergency meeting of the bank’s board of directors, bank officials said.The board members said rules do not permit a chairman to continue for more than three terms, each lasting three years. Adhikari had held the post since 2009.Adhikari has been under intense scrutiny ever since he switched political allegiance to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) before the April-May assembly polls in which he defeated chief minister Mamata Banerjee at his Nandigram seat.In June, the state government started probing the operations of several cooperative banks where Adhikari held a position in the managing board. Banerjee then alleged financial irregularities in several cooperative banks and claimed money was stashed in accounts held against fake names.Adhikari got some relief on July 16 when the Calcutta high court ordered that an inspection of the book of accounts of Contai Co-operative Bank Ltd could be carried out by the state but no special audit will be allowed without the court’s permission.The special audit was ordered by the state government on June 12 and the bank’s board, which was then headed by Adhikari, challenged the order in court. The bank’s lawyer told the court that only the Reserve Bank of India had the power to conduct any audit.In her July 16 order, justice Sampa Sarkar, said the reasons for the special audit had not been disclosed in the notice issued to the bank, and allowed an inspection with regard to non-compliances detected in the statutory audit report for 2019-20. She also asked the bank to cooperate with the state. HT has seen a copy of the court order.Adhikari’s removal from the bank’s board triggered a political slugfest on Tuesday.While Adhikari did not comment on the issue, Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “Under the TMC regime, even God will be made to look like a demon if he leaves the ruling party. This is vindictive politics. Adhikari will seek legal recourse.”Akhil Giri, state fisheries minister and Adhikari’s archrival in East Midnapore, said, “The court said that inspection of records can be carried out. How can it be done with Adhikari continuing as the chairman? Hence, he was removed from the board by the other members.”Adhikari is under pressure on several fronts.He and his youngest brother Soumendu have been accused of stealing relief materials in East Midnapore. He has moved the Calcutta high court to seek relief.Also, the criminal investigation department (CID) has started a probe into the death of Adhikari’s former bodyguard Shubhabrata Chakraborty who died from a gunshot injury in 2018. The family has now alleged foul play.CID teams have questioned members of Adhikari’s family, including Dibyendu Adhikari, the BJP leader’s brother and TMC Lok Sabha member from the district’s Tamluk Lok Sabha seat. Their father, Sisir Adhikari, is the TMC Lok Sabha member from Contai.The TMC has petitioned Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla for Sisir Adhikari’s disqualification under anti-defection law as he shared the dais with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the recent election campaign. The Lok Sabha speaker has initiated an inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-suvendu-adhikari-removed-from-chairman-s-post-in-bengal-cooperative-bank-101629857947753.html
25-08-2021||India||Chidambaram in Goa today on 2-day visit, his 1st as AICC poll observer for state||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram, who was recently appointed as senior election observer for Goa, will vsit the state for two days starting Wednesday. He will meet party leaders of North and South Goa during his stay there.Issuing a statement last week, Congress Committee (GPCC) vice president (Organisation) M K Sheikh said that Chidambaram will hold an interaction with Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) office bearers, district and block presidents and will take inputs to chalk out strategies for the upcoming assembly elections in Goa.Sheikh added on Saturday that the former Union minister will also visit the Congress House in Panjim on Wednesday and the South Goa district office on Thursday.This will be Chidambaram’s first visit to Goa after he was given charge of the observer post in early August. AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal issued an order in this regard and said that Chidambaram will oversee election strategies and coordination for the assembly elections.However, his (Chidambaram's) appointment drew criticism from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government. BJP Goa’s president Sadanand Shet Tanavade told news agency PTI on August 12 that even if Rahul Gandhi was appointed as in charge, the Congress would not be able to win the election. “I have heard that the Congress has appointed Chidambaram as in-charge of Goa to decide the election strategy. Even if they get Rahul Gandhi as in-charge, they will not win the election,” Tanavade said.Elections to the 40-member Goa legislative assembly are due in February 2022. In the 2017 elections, the Congress had emerged as the single-largest party in Goa, but could not come into power as the BJP forged an alliance with some independents and regional parties to form the government.This time, the top contenders are the BJP, the Congress and Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which has promised it will provide free electricity to the people of Goa if it comes into power next year.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chidambaram-in-goa-today-on-2-day-visit-his-1st-as-aicc-poll-observer-for-state-101629854351248.html
25-08-2021||India||Gujarat relaxes Covid-19 curbs for Janmashtami, Ganesh festivals. Check details||The Gujarat government on Tuesdaya announced relaxations in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) curbs in place to check the its spread. The restrictions have been lifted in the wake of upcoming Janmashtami and Ganesh festivals, the state government said.The easing of curbs include relaxation in night curfew timings in eight cities in Gujarat. The decision was taken after a meeting of the state's core committee on the Covid-19 pandemic situation chaired by chief minister Vijay Rupani, a government release said.Here is a list of relaxations announced by the Gujarat government:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-relaxes-covid-19-curbs-for-janmashtami-ganesh-festivals-check-details-101629855709695.html
25-08-2021||India||Alleging corruption in Uttar Pradesh govt, AAP to hold protest today||Claiming to highlight corruption in Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will stage protests across the state on Wednesday. The "Matka Phodo" campaign will be held across Uttar Pradesh over corruption in the Jal Jeevan Mission, the party said.It will highlight "corruption of thousands of crores" done by Uttar Pradesh government, AAP leader Neeraj Judaun said on Tuesday."The 'Matka Phodo' demonstration is being organised across the state on the call of party leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh to highlight the corruption of thousands of crores in the Jal Jeevan Mission in the state government," added another party leader Sanjeev Nigam.However, the local BJP unit dubbed the AAP's allegations as devoid of any substance and a bid to create "sensation"."The AAP is only engaging in 'hawabaazi' (loose talk) and raking up a non-issue as they have no actual issue against the government," BJP spokesperson Tanmay Shankar told news agency PTI.The AAP has announced a similar protest in Delhi also "to free the city's municipal corporation from BJP"."Time's Up for BJP!! Mega Campaign against BJP's MCD Launched. "Your MLA at your doorstep" campaign from 1/09/21 to 30/09/21. 2500 meetings to be held by AAP MLAs across Delhi. All 272 wards to be covered to expose BJP's Corruption+Failure. BJP will be thrown out of MCD soon!" AAP tweeted form its official handle on Tuesday.Time's Up for BJP‼️➡️Mega Campaign against BJP's MCD Launched➡️"आपके विधायक, आपके द्वार" अभियान from 1/09/21 to 30/09/21➡️2500 meetings to be held by AAP MLAs across Delhi➡️All 272 wards to be covered to expose BJP's Corruption+FailureBJP will be thrown out of MCD soon! pic.twitter.com/8shuB0JQiGThe AAP earlier this month accused Uttar Pradesh's minister for Jal Shakti Mahendra Singh of giving contract worth crores of rupees to a rejected company and procuring water supply at 40 per cent higher rate than standard tender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alleging-corruption-in-uttar-pradesh-govt-aap-to-hold-protest-today-101629853656725.html
25-08-2021||NA||News highlights: Taliban agree to let Afghans leave nation after Aug 31 deadline of US withdrawal||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get the latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Four killed near French embassy in TanzaniaGunman kills four in attack near French embassy in Tanzania https://t.co/IEbEJ5KsVv pic.twitter.com/7U3ng471TKA gunman killed four people near the French embassy in Tanzania.German envoy says Taliban allowed Afghans to leave nation after deadline day, reports AFP#BREAKING Taliban agree to let Afghans leave Afghanistan after US withdrawal deadline of August 31: German envoy pic.twitter.com/RNJR68lgFdGerman envoy told news agency AFP that the Taliban agreed to let Afghans leave nation after US withdrawal deadlineSanjay Arora to lead ITBPIPS Sanjay Arora appointed as the Director General of the Indo-Tibetan Border PolicePankaj Kumar Singh appointed DG of BSFThe Union ministry of home affairs appointed IPS Pankaj Kumar Singh as the Director General of the Border Security ForceHaryana to reopen schoolsHaryana Government decides to re-open schools from September 1, for classes 4 and 5 in the stateState Education Minister Kanwar Pal says that classes will be organized for these students while strictly following the COVID19 SOPs pic.twitter.com/HO8KFJHa2gHaryana to reopen schools for Classes 4 and 5, says Covid-19 SOPs must be followed strictly.US to begin immediate vaccination of all armed forcesU.S. defense secretary directs military to immediately begin full COVID-19 vaccination to all armed forces members pic.twitter.com/e8uQ45az4RUS defence secretary asked all armed force members to be vaccinated immediately.China, Russia agree to cooperate on AfghanistanPutin told Xi that he shares China’s positions and interests in Afghanistan and is willing to work together to “prevent foreign forces from interfering and destroying” Afghanistan. Read more here.Mysuru gangrape: Karnataka CM says strict action will be takenKarnataka | We have formed teams for the investigation of the case. We can't disclose details related to this case at this point in time: Dr. Chandragupta, Commissioner of Police, Mysuru City on the gangrape of a girl studentBommai said that the police is investigating the case and culprits will be punished.Kerala logs 31,445 new Covid-19 casesKerala records 31,445 fresh Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours. Positivity rate reaches 19.03%. State also records 215 deaths and 20,271 recoveries.Communication with Taliban open and effective: ChinaChina on Wednesday said it has a smooth and effective communication channel with the Taliban following a meeting between representatives of the group and the Chinese ambassador to Kabul on Tuesday. Read more here.MiG-21 Bison fighter aircraft of the IAF crashes in Rajasthan, reports ANIRajasthan | IAF's MiG-21 Bison fighter aircraft crashed today in Barmer during a training sortie, pilot safe pic.twitter.com/u1i4D46NRaA MiG-21 Bison fighter aircraft of the Indian Air Force crashed today in Barmer, Rajasthan during a training sortie. The pilot is safe, news agency ANI reported.Batch of Afghan evacuees arrive in UgandaFirst Afghan evacuees arrive in Uganda https://t.co/I5LlnKbPBn pic.twitter.com/NzTQTQjAvGA batch of Afghan evacuees fleeing the Taliban regime has reached Uganda.ZyCoV-D to be rolled out in OctoberZyCoV-D, available for 12-17 yr old children also in addition to adults, will be rolled out in Oct. Before that a list&strategy are to be prepared to reach sick children in that group. Healthy children will be given vaccines only after adult immunisation is complete: Dr NK Arora pic.twitter.com/nAhJPFtv88NTAGI chief Dr Arora says ZyCoV-D will be rolled out in October. Pushes for vaccinating school administrations in a bid provide 'safety ring' around children. Rane says he was not arrestedUnion minister says 'accompanied' police in his own car to the court at cops' request.No coercive action against Rane: Maha govt tells Bombay HCMaharashtra government tells Bombay HC that it will take no coercive action against Union minister Rane. Rane allegedly said that he would slap the Maharashtra chief minister for not remembering India's year of independence. Rane was arrested by Nashik Police yesterday. Next hearing on scheduled for September 17. India crosses vaccination milestoneIndia crosses 600 million Covid vaccination mark, administers 100 million vaccines in 19 days. Merkel bats for dialogue with Taliban#BREAKING Talks with Taliban must continue to safeguard Afghan gains: German Chancellor Merkel pic.twitter.com/Fn5hNjfDMzGerman chancellor says talks necessary to 'safeguard' Afghan gains. Congress leader says MLAs only seek clear roadmap to secure reelection in PunjabHarish Rawat says the Punjab Congress MLAs who met him were only ensuring that Congress remains in power following the 2022 polls in the state. He claimed that there was no infighting among the MLAs.Gujarat to reopen schoolsGujarat announces that schools for Classes 6 to 8 will reopen from September 2 with 50% capacityRevenue secretary says inflation to decrease once harvest is out"We feel once crops come out, inflation will come down," the Revenue Secretary was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. Finance minister says credit outreach efforts by banks will occurUnion finance minister says there will be credit outreach efforts by banks in every district of this country to keep momentum of stimulus, reports PTI. Madras HC bars 10% reservation in medical, dental courses under All India quota, reports ANIMadras High Court disallows 10% reservations in medical and dental courses in the state contributed seats to All India quotaKin of deceased PSB members to receive higher pensionDFS secretary says that family members of deceased PSB bankers will now get pension of 30% of last drawn salary as against earlier ₹9,284FDI proposal of Anchorage Infrastructure Investment Holding Ltd approvedThe Union Cabinet approved FDI proposal of Anchorage Infrastructure Investment Holding Ltd and proposed an investment of ₹15,000 crore in India, ANI reported quoting Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA)Sitharaman asks PSBs to help fintech sectorUnion finance Sitharaman says PSBs have done well and have come out of Prompt Corrective Action despite service extended during pandemic. She also highlighted that deposits piling up in states of eastern India, but credit needs to be expanded. She said that the urged banks to extend assistance to the fintech sector and requested banks to work with state govts to push ‘one district, one export’ agenda. CDS Rawat outlines how to deal with terrorism spilling out of AfghanistanI think, if any kind of support can be forthcoming from the coordination, in at least identifying the terrorists & getting some intelligence input to fight this global war on terrorism, I think that would be welcome: CDS General Bipin Rawat, in Delhi pic.twitter.com/oV8lsQ68m5Terrorism spilling out of Afghanistan will be dealt similarly to how we deal with terrorism now: CDS RawatBihar CM Nitish Kumar relaxes curbs as Covid situation improvesकोविड की स्थिति की समीक्षा की गई। कोरोना संक्रमण की स्थिति में सुधार को देखते हुए सभी दुकानें, प्रतिष्ठान, शॉपिंग मॉल, पार्क, उद्यान एवं धार्मिक स्थल सामान्य रूप से खुल सकेंगे। (1/4)Bihar CM allowed relaxation of curbs as Covid situation improved in the state. The government has allowed markets and educational institutions to open normally. Can singers, filmmakers in Afghanistan do their job? Taliban spokesman answersAs the Taliban took control of Afghanistan last week and ousted the Ashraf Ghani-led government, the Islamist insurgents started attacking civilians, singers and filmmakers, HT’s sister publication, Livehindustan, said in a report on Wednesday. Read moreCong to contest 2022 Punjab polls under Amarinder Singh's leadership: Harish RawatAICC in charge of Punjab Harish Rawat said on Wednesday that the Congress party will contest next's year's assembly elections in the state under the leadership of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. "We will contest 2022 Punjab elections under the leadership of Captain Amarinder Singh," Rawat said while addressing a press conference. His comments come in the backdrop of a fresh turbulence in Punjab Congress. SC tells Delhi HC to decide on a petition against appointment of Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police CommissionerThe Supreme Court on Wednesday told the Delhi high court to decide on a petition by the CPIL against the appointment of Rakesh Ashthana as Delhi Police commissioner within two weeks. Teenager dies in high speed crash near Mahim Dargah in MumbaiA teenager, who was riding dangerously in a no entry zone near Mahim Dargah on Tuesday night in Mumbai, crashed his bike into a car coming from the opposite direction, resulting in his death, and injuries to the pillion rider and the driver of the car, police said. Read moreIndia makes e-visa mandatory for all Afghan nationals in view of security situationThe Union home ministry said on Wednesday that owing to the prevailing security situation in Afghanistan and the streamlining of the visa process by introduction of the e-Emergency X-Misc visa, it has been decided that all Afghan nationals henceforth must travel to India only on e-Visa. "Afghan nationals wishing to travel to India may apply for e-Visa at www.indianvisaonline.gov.in, " the MHA further said. Read moreAmit Shah likely to visit Andaman and Nicobar Islands in mid-SeptUnion home minister Amit Shah is likely to visit Andaman and Nicobar Islands for three days in mid-September, sources told news agency PTI on Wednesday. The sources added that Shah is likely to visit the National Memorial Cellular Jail and hold a meeting with the local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders. 16 Afghan evacuees test positive for Covid-19 in Delhi, all asymptomaticAt least 16 of the 78 evacuees from Afghanistan who landed in India on Tuesday are said to have tested positive for coronavirus. Among them are three Afghan Sikhs who had carried the Swaroops of Guru Granth Sahib from Kabul and were received by Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri at the Delhi airport. Read moreTwo injured in acid attack at subway station in Tokyo, say reportsTwo people suffered burns in an acid attack at a subway station in Japan's Tokyo with the attacker still at large, police and local media said on Wednesday, according to news agency AFP. The attack happened at Shirokane Takanawa station on Tuesday night. Covid-19 in India: At least 594 million Covid vaccine doses till nowIndia had administered at least 594 million Covid vaccine doses by Tuesday, August 24. As many as 5,467,551 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 3,829,038 got their first dose while 1,638,513 got their second dose. Read moreIndia records 37,593 new Covid-19 cases, about 12,000 cases added in last 24 hoursIndia's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) saw a major increase on Wednesday as 37,593 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 32,512,366, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8am. As many as 648 patients died and 34,169 recovered from the viral disease in the said period. With this the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries has climbed to 435,758 and 31,754,281 respectively. Read moreDelhi to experience a dry spell for next four days, says IMDDelhi is likely to see a dry spell for the next four days as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 28 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 37°C. Read moreMexico accepts first group of refugees from AfghanistanMexico on Wednesday accepted its first refugees from Afghanistan, who were a part of a group involved in robotics. Six refugees- five women and one man, arrived in Mexico City on Tuesday where they were welcomed by Foreign Relations Secretary Marcelo Ebrard. Chidambaram in Goa today on 2-day visit, his 1st as AICC poll observer for stateSenior Congress leader P Chidambaram, who was recently appointed as senior election observer for Goa, will vsit the state for two days starting Wednesday. He will meet party leaders of North and South Goa during his stay there. Read moreMaharashtra records 27 new cases of Delta Plus variant; tally climbs to 103The cases of the Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Maharashtra have climbed to 103 after 27 more infections were reported, the state health department said on Tuesday. The health department added that six cases each were detected in Gadchiroli and Amravati, five in Nagpur, four in Ahmednagar, three in Yavatmal, two in Nashik and one in Bhandara district. Madhya Pradesh to kick-off 2 day mega Covid vaccination drive from todayThe Madhya Pradesh government will on Wednesday begin a two-day mega vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) called the “MP Vaccination Maha Abhiyan 2” drive , focusing on covering those people whose second dose is due. Read moreTaliban's actions to be monitored, says US Prez Joe BidenUnited States President Joe Biden said on Tuesday that the Taliban's actions will be monitored and the G7 leaders, EU, NATO and United Nations would respond to the terror group's behaviour accordingly. "G7 leaders, EU, NATO, United Nations have agreed to stand united in our approach to the Taliban. We'll judge them (Taliban) by their actions and we'll stay in close coordination on any steps that we take moving forward in response to Taliban behaviour," Biden said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-25-2021-101629851924272.html
25-08-2021||India||Darjeeling 'toy trains' to be back on track from today after more than a year||The 'toy train' in West Bengal's Darjeeling, a part of the railway system declared by Unesco as a 'World Heritage Site', is set to be back on track once again from Wednesday, August 25, after a gap of more than one year due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation. Formally known as the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR), the toy train will be chugging again between New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling from today, according to a statement issued by the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR).The Darjeeling toy train is a narrow-gauge railway that was built in the British era, between 1879 and 1881. It climbs from New Jalpaiguri to Darjeeling, around 88km apart, on a zig-zag track. The 'Red Panda' service from Darjeeling to Kurseong is hauled by vintage steam locomotives, while most of the scheduled services are operated on diesel engines travelling from Darjeeling to Ghum, the highest railway station in India.In an official statement last Saturday, the NFR announced the resumption of toy train services in Darjeeling weeks before Durga Puja, a much-venerated festival in West Bengal. However, the timings for the pair of trains from New Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling have not been notified yet.“Each train will have 17 seats in the first class and 29 seats in the general class for passengers,” reports quote NFR's spokesperson, Guneet Kaur, as saying. She added that the resumption of the hill station railway services is expected to benefit the tourism and hospitality sectors, both of which had taken a serious hit due to the coronavirus pandemic.The Darjeeling Himalayan Railway was closed down on March 22 last year in view of the pandemic. However, the trains are preparing to get back on track now after nearly one and a half years, with the railway staff seen to be cleaning out and sanitising the coaches in the shed. Passengers availing the Darjeeling toy train services will, however, have to abide by all Covid-19 necessitated protocols, including the maintaining of social distancing, wearing of masks at all times, and the like, the NFR official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/darjeeling-toy-trains-to-be-back-on-track-from-today-after-more-than-a-year-101629848857399.html
25-08-2021||India||Key Pulwama conspirator Sameer Dar, thought to be killed, is alive: Fresh intel||One of the accused in the 2019 Pulwama attack, Sameer Ahmad Dar, who was thought to have been gunned down in a July 31 encounter along with Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) commander Mohammad Ismail Alvi alias Lambu, is alive and bolstering the terror outfit’s activities in the Valley, according to people in the Indian security establishment.It has now emerged that the second terrorist killed with Lambu (a relative of JeM chief Maulana Masood Azhar) in the July operation was a Pakistani national who is yet to be identified, the people cited above told HT.The operation was the result of a coordinated strike by the counter-insurgency Victor Force, headed by Major General Rashim Bali, in the Nagberan-Tarsar forest area of Pulwama.Lambu, who is from Bahawalpur, Pakistan, and was one of the main perpetrators of the February 14, 2019 Pulwama attack, was killed in the encounter.The other terrorist killed was identified as Sameer Dar, 22, a local from Pulwama, who joined JeM in 2018. However, when security agencies later showed his body to the family, it was confirmed the second terrorist was not Dar. On closer examination, his photos, too, did not match the body, one of the people said.“The initial assessment was||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-pulwama-conspirator-sameer-dar-thought-to-be-killed-is-alive-fresh-intel-101629838975475.html
25-08-2021||India||Monsoon normal for now, despite a ‘break’||Unless things change drastically, India is on course to having a normal monsoon, which will recharge the country’s main water reservoirs just enough, and ensure that the most important crops for the kharif season have normal sowing. This is good news for agricultural production and food prices. However, two major areas of concern remain: intermittent dry patches this monsoon season that could adversely affect crop yields; and regions which continue to suffer from deficient rains or floods despite the national average rainfall being in the normal zone.Cumulative rainfall continues to be in normal rangeThe June-September period is considered as the monsoon in India. Cumulative monsoon rainfall as of 8:30 AM on August 21 was 5.07% less than the Long Period Average or LPA, according to the gridded rainfall dataset of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). A 5% deficit from LPA is considered to be in the normal range. IMD defines the average of rainfall in the 1961 to 2010 period as the LPA for that interval. It considers less than 20% deviation on either side of the LPA as normal; a surplus of 20% or more as excess; and a deficit of 20% or more as deficient.Although the cumulative rainfall continues to be in the normal range, there have been periods of prolonged dry patches. There was a 47% surplus in cumulative rainfall before a dry patch from June 21 to July 11 -- when daily rainfall was less than the LPA on all days -- created a deficit of 3% in cumulative rain. After a period of recovery that led to a 2% surplus on August 1, another 16-day dry patch from August 2 to August 17 created the current 5% deficit.Past week’s recovery limited to few areasBoth the June-July dry patch and this month’s dry patch had been caused by a “break phase” of monsoon. This is a feature of the monsoon that causes heavy rains along the foothills of the Himalayas but leaves a major part of the country dry. There has been some recovery from that phase last week. Daily rainfall from August 18 to August 20 was more than the LPA. However, this recovery was limited to Delhi, districts in Western Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, and the north-east. Most of north-western India was dry last week.Almost one-third of India’s districts are still rainfall deficient this yearAn analysis by districts shows that last week’s recovery in rainfall has not done much to fix deficient rainfall in about a third of India’s districts. Of the 614 Census (2011) districts (with Delhi’s districts merged as one) for which this analysis is possible, 332 received deficient rainfall last week (August 16-August 21), 139 received normal rainfall, and only 143 received excess rainfall. As a result, the number of deficient districts in cumulative rainfall on August 21 was the same as on August 15: 194. The number of districts with normal rainfall increased from 269 to 278 and those with excess rainfall decreased from 151 to 142.Reservoir levels normal, but regional differences remainThe storage in 130 main reservoirs of the country was only 1% below the last 10 years’ average on August 19 (latest available data), according to the Central Water Commission (CWC). While this is good news, the 1% deficit is not as good as the 21% surplus on July 29. Regional differences similarly continue to exist. 10 of 20 states for which this data is available have a deficit compared to the last 10 years’ average. Nagaland, Himachal, Punjab and Gujarat have a deficit of 30% or higher. On the other hand, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have a surplus of over 100%.Sowing levels normal, but yields might sufferOverall, 97.28% of the area sown normally in the kharif season has been covered by August 20 (latest available data). This is only 2.15 percentage points lower than area covered in the same period last year. Rice and arhar – the main cereal and pulse – and sugarcane are even closer to or have surpassed last year’s sowing. Some impact of the break in monsoon on sowing can be seen in the coverage of cotton and oilseeds, where sowing is lower than last year’s levels although over 90% of it is complete. “However, given the erratic monsoon rainfall this season, crop yields could suffer, reducing the overall farm output for the year,” said an August 16 research note by Rahul Bajoria, Chief India Economist at Barclays India.Retail inflation data released on August 12 showed that while food prices overall had moderated in July, year-on-year prices of oils and fats category increased by over 30% for the third-consecutive month. Since India is import-dependent for edible oils, good domestic production of oilseeds could control inflation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-normal-for-now-despite-a-break-101629837787370.html
25-08-2021||India||25 Indians among 78 more evacuated from Afghanistan||India brought back 78 people, including 25 of its nationals and Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, from Afghanistan on Tuesday and an almost equal number are expected to be evacuated from Kabul by Wednesday, people familiar with developments said.The group was flown out from Kabul to the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe in a C-130 Hercules aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) late on Monday. From Dushanbe, the group was brought to New Delhi in an Air India flight on Tuesday morning.With the window for evacuation flights from Kabul set to close because of the Taliban’s insistence that the US must withdraw all its troops from Afghanistan by August 31, India and other countries have redoubled their efforts to fly out all their nationals and Afghan citizens.A plan to operate a second flight with an IAF aircraft to Dushanbe on Monday night had to be put off because of certain difficulties, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. More Indians and Afghan nationals, including some who are already at Kabul airport, are expected to be flown out on Wednesday, the people said.The Indian side is also looking out for any Indian nationals who may still be in Afghanistan so that they can be brought into the airport for evacuation. The people said that among of the biggest problems faced by those involved in the evacuation efforts were the failure of Indian citizens to heed four security alerts issued in recent weeks, and their failure to register with the Indian embassy in Kabul.Transporting evacuees from different parts of Kabul to the airport also continues to be a problem because of the presence of hundreds of Taliban fighters in the city. The Taliban have also been insisting that Afghan nationals shouldn’t leave the country.External affairs minister S Jaishankar said in a tweet on Tuesday that India’s operation to evacuate people from Kabul had been named “Devi Shakti”. He also lauded the efforts of the IAF, Air India and the external affairs ministry in flying out the group of the 78 people from Kabul.The group was received at New Delhi airport by Union minister Hardeep Puri and minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan. The ministers carried a copy of the Sikh holy book, the Guru Granth Sahib, which was brought by the Afghan Sikhs out of the aircraft.Speaking to the media, Puri referred to the status of minorities facing persecution in neighbouring countries and said India takes in everyone, and not just people from certain communities. “I don’t want to get into the politics of what happened in Afghanistan, but as somebody who has lived abroad for nearly four decades intermittently, I know what it is to have as a feeling that you have a home – mother India – to which you can return,” he said.The Afghan Sikhs had thanked India and the prime minister for providing “sanctuary and comfort to people in times of distress, Hindus and Sikhs in particular [and] all other communities also”, he added.India has so far evacuated nearly 620 people, including 500 of its nationals, on flights from Kabul, Dushanbe and Doha. Nearly 200 people were flown out of Kabul within two days of the Taliban marching into the Afghan capital on August 15.A day after a secret meeting between CIA chief William Burns and top Taliban political leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said on Tuesday that the US must complete its evacuation of people from Afghanistan by the August 31 deadline set by the Biden administration for withdrawing all American troops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-indians-among-78-more-evacuated-from-afghanistan-101629834990944.html
25-08-2021||India||Report recommends SC panel to monitor cases against lawmakers||The Supreme Court should set up a monitoring committee headed by a retired judge to oversee and file periodic reports in a sealed cover with the top court on the status of every case against lawmakers, according to a report by senior lawyer Vijay Hansaria, appointed amicus curiae by the SC.The recommendation, part of the report filed in a public interest litigation that sought fast-tracking criminal cases pending against lawmakers, will be taken up by a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on Wednesday.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) earlier told the court that only 37 cases against sitting and former lawmakers were under investigation and 121 cases were pending trial.In one 2013 case related to drugs in Manipur, the agency said charges were framed against the accused in 2017 but the CBI expected the trial to be completed by 2030. In another case of 2014 from Bengaluru where the offence probed by CBI is punishable with a life sentence, the agency said it will take 10 years to conclude the trial.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) said the investigation was pending 76 cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act 2002 (PMLA) and the trial was pending in 34 cases.Senior advocate Vijay Hansaria - he was assisted by advocate Sneha Kalita - analysed reports filed by CBI, ED, and the high courts to come up with suggestions to ensure that the trial doesn’t drag.The recommendation to set up a panel headed by the retired Supreme Court or high court judge was one. The proposed committee could have chiefs of CBI, ED and Union home secretary or their nominees as members, the report said, adding that the panel can “evaluate the reasons for the delay in investigation” and pass appropriate directions to officers to expedite the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/report-recommends-sc-panel-to-monitor-cases-against-lawmakers-101629834594585.html
25-08-2021||India||Gennova’s m RNA vaccine gets clearance for Phase 2/3 clinical trials||India’s first domestically developed mRNA-based Covid-19 vaccine candidate has been found safe in its interim Phase 1 clinical trials, and the national drugs regulator has granted approval to its maker, Pune-based Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, to begin Phase 2/3 trials, the Union ministry of science and technology said on Tuesday.The development of HGCO19, the country’s first vaccine based on messenger-RNA (mRNA) technology, is a key step in India’s target of vaccinating all adults by the end of the year as senior government officials have said that — subject to trials and approval — they are looking at availability of 60 million vaccine doses by December.The candidate could join a club of mRNA-based vaccines currently consisting of just two American vaccines – by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna Inc – both of which have the highest efficacy among those currently being administered globally.“Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Ltd., the Pune-based biotechnology company, working on the nation’s first mRNA-based Covid-19 vaccine, submitted the interim clinical data of the Phase I study to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the Government of India’s National Regulatory Authority (NRA). Vaccine Subject Expert Committee (SEC) reviewed the interim Phase I data and found that HGCO19 was safe, tolerable, and immunogenic in the participants of the study,” science and technology ministry said in a statement issued on Tuesday.The company began Phase 1 trial in April. HGCO19’s development is being supported by central government’s Department of Biotechnology-Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (DBT-BIRAC).“It is a matter of great pride that Nation’s first mRNA-based vaccine is found to be safe and the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has approved Phase 2/3 trials. We are confident that this will be an important vaccine for both India and the world. This is an important milestone in our indigenous vaccine development mission and positions India on the global map for novel vaccine development,” said Renu Swarup, secretary, DBT, and chairperson, BIRAC.According to the company, the study will be conducted across the country at around 10-15 sites in Phase 2, and 22-27 sites in Phase 3. Gennova plans to use the DBT-Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) clinical trial network sites for this.Swarup earlier said that DBT was hand-holding Gennova from the start, and had also provided seed funding for the development of HGCO19.Gennova developed this vaccine candidate in collaboration with HDT Biotech Corporation, United States.“After establishing the safety of our mRNA-based Covid-19 vaccine candidate HGCO19 in Phase 1 clinical trial, Gennova’s focus is to start Phase 2/3 pivotal clinical trial. In parallel, Gennova is investing in scaling up its manufacturing capacity to cater to the nation’s vaccine requirement,” said Sanjay Singh, chief executive officer, Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Ltd.Gennova submitted the proposed Phase 2 and Phase 3 study titled “A Prospective, Multicentre, Randomized, Active-controlled, Observer-blind, Phase II study seamlessly followed by a Phase III study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of the candidate HGCO19 (Covid-19 vaccine) in healthy subjects” that was approved by the office of the DCGI, CDSCO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gennovas-m-rna-vaccine-gets-clearance-for-phase-2-3-clinical-trials-101629833643332.html
25-08-2021||India||US climate envoy John Kerry may visit India in Sept||New Delhi: John Kerry, US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate is likely to visit India next month to further India-US partnership on Clean Energy ahead of UN Climate Change negotiations (COP 26) in November. The partnership will mobilize finance and speed clean energy deployment during this decade.Union environment minister, Bhupendra Yadav had a telecon with Kerry on Tuesday to discuss the Climate Action and Finance Mobilization Dialogue (CAFMD) under India-US Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership.“Both sides agreed that India and the USA, will engage for a constructive engagement under the “India-US Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership.” The Environment Minister stated that these platforms provide greater opportunities for working together for climate actions and emphasized that India stands committed to working with the US on Clean Energy,” a statement from MoEFCC said.Kerry told Yadav that Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership to enhance actions to curb greenhouse gas emissions in the current decade will help meet the goals under the Paris Agreement“Had a telephonic conversation with US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate Mr @JohnKerry and discussed at length how the largest and oldest democracies can set examples for other countries on Climate Action,” tweeted Yadav on Tuesday.The partnership will aim to mobilize finance and speed clean energy deployment; demonstrate and scale innovative clean technologies needed to decarbonize sectors including industry, transportation, power, and buildings; and build capacity to measure, manage, and adapt to the risks of climate-related impacts. The partnership will proceed along two main tracks: the Strategic Clean Energy Partnership and the Climate Action and Finance Mobilization Dialogue, which will build on and subsume a range of existing processes, a joint statement by India and US had stated on April 22.“Both the United States and India have set ambitious 2030 targets for climate action and clean energy. In its new nationally determined contribution, the United States has set an economy-wide target of reducing its net greenhouse gas emissions by 50–52 percent below 2005 levels in 2030. As part of its climate mitigation efforts, India has set a target of installing 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030. Through the Partnership, the United States and India are firmly committed to working together in achieving their ambitious climate and clean energy targets and to strengthening bilateral collaboration across climate and clean energy,” the statement added.Kerry had visited India in April when he had met PM Modi regarding clean energy and collaborating on climate change. Focusing on actions taken during the 2020 to 2030 decade will set the road map for achieving net zero emissions by 2050, Kerry had said. “India understands the challenge. It would be great if India wanted to say that (committing to a net zero emissions target by 2050) but I don’t think it’s an absolute requirement because India is doing all the things it needs to do to get us there. That’s better than a lot of nations. India has a plan for 450 GW of renewable energy, if deployed India will be one of the key nations helping to keep the 1.5 degree C target alive. What’s more important than making a pledge, I mean we welcome the pledge, it’s helpful to get everybody doing it but what’s more important is real actions now between 2020 and 2030,” he said.In another event on Tuesday organised by The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) where Yadav delivered the Presidential Address at the 20th Darbari Seth Memorial Lecture he made India’s stand clear and underlined that countries should determine action on climate change based on respective capabilities.“Science is very clear. The recent IPCC report has sounded ‘code red’. The findings reaffirm that historical cumulative emissions are the source of the current climate crisis. Equitable carbon and development space to achieve sustainable development required due consideration to principles of ‘Common but Differentiated Responsibilities and Respective Capabilities (CBDR-RC)’ and ‘polluters pay,’ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-climate-envoy-john-kerry-may-visit-india-in-sept-101629833166136.html
25-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh top leaders call on Rahul Gandhi amid friction||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and health minister TS Singh Deo met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Tuesday, hoping to find a closure to friction that has existed between the two since late 2018, when they are believed to have agreed to a power-sharing agreement — but the meeting remained inconclusive.The meeting comes at least two months after the Chhattisgarh Congress government passed the two-and-a-half year mark on June 17 and the party in the state is waiting with baited breath for a resolution.Senior Congress functionaries said while the two Chhattisgarh leaders, along with Congress general secretary incharge of the state PL Punia, and general secretary KC Venugopal, spent over three hours at Gandhi’s residence, no sense of finality was reached, and more meetings are in the offing in the coming days.In December 2018, in the aftermath of a dominant Congress performance that saw the party win 68 of 90 seats in the state, four state leaders, Baghel, current home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, current speaker Charan Das Mahant and Singh Deo flew to Delhi, all eyeing the chief minister’s post. As Mahant settled for speaker, friction between Baghel and Singh Deo meant that Sahu first emerged the front-runner. Worried that a third leader would take the top position, Baghel and Singh Deo, along with Punia and Gandhi, are believed to have hammered out a power-sharing arrangement.On Tuesday, Singh Deo and Baghel, who arrived in Delhi for the meeting separately, reached Gandhi’s Tughlaq Lane residence just short of 11am. Functionaries in the know said both Punia and Venugopal were present as well, and that they and Gandhi met Baghel and Singh Deo separately.“Singh Deo’s meeting with Rahul Gandhi was shorter in length. The meeting with Baghel was longer and lasted over an hour. Rahul then left for a meeting with Sonia Gandhi. Venugopal and Punia then conveyed to the leaders that the matter would be discussed further with the implication that they must stay discreet until a decision is made,” a senior Congress leader said on condition of anonymity.Emerging from the meeting, Punia, Baghel and Singh Deo maintained the public stance that nothing political was discussed at the meeting, and that it was a review of policies implemented by the state government. Functionaries close to Baghel and Singh Deo, however, admitted that both leaders, waiting for word of what could happen, will stay on in Delhi for some time.While Baghel and Singh Deo were once considered to be close friends, and even called “Jai-Veeru”, after the protagonists of Hindi blockbuster Sholay, distance between the two began to grow in the run up to the assembly polls in 2018.“Every political party is made of humans and it is natural to have clashes. What Congress is facing as a party in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and now in Chhattisgarh indicates that an amicable political formula for power sharing is missing. They let CM become a super power and then things explode,” said Sudeip Shrivastava, political commentator based in Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-top-leaders-call-on-rahul-gandhi-amid-friction-101629831018316.html
25-08-2021||India||Appointment of Mukul Roy as PAC head violates convention, BJP MLA tells HC||Kolkata: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Ambika Roy on Tuesday told the Calcutta high court that appointment of Mukul Roy as chairman of the public accounts committee (PAC) of the West Bengal assembly violates a five-decade-old convention under which an opposition party MLA gets the post. Mukul Roy, who left the BJP and returned to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on June 11, was appointed PAC chairman by speaker Biman Banerjee on July 9. On June 18, leader of the opposition in the assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, submitted a petition before the speaker saying Mukul Roy, the legislator from Kishnanagar North constituency in Nadia district, should be disqualified under anti-defection law as he did not resign from the BJP before switching sides. While hearing Ambika Roy’s petition on Tuesday, the division bench of acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj said the appeal for Mukul Roy’s disqualification as an MLA is lying before the speaker and not the court, lawyers aware of the hearing said. Appearing for Ambika Roy, senior advocate CS Vaidyanathan told the court that the speaker incorrectly assumed that Mukul Roy was in the BJP when he filed his nomination papers on June 25 for chairmanship of the PAC. “Power exercised by the speaker must not be arbitrary,” Vaidyanathan told the court. The advocate also told the court that in January last year, a three-judge Supreme Court bench, comprising Justices RF Nariman, Aniruddha Bose and V Ramasubramaniam, ruled that speakers of assemblies and Parliament must declare their decisions on disqualification petitions within three months. The decision to disqualify a member is taken only by the speaker. The Constitution, however, does not specify any time frame for the process that involves inquiry and setting up of a committee. “I will proceed on the assumption that Mukul Roy has defected from the BJP. A disqualification petition filed in June should not be delayed unnecessarily,” Vaidyanathan told the court. The matter will be heard again on September 6. That Mukul Roy could be made the PAC chairman became somehow apparent on June 24 when chief minister Mamata Banerjee stoked speculations. “Anybody can file nomination papers for inclusion in the PAC. He (Roy) is a BJP member. He has been supported by Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. If required, we will support him too. We will win if there is an election. Let people see who is more powerful. The speaker takes these decisions,” Banerjee had said during a press conference. Roy, however, got the post without any election. According to rules, it is the discretion of the speaker to select the chairpersons of the various committees in the assembly. The Bengal assembly has 41 committees, of which the PAC is considered the most important one. On June 26, Adhikari submitted a letter to the speaker saying Roy’s nomination should be cancelled because the BJP did not nominate him. Stating that the BJP may seek legal action, the letter said Roy should be disqualified under the anti-defection law. Adhikari, Mamata Banerjee’s protege-turned-adversary, joined the BJP in December last year and defeated her in the assembly polls. Roy, who joined the BJP in 2017 and became the party’s national vice-president, returned to the TMC along with his son Subhranshu but did not officially resign from the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/appointment-of-mukul-roy-as-pac-head-violates-convention-bjp-mla-tells-hc-101629832925023.html
25-08-2021||India||OBC commission member Bajaj backs caste census||At least one of the members of the government’s Commission for sub-categorisation of Other Backward Classes or OBCs has supported a caste census, demand for which has gained momentum with sections of the ruling party, its allies such as the Janata Dal United, and the Opposition all pushing for one. JK Bajaj, member of the commission which was appointed by the President in 2017 to look at the distribution of the benefits of reservation and suggest changes said that while the debate on a caste survey is focused on the political fallout , there are clear administrative benefits that could help the government improve the delivery of its social welfare schemes.“Census does not only count bare numbers, it also gives a detailed socio-economic profile of different groups of people. It tells us about their literacy rates and the number of graduates or number of professionals, etc., among them. It tells us about their gender ratios and fertility rates; about their work participation rates; about how many of them are cultivators and how many are agricultural labourers. It even tells us about the kind of houses they live in and the geographical distribution of particular groups,’’ said Bajaj. “ Such data allows for targeting our welfare measures towards every part of the spectrum of people in the country and tailor these measures to their specific requirements and needs...”The last time there was a full caste census was in 1931 but in recent weeks, demand for one has only gotten louder with the Bhartiya Janata Party’s own leaders such as Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Modi justifying the need for one.The party itself has not explicitly taken a stand on the issue, given its sensitivity and the possibility that it could trigger a backlash, both from other backward classes (OBCs) that lose out on benefits if the reservation formula is redefined following a caste census, and from upper castes that fear the survey could be a pre-cursor to breaching the 50% limit for reservations.The support for the survey was evident in the composition of the delegation from Bihar that met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and sought a survey. It included Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, leader of the Opposition in Bihar Tejaswi yadav, and representatives of eight other parties. Modi heard out all the leaders and the government is expected to take a call on a survey soon. The Apna Dal, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and the Republican Party of India- Athawale, all BJP allies, also support a survey. As do the YSR Congress and the Biju Janata Dal, considered friendly parties, and almost the entire Opposition.“The decision not to do a caste-wise count in the 1961 census was based on the assumption and hope that caste shall soon lose its salience in the society and polity of India,’’ said Bajaj. “But caste remains a significant factor in our polity. Much of our efforts towards welfare and affirmative action are based on caste and it has to be granted that this is one of the factors that has helped India achieve a highly inclusive polity.’’Bajaj is learnt to have pushed his point of view internally in the government. He argued that a caste census would provide information which policymakers can utlise. For instance, he said, policy makers will have access to socio-economic data including the number of graduates or the fertility rate of a certain community.“We have always been doing a caste-wise count for the SC and ST communities,’’ said Bajaj. “ Because of that we have much information about the individual castes and tribes among the SCs and STs. We know exactly how each of those castes or tribes have fared in our development journey. A complete caste census would give us similar information about other relatively deprived groups also.’’ The last time this was attempted was in 2011 when the Socio Economic and Caste census was conducted. However, the caste data was not published; the government of the data cited inherent errors, but it is likely political sensitivities stayed its hand.“It (Deciding to do a survey) is not an easy decision,’’ said Bajaj. “Nor is it an easy job to carry out.’’ One of the greatest fears is that of political upheaval if the population of other backward classes or OBCs in India exceeds 52% (as mentioned in the Mandal report), in which case, they would ask for more than 27% reservation (recommended by Mandal and adopted by the government).Not everyone is convinced of the need for such a census, though.Former health secretary Sujatha Rao tweeted against any such caste census. "How regressive can we get? For governments there should only be two castes -- the rich and the poor. Don’t understand what that backward Bihar wants a caste census instead on Industries education and health. What a vision."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/obc-commission-member-bajaj-backs-caste-census-101629832392020.html
25-08-2021||India||Congress isn’t yet out of the seismic zone in Punjab||The adage of a picture telling a thousand stories can apply in the reverse in politics, given the proclivity of politicians to present one face behind closed doors and another when out in the open.For this reason, the picture-perfect August 20 meeting in Chandigarh between Captain Amarinder Singh and Navjot Sidhu seemed a chimera for those aware of their caustic chemistry. It was their second face-to-face dialogue in recent weeks, after the first at which the newly appointed state party president was aggressive and the chief minister (CM) curt.Last week, the two ventured to make up for the opportunity lost in their maiden encounter. The Captain was consciously warm, the cricketer-turned-politician purposely deferential.For his part, Sidhu sought to defuse tensions rooted in his past unbridled attacks on the CM by calling him a family elder. The studied cordiality had them agree on setting up a 10-member group for “policy coordination” between the party organisation and the state government. They concurred as much on a roster arrangement to make ministers take turns to visit the Congress’s Chandigarh office for interaction with party cadres and the public.The buzz in the Punjab secretariat was that in a subsequent interaction with a senior government official, Sidhu praised the Captain for making him feel belonged at his residence. Widely perceived to have the CM’s ear, the official he spoke to has been in the firing line of a clutch of legislators, including ministers, for being overbearingly officious with them.Branded as “Majha Brigade” after the region they represent in the assembly, the recalcitrant ministers, Tript RS Bajwa, Sukhjinder Randhawa and Sukhbinder Sarkaria, had led the pushback against the CM when the central leadership made Sidhu the party chief against his advice. Their exclusion from the mutually agreed policy coordination panel can therefore be interpreted as a pragmatic climbdown or concession by the state president for a working relationship with the CM.But mercurial as he invariably is, Sidhu’s tweet after the closed-door meeting that formalised the panel made no mention of the CM. Tagging a picture of his with Singh and two other party leaders who accompanied him in the talks, he blandly wrote: “Highly positive Co-ordination meeting on proposal for roaster of ministers to sit at Punjab Congress Bhawan !! (sic).”Inveterate political observers were quick to compare the social media post with the one he made a day earlier while drafting a former Indian Police Service Officer, Mohammad Mustafa, as one of his four advisers.“Love to be associated with Razia Ji and Mustafa sahib,” he indulgently wrote for the IPS officer who had turned against the CM on being overlooked for promotion as director general of Punjab police. His wife Razia Sultana continues nevertheless as a cabinet minister under Singh.In fact, Sidhu’s decision to have a team of advisers besides the four working presidents under his command as the party chief, has befuddled many in the party. Besides Amar Singh, a former IAS officer who is now a Congress MP, his advisers include a health activist, Pyare Lal Garg, and an ultra-left political commentator, Malwinder Singh Mali.The last two named have since been reprimanded in a statement by the CM for their comments which were out of sync with the Congress’s stated position on Pakistan and Kashmir.The Captain apparently went public when an intervention by a senior All India congress committee (AICC) official failed to persuade Sidhu to make Garg and Mali recant. A caricature on Mali’s facebook page of Indira Gandhi hoisting a skull atop a gun has triggered another controversy; the tagline “every repression is defeated” seen as a throwback to Operation Blue Star and the anti-Sikh riots that followed her assassination.Any productive meeting between the temperamentally apart Singh and Sidhu is a happy event from the Congress’s perspective. But the uproar soon thereafter over the Mali episode goes to prove that one swallow does not make a summer.Now that they’ve a consultative platform, both sides have no reason to talk through the social media. Their party might be better placed than its rivals, but it isn’t unassailable. The Aam Aadmi Party and the Akali Dal are bound to gain ground if the internal Congress bickering continues unabated and its leaders keep speaking out of turn.That Sidhu has had his way in appointing advisers — in the manner of a CM in waiting — is viewed as a proof of the high command’s diminishing clout by even the dissident Majha leaders. “Don’t ask me, ask our central leadership. Could this have happened on Indira Gandhi or Rajiv’s watch,” wondered one of them. He forecast the fault lines getting wider on ticket distribution closer to the elections.“Our party will sink fathoms deep if the big two don’t bury the hatchet,” bemoaned another minister. With all his faults, the Captain, he said, has kept his composure in the face of Sidhu’s provocative commentary. “They both , especially the unabashedly ambitious PCC chief, should know that we wouldn’t have a government or a CM if they work at cross purposes.”Bar a durable rapprochement, the party will remain in the seismic zone it finds itself today. It might be easier said than done but is certainly worth a sincere effort. Sidhu will be better off if he doesn’t misconstrue the CM’s patience as his rubber spine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-isn-t-yet-out-of-the-seismic-zone-in-punjab-101629832065349.html
25-08-2021||India||SC refers pleas on EPFO scheme to larger bench||New Delhi: A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court will now determine the validity of the amendments introduced to the Employee Pension Scheme in 2014 by which a cut-off date was fixed for employees to contribute to pension under an enhanced ceiling limit on maximum pensionable salary of ₹15,000 fixed under the Scheme.On Tuesday, a division bench of Justices UU Lalit and Ajay Rastogi decided to refer the issue in question to a larger bench after the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) argued that a 2018 judgment of the Supreme Court in RC Gupta case, which had examined this very issue, required reconsideration.As a division bench could not consider the correctness of another same strength bench’s decision, Justice Lalit, while authoring the reference order, said, “The principal questions that arise for consideration are whether there would be a cut-off date under paragraph 11(3) of the Employees’ Pension Scheme and whether the decision in RC Gupta would be the governing principle on the basis of which all these matters must be disposed of.”“It would not be appropriate for us to deal with said submissions touching upon the applicability of the principle laid down in the decision in RC Gupta case (that) go to the very root of the matter. The logical course would be to refer all these matters to a Bench of at least three Judges so that appropriate decision can be arrived at,” he added.The court directed the matter to be placed before the Chief Justice of India for passing appropriate orders.Both EPFO and central government were before the court in appeal against a judgment passed by the Kerala high court on October 12, 2018 quashing the cut-off date provided under the 2014 amendment to the pension scheme. The HC had relied on RC Gupta case.The EPFO represented by senior advocate C Aryama Sundaram had said that the liability under the pension scheme and provident fund stood on different footing. He said the six-month window provided from September 1, 2014 had to remain as otherwise it would create great imbalance and amount to cross-subsidisation by those regularly contributing to the pension scheme in favour of those who joined at a later point in time and who then will walk away with all the advantages.The counsels representing employee associations welcomed the decision of the court to refer the matter to a larger bench but urged the court not to refer reconsideration of the RC Gupta case by the larger bench.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing the employees, said EPFO in its appeal had not pleaded once that the RC Gupta judgment was wrong. Other senior advocates R Basanth, Meenakshi Arora, Jaideep Gupta and Gopal Shankaranaraynan among others supported this stand claiming that the reference order was being passed without hearing them.In the RC Gupta case, the SC held that the pension scheme was a beneficial scheme and its purpose should not be defeated by introducing a cut-off date. The Kerala HC, whose order was challenged by EPFO in the present proceedings, relied upon RC Gupta to say, “The proviso to paragraph 11 of the Pension Scheme does not stipulate a cut-off date at all. Any such stipulation of a cut-off date for conferring benefits under the Pension Scheme would have the effect of classifying the employees into persons who have retired before or after the said date.”Interestingly, the Supreme Court in April 2019 upheld the Kerala HC order and dismissed EPFO appeal. But on a separate appeal by the Centre, a three-judge bench in July 2019 revisited its earlier order and restored the appeals that have been pending for more than two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refers-pleas-on-epfo-scheme-to-larger-bench-101629832209371.html
25-08-2021||India||Lighthouse: DMK Dares the Opposition with corruption charges||The depth and extent of corruption under the former AIADMK government led by Edappadi Palaniswami spreads like a valley of silence with the BJP keeping watch on key ministers, including the former chief minister (and his family members) by raiding them through IT and other enforcement agencies at routine intervals to keep a check on them as well as their political moves. At the same time, there is an art of managing the raids that BJP has mastered without resulting in official and legal actions against the corrupt ministers and influential public servants in the state. It has enlisted a few vulnerable leaders and parties by taming them under potential charges of corruption with deceptive entitlements, including access to the corridors of power and by enforcing influential decisions under the AIADMK reign. The AIADMK government and its ministers are suspected of linkages with the Gutka case, eggs scandal, road contracts, fiber net scam, Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority Projects, procurement of low floor buses, Aavin milk scam, etc.There are two significant developments in the recent weeks in Tamil Nadu politics, involving mega corruption charges against former AIADMK minister S.P.Velumani and the more serious development with the additional probe into the Kodanad heist-cum-murder case with the needle of suspicion pointed against Palaniswami. There is a clear departure from the precedents of addressing corruption cases in Tamil Nadu politics from mere propaganda tactics to striking a deep dent inside the already fragile frame of the AIADMK party.DMK has dared the AIADMK by taking on Velumani as an easy pick among the rotten pack and an open challenge to Palaniswami by seeking additional probe into the Kodanad case. It appears that this case promises to engage Palaniswami and many other influential leaders cutting across the bitter feuds and divided loyalties among the larger AIADMK assemblage.There is something more to the Kodanad case than what appears to the eye. The responses from the AIADMK leadership to the additional probe shows the seriousness of the charges involving robbery and series of murders. The intensity of response from the AIADMK leadership is more than curious with comparable anxieties of the infamous Watergate scam in American politics.The series of murders also point to an Alfred Hitchcock-like crime thriller. Although other opposition parties have joined the issue by backing the AIADMK party and its leadership, it appears that this is going to be a long and lonely battle for Palaniswami and for the survival of larger interests of the AIADMK in the future.This case may also reveal a make or break moment for the AIADMK party and its leadership. It is therefore necessary to gauge the support enjoyed by Palaniswami among other leaders within the party and the scope for reconciliation between Palaniswami and Sasikala.There are considerable factors that would necessitate a more sober assessment of the space and scope for reconciliation between Palaniswami and Sasikala. Although it may appear that there are irreconcilable differences between them over the manner in which Palaniswami has turned against her and the extent of disloyalty demonstrated by him after acquiring power through her acumen and assessment.Sasikala has understood that power alone and will always make the difference to keep her reign over the party and her influence in politics. She felt betrayed and wanted to avenge. But she will not rush into the well of fight to settle the scores with him. She knows that the Kodanad case can draw more attention than it appears at this stage with search lights focusing on Palaniswami. It is not a time to pull the dagger against Palaniswami as much as the need to pitch for the survival of the AIADMK at this critical juncture.DMK appears to have made a cautious assessment of the case by seeking an additional probe besides securing a key witness account and going beyond the revelations of the Tehelka report. DMK also hopes to break the support that Palaniswami enjoys with the BJP and expose the cracks within the AIADMK through serving notices and engaging the former AIADMK chief minister with legal battles. It is therefore inevitable that Sasikala may once again stake a claim for the leadership of AIADMK by bridging the factions and assuaging the hopes of a sinking party without credible leadership.Prof. Ramu Manivannan is a scholar-social activist in areas of education, human rights and sustainable development through an initiative ‘Multiversity’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmk-dares-the-opposition-with-corruption-charges-101629832026029.html
25-08-2021||India||Singh, Sidhu aides spar as Punjab crisis deepens||Chandigarh: The Congress government in Punjab was thrown into fresh turmoil on Tuesday as ministers close to state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu rebelled against his rival, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, and leaders loyal to the latter demanded the ouster of Sidhu’s advisers over their controversial remarks.The factional fight ended an uneasy truce between Sidhu and Singh brokered by the Congress leadership after months of tense negotiations and mirrored a similar tussle for control of the party that broke out in May. Punjab goes to the polls early next year.Four cabinet ministers and around two dozenMLAs declared they didn’t have faith in the chief minister’s ability to fulfil pending election promises but stopped short of demanding his resignation, “We have lost faith in him (Singh), but changing the CM is the prerogative of the party high command,” said minister for jails and cooperation Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa after meeting the lawmakers at rural development minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa’s official residence in Chandigarh. The meeting was attended by technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi, water resources minister Sukhbinder Sarkaria, Punjab Congress general secretary (organisation) Pargat Singh, and around two dozen legislators. The disgruntled leaders also authorised a five-member delegation -- four cabinet ministers and Pargat Singh, all known detractors of Singh -- to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi and apprise her of their sentiment at the earliest. The disgruntled ministers spoke to All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat. They will travel to Dehradun on Wednesday to meet Rawat before heading to the national capital.Sidhu was not present at the meeting but the leaders said they will discuss the matter with him before leaving for Delhi. The Congress has 80 MLAs in Punjab. Channi told reporters that the MLAs who assembled in Chandigarh were worried about unfulfilled poll promises made by the Congress before the 2017 assembly elections. “A lot of promises have been fulfilled, but those promises (the implementation of) which may lead to friction with the opposition remain unfulfilled,” he said. He said that issues were not getting resolved the way the Congress wanted. “We no longer trust that these issues will be resolved. Therefore, we are seeking time from the party high command for a meeting, and we will meet them and put forth our issues so that Punjab’s issues can be resolved,” said Channi, flanked by Randhawa, Bajwa and Pargat SIngh.Sidhu later met some of these ministers and MLAs at the party’s state headquarters here. “Got a call from Tripat Bajwa ji asking for an emergency…Met him along with other colleagues at the PPCC office. Will appraise the high command of the situation (sic),” he tweeted after meeting them.Hours later, Singh and his loyalists hit back, demanding action against two newly appointed advisors of Sidhu , Malvinder Singh Mali and Pyare Lal Garg, who stirred a row on Sunday with their controversial comments on Kashmir.Five cabinet ministers and one MLA close to Singh called for strong action against Mali and Garg for their “patently anti-national and pro-Pak comments”. “The statements of both these newly appointed advisers of Punjab Congress president Navjot Sidhu were clearly against India’s interests, and detrimental to national security,” said cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra, Vijay Inder Singla, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Balbir Singh Sidhu and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, along with MLA Raj Kumar Verka in a statement. In a Facebook post last week, Mali had said Kashmir was a “country of Kashmiri people” and called both India and Pakistan its illegal occupiers. In a separate post, he put a sketch of late prime minister Indira Gandhi standing near a heap of human skulls with a gun in her hand. Garg had criticised Singh for attacking Pakistan over Kashmir. The comments immediately sparked a controversy with Singh calling them “atrocious” and “anti-national”, and Congress MP Manish Tewari condemning the leaders. Besides stringent legal action against Mali and Garg, the five ministers also urged the Congress national leadership to direct Sidhu to immediately rein in his aides in the interest of the party and the country. “The Congress has made many sacrifices for the protection of the nation’s security and peace, as have our soldiers at the borders. Nobody can or should be allowed to undermine these sacrifices and jeopardise the safety of our country and its people,” they emphasised, citing, in particular, the grave implications such statements could have for the border state of Punjab. The Congress leaders questioned Sidhu’s failure to put his foot down on such “anti-national and pro-Pak diatribe” by his aides, warning that this could damage the Congress in the 2022 elections. They termed Mali’s statement on Kashmir a dangerous and unacceptable deviation from India’s stated position on J&K. Garg’s statement countering Singh’s criticism of Pakistan reflected his pro-Pak leanings, they said. “Drones from Pakistan are dumping arms and drugs into Punjab almost every day. Our soldiers are dying at the border. How can any patriotic Indian not condemn Pak actions in the circumstances?” they asked. Tuesday’s bitter verbal war is a throwback to a crisis that engulfed the Congress in May, when Sidhu rallied Singh’s detractors and publicly accused the CM of enabling corruption. Tensions between 79-year-old Singh and Sidhu had simmered since the latter quit the state cabinet after the chief minister changed his portfolio in 2019.To resolve the crisis, the Congress set up a three-member panel, which met around 150 functionaries – including Singh twice -- and submitted its report to party chief Sonia Gandhi on June 10.On July 18, Sidhu was named state unit chief -- a post he coveted -- overriding strong objections from Singh. The two leaders were seen at key meetings together and the CM even attended the ceremony where Sidhu took charge of the party in Punjab. But the latest round of infighting shatters that fragile truce. Expert quote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singh-sidhu-aides-spar-as-punjab-crisis-deepens-101629831726117.html
25-08-2021||India||TN CM revives ‘Singara Chennai’ project, sets up 6 new corporations||The DMK government on Tuesday elaborated plans to revive its pet project Singara Chennai (beautiful Chennai), while also announcing six new corporations ahead of the local body elections. While the revised budget estimates presented on August 13 allocated ₹500 crores for Singara Chennai 2.0, the municipal administration and water supply (MAWS) minister K N Nehru tabled a demand for grants in the ongoing session. Nehru also announced that six municipalities will be upgraded to corporations by merging adjoining developed areas, which are Tambaram, Kancheepuram, Kumbakonam, Karur, Cuddalore and Sivakasi. He also announced several infrastructures and developmental schemes and projects. After the DMK won in the 1996 elections, coinciding with the IT boom, M K Stalin, who was then the mayor of the capital city, rolled out a slew of projects to keep the city clear of garbage and spruce it up with road infrastructure like flyovers under the ‘Singara Chennai’ umbrella. In the 2.0 edition, the aim is to continue with clean and green, but the focus is also to take advantage of the city’s coastline, culture and lifestyle. In 2011, Chennai city expanded to an area of 426 square kilometres. “There are gaps in the infrastructure/development in the added areas,” the policy stated. There are about ten subheads for the vision of Singara Chennai 2.0. The project plans include a Chennai that’s free from posters and litter, biomining two of the largest dumping grounds in the city and converting them to green spaces, water tap and sewerage connection to every household and access to ‘quality toilets’. To promote a healthy lifestyle, non-motorised transport will be encouraged. Footpaths that are usable for children, people with disabilities and senior citizens will be constructed. Learning centres for school going children who do not have adequate space at home for studying will come up. Cultural events such as ‘Chennai Day’ and ‘Chennai Sangamam’ will be promoted. Chennai, which is home to several heritage buildings, will be preserved. The seat of the Greater Chennai Corporation, which will be responsible for much of Singara Chennai 2.0, is itself a heritage building called the Ripon buildings, an Indo-Saracenic structure built in 1913. Those working on the project say that the new government’s vision for 2.0 is to match up to global cities. “There is a fundamental change where now climate change and resilience are important factors,” said an official of the Chennai Smart City project who did not wish to be named. Nehru said that the government will implement an urban wage employment programme, on a pilot basis, to employ urban poor by engaging them in the creation and maintenance of public assets like parks, stormwater drains, roads, buildings and rejuvenation of water bodies, with 39 an initial budgetary allocation of ₹100 crores made in the Revised Budget Estimates for the year 2021-22. Following Nehru’s announcement of new corporations, the total number of municipal corporations in Tamil Nadu has now increased from 15 to 21. The upgrade is expected to improve civic infrastructure facilities in the places that are severely flooded during monsoons. The announcement comes ahead of the local body polls in the state, but the minister clarified that the tenure of ward members will continue. The Supreme Court has ordered the Tamil Nadu state election body to complete the rural local body polls in nine newly created districts before September 15. Elections to urban local bodies were last held in October 2011 and after their five-year tenure was over issues over delimitation of wards arose and stalled the elections. However, elections to 27 rural local bodies were completed in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tncmrevives-singara-chennai-project-sets-up-6-new-corporations-101629831724864.html
25-08-2021||India||TN BJP gen secy resigns over viral explicit video||K T Raghavan, general secretary of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Tamil Nadu unit, on Tuesday resigned from his post after an alleged explicit video chat between him and a woman surfaced on video streaming platform YouTube.The 20-minute-13-second-long video was uploaded by YouTuber Madan Ravichandran who joined the party last year. His channel, ‘Madan Diary’, has over 141,000 subscribers.Raghavan, who announced his resignation on Twitter after holding talks with state BJP chief K Annamalai, called the video an attempt to tarnish his and his party’s image. “I deny the charges. I will face this legally. Dharma will win,” Raghavan, who is a lawyer by profession, tweeted. “People of Tamil Nadu know who I am. Those who are associated with me know who I am,” he added. Ravichandran said he took the video as part of a sting operation to probe allegations of sexual harassment and exploitation against state party leaders. He also claimed to have video evidence against 15 party leaders.“I have video evidence of 15 BJP leaders but I’m releasing his (Raghavan’s) video first because Mr K T Raghavan is promoted as Mr Clean by the media,” he said. Ravichandran said the face of the woman in the video was blurred and her voice muted as she agreed to join the operation in public interest. In a statement issued later in the day, Annamalai confirmed that Ravichandran met him twice and pressed for action against the BJP state general secretary. “But he did not submit any video evidence,” Annamalai said, adding that he conveyed to the YouTuber that action cannot be taken on the basis of accusations and the matter would require a probe.Annamalai said that Ravichandran later texted him, insisting that he take action without any video evidence. “I stood firmly on my stand that disciplinary actions cannot be taken without knowing the real facts of the accusations. Therefore, I replied (to) him shortly in the message that ‘You may proceed if you want justice’,” he said in the statement. Annamalai also announced the constitution of a panel, under party state secretary Malarkody, to probe allegations against party members but added that Raghavan will proceed legally to prove his “innocence.” “Women in our party are held in esteem and they are safe,” he said. Reacting to the developments, Congress MP Jothimani said the state Congress Committee will file a complaint with police against Raghavan. “There is video evidence that he has misbehaved with a woman and that has to be investigated,” she tweeted. The alleged video chat surfaced months after the state BJP issued a legal notice to Tamil daily Dinamalar over an article which claimed the party allegedly received several complaints of sexual harassment against its leaders and would set up a committee to look into them. The BJP dismissed the article, which was published in June, as false and fabricated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-bjp-gen-secy-resigns-over-viral-explicit-video-101629831669039.html
25-08-2021||India||2 contradictory pleas in HC on Kodanad case intensify slugfest||Two contradictory petitions filed in the Madras High Court on August 9 in connection with the 2017 Kodanad heist and murder case have intensified the political slugfest in the Tamil Nadu assembly. In the first petition, a witness in the case, N Ravi sought a stay on any further investigation and demanded fast-tracking of the trial. His plea came up for hearing on Tuesday and Justice M Nirmal Kumar said that he will pass an order on August 27. In his petition, Ravi, who is known to a few of the accused, said that he was being threatened by various sources to give a statement “according” to “requirement”. In the other petition, three of the ten accused in the case have asked the high court to order interrogation of the former chief minister and opposition leader of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) Edappadi Palaniswami, and late J Jayalalithaa’s close confidante V K Sasikala among others in the matter. Soon after the demise of Jayalalithaa in December 2016, ten people were accused of breaking into the Kodanad estate in the Nilgiris hills and murdering the security guard in 2017. This sprawling bungalow was Jayalalithaa’s summer retreat and also often functioned as a secretariat. The crime became more mysterious after the death of an accused and the family members of another accused in the case. All the 10 accused in the case are from Kerala. However, the case took a murky turn in 2019, when K V Sayan, a prime accused in the case alleged Palaniswami’s involvement. He was chief minister at the time. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), which then sought Palaniswami’s resignation over the matter, is now pushing investigations after returning to power in May. Last week, Sayan was questioned by the Nilgiris police, leading to a political storm in the state. The AIADMK accused the DMK of a witch hunt to frame its leaders, but chief minister M K Stalin denied this in the assembly and said that it was their election promise to bring the real culprits to book. Palaniswami repeatedly alleged that a “secret statement” was taken from Sayan to frame him and even submitted a complaint to Governor Banwarilal Purohit last week. On Sunday, the AIADMK also released a video in which Sayan is purportedly asked by few persons to name Palaniswami.Deepu, MS Satheesan, and A Samthosh Samy, who, along with seven others, are charge-sheeted in the case being tried at the session court in the Nilgiris, have now filed a joint revision petition requesting interrogation of nine persons, including Palaniswami, Sasikala, Jayalalithaa’s foster son V N Sudakaran, the then-Nilgiris collector, the police chief, and two employees of the Kodanad Estate. This petition was rejected by the Nilgiris sessions judge on April 30, prompting them to approach the high court. The accused are seeking the examination on several grounds. In their petition, they say that the investigation officer has conducted the investigation in a lethargic manner and let the real culprits go free. The petitioners also submitted that when one of the accused in the case wanted legal aid, an AIADMK party advocate, who was formerly AAVIN chairman during MGR’s period, was appointed as the Counsel. “...which makes it clear that the entire proceedings have been influenced and monitored by the persons who were holding power in the former ruling party,” the petition said.“The learned judge of the trial court failed to consider the sensitivity of the case wherein the second respondent (Sayan) has come forward in digital media to depose about the involvement of former chief minister of Tamil Nadu, and mechanically dismissed the petition,” the petition alleges.The three have claimed that the trial at the Nilgiris court was “hurried”, “influenced” and “monitored” by persons holding power in the former ruling party, a reference to the AIADMK. They also alleged that the police inquired only 41 out of over a hundred witnesses listed. Their review petition also cited that the death of the family of one of the accused was an accident and alleged political pressure on Sayan. Apart from this, it also claimed that a person associated with the AIADMK was appointed as the lawyer for one of the accused in the past in an attempt to derail their defence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-contradictory-pleas-in-hc-on-kodanad-case-intensify-slugfest-101629831665332.html
25-08-2021||India||Supreme Court seeks CBI response on plea seeking interim bail for Sajjan Kumar||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to respond to the plea filed by Congress leader Sajjan Kumar seeking interim bail or suspension of sentence on account of his deteriorating medical condition.A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy issued notice to the CBI on an application filed by Kumar who is undergoing a life term following his conviction in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in Delhi by the Delhi High Court in December 2018.The court said, “Let the medical condition of the appellant (Kumar) be verified and an affidavit be filed by CBI within one week.” The court also asked CBI to take instructions on Kumar’s demand to be treated at Medanta Hospital.In his bail application, Sajjan Kumar, 77, stated that his condition is critical and that he was currently undergoing treatment in the Emergency ICU at Safdarjung Hospital. “Due to his old age and his ill-health, he has become infirm and is incapable of taking care of himself and requires constant human attention for his daily needs such as bathing, going to the toilet, eating, etc,” said the application filed through Kumar’s advocate Ajay Marwah.Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for Kumar, told the court that at Medanta, there was provision for colonoscopy which is not available at Safdarjung hospital.Singh said that he had been incarcerated for the past 31 months without being out on parole or furlough, adding that his family members wish to provide him good medical treatment to aid in his speedy recovery.The application was opposed by the complainants of the case lodged against Kumar. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave appearing for the families of victims said that the accused was roaming free till the Delhi high court’s order of December 17, 2018, which reversed the acquittal granted by the trial court in 2013.Dave pointed out that in March last year, AIIMS had examined the accused and submitted a report to the apex court indicating that the accused had no pressing medical concern.However, Kumar’s counsel argued that more than a year has passed since and said the present condition of the accused is critical.In his application, Kumar said that as he was old, his condition was most vulnerable to the coronavirus pandemic and prayed for his immediate release either on bail or on temporary suspension of sentence.CBI was represented by advocate Shradha Deshmukh who accepted notice on the bail application and agreed to file an affidavit before the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/scseeks-cbi-response-on-plea-seeking-interim-bail-for-sajjan-kumar-101629831545330.html
25-08-2021||India||Supreme Court refers pleas on EPFO scheme to larger bench||A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court will now determine the validity of the amendments to the Employee Pension Scheme in 2014, by which a cut-off date was fixed for employees to contribute to pension under an enhanced limit on maximum pensionable salary of ₹15,000 fixed under the Scheme.On Tuesday, a division bench of justices UU Lalit and Ajay Rastogi referred the issue to a larger bench after the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) argued that a 2018 judgment of the SC in RC Gupta case that had examined the issue required reconsideration.As a division bench could not consider the correctness of another two-judge bench decision, justice Lalit said: “The principal questions for consideration are whether there would be a cut-off date under paragraph 11(3) of the Employees’ Pension Scheme and whether the decision in RC Gupta would be the governing principle on the basis of which all these matters must be disposed of.”“The logical course would be to refer all these matters to a Bench of at least three Judges...”The court directed the matter to be placed before the CJI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refers-pleas-on-epfo-scheme-to-larger-bench-101629831317880.html
25-08-2021||India||Militancy down, red tape stunting growth, panel told||Officials in the Union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh told the visiting parliamentary panel on home affairs that militancy was at an all-time low and that there have been no instances of stone pelting even as they expressed concern about the development of Ladakh and many new schemes announced by the Union government being affected by bureaucratic delays.“Many concerns were raised by different stakeholders,” said a person familiar with events and discussions during the panel’s visit to the state. “Both the UTs are waiting for development that has been hampered by a bureaucratisation of the process and a monopoly over releasing funds,” added this person who asked not to be named.In its five-day long visit to the two UTs between August 17 to 21, the panel also visited Jammu, something such panels have rarely done in the past. The panel met with officials from the Central Reserve Police Force, Border Security Force, the administration of both UTs and industry leaders. It will compile a report for Parliament regarding the concerns raised, the person cited above said. The panel’s chairperson and Congress leader Anand Sharma and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Rakesh Sinha also met industry leaders in Jammu .A second person familiar with the panel’s visit said that in Srinagar, the CRPF camp the panel visited was in shambles. “There were no toilet facilities and nearly five people were sharing a room,” the person said. “Moreover, the officers wanted the panel to intervene to improve the living conditions and also raise the standard of the food.”This person claimed that only ₹117 was allocated for food per person per day. “That is barely enough for one good meal,” the person said.A CRPF spokesperson did not respond to a request for comment.Administration officials informed the panel that militancy was at an all-time low and there had been no stone pelting incident in the last six months.According to data shared by the home ministry in Parliament in March this year, terror attacks in the region have come down from 614 in 2018 to only 244 in 2020. Similarly, stone pelting incidents have come down from 1,458 in 2018 to 327 last year.With the BSF, the panel travelled to the India-Pakistan border. “The road was in terrible shape, and it took nearly 25 minutes to traverse 3 kilometers,” the first person said. “In a tense situation, the army has to mobilise in a short period of time. The roads have to be improved.”NS Jamwal, inspector general, BSF, informed the panel about the threats being faced on Jammu International Border, ranging from tunnelling, smuggling and stand of fire by Pakistani troops.“A special emphasis was given to the threat posed by Pakistani drones abetting smuggling of weapons/narcotics from across the border,” BSF said in a statement.“The committee was made aware of the challenges faced by BSF troops due to rainy season, foggy weather and high-altitude related problems. Jamwal also gave a glimpse of BSF border infrastructure covering various aspects like requirement of road connectivity up to border outposts, 24 hours uninterrupted supply of electricity and clean piped drinking water to the BOPs.”In Ladakh, ”stakeholders in the newly formed UT urged the panel to help in the release of funds for the development of Ladakh that they said were being under-utilized,” the first person said.In Ladakh, the panel met district officials and BJP MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal. “The representative sought help from the panel for greater say in planning, implementation and devolution of financial powers,” said the first person.HT reached out to Namgyal who did not respond to a request for comment.The panel also heard concerns regarding corruption and regionalism in both the Union territories. “There will be a comprehensive review after which the panel will prepare a report for the parliament,” the second person said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/militancy-down-red-tape-stunting-growth-panel-told-101629831305747.html
25-08-2021||India||13-yr-old girl saves three kids, drowns while rescuing 4th||A 13-year-old girl, who saved three children from drowning in Rajasthan’s Dholpur district, died while trying to save the fourth, her seven-year-old cousin, officials said on Tuesday. The incident happened on Monday afternoon, when the five children visited the banks of Parvati river Khubpura village to perform a ritual, Mania police station in-charge Ashok Kumar said. Narrating the sequence of events, Khubpura village head Rajesh Sikarvar said the deceased, Anushka (one name), went to the river bank ahead of the villagers with the four children – Khushboo, 12, Pankaj, 10, and Govinda, 10 – to perform the ritual. According to the villagers, they plant jaw seeds a month before the festival of Raksha Bandhan as part of a local ritual named Phulaiyan. The grown plants are then immersed in a waterbody a day after the festival. “The younger children decided to bathe in the river after completing the ritual. But they were unable to anticipate the flow of the river, which had increased in the past few days because of heavy rainfall,” Sikarvar said.The children ran into the river but were pulled in the heavy current. “Anuskha jumped to save them, and was able to pull three children to the river’s banks,” Sikarvar said, adding that by then Chavi was swept farther away. “Anushka tried to pull Chavi out but was unable to bear the strength of current. Both of them drowned,” he said. The rest of the villagers, who rushed to the spot after hearing the children shout for help, fished out the bodies of the two girls, he said. The state government has announced an ex-gratia of ₹1 lakh to each to the victim’s family. Everything happened within a few minutes, and therefore, it did not provide much chance for the villagers to save the two,” Kumar said.“The girl showed immense presence of mind as she pulled the three children out of the river. Only a brave person would have risked her life to save them,” he said.Anushka was cremated in the village on Tuesday, the village head said. He added that Chavi was cremated in her village some distance away.“She was the eldest of three siblings. She saved three lives. I have decided to start a competition in her name,” he added. According to Sikarwar, Anushka was a student of Class 7. Her father is a small farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13yrold-girl-saves-three-kids-drowns-while-rescuing-4th-101629831305208.html
25-08-2021||India||Bengal govt defends panel on Pegasus row in Supreme Court||Calling the Union government “non-committal and evasive”, the West Bengal government has justified before the Supreme Court the setting up of a two-member Commission of Inquiry, headed by retired judge Madan B Lokur, to probe into the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens using Israeli Pegasus spyware. The state said that the commission it constituted will “put into place effective countermeasures against any rogue foreign spyware”.Submitting its affidavit in response to a petition by NGO Global Village Foundation Public Charitable Trust for disbanding the commission, the Mamata Banerjee-led government also questioned the motive behind the plea, claiming that the trustee and chairman of the NGO had close links with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and its affiliate, Swadeshi Jagran Manch.“It cannot be disputed that the RSS and the Swadeshi Jagran Manch and the ruling party at the Centre, the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) are affiliates and have often vilified the state government for political gains,” stated the affidavit, contending that the petition is filed with the intent to obstruct any independent inquiry into the matter.Imploring the court to dismiss the NGO’s petition citing its alleged association with the BJP and RSS, the West Bengal government underlined that “the higher echelons of the BJP have either publicly expressed their disapproval over the need for any independent inquiry on the ‘Pegasus’ issue or have been conspicuously silent on the subject matter despite massive public uproar.”On August 18, a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, had agreed to examine the NGO’s petition, argued by advocate Saurabh Mishra who had also asked for an immediate stay on proceedings before justice Lokur’s commission to avoid any parallel inquiry. The court, which had issued notices to the Centre and the West Bengal government, will hear the matter on Wednesday.Responding to the plea, the West Bengal government maintained that given the potential ramifications of the media reports on the fundamental right to privacy, independence of public institutions and the preservation of democracy, “the State Government could not sit as a silent spectator particularly when the Union Government was not only non-committal and evasive on the subject but had also at the very threshold dismissed the allegations under the rubric of sensationalism.”The state said that while the intent behind the Commission of Inquiry was neither to have a parallel inquiry into the matter nor was it to overreach the proceedings pending before the top court in a clutch of petitions, the commission can coexist with the proceedings.“The commission, being a fact-finding body cannot overreach the orders of this Hon’ble Court nor can it dilute them. This is precisely why an eminent retired judge of this Hon’ble Court and an eminent former Chief Justice of the Hon’ble Calcutta High Court comprise the Commission of Inquiry appointed by the state government,” said the affidavit. Former acting chief justice of the Calcutta high court Jyotirmay Bhattacharya is the other member of the commission.The affidavit added that the Pegasus controversy is indeed a matter of public importance affecting public order and therefore, the state government had the jurisdiction to constitute the commission to restore public confidence in the people of West Bengal and to ensure that no unauthorised interception through a rogue foreign spyware can occur in the state.The NGO, in its petition, has said the Pegasus controversy has cross-border ramifications with footprints in India, and hence must be dealt with from a national perspective. “Considering the seriousness of the issue and its implications on the citizenry of the country as well as its cross-border implications, the Pegasus controversy warrants an in-depth investigation. This cannot be carried out in a truncated and unconstitutional manner as is sought to be done by the West Bengal government,” it added.The Supreme Court is already seized of a bunch of petitions filed by politicians, journalists and activists, demanding a court-monitored independent probe into the alleged surveillance using Pegasus. Responding to these petitions, the Union government has offered setting up an expert committee to look into the row while maintaining that a “false narrative” is being spun over the use of Pegasus. The Centre has, however, refused to disclose whether it used Pegasus for tracking individuals, citing concerns of national security and defence of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-defends-panel-on-pegasus-row-in-sc-101629831004080.html
25-08-2021||India||SC seeks Centre’s reply on Maharashtra’s plea for 2011 OBC census data||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the Union government a month to respond to a petition filed by the Maharashtra government seeking 2011 census data on other backward classes (OBCs) in the state, so that seats can accordingly be reserved for these communities in local bodies.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told a bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna that based on discussions held with the registrar general and census commissioner and the ministry of social justice and empowerment, the Union government would like to put its stand in writing, for which he sought three weeks.The Maharashtra government’s petition comes even as demand for a caste census gathers momentum; it is supported by sections within the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, some of its key allies, and almost the entire Opposition. A survey, though, could be a politically controversial issue; there are fears that it could result in a reassigning of benefits within the existing reservation regime for other backward classes; there are also fears that it could be a precursor to breaching the 50% ceiling for reservations in jobs and academic institutions. The government did conduct a caste survey along with the 2011 census but it never released the findings citing inaccuracies , although it is likely its hand was stayed by political considerations.The bench posted the matter on September 23.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who appeared for the state, told the court that elections to local bodies in the state were due later this year and requested for an early date for hearing. The bench, however, said, “Even if we advance the date, do you think the exercise (of allocating reservation) can be decided within a month.”The state government has invoked the extraordinary jurisdiction of the Supreme Court after having decided to conduct a socio-economic and caste census across the state by the Maharashtra State Commission for Backward Classes (MSCBC).The Maharashtra legislative assembly last month passed a resolution to approach the Centre for 2011 census data in order to compile empirical data on the OBC population in the state.In March, the Supreme Court, while considering the extension of 27% OBC quota under the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961 to local bodies in Akola, Washim, Nandurbar, Dhule and Nagpur, held that reservation in these local bodies (for SC/ST/OBC) should not exceed 50% cap mandated by the 1992 Indra Sahwney ruling by the top court.The apex court asked the state to first set up a backward classes commission to compile empirical data on the number and extent of backwardness of OBC population within the state. The state filed a review petition that was dismissed in May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-centre-s-reply-on-maharashtra-s-plea-for-2011-obc-census-data-101629830944710.html
25-08-2021||India||Centre’s privatisation plan to create monopoly: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday dubbed the central government’s ambitious monetisation of public assets scheme as an attempt “to create monopolies” in critical areas that would cut down more job opportunities and adversely affect “small and medium business”.“We are not against privatisation. Our (UPA government’s) privatisation had a logic, and there was no privatisation of strategic industry such as the railways. All this privatisation is for creating monopolies. You know who owns ports and getting airports,” he said, alleging the Prime Minister is “selling the crown jewels of India”.Gandhi, who has often criticised the government over helping a chosen few industrialists, added: “It took 70 years to build this massive infrastructure. People’s money was involved but now these are being sold to 3-4 people. As soon as these become monopolies, employment opportunities would be shrunk. Small business, medium business will not exist.”On Monday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman gave details of a National Monetisation Pipeline to lease infrastructure assets of central government ministries and state-run companies to create ₹6 lakh crore fund to build new infrastructure.Among projects the government plans to lease are 26,700km of roads, 90 passenger trains, 400 railway stations, 28,608 circuit km transmission lines, 286,000km of Bharatnet fibre network. and 14,917 towers owned by state-run Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd and Mahanagar Telecom Nigam Ltd.Gandhi underlined how the United Progressive Alliance government’s privatisation policy only dealt with chronically ill companies or those with minimal market shares. “We didn’t allow creation of monopolies. But all this privatisation is for creating monopolies. You know who owns ports and getting airports,” said Gandhi.He compared the government’s move with British Raj’s East India Company and said, “[Prime Minister Narendra] Modi believes large monopolies can save this country. You will see a dramatic increase in anger and violence. Modi is an instrument for doing some particular job for these people.”While Sitharaman categorically ruled out any sale of land, her predecessor and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram termed the exercise as “a grand bargain sale” and quipped, “virtually, no public sector will exist after this.”The former finance minister said there were no criteria and goals for the monetization scheme.“We are going to raise ₹1.54 lakh crore every year—can this be a sole goal to sell assets? You don’t embark upon the exercise without consulting stakeholders. This is all hatched in secrecy in this wonderful organization called Niti Ayog,” Chidambaram said.Chidambaram also mocked the government’s announcement on infrastructure pipeline and pointed that the government has announced the same special fund for infrastructure on three different occasions.The Bharatiya Janata Party accused the Congress of “political hypocrisy” for questioning the government’s move and called the opposition party a “non-performing asset”.Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said that the Congress itself is a “Non-Performing Asset” which has neither any value outside nor inside. The Congress is trying to become a “champion of confusion and contradiction, he said. “…while on one hand, the Modi government and the BJP are engaged in construction of the country, the Congress is involved in destruction of the country”, the Union minister said.Union minister and Amethi MP, Smriti Irani said the Congress must first answer whether they were trying to sell the nation when the monetisation of the Mumbai-Pune Expressway for ₹8,000 crore was carried out. “Is he alleging that the Congress was sold off the expressway in Maharashtra? In 2008 an RFP was issued in context of the New Delhi railway station when the Congress was in power at the Centre…is he saying that a government whose chief was his mother (Sonia Gandhi) was making an attempt to sell the nation ? In 2006, The work related to the privatisation of the airport was carried out by a government whose chief was his mother. Is this his allegation that the government whose chief was his mother had sold off road, rail and airports,” Irani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-privatisation-plan-to-create-monopolyrahul-101629830645749.html
25-08-2021||India||India, Russia back joint efforts to ensure peace||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday backed coordinated efforts to establish peace and stability in Afghanistan in order to ensure security across the region.The two leaders discussed the situation in Afghanistan following the takeover of the country by the Taliban last week during a phone conversation. The two leaders agreed to form a “permanent bilateral channel” for consultations on Afghanistan, according to a readout from the Russian embassy.Russia’s decision to work more closely with Pakistan through the “extended troika” format for Afghanistan has not gone down well with the Indian side. The call between the two leaders marked the first major outreach on Afghanistan from the top Russian leadership in recent months.“Had a detailed and useful exchange of views with my friend President Putin on recent developments in Afghanistan. We also discussed issues on the bilateral agenda, including India-Russia cooperation against Covid-19. We agreed to continue close consultations on important issues,” Modi said in a tweet.The Russian embassy’s readout said: “During the exchange of views on the situation in Afghanistan, the sides noted the importance of coordinated efforts which would contribute to the establishment of peace and stability in this country, ensuring security in the region as a whole.”The two leaders expressed their “intention to enhance cooperation on countering the dissemination of the terrorist ideology and the drug threat emanating from the territory of Afghanistan”, the readout said.Modi and Putin further agreed to “form a permanent bilateral channel for consultations” on Afghanistan, it added.The readout said the two leaders touched upon several issues related to the development of the special and privileged strategic partnership between the two countries, including in trade and economy.Modi expressed gratitude to Putin for Russia’s assistance in combating Covid-19, including the supply and production of the Russian vaccine Sputnik V in India and the shipment of medicines and medical equipment. The schedule for upcoming contacts between the two sides at various levels was also discussed.Russia and China have maintained close contacts with the Taliban leadership over the past few months. These contacts have continued after the Taliban marched into Kabul last week following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. Russia and China are also among the very few countries that have kept open their embassies in Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-back-joint-efforts-to-ensure-peace-101629830584040.html
25-08-2021||India||‘Skin to skin’ yardstick a dangerous norm in sexual assault cases: AG||Attorney General KK Venugopal told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that making “skin to skin” contact a criterion to establish sexual assault against minors under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act would set a dangerous precedent where a man who gropes a woman after wearing a surgical glove cannot be held guilty and can escape even the minimum punishment of three years prescribed under the Act.The top law officer was addressing the Court in a petition filed by him against a controversial judgment passed by the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on January 19 this year which acquitted a man for groping a 12-year-old on the reasoning that there was no “skin to skin” contact. At the Attorney General’s instance, the Supreme Court stayed the judgment on January 27 and agreed to consider passing directions under POCSO Act to ensure such reasoning was not adopted by high courts to defeat the purpose of law. The high court’s order provoked widespread outrage.The A-G emphasised that there were 43,000 POCSO cases reported last year and that the Bombay high court judgment, if used as a precedent, may have serious repercussions on several other trials.AG Venugopal, addressing the bench of Justices UU Lalit and Ajay Rastogi said: “The intention of the legislature was not to protect the accused but provide justice to minor victims. While passing this order, the judges (of the Bombay High Court) did not realize the far-reaching consequences and the dangerous precedent this case will lay for the entire state.”Explaining how this “skin to skin” criteria adopted by the High Court was open to misuse, AG said, “If a person using surgical glove feels the entire body of a woman, including her private parts, he will escape the minimum punishable of three years for causing sexual assault under POCSO Act.”Sexual Assault under POCSO is defined under Section 7 which says, “Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or any other person or does any other act with sexual intent which involves physical contact without penetration is said to commit sexual assault.” This offence carries a minimum punishment of three years extending up to five years.The HC judgment in question dealt with sexual assault charge against a 39-year-old man for groping a minor victim through her clothing. The allegation was that on December 14, 2016 the accused, who was a neighbor, took the girl to his house, and groped her.He was convicted by the trial court but on appeal, the high court said, “Admittedly, it is not the case of the prosecution that the appellant removed her top and pressed her breast. As such, there is no direct physical contact i.e. skin to skin with sexual intent without penetration.”Later, a similar order was passed by the same high court bench in another case involving a POCSO offence where a man who held a minor’s hand and unzipped his pant was said to have done so with no sexual intent and acquitted of assault charges. That judgment was also under challenge by the Maharashtra government along with AG’s petition. The National Commission for Women also filed an appeal against the very judgment challenged by AG.Commenting on the views taken by the HC, the AG said, “This is an outrageous judgment which is disturbing and should be set aside and punishment to the accused restored.”The bench appointed senior advocate Siddharth Dave as amicus curiae (friend of Court) to assist in passing orders but realized that nobody represented the accused. The Court directed the Supreme Court Legal Services Authority to assign lawyers from their panel to represent the two accused and posted the matter for hearing on September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/skin-to-skin-yardstick-a-dangerous-norm-in-sexual-assault-cases-ag-101629830524656.html
25-08-2021||India||US climate envoy John Kerry may visit India in September||John Kerry, US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate is likely to visit India next month to further India-US partnership on Clean Energy ahead of UN Climate Change negotiations (COP 26) in November. The partnership will mobilize finance and speed clean energy deployment during this decade.Union environment minister, Bhupendra Yadav had a telecon with Kerry on Tuesday to discuss the Climate Action and Finance Mobilization Dialogue (CAFMD) under India-US Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership.“Both sides agreed that India and the USA, will engage for a constructive engagement under the “India-US Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership.” The Environment Minister stated that these platforms provide greater opportunities for working together for climate actions and emphasized that India stands committed to working with the US on Clean Energy,” a statement from MoEFCC said.Kerry told Yadav that Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership to enhance actions to curb greenhouse gas emissions in the current decade will help meet the goals under the Paris Agreement. “Had a telephonic conversation with US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate Mr @JohnKerry and discussed at length how the largest and oldest democracies can set examples for other countries on Climate Action,” tweeted Yadav on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-climate-envoy-john-kerry-may-visit-india-in-september-101629830287658.html
25-08-2021||India||Income can’t be sole basis to decide ‘creamy layer’: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court held on Tuesday that states cannot make annual income the sole yardstick to determine “creamy layer”’ within a backward class and exclude them from benefits of reservation.Apart from the economic criterion, the top court said, social, educational and other factors must also be taken into account before defining a “creamy layer” among the backward classes.The ruling by a bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose came as it struck down a 2016 notification of the Haryana government denying benefits of reservation in government jobs and educational institutions to those among the backward classes who have an annual income of ₹6 lakh or more.The court ordered the Haryana government to come out with a new notification to determine “creamy layer” among the other backward classes (OBCs) within three months by considering social backwardness and other factors in addition to the economic criterion.The bench emphasised that the Supreme Court’s judgment in the Indra Sawhney case (popularly known as Mandal Commission case) in 1992 clearly underscored that social, economic and other factors have to be taken into account for the purpose of determining the “creamy layer” within a backward class and then excluding it from quota benefits.While the Haryana Backward Classes (Reservation in Services and Admission in Educational Institutions) Act, 2016, provided for considering social, economic as well as some other factors in defining “creamy layer”, the court noted that the notification mentioned monetary income of ₹6 lakh as the only criterion.“Strangely, by the notification dated August 17, 2016, the identification of ‘creamy layer’ amongst backward classes was restricted only to the basis of economic criterion. In clear terms, this court held in Indra Sawhney (case) that the basis of exclusion of ‘creamy layer’ cannot be merely economic,” the court held.The bench said that the notification is in flagrant violation of the directions issued by the apex court in the Indra Sawhney case. “The criteria mentioned for identifying such of those persons who are socially advanced have not been taken into account by the Government of Haryana while issuing the notification...the state of Haryana has sought to determine ‘creamy layer’ from backward classes solely on the basis of economic criterion and has committed a grave error in doing so. On this ground alone, the notification dated August 17, 2016 requires to be set aside,” said the bench.It also faulted the state government for clubbing income from salaries and agricultural land in determining the gross annual income for the purpose of defining the creamy layer and said it was at variance with the 1993 memorandum issued by the Union government on revision of income criteria to exclude socially advanced sections (‘creamy layer’) from the purview of reservation for OBCs. The current annual income limit for “creamy layer” under the central government rules is ₹8 lakh.The court asked the Haryana government to issue a fresh notification under the 2016 Act within a period of three months after duly following the principles laid down in the Indra Sawhney judgment for determining the creamy layer.It further said that admissions to educational institutions and appointments to state services based on the 2016 notification should not be disturbed.The court was hearing a petition by an organisation called Pichra Warg Kalyan Mahasabha, which challenged the validity of the 2016 notification on the ground that it was in violation of the guidelines laid down by the top court in the Indra Sawhney case but was also discriminatory for creating a sub-classification within the same class.As per the said notification, children of people having gross annual income up to ₹3 lakh shall first get the benefit of reservation in services and admission in educational institutions.The remaining quota shall go to that class of backward classes of citizens who earn between ₹3 lakh and ₹6 lakh per annum.The state government defended the notification, submitting that the sub-classification among the backward classes is to ensure that people with lower income among the backward classes get the maximum benefits of reservation.But the court decided not to examine the issue of sub-classification as it held that the whole basis of determining “creamy layer” was improper because it was defined only on the basis of income criterion.In the Indra Sawhney judgment, SC said on the exclusion of creamy layer: “The connecting link is the social backwardness. It should broadly be the same in a given class. If some of the members are far too advanced socially (which in the context, necessarily means economically and, may also mean educationally) the connecting thread between them and the remaining class snaps. They would be misfits in the class. After excluding them alone, would the class be a compact class? In fact, such exclusion benefits the truly backward.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/income-can-t-be-sole-basis-to-decide-creamy-layer-sc-101629830344763.html
25-08-2021||India||Inclusive set-up will help region stability, says India at UNHRC||India on Tuesday called for an inclusive and broad-based arrangement in Afghanistan that represents all sections of society, and asserted that Afghan soil must not be used by terror groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) to threaten any country.New Delhi’s position was outlined by Indramani Pandey, India’s permanent representative to the UN in Geneva, while addressing a special session of the UN Human Rights Council on the situation in Afghanistan.India has been watching the security situation in the war-torn country with growing concern following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government, and the takeover of Kabul by the Taliban on August 15. It has insisted that any future set-up in Kabul must be inclusive and preserve the gains of the past two decades in order to ensure legitimacy.In his statement at the UNHRC session, Pandey said India hopes “there is an inclusive and broad-based dispensation which represents all sections of Afghan society”. He added: “Voices of Afghan women, aspirations of Afghan children and the rights of minorities must be respected. A broad-based representation would help the arrangement gain more acceptability and legitimacy.”As with all recent official statements from the Indian side following the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, there was no criticism of or direct reference to the militant group in Pandey’s statement. However, he pointedly raised India’s concerns related to the “precarious” security situation in Afghanistan.“Stability in Afghanistan is linked to the peace and security of the region. We hope that the situation in Afghanistan does not pose a challenge to its neighbours and its territory is not used by terrorist groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed to threaten any other country,” Pandey said.UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet told the session the rapid seizure of the country by the Taliban has “raised grave fears of a return to past patterns of human rights violations, and stoked desperation among many Afghans”. She warned there were reports of summary executions of civilians and “hors de combat members of the Afghan national security forces”, restrictions on rights of women and recruitment of child soldiers.Bachelet said the onus is on the Taliban to translate their pledges to protect human rights into reality. “I strongly urge the Taliban to adopt norms of responsive governance and human rights, and to work to re-establish social cohesion and reconciliation,” she added.Pandey also said the world community must provide full support to the Afghan people’s desire for peace, stability and security, and enable women, children and minorities to live in peace and dignity.He said that as a neighbour of Afghanistan, the current situation in the country is of great concern to India.“We are closely monitoring the rapidly evolving security situation in Afghanistan and we continue to call upon parties concerned to maintain law and order, ensure the safety and security of all Afghan nationals, UN personnel and diplomatic staff members, and observe human rights and international humanitarian law in all circumstances in Afghanistan,” he said.Pandey also said that a “grave humanitarian crisis” is unfolding, and the world community is concerned about increasing violations of fundamental rights of Afghan citizens. “Afghans are worried about whether their right to live with dignity would be respected,” he said.Thousands of internally displaced people are facing an acute shortage of food, medical care and shelter, and basic rights of civilians, children and women, including freedom of speech and opinion, access to education and medical care, have been drastically hampered by the current situation.“We call upon all the parties concerned to allow unhindered access to international assistance for all those who are in the need of it,” Pandey said.The envoy noted that India has significantly contributed in recent years to the development of Afghanistan through large infrastructure projects and connectivity, humanitarian aid, human resource development and capacity-building, and smaller high impact community development projects.This includes projects in critical areas such as power, water supply, road connectivity, health care, education and agriculture, and Indian development ventures covered all 34 provinces of Afghanistan. India also provided 75,000 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan to strengthen food security during the Covid-19 pandemic.“Our millennia old friendship with Afghanistan rests on the strong pillars of people-to-people relationship. India has always stood for a peaceful, prosperous and progressive Afghanistan. India stands ready to assist our friends from Afghanistan in fulfilling their aspirations,” he said. “We hope that the situation stabilises soon and the parties concerned address the humanitarian and security issues.”India was the largest regional donor to Afghanistan with pledges totalling almost $3 billion. Following the Taliban takeover, India withdrew its envoy and diplomatic staff from Kabul last week, and has evacuated about 620 people, a majority of them Indian nationals, from Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inclusive-set-up-will-help-region-stability-says-india-at-unhrc-101629830293387.html
25-08-2021||India||Gujarat, western Rajasthan face drought-like conditions: IMD data||Drought-like conditions are setting in over most parts of Gujarat, west Rajasthan and some districts of Odisha that have recorded significant rain deficiency during monsoon.The standard precipitation index (SPI) for many parts of Gujarat and West Rajasthan is in “severely dry” to “moderately dry” categories. Districts worst affected in these two states are Sabarkanta, Dahod, Panchmahal, Vadodara, Banaskanta, Udaipur, Rajasmand, Jalor etc. Several districts in Odisha, including Kendujhar, Baleshwar, Bhadrak, Angul and Sambalpur, are in “extremely dry” to “severely dry” categories, according to SPI data for August maintained by the India Meteorological Department. SPI is an index used to monitor droughts.Several parts of the northeast particularly in Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh are also in “extremely dry” category while Palakkad, Mallapuram, Kollam, Kasargod and Kannur in Kerala, and parts of neighbouring Karnataka are also in “extremely dry” to “severely dry” categories.According to IMD, Odisha has recorded a 31% rain deficiency, Gujarat 47%, Kerala 28%, Manipur 58%, Arunachal Pradesh 25%, Mizoram 28% and Nagaland 24%. “We have been informed by farmers in several parts of Gujarat and Rajasthan that drought-like conditions have already set in. In Gujarat, crops have failed in many parts so farmers have left cattle in the farms so that the dry crop can be consumed as fodder. There are no irrigation facilities in these regions so there is little chance of the crop reviving. IMD doesn’t declare drought anymore. But due to scanty rains, crops in west Rajasthan and Gujarat are severely affected. There was significantly low rainfall in Kerala and the northeast also this year,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather, a private weather forecaster.A drought could be bad for the rural economy, especially against the background of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.“This time, fewer low-pressure areas formed — two against the normal of four — and they were not that active. This led to breaks during monsoon and less rain overall,” DS Pai, head of climate and research services at IMD Pune, said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-western-rajasthan-face-drought-like-conditions-imd-data-101629830127890.html
25-08-2021||India||Army obtains hand grenades from private firm||The Indian Army on Tuesday accepted the delivery of the first batch of multi-mode hand grenades, manufactured by a private sector firm, at a ceremony in Nagpur, with the move expected to provide thrust to the goal of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India), the defence ministry said in a statement.The defence ministry had signed a contract with Nagpur-based private firm Economic Explosives Ltd (EEL) last October for supplying 1 million multi-mode hand grenades to the army. These will replace a World War-II vintage hand grenade design being used by the army. EEL is expected to execute the order by October 2022.The multi-mode hand grenade has been designed by Chandigarh-based Terminal Ballistic Research Laboratories (TBRL) — a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) laboratory — and produced by EEL.The ceremony at Nagpur was attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane and DRDO chief G Satheesh Reddy. EEL chairman SN Nuwal handed over a scale replica of the grenade to the minister to mark the first delivery of ammunition from the private sector. Singh said the grenades were “a shining example” of public-private partnership to achieve self-reliance in defence manufacturing.“Today is a memorable day in the history of the Indian defence sector. Our private industry is coming of age when it comes to defence production. It is an important milestone not only in the field of defence manufacturing, but also in achieving ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’,” Singh said.Multi-purpose grenades figured on the first list of 101 types of weapons and ammunition whose import India will ban progressively over the next five years. The government published the list in August 2020. In May this year, the government notified a list of another 108 defence items that cannot be imported by the armed forces with the ban kicking off from December. The list, called the ‘positive indigenisation list’, will be implemented progressively from December 2021 to December 2025.From raising foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence manufacturing to creating a separate budget for buying locally-made military hardware and notifying two lists of weapons/equipment that cannot be imported, the government has taken a raft of measures to boost self-reliance in the defence sector over the last two years.The first list included artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, light transport aircraft, long-range land-attack cruise missiles, communication satellites, basic trainer aircraft, multi-barrel rocket launchers, a variety of radars, assault rifles, sniper rifles, mini-UAVs and different types of ammunition.The second list consists of several military systems, including specified types of helicopters, next-generation corvettes, airborne early warning and Control (AEW&C) systems, tank engines, medium power radar for mountains, medium-range surface to air missile systems and anti-material rifles.India had set aside ₹70,221 crore this year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63% of the military’s capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases.The defence minister commended the industry for indigenously developing defence products. “Such products are not just being produced but exported on a large scale. The number of online export authorisations during 2016-19 was 1,210. It has increased to 1,774 in the last two years. This has resulted in defence exports of over ₹17,000 crore in the last two years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-obtains-hand-grenades-from-private-firm-101629830046129.html
25-08-2021||India||Taliban supporters who advocate secularism in India are hypocrites: Muslim org||A group of 150 academics, activists and intellectuals under the banner of Indian Muslims for Secular Democracy (IMSD) has said they are deeply disturbed by the “euphoria” evident among a section of Indian Muslims over the Taliban’s capture of power in Afghanistan. It referred to office bearers of the All-India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB), Maulana Umrain Mahfuz Rahmani and Maulana Sajjad Nomani, and the Jamaat-e-Islami-Hind and called those supporting the Taliban takeover while advocating secularism in India as hypocrites. “Such rank double-standard gives legitimacy to the Sangh Parivar’s agenda for a Hindu Rashtra,” they said in a statement.The AIMPLB last week clarified it has neither expressed any view nor given any statement on Taliban and the recent political situation of Afghanistan. “Opinion of some Board members has been portrayed as Board’s stand by few media channels and wrong things are being attributed to the Board,” tweeted AIMPLB.Also Read | Air India flight with 78 people evacuated from Afghanistan to land in Delhi soonThe IMSD acknowledged the views of various Islamic scholars, religious leaders and Muslim intellectuals who argue that the very notion of an “Islamic state” is antithetical to the core teachings of Islam.The signatories to the statement include journalist Aarefa Johari, filmmaker Anand Patwardhan, designer Amir Rizwi, actor Javed Jaffrey, lyricist Javed Akhtar and filmmaker Zoya Akhtar.They expressed solidarity with the beleaguered Afghan women and men “who for too long have been trapped between the corrupt-to-the-core puppet governments propped up by the occupying American and NATO forces and the regressive Taliban who during their earlier rule had trampled over the most basic rights and freedoms”.The signatories called upon the global community to launch a “24/7 Afghanistan Watch” to pressure the Taliban to ensure that unlike in the 1990s this time, they will respect the liberties and rights of all citizens. They asked the democratic world, the US in particular, to accept refugees from Afghanistan. “India must open its doors to all Afghan refugees, irrespective of religion.”A Faizur Rahman, the secretary-general of the Islamic Forum for the Promotion of Moderate Thought, agreed with the IMSD's condemnation of the Taliban but criticised the Mumbai-based outfit for claiming without evidence that "a section of Indian Muslims" were euphoric over the Taliban’s recent capture of power in Afghanistan. The vagueness of the term "a section", he said, could lead readers to imagine a number anywhere between a few hundred to several million Indian Muslims in an estimated population of 200 million thereby holding them guilty of something for which there is no evidence.“The IMSD's insinuation against "a section" of the peace-loving Indian Muslims is unjustified and must be withdrawn forthwith,” Rahman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/euphoria-over-taliban-s-capture-of-power-disturbing-muslim-organisation-101629778650420.html
