26-08-2021||India||Second wave not over, says health secy, warns of festive season spike||The second coronavirus disease (Covid-19) wave is not over yet in the country, said Union health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, adding that festive months of September and October will be crucial to check the case load -- a warning that comes even as Kerala witnesses a surge of infections from last week’s celebration of its biggest festival, Onam, which also marks the unofficial beginning of India’s festive season that lasts till the end of the year. “We are still in the midst of the second surge of Covid-19; it has not concluded yet. Therefore, we have to maintain all necessary precautions, particularly in the light of our experience that shows that after every festival we see a spike. Therefore, the coming months of September and October are crucial for us because we will be celebrating a few festivals,” Bhushan said in a briefing on Thursday. He warned the public that Covid-inappropriate behaviour could lead to a surge in cases. Echoing Bhushan’s warning, Balram Bhargava, the director general of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said during the press briefing that 41 districts in the country are reporting a weekly average positivity rate of at least 10%.“The second wave is still on in India and in some states an upsurge is being observed in some districts. Apart from the 41 districts with weekly test positivity rate of more than 10%, we have 27 districts with a weekly test positivity rate between 5% and 10%. Population density is causing the spread; so wherever Covid-19 appropriate behavior is not being observed, we are seeing an upsurge of cases,” said Bhargava.A positivity rate below 5% and declining is considered an indicator of the infections being under control. Kerala has at least 100,000 active cases, and four other states have between 10,000 and 100,000 active cases, Bhushan said, highlighting the need for people to not drop their guard. Bargava urged people to get vaccinated as it was crucial in containing the disease spread in the long run, and the need to keep wearing a mask.“We know that these vaccines are disease modifying vaccines; these are not disease preventive vaccines, and therefore, it is very important to continue wearing a mask even after getting vaccinated. Mask usage has to continue. We know that vaccines reduce the disease severity; they reduce the possibility of hospitalization, and also avert death to the tune of nearly 98-99%,” he added. India has administered 610 million Covid-19 vaccine doses since the national covid immunisation drive started on January 16 this year. Of the total doses administered, 6.8 million doses were administered till 7pm on Thursday.He also said that mass gatherings have to be discouraged.Experts agree that it is important for people to avoid crowded places and large gatherings for now and following Covid appropriate behavior.“These things are basic when we talk about fighting an infectious disease that is as transmissible as Covid-19. Gatherings should be avoided and wearing a mask is mandatory. Vaccination is important. The vaccines also work against variants in circulation; therefore, people should take these,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonary department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.As part of their preparations for any surge in cases, the Union government also asked states to create a buffer supply of oxygen.The second wave of Covid-19 in April and May saw a significant shortage of oxygen in some states and Union territories. “Public health facilities must have their own captive oxygen generation plant. About 1500 have been sanctioned and 900 of these have already been commissioned. Hospitals should also have medical oxygen storage tanks for which they can use the funds provided by the central government. Third element is to create equitably distributed oxygen storage units for any SOS situation,” said Bhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-vaccine-for-kids-likely-to-be-available-by-oct-says-centre-101630002383986.html
26-08-2021||India||Muslim hawker in MP beaten up for not showing Aadhaar: Police||A Muslim hawker was allegedly brutally thrashed by two unidentified persons for not showing his Aadhaar Card in Dewas district on Thursday, police said. In his complaint at Hatpipaliya police station, 36-year-old Zaheer Khan, a resident of Amlataz village, alleged the men abused him and asked him not to return to the village. Dewas superintendent of police Shivdayal Singh said, “Khan was selling toasts when two persons arrived and asked his name. He told them his name. They also asked him to show his Aadhaar Card. When Zaheer told them that he didn’t have it with him then, they started beating him. The men abused him and asked him not to come back to their village.” Police said a case under section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 294 (using obscene language) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code was registered and that a search was underway for the accused. Police added that they are trying to verify the victim’s claims after villagers allegedly said that they were not aware of any such incident. The incident came days after a Muslim bangle seller was allegedly thrashed by a group of people in Indore city. The man was later booked for allegedly molesting a girl.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslim-hawker-in-mp-beaten-up-for-not-showing-aadhaar-police-101630001962973.html
26-08-2021||India||SC rues: Cops do bidding of party in power||The Supreme Court on Thursday described as a “disturbing trend” senior police officers supporting a political party in power and later being targeted when the regime changes.It urged officials to conduct themselves in a responsible way so that the rule of law can endure.“It is a very disturbing trend. Police officers are supporting one government, which is in power. When the government changes, they face the same action...till the time they keep favouring political parties, this is what will keep happening. It is a sad state of affairs,” observed a bench comprising Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana and justice Surya Kant.The bench made these observations while granting protection from arrest to suspended senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Gurjinder Pal Singh, who faces arrest in two separate cases involving sedition and corruption charges in Chhattisgarh.Senior advocates Fali S Nariman and Vikas Singh appeared for Singh in the two cases, which, they claimed, were foisted on the officer after he did not accede to a demand made by Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel to frame the previous chief minister of the state in certain cases of illegal gratification.In their appeals against orders of the Chhattisgarh high court denying protection to Singh, Nariman and Singh maintained that the senior IPS officer was evidently targeted due to political reasons.At this, the bench remarked that such things will continue happening until police officers do not stop associating themselves with the political regime.“In some way, the police department will have to be held responsible. Rule of law will not exist if police officers do not feel responsible and are made accountable for such behaviour,” added the bench.Representing the Chhattisgarh government, senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi opposed the plea of the additional director genera (ADG)-rank officer, emphasising that Singh has been absconding for two months and has not cooperated with the investigation. Rohatgi added that a charge sheet has already been filed in the sedition case and therefore, Singh’s petition for quashing the first information report (FIR) does not survive anymore.Rebutting the accusations, Nariman said that there was no question of Singh absconding since he has already been suspended. “The sitting chief minister called him in the middle of the night and asked him to frame the former CM. He said no and thus the cases,” contended Nariman.“The executive should not become a tool of a political party in power as the Supreme Court has pointed out. We always believe they are a responsible and important part of the government but we have not used them as the BJP government used to,” said Ravindra Choubey, agriculture minister and government spokesperson.Singh, who was appearing for the IPS officer in the corruption case relating to assets disproportionate to his known sources of income, said that he would not have been slapped with two criminal cases had he agreed to the demands of the ruling party (Congress).At this point, senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi, appearing for the state government in the corruption case against Singh, claimed that anti-corruption sleuths have discovered movable and immovable assets worth over ₹10 crore belonging to the officer.The bench, however, proceeded to protect Singh from arrest in both the FIRs and gave the state government four weeks for filing its formal replies to the petitions.In his first petition before the top court, the 1994-batch IPS officer asked for quashing the sedition FIR lodged at Raipur on July 8. This FIR followed the FIR registered by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) for allegedly amassing tainted assets.According to the Chhattisgarh Police, when Singh’s house was raided by ACB, police found some pieces of papers in a drain behind the house which were later reconstructed into some notes and reports against various functionaries of the state government. As per the police, these were intended to tarnish the image of the government and destroy peace and harmony in the state.Singh has pleaded that the corruption case be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rues-cops-do-bidding-ofparty-in-power-101630001603058.html
26-08-2021||India||Centre launches e-portal for unorganised sector workers||New Delhi: The Centre on Thursday launched the eSHRAM-portal, “a database of urorganised workers” across the country to enable them better access to government schemes and benefits. “The eSHRAM portal will be a game changer for having the database of crores of unorganised workers and linking them to social security and other schemes of the Government from time to time,” the government said in a statement. “Though it is a big challenge but as always, the entire country has risen to such type of challenges. The eSHRAM portal would be handed over to the States/Union Territories by Shri Bhupender Yadav, Hon’ble Union Cabinet Minister for Labour & Employment, Environment, Forest & Climate Change in august presence of Shri Rameswar Teli, Hon’ble Union Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Petroleum & Natural Gas tomorrow,” The government had said that it will introduce a digitised platform for migrant workers that will enable authorities to direct state-run benefits to them and intervene during crisis, people aware of the matter said on Sunday. On June 29, the apex court, while hearing a case on the plight of workers in the unorganised sector, set a deadline of July 31 for the government to “prepare a mechanism” for the registration of such workers.Last year, tens of thousands of low-paid workers made an exodus on foot from major cities such as Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai under without much food or money following the stringent national lockdown during the first wave of Covid-19. In September 2020, then labour minister Santosh Gangwar told Parliament that the government had no data on how many migrants left the cities or how many of them died in the lockdown.The migrant workers’ portal is expected to fill this gap. It is a joint venture between the labour and employment ministry and common service-centres (CSC) run by the electronics and information technology ministry, the people quote above said.“The portal is fully ready and we will be in a position to begin registration of workers anytime and possibly go live by next week,” a labour ministry official aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity.The platform will allow migrants to register themselves and secure a unique ID to access the portal from a CSC. The CSCs are points of access to a host of government digital services across the country and there are nearly 400,000 of them. “The ID can be used to access government schemes and services, irrespective of their place of stay,” an IT ministry official said, asking not to be named.Workers will be registered as and when they apply and that could take time. “But we will launch a big awareness drive so that nobody is left behind,” said the labour ministry official.Workers in the informal economy are estimated to contribute nearly 50% to the country’s gross domestic product. “One is not clear given the humongous task of registration whether this project will be completed in the near future. The first part is registration, of course,” said KR Syam Sundar, an economist with the Xaviers Labour Relations Institute, Jamshedpur.According to Sundar, the Supreme Court is aware of the “governments’ apathy in complying with critical procedural requirements concerning unorganised workers over the (past) decade and a half”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-launches-e-portal-for-unorganised-sector-workers-101630001483029.html
26-08-2021||India||Education of minors who lost parents to Covid-19 must continue: SC to Centre||The Supreme Court on Thursday reiterated the need to provide assistance to children who lost their parents to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19), saying that education of such minors should not discontinue in the current academic year.During the hearing, the bench of Justice L Nageswara Rao and Justice Aniruddha Bose said that there is an urgent need of completing payments for the education of children who are studying in private schools. Furthermore, the bench also directed the district magistrates to complete the process of approval of applications for children registered under the ‘PM-CARES for Children’ scheme in order to aid those minors who lost their parents or legal guardian due to coronavirus.The Centre informed the bench that an independent portal has been set up for the ‘PM-CARES for Children’ scheme and as of August 21 this year, a total of 2,600 children have been registered on the portal by 30 states and Union territories (UTs). Of these registrations, as many as 418 have already been given a nod by the district magistrates, the central government added.The top court noted that in case there is a necessity, the fee and other expenses of these 2,600 children, shall be undertaken by the Centre. “The state governments shall have a dialogue with the private schools to waive the fee for these students for the current academic year. In case, the schools are not willing to waive the fee, the state government shall bear the burden of the fee,” the court further said.Also Read | Over 100,000 kids were orphaned or lost a parent since April 2020: NCPCR to SCIn the matter, the apex court also pointed out that it is on the state governments to request the central government to bear the fee and other expenditure of these minors who are studying in private schools for the current academic year.It further said that it is open to the states to request the Centre to bear the fee and other expenses of these children who are studying in private schools for the current academic year.The Centre also told the apex court that the PM-CARES scheme covers the education of children until they turn 18 for support and empowerment of pandemic-affected children.Also Read | Unfair to expect children orphaned by Covid to tackle bureaucracy for some relief, Delhi HC tells state govtThe orders and exchange of information were done when the supreme court was hearing a suo motu matter on care and safeguard of children who became orphans or lost one parent or legal guardian or abandoned during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/education-of-minors-who-lost-parents-to-covid-19-must-continue-sc-to-centre-101630000730279.html
26-08-2021||India||Rane likely to resume Jan Ashirwad Yatra today as Sena mounts attack||Two days after he was granted bail, Union minister Narayan Rane on Friday is likely to resume his Jan Ashirwad Yatra from Ratnagiri district, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders familiar with the development said.The Union minister will continue with the yatra, which has been organised by the party for new ministers in the Narendra Modi Cabinet, for two days before culmination in Sindhudurg district, the leaders cited above added.Rane’s yatra, which began on August 19, was interrupted after he was arrested on Tuesday over his remarks that he wanted to slap chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for allegedly confusing the number of years since India got independence during the latter’s August 15 address. He was granted bail by a Mahad court, on a surety of ₹15,000, on the following day. On Thursday, the Union minister rushed to a private hospital for a medical check up after his sugar levels increased. Meanwhile, the Shiv Sena on Thursday claimed Rane undermined the pride and prestige of Maharashtra and action against him was taken as per the law over his controversial remarks against the chief minister. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ also claimed that “Rane’s days in the Union cabinet were numbered”. “If Rane thinks he is great because of his induction into the Union cabinet, then Prime Minister Narendra Modi will surely bring him down from the pedestal,” the editorial claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rane-likely-to-resume-jan-ashirwad-yatra-today-as-sena-mounts-attack-101630001123702.html
26-08-2021||India||CBI files 9 cases after Bengal post-poll violence probe, CRPF to provide security||Ordered by the Calcutta high court to probe allegations of post-poll killings and other serious crimes in Bengal, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday started its work by recording the statements of some affected families in Kolkata and the districts. CBI officers in Kolkata said nine cases were registered but refused to divulge details. The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) have been asked to provide security to members of the four CBI teams visiting Bengal, an officer of the CBI anti-crime branch said on condition of anonymity. Each of these seven-member teams -- which comprise deputy inspector generals and superintendents from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Karnataka and other states – is being headed by a joint director. All officers were asked to arrive in Bengal by Thursday evening. The teams are being accompanied by forensic experts and officers of inspector rank. One of the teams visited the home of Abhijit Sarkar, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker who was murdered by a mob in Kolkata’s Narkeldanga area on May 2 and inspected the scene of the crime. The Kolkata Police has so far arrested seven people in this case. The CBI officers talked to members of the family, including Biswajit Sarkar, the elder brother of the victim who had filed petitions before the Supreme Court and the Calcutta high court. Abhijit Sarkar was allegedly strangled to death with a television cable soon after the poll results were announced. He was the only BJP worker who died in the state capital. The rest of the alleged killings took place in the districts. A second CBI team visited the home of Jaiprakash Yadav, a BJP worker who died in a bomb attack by motorcycle-borne assailants at Bhatpara in North 24 Parganas district on June 6. Arjun Singh, the BJP Lok Sabha member from the local Barrackpore seat, alleged that Yadav was murdered because he worked hard to ensure the victory of Singh’s son, Pawan, at the Bhatpara assembly seat in the recent polls. CBI officers said on condition of anonymity that first information reports (FIR) were registered in Purulia, Nadia and Bankura districts as well. None of the members of the CBI teams were ready to talk to the media. On June 18, the Calcutta high court asked the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to probe the allegations of murders, rapes, extortion and arson that were raised from across the state after the March-April state polls in which the BJP won 77 seats against 213 bagged by the TMC. The BJP has alleged that 36 of its workers have been killed since May 2. After studying the final report the NHRC filed on July 13, the high court, on August 19, ordered a CBI probe into allegations of major crimes and a parallel probe into the other offences by a three-member special investigation team (SIT) comprising IPS officers posted in Bengal. The state government told the court that the NHRC report was biased and prepared with a political motive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-9-cases-after-bengal-post-poll-violence-probe-crpf-to-provide-security-101630001063690.html
26-08-2021||India||Right to be forgotten, left alone inherent aspects of privacy: HC||The Delhi high court has held that an individual has the “right to be forgotten” and “to be left alone” as facets of protection to their privacy. The move is significant because India does not currently have a Right to Be Forgotten (RTBF), which is part of the Personal Data Protection Bill being reviewed by a parliamentary panel. It is also significant because, in 2017, the Supreme Court held that the Right to Privacy is a fundamental right (as part of the Right to Life and Personal Liberty). Justice Asha Menon, on Monday (August 23), made the assertions while accepting an unnamed actress’ plea for removal of her nude videos from Youtube and other web portals by the next date of hearing.The court said that the “right to privacy” includes the right to be forgotten and the right to be left alone as “inherent aspects” when a person is being exhibited against his/her will.“….the plaintiff is entitled “to be left alone” and “to be forgotten”, she is entitled to protection from invasion of her privacy by strangers and anonymous callers on account of such publication/streaming/transmission of the suit videos by the defendants,” the court said.“….the right to privacy of the plaintiff is to be protected, especially when it is her that is being exhibited, and against her will,” it added. According to the plea by the actress, who acts in Bengali films, she was approached by Ram Gopal Verma for a web series. Her audition included explicit scenes, including some involving complete frontal nudity. But the project fell through and the web-series was never produced.The plaintiff claimed that in December, 2020, she came across the videos, which had been uploaded by the producer on his YouTube channel and website. He did remove them on her request, but by then, they were all over Youtube and other web portals.“Some of them also superimposed objectionable and obscene commentaries. As a consequence of such action, the plaintiff was constantly subjected to anonymous calls and also subjected to insults. Thus, the videos have resulted in loss of reputation as also great prejudice to the plaintiff’s professional endeavours,” the plea contended.In its order of Monday, the court said that the videos have a clear and immediate impact on the reputation of the person seen in the videos in a state of nudity. It added that the actress had not permitted even the producer of the videos to publish the videos on his YouTube channel, something which was respected by him.“She has also clearly stated in the plaint that the producer had actually uploaded the suit videos on his YouTube channel and the website, but as soon as she objected to it, he had taken them down. Now, if others were circulating the same for obvious monetary and other prurient benefits, the plaintiff cannot be denied any relief during the pendency of the suit,” the court said.It said that even if the actress voluntarily shot the scenes, she has clearly stated that she had not licensed the various portals and search engines to publish and transmit them on YouTube. It noted the rulings of the Madras and Orissa high court that currently, there is no statutory right to be forgotten.The matter will be heard on September 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/right-to-be-forgotten-left-alone-inherent-aspects-of-privacy-hc-101630000703655.html
26-08-2021||India||Over 1,000 visas issued by Indian embassy were stolen in Afghanistan: Report||A day after the central government said that all Afghan citizens travelling to India must arrive only on e-visa, a senior official said that more than 1,000 visas issued by the Indian embassy were reportedly stolen in Afghanistan. According to news agency ANI, the official said that the stealing of the visas was the reason behind the Centre introducing e-visas in the first place following the fall of Afghanistan.The official added that more than 11,000 visas issued by the Indian embassy in Afghanistan between August 12 and 14 – days before Taliban regained control over Kabul, have been cancelled after so many visas were stolen. The ANI report cited that till date, nearly 300 e-visas have been issued to Afghan citizens.The intelligence agencies anticipated the stolen visas could be misused amid the mayhem that is ongoing in Afghanistan, the official told ANI. “As Taliban was approaching Kabul, the Indian embassy in Afghanistan witnessed a surge in visa applications and around 11,000 stamp visas were approved,” the official was quoted as saying.The Union home ministry announced the cancellation of all stamped visas on August 17 and introduced a new category of emergency electronic visas (e-visas) for Afghan nationals in the wake of the Taliban takeover. The Centre said that priority will be given to those citizens who stood by India or are facing threats from the insurgents’ comeback.Also Read | India makes e-Visa must for Afghan nationals, all previous visas invalidatedThe ministry said that all Afghans, regardless of their religion, will be eligible for the “e-Emergency X-Misc Visa” and applications will be processed in New Delhi since all Indian missions in Afghanistan are non-functional, people familiar with the matter had earlier told Hindustan Times.“Those who wish to travel to India can apply for this visa online following which applications will be examined and processed in New Delhi,” a government official, who didn’t wish to be named, said.The senior official mentioned above said that Afghanistan falls under the Prior Reference Category (PRC) list that mandates every visa application to go through a background check on an individual applicant. "It is a time-bound process to clear the application in the shortest time. In the process of issuing e-visas there was intense scrutiny of all applications by all concerned security agencies before giving visa approval," he told ANI, adding that any lapse could pose “threat to national security".Meanwhile, at an all-party meeting convened by the Centre on Thursday to discuss the ongoing Afghanistan conflict, Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar said that India’s top priority was to evacuate “as many as possible” as the situation in the war-torn nation is “extremely critical.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-000-visas-issued-by-indian-embassy-were-stolen-in-afghanistan-report-101630000141855.html
26-08-2021||India||'Exactly the place..': Afghan Sikhs, Hindus escape Kabul airport blasts||Soon after twin blasts were reported from the vicinity of the Kabul airport, Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa called up the president of Kabul Gurdwara Committee who informed that the group of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus who were evacuated on Wednesday were standing exactly at the place where the explosions took place today. "We thank Almighty that such thing didn’t happen yesterday," Manjinder Singh Sirsa tweeted. He also informed that all Afghan Sikhs and Hindus who took refuge in Gurdwara Karte Parwan are safe.Kabuli Gurdwara: A sanctuary in Delhi for Afghan violence victimsI just had a phone call conversation with S Gurnam Singh, president of Kabul Gurdwara committee who apprised me that today’s #Kabulairport explosion has happened at exactly same place where they were standing yesterdayWe thank Almighty that such thing didn’t happen yesterday pic.twitter.com/sbCiHaMZGPThe twin blasts on Thursday amid security alert from the US and other countries sent a shockwave across the world as most of the countries have their nationals present at Kabul airport, either forces or evacuees. Since the fall of Kabul on May 15, Kabul airport is a scene of mayhem and chaos as thousands of Afghans are desperate to flee the country. Both the blasts took place in crowded areas apparently targeting US forces and civilians alike.According to reports, at least 13 have been killed and dozens have been injured in the twin blasts. The number can go up as the blasts took place amid a heavy crowd presence. The US has confirmed the death of four marines in the Kabul explosion.Though no group has claimed responsibility for the attack, the US has suspected IS presence behind the attack. The Taliban have condemned the attack and blamed the US forces for failing to ensure security. Taliban spokesperson on Thursday said that the area where the blasts took place was under US security. Another Taliban spokesperson said that the attack took place because of the presence of foreign forces in the airport.India is continuing its evacuation from Afghanistan as it assured that it will safely evacuate all Afghan Sikhs and Hindus. External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Thursday said the government is focusing on full evacuation from Afghanistan. Then the government will decide on its policy for Afgghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exactly-the-place-afghan-sikhs-hindus-escape-kabul-airport-blasts-101629998905747.html
26-08-2021||India||Covid-19 made in God’s computer, it decides who will get infected: Assam minister||Amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, a senior Assam minister claimed on Wednesday that the disease was created in God’s super-computer and it decides who will get infected, who won’t and who would die. Chandra Mohan Patowary, who handles the transport, industries and commerce and three other departments, made the comments on Wednesday at an event to distribute financial assistance to beneficiaries under a state government scheme for widows of Covid-19 victims in Kamrup district. He made the remark while talking about a nearly 90-year-old woman who he saw on a Guwahati footpath on Tuesday midnight without wearing a mask or taking any safety measures against the virus. Patowary, a BJP MLA, added that some people like that woman don’t get infected. “Nature has decided who would get infected, who won’t and who would be taken away from Earth. A list on it is prepared in God’s computer. It’s not any normal man-made computer, but God’s own super computer. The computer decided on sending the Covid-19 virus to Earth with 2% mortality,” he said. Patowary also blamed the World Health Organization for failing to find a cure for a “small virus” like Covid-19 despite spending billions of dollars and so much of research done about it. When journalists present at the event questioned the minister about his statements later, he tried to downplay them. “Let’s not raise that issue which is controversial. What I wanted to say was that till date there is no medicine to cure Covid-19,” said Patowary. The minister’s remarks at a time when Assam is still witnessing hundreds of new Covid-19 cases daily have evoked sharp reactions. “It is beyond comprehension that an educated person, that too, a responsible minister can make such a comment. When a person cannot manage a bad situation he will obviously put the blame on God,” said Bobbeeta Sharma, media in-charge of opposition Congress. “Because of the Centre’s lack of foresight in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic when there were early warning signs and the Modi Government’s organisation of the Namaste Trump event, disastrous consequences followed. Then they gave directions for ‘ thali bajao’ all over India to chase away Coronavirus! What can you expect from such people who lack scientific temper?” she added. Till date, Assam has recorded 586,940 Covid-19 cases with 5618 deaths. On Thursday, the state recorded 562 new cases of the viral infection, 11 deaths and a test positivity rate of 0.69%. There are nearly 7,000 active cases in the state at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-made-in-god-s-computer-it-decides-who-will-get-infected-assam-minister-101629997403778.html
26-08-2021||India||'Delta sub-lineage AY.12 seen in many states': Insacog warns in latest bulletin||The Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (Insacog) has said in its latest bulletin that AY.12, a sub-lineage of the Delta variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, has been seen in many states in the country, according to news agency PTI. This sub-lineage is believed to have caused the recent surge in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Israel.Also Read | Delta sub-lineages AY.1, AY.2 unlikely to be more transmissible: INSACOG“Delta is the major variant of concern in India at this time. AY.12, a reassigned sub-lineage of Delta, is being seen in many states, though the numbers need closer examination,” the bulletin, dated August 23, read. It added that at a molecular level, both Delta and AY.12 appear to be very similar despite the functional impact of changes between the two not being known.The bulletin also described AY.12 as the dominant lineage in Israel. “The rapid growth in Israel of AY.12, which is one of the reclassified Delta sub-lineages, means that it should be examined further,” it said. Additionally, the document noted that this sub-lineage does not have some of the mutations seen in the Delta parent lineage, such as G142D in spike protein.However, it is the Delta variant, which, the bulletin said, remains dominant and is causing fresh Covid-19 infections in several countries. “Delta continues to expand around the world. Despite 60 per cent of its population being fully vaccinated, Israel’s new cases are rising to near previous highs,” it said.Delta, which was first found in India, being detected here in October last year, led to the devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in the country, which was at its peak in April and May. The second wave has since receded, with daily numbers oscillating between 25,000 and 40,000.Insacog, a consortium of 28 national laboratories, was set up in December 2020 to monitor the genomic variations in Sars-CoV-2, the Covid-19 causing virus. A pan-India network, it functions under the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-sub-lineage-ay-12-found-in-many-states-insacog-warns-in-latest-bulletin-101629996021591.html
26-08-2021||India||Covid-19: AIIMS chief Dr Guleria says focus on vaccinating more people, booster doses can wait||Director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Dr Randeep Guleria has said that India should now focus on vaccinating as many people as possible against the Covid-19 disease to contain its transmission and that the idea of providing a booster dose can wait for now.The remarks were made by Dr Guleria during a virtual programme organised by the Integrated Health and Wellbeing Council to discuss the emerging Covid-19 therapies on Wednesday.Also read | 'Don't have enough data': Dr Guleria on if Covid vaccine booster needed in India“I think we should focus on vaccinating those who have not been vaccinated till now, especially the high-risk group. Still many healthcare workers, many elderly and those with comorbidities have not been vaccinated, and they are the ones who have a chance of having more severe disease and dying because of Covid-19,” news agency ANI quoted the AIIMS chief as saying during the meeting. Further, Guleria said that rather than exploring boosters, if more beneficiaries were vaccinated, "we may be able to save lives.”“So I think the issue should be to vaccinate as many individuals as possible, rather than going in for three shots, four shots and trying different things, I think, let's stick to what we know right now, and focus on vaccinating as many people as we can,” he added.Briefing on the third wave of infections, he said that if the vaccinations continue in good strength and based on the serosurvey data, there might not be as many cases in the likely third wave of infections. “My feeling is that if we are able to continue to have good vaccination and looking at the serosurvey data, chances are that we may not have that many cases in the third wave,” he added.The comments came even as more than 610 million doses of the vaccine have been administered to beneficiaries in the country, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Thursday. Also, 46,164 new cases were reported in India in the last 24 hours and the active caseload was recorded at 333,725, according to the latest data||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-aiims-chief-dr-guleria-says-focus-on-vaccinating-more-people-booster-doses-can-wait-101629992476087.html
26-08-2021||India||Home Secretary reviews Covid-19 surge in Kerala and Maharashtra||Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Thursday reviewed the Covid-19 situation in Kerala and Maharashtra, both of which have seen a spike in infections in the last couple of days. During the meeting, the overall management of the Covid-19 situation in Kerala and Maharashtra was discussed. Of the 46,164 new cases reported in the country in the last 24 hours, 31,445 were reported from Kerala while 5,031 cases were reported from Maharashtra. Bhalla, while reviewing the efforts being made by the state governments to contain the spread of infections, observed that more effort would be required to arrest the spike in infections, according to a statement by the ministry of home affairs. “This would require adequate intervention in geographical areas having higher infection, thorough measures such as contact tracing, vaccination drives and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” MHA said Bhalla also suggested that the state governments should explore the possibility of placing night curfew in areas of high positivity.“The state governments were advised that they should continue with their vaccination programmes and in case they required more vaccines, the same would be provided to the extent possible. However, efforts must be made to utilise the vaccine doses received,” it added.It was also emphasized that along with vaccination, Covid-19 appropriate behaviour must also continue to be encouraged and events with the potential of having mass gatherings during the coming festive season must be avoided. “It was also advised that testing must be ramped up in areas in the two states where positivity rates are being found to be on the higher side. Focus should also be placed over the next few months to suppress the levels of transmission of the virus so that the chain of transmission can be controlled more effectively.”Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, Dr VK Paul (member health Niti Aayog), chief secretaries and police chiefs of both the states attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-secretary-reviews-covid-19-surge-in-kerala-and-maharashtra-101629993803804.html
26-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Karnataka announces new Covid-19 rules for international flyers and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Karnataka's new Covid-19 rules offer some respite for flyers from UK, Europe, Middle EastThe Karnataka government on Tuesday announced that the passengers arriving from the UK, Europe and the Middle East at state’s airports have been exempted from waiting for the results of RT-PCR tests. Read moreCanada wraps up Afghanistan airlift operationsCanada on Thursday announced completion of its evacuation mission in Afghanistan. That announcement was made by Canada’s acting chief of defence staff General Wayne Eyre. Read moreWhy is Kerala seeing a Covid surge again? Health minister blames home quarantineAround 35% of Covid infections in Kerala have their origin in the houses, Kerala health minister Veena George said in Thursday as the state once again recorded over 30,000 fresh infections in the last 24 hours. Read moreKBC 13: Himani Bundela is this year's first crorepati, ready to risk it all for ₹7crAmitabh Bachchan's quiz show Kaun Banega Crorepati 13 will host constestant Himani Bundela this weekend. She is visually challenged and became the season's first crorepati, winning ₹1 crore on the show. Read moreRujuta Diwekar busts cholesterol myths, says bad cholesterol not all that badCelebrity nutritionist Rujuta Diwekar who has been urging her followers to trust the wisdom of their grandmothers and not fall for fad diets, today took to Instagram to bust cholesterol myths. Read moreNew Drone Rules Highlights: Fees, Forms, Permissions; PM says 'landmark moment'The Centre on Thursday officially notified the national drone policy, the draft for which was released last month. Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia announced the development on Twitter. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-karnataka-s-new-covid-rules-offer-respite-to-travellers-from-uk-europe-and-middle-east-and-all-the-latest-news-101629988304428.html
26-08-2021||India||Assam cabinet approves reopening of classes for final year students from September||The Assam cabinet on Thursday approved reopening of classes for final year students from higher secondary to post graduation from the first week of September provided all teachers, students above 18 years and employees of educational institutions are vaccinated against Covid-19. Education minister Ranoj Pegu informed that special vaccination camps will be held at offices of block and district elementary education officers, inspector of schools and universities and colleges from August 27 to September 5. “The standard operating procedures (SOPs) for reopening of classes will be announced on or before August 31. It will be mandatory to take at least one vaccine dose to attend classes and both doses for staying in hostels,” he said. The cabinet also decided to commemorate the birthday of Asian Games gold medalist and Arjuna Award winner Bhogeswar Baruah as state sports day every year on September 3. It was decided to increase the monthly pension given to sportspersons from ₹8,000 to ₹10,000. A one-time financial assistance of ₹50,000 each to sportspersons was also agreed upon. The cabinet further decided that players who have won medals at national championships, Asian Games, Commonwealth Games and Olympics will be given a lifetime pension of ₹10,000 per month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cabinet-approves-reopening-of-classes-for-final-year-students-from-september-101629991043973.html
26-08-2021||India||Hundreds of parakeets smuggled from Allahabad seized in Bengal||More than 650 live parakeets that were being smuggled from Allahabad to Bengal were seized on Wednesday by officers of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (eastern region) of the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change and the West Bengal forest department. The birds were seized from a bus in Durgapur city, which falls under the West Burdwan district, said Agni Mitra, deputy director, WCCB (eastern region). “Four people were arrested and 658 parakeets were seized. The bus was confiscated as well,” said Mitra. Illegally sold as pets, parakeets are protected under the Indian Wildlife Protection Act. A case was registered at the Durgapur forest division. This is not the first time parakeets smuggled from other states have been seized in Bengal in such large numbers. In September 2019, the WCCB seized 524 parakeets that were trapped in 11 cages and smuggled from Patna in a bus that was intercepted in East Burdwan district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hundreds-of-parakeets-smuggled-from-allahabad-seized-in-bengal-101629988703145.html
26-08-2021||India||Scindia says new drone rules will pave way for air taxis in near future||Air taxis that will traverse the airspace instead of roads will be very much possible in the coming days under the drone rules announced on Thursday, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said. "Air taxis are being researched and invented globally and many startups are coming up," the minister said during a press conference here. "That time is not far when taxis, like the ones of Uber etc that you see on roads, you will see in the air under the drone policy. I believe this is very much possible," he added.The minister said that the Defence Ministry, the Home Ministry and BCAS (Bureau of Civil Aviation Security) have been working together so that "counter rogue drone technology" can be developed and adopted quickly.In a notification dated August 25, the Ministry of Civil Aviation eased the rules regarding drone operations in the country by reducing the number of forms that need to be filled to operate them from 25 to 5 and decreasing the types of fees charged from the operator from 72 to 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scindia-says-new-drone-rules-will-pave-way-for-air-taxis-in-near-future-101629987623961.html
26-08-2021||India||'Once a pilot resigns...': Air India's submission in Delhi high court||Air India on Thursday submitted in the Delhi high court that the once a pilot resigns, the legal employer-employee relationship “comes to end,” adding that the resignation “cannot be withdrawn subsequently,” according to news agency PTI. The national carrier made these submissions as a 2-judge high court bench took up its appeal against a single judge order quashing the its termination of 40 pilots, including both permanent and contractual, and directing it to reinstate them.Also Read | HC quashes Air India’s decision to terminate pilotsThe pilots’ services were terminated last year owing to the commercial slowdown due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown, during which both domestic and international services were suspended. While domestic services resumed in May last year, international flight operations remain suspended.Appearing for Air India, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta argued that the airline does not need to formally accept a resignation under the current laws, adding that the six-month-long post-resignation notice period is to ensure that there is no hardship to the passengers. “The moment you resign, the de jure relationship ends. Resignation is given de facto prospective effect after six months to ensure that the passengers are not left in a lurch. As a mandate, the law requires me to continue de facto. The resignation, however, takes effect today,” Mehta argued.Also Read | Can’t sack staff citing Covid-19: HC to Air IndiaThe original petitioners, the Solicitor General said, were offered “a better job and better prospect with a private airline,” adding that what needs to be determined is the “consequence of change of mind,” following the submission of the resignation letter. “A resignation letter is a resignation letter. The service law does not have any such things as a potential or conditional resignation,” Mehta further said.However, the bench, comprising Justice Rajiv Shakdher and Justice Talwant Singh, termed Air India’s move as a “unilateral resignation.” The national carrier, it remarked, was treading a “dangerous path.”On June 1, Justice Jyoti Singh had quashed the pilots’ termination, asking Air India to reinstate them, and pay them their back wages. The terminated pilots had initially approached the high court in July 2020 against non-acceptance of the withdrawal of their resignations. However, on August 13, they were issued termination letters by the airline.The pilots had initially quit due to a delay in disbursing of their pay and allowances but subsequently withdrew their resignations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-a-pilot-resigns-air-india-s-submission-to-delhi-high-court-101629987715966.html
26-08-2021||India||Why is Kerala seeing a Covid surge again? Health minister blames home quarantine||Around 35 per cent of Covid infections in Kerala have their origin in the houses, Kerala health minister Veena George said in Thursday as the state once again recorded over 30,000 fresh infections in the last 24 hours. The surge has triggered a political tug of war with the BJP blaming the Vijayan government's carelessness for the surge and the government defending its Covid mechanism.Kerala on Thursday reported 30,007 fresh infections, slightly lower than yesterday's 31,445 but the tally is still over 30,000. Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla reviewed the Covid situation of the state and asked the authorities to take immediate steps to contain the situation. Kerala health minister Veena George said the spread is mostly taking in home quarantine as people in home quarantine are violating rules. The minister said that a study has recently revealed that 35 per cent of people in the state were found to have been infected with the disease from home. While home quarantine means infected people should isolate themselves from family members as well, the present situation is that people are getting infected from other people in the family, the health minister said.The health minister said that many people are opting for home quarantine, a point the central team has also highlighted in its recent report investigating the surge of the Covid infection in the state. Veena George said n Thursday that those who have the required facilities at houses should prefer home quarantine and others should shift to domiciliary Covid-care centres.Kerala is the only state in the country reporting over one lakh active Covid-19 cases. While the post-Onam spike is not unexpected, the sudden jump from 24,000 something to over 30,000 cases per day has been worrying. The Union health ministry on Thursday said India is still fighting the second wave of the pandemic and post-festival spike has become a norm in the country."We are still in the midst of the second surge of COVID-19 in our country. The second surge has not yet concluded. It is not over and therefore, we have to maintain all necessary precautions, particularly in light of our experience that after every festival we see a spike. The coming months of September and October are crucial for us because we would be celebrating a few festivals. Thus festivals have to be celebrated with Covid-appropriate behaviour," Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-is-kerala-seeing-a-covid-surge-again-health-minister-blames-home-quarantine-101629986092395.html
26-08-2021||India||India lifts ban on Boeing 737 Max after grounding aircraft for over 2 years||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Thursday issued an order allowing the Boeing 737 Max aircraft, banned in India since 2019, to fly in the country again.The aviation regulator had in 2019 grounded all Boeing 737 Max planes in India following the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines 737 Max plane on March 10 near Addis Ababa, wherein 157 people were killed, including four Indians. The March 10, 2019, incident near Addis Ababa was the second such incident in a period of five months, as in October 2018 a 737 Max plane operated by Lion Air had crashed in Indonesia killing 180 people.“Based on design changes by M/s Boeing, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issued an Airworthiness Directive (AD) on November 18, 2020, mandating actions for 737 Max airplanes return to service (RTS). Concurrent with the issuance of the AD, FAA rescinded the Emergency Order of Prohibition. Subsequently, European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) also issued its own AD on February 17, 2021 which has been mandated by DGCA for compliance on Indian registered fleet,” the DGCA order said.“Post issuance of AD by FAA/ EASA and rescinding of the grounding order by FAA, DGCA has been closely monitoring the global trend with regard to un-grounding of Boeing Company Model 737-8 and Boeing Company Model 737-9 airplanes. World-wide 17 regulators have permitted operation of Boeing 737 Max airplane. A sizeable number airlines (34) with B737 Max airplane (345) are operating currently and have attained 1,22,824 total departures with 2,89,537 cumulative hours since the un-grounding from 9th December 2020, with no untoward reporting,” it added.In April 2021, the DGCA issued an order allowing foreign-registered Boeing 737 Max aircraft to fly over India after taking its permission.The European Union’’s Aviation Safety Agency had expressed concerns about the requirements of pilot training as well as on malfunction of “angle of attack” system in connection with the aircraft, which triggered an anti-stall system linked to the aforementioned two crashes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-lifts-ban-on-boeing-737-max-after-grounding-aircraft-for-over-2-years-101629985582880.html
26-08-2021||India||1,500 oxygen plants sanctioned: Govt briefs on steps taken to meet oxygen demands in case of third Covid-19 wave||The Centre on Thursday briefed on the steps taken to increase the production and distribution of medical oxygen to tackle a third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that the government has undertaken “concerted efforts” to create oxygen buffers at the state level.Bhushan made the comments during a regular press briefing by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday, in which Dr Balram Bhargava, the director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), was also present.When asked about the oxygen preparedness in the event of a third wave of infections, Bhushan said, “After the second surge (wave), there has been a concerted effort to ensure that at the hospital level and within the states at regional levels, oxygen buffers are created.” However, he also said that granular data regarding the question would be shared in upcoming press briefings.Also read | Still in the midst of Covid-19 second wave, upcoming months crucial: GovtExplaining further, Bhushan also said that oxygen buffers have been created by ensuring that public health facilities have their own captive oxygen generation plants. “More than 1,500 such plants have been sanctioned and around 900 of them have already been commissioned and they are being commissioned at a very fast pace,” he said, in what he called the first element of creating an oxygen buffer.“The second element of creating an oxygen buffer is to enable public health facilities to have medical oxygen storage tanks. There also, under the Covid emergency response package, which the Union govt has announced at a cost of ₹23,123 crore, we are providing funds to the states and UTs to procure these medical oxygen tanks and install them in hospitals wherever they are required,” he also said.To handle emergency situations related to the need for medical oxygen, Bhushan said that a senior office would be assigned to equitably distributed oxygen storage facilities at state or municipal corporation levels. He also said that the contact details of the officers would be put on “public domain” so as to enable the hospitals to know whom to contact in such situations.“If there is a SOS situation in a hospital, rather than creating unnecessary panic, they would know that these are the people who should be contacted and then the people who are manning these equitably distributed oxygen storages, they would be in a position to supply oxygen wherever it is needed,” he said.The need for medical oxygen to treat Covid-19 infections ballooned severely during the second wave of the Covid-19 infections in the country. As part of its efforts to tackle this need, the oxygen express trains were started in India on April 24, 2021. As of July 24, 2021, around 480 trains were operationalised under the plan and over 35,000MT of liquid medical oxygen were transported to 15 states, the ministry of railways had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1500-oxygen-plants-sanctioned-govt-briefs-on-steps-taken-to-meet-oxygen-demands-in-case-of-third-covid-19-wave-101629983803014.html
26-08-2021||India||Will Covishield gap be revised again? What government says||At present, the two doses of Serum Institute of India's Covishied are administered in a gap of 12 to 16 weeks, except in special cases. The decision was taken in May after going through international studies which revealed that the first dose of the Oxford vaccine remains effective for a long time. Hence, the second dose can be delayed, the expert panel said. Just after the gap was extended, new studies claimed that the protection offered by the first dose is not as much as previously thought. Following this, many countries shortened the gap between the two doses of the vaccine.The government earlier said that a decision on whether the gap of Covishield doses will be reduced will be taken by the expert committee based on the emerging evidence. Several reports on Thursday claimed that such a proposal to reduce the gap is being considered by the expert panel. However, NTAGI chief Dr NK Arora told ANI that there is no proposal as of now to change the dosing interval for Covishield, Covaxin or Sputnik, but the expert group is regularly reviewing the vaccine effectiveness data, he said.Covishield dose gap and its revisions in IndiaWhen India started the vaccination drive, the recommended gap between the two doses of Covishield was four to six weeks.Then the gap was extended to four to eight weeks and finally, it was recommended to administer Covishield doses apart 12 to 16 weeks.The widening of the gap received flak earlier as it was linked to the shortage of vaccines, an allegation that the government has repeatedly denied.The gap was also problematic for people who had scheduled travel and for them the government allowed a shorter gap.As India's vaccination drive is going on in full swing, several reinfection cases have surfaced. People with both doses of vaccination getting Covid infection again is not uncommon in India. Whether it has anything to do with the gap in the dosing of the vaccine is not known. Leaving Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik have a recommended gap of 28 days between the two doses.(With agency reports)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-covishield-gap-be-revised-again-what-government-says-101629982404972.html
26-08-2021||India||20 crore Covishield doses to be supplied in September, SII informs Centre||The Serum Institute of India (SII) has communicated to the Union government it will supply around 20 crore doses in September of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) developed by Oxford University-Astrazeneca, which the Pune-based company is manufacturing as Covishield in India. This is double the number of doses which the SII earlier told the Centre will be delivered that month.Also Read | Digital vaccination certificates for Covishield, Covaxin trial participants“We have further enhanced the production capacity and will be able to supply approximately 20 crore doses of Covishield to the government and private hospitals,” Prakash Kumar Singh, SII’s director, government and regulatory affairs, wrote to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), according to officials.Also Read | SII buys 50% stake in pharma firm that provide glass vials to store CovishieldIn a production plan submitted to the central government in May, the SII put at 10 crore each, its production capacity for Covishield, for both August and September. This month, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer has supplied 12 crore doses of the vaccine to the Centre and private hospitals.Also Read | What if Covishield and Covaxin mix fails? Cyrus Poonawalla presents 2 scenariosCovishield and Covaxin are the two most widely-used vaccines in the ongoing nationwide incoulation drive against Covid-19, which began on January 16, just days after the two received Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). The former is among four foreign-made shots to be granted EUA by the drugs regulator thus far, while the other two, including Covaxin, are indigenous jabs. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited is the firm behind Covaxin.Till now, 6,03,846,475 vaccines doses have been administered across the country, including 8,040,407 in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-supply-20-crore-doses-of-covishield-in-september-sii-informs-centre-101629982065574.html
26-08-2021||India||UP govt names two medical institutions after Kalyan Singh||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to name two medical institutes of the state after former chief minister Kalyan Singh who died after a prolonged illness at Lucknow’s Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) on August 21. “Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has decided to name Bulandshahr’s medical college and Lucknow’s Super Speciality Cancer Institute after Kalyan Singh. After the decision, the two institutes would now be known as Kalyan Singh Rajkiya Medical College, Bulandshahr and Kalyan Singh Super Speciality Cancer Institute, Chak Ganjaria, Lucknow,” officers at the CMO confirmed. The officers said the UP chief minister took the decision keeping in view Kalyan Singh’s focus on works of public welfare.Only recently Kalyan Singh’s son Rajveer, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Etah, had praised Adityanath for being with his father’s mortal remains for three days, escorting them from Lucknow to Aligarh, Atrauli and Narora on the banks of the Ganga where the last rites of the late leader were performed. “He acted like my father’s eldest son,” Rajveer said praising Yogi Adityanath.Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya has already announced naming of roads across the state after the late leader who was the torchbearer of the Ram Temple movement that propelled the BJP’s rise to power. “We have decided to name roads at all those places that were associated with him (Kalyan Singh) after him. He was a hero of the temple movement and hence the road leading to the Ram Temple would be named after him. He served as UP chief minister twice and lived in Lucknow. Hence, a road in Lucknow would be named after him. Etah, Bulandshahr, Atrauli and Prayagraj were places connected with him and hence roads there too would be named after him,” Maurya said. The UP BJP unit is holding meetings across the state in memory of Kalyan Singh.“He was a great leader, a visionary and so he will live on in popular memory forever,” said UP BJP leader Tarun Kant Tripathi.Since Singh’s death, the BJP has targeted Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav for not going to pay his last respects to the departed leader and alleged that it was due to vote bank considerations. The SP has hit back at the BJP for trying to indulge in politics even in the death of a leader. In AMU, some protesters put up posters against their vice chancellor professor Tariq Mansoor on Monday night for condoling the demise of Kalyan Singh who, they alleged, was responsible for the demolition of the Babri mosque.UP ministers have condemned the act of the protestors and sought action against them.In September 2020, a special CBI court had acquitted Kalyan Singh and all the 31 others, including BJP veterans LK Advani and MM Joshi, who were accused of a conspiracy to demolish the mosque. The judge concluded that there was no evidence to show that the demolition was pre-planned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-names-two-medical-institutions-after-kalyan-singh-101629981682734.html
26-08-2021||India||Plea moved for impounding passport of IIT Guwahati student accused of rape||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Guwahati student, who was allegedly raped by a fellow student in March this year, has sought the impounding of the passport of the accused after he was granted bail by the Gauhati high court this month. The woman filed an application in this regard on Wednesday in the additional district and sessions court in Kamrup Rural district, which is hearing the case. The court accepted the application and will take up the matter on September 1 when the hearing for framing of charges will take place.Despite agreeing that there is a prima facie case of rape, Justice Ajit Borthakur of the high court on August 13 granted the accused bail. The judge said both the accused and the accuser are “future assets” and “talented students” while granting the bail. He added there was no possibility of the accused tampering with the evidence. Borthakur directed the accused against leaving the jurisdiction of the lower court without its prior written permission.Also Read | Karnataka home minister on Mysuru gangrape: ‘They should not have gone there’In her application in the trial court, the woman said if the accused seeks permission to leave the jurisdiction, she may also be heard. And if the court grants the accused permission, his passport should be impounded.“There is every likelihood of the accused thwarting justice by fleeing the borders of this country,” said the application, which HT has seen. It added that if the accused is granted permission, he might jump bail and leave India as both his parents are financially sound.As per the charge sheet in the case, the accused allegedly raped the woman on March 28 after she lost her consciousness after she was forcibly given alcohol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-moved-for-impounding-passport-of-iit-guwahati-student-accused-of-rape-101629980783686.html
26-08-2021||India||84-day gap between Covid vaccine doses for better efficacy: Centre to Kerala HC||The Union government on Thursday informed the Kerala high court that 84-day gap between two doses of Covid vaccine is related to efficacy and not a shortage of doses. This was in response to the court seeking a clarification from the Centre while hearing a petition filed by Kitex Group, a Kochi-based apparel giant, to expedite vaccination process. The Centre’s counsel sought two days’ time from justice PB Suresh Kumar.Centre’s counsel Daya Sindhu Sreehari said the gap was based on a scientific study and is necessary for efficacy and effectiveness of the vaccine. The state had recently relaxed the vaccine protocol for those going abroad, the petitioner pointed out. The state said it was done in emergency cases after many countries made two vaccines mandatory. Also Read | Kerala officer who exposed illegal tree felling seeks security citing threatsIn its plea, Kitex said it has vaccinated around 5,000 of its work force with the first dose but is unable to administer the second dose due to the restrictions. It sought judicial intervention to speed up the process in view of mounting cases in the state. Kerala reported 31,455 cases on Wednesday with a test positivity rate of 19.03%, both highest in three months. Test positivity rate is the percentage of positive reports of the total tests conducted for an infection.In another plea, the Centre told the court that it has no plan for a third dose as of now. A resident of Kannur in north Kerala moved the court saying he took two doses of Covaxin but since this vaccine was not recognised abroad, he was unable to join work in Saudi Arabia. He sought the court’s help for a third dose of Covishield. For this, the Centre said mixing of vaccine was still being studied and there was no plan for a third dose yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/84day-gap-between-covid-vaccine-doses-for-better-efficacy-centre-to-kerala-hc-101629980782481.html
26-08-2021||India||Baghel to be back in Delhi on Friday for meeting with Rahul Gandhi||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel be in New Delhi for another meeting with party high command on Friday amid the turmoil over a reported two-and-a-half year power-sharing agreement with state health minister TS Singh Deo right after the 2018 assembly election win. “There is a separate meeting of the CM with Rahul Gandhi on Friday. There were many things which were not discussed on Tuesday because Gandhi had to address a press conference,” a leader close to Baghel said. Around a dozen MLAs have also been camping in Raipur since Wednesday night, holding meetings with functionaries close to CM at the circuit house. “I got a hint from people close to the CM that a change of guard could happen in the next few weeks,” said a senior legislator on the condition of anonymity. Also Read | ‘Clarify who is trying to destabilise Chhattisgarh govt’: BJP MLA asks BaghelMeanwhile, two ministers --Shiv Kumar Dahariya and Amarjeet Bhagat—and MLA Vikas Upadhyay reached Delhi on Friday. Party sources claimed they have gone to meet senior leaders, including KC Venugopal and PL Punia. “Those who are going to Delhi are doing so on their own. They know that the hierarchy will change if the chief minister changes,” said a person close to the CM. An MLA from Bastar said there was a buzz about Singh Deo staying put in Delhi till the commitment made to him was fulfilled, adding, “Something may happen in the next few days.” Singh Deo, who has stayed back in Delhi, told the media he will follow the decision of the high command. “The party never spoke about the 2-1/2-year formula. This is just media speculation...The high command decides roles for the people in the party and we carry out those responsibilities,” he said. Referring to Baghel, he said, “He might be the CM for 50 years or 10 years...This is not fixed… There is rivalry even among siblings.”On Wednesday, Baghel returned from New Delhi after meeting senior leaders to a welcome by 400-odd party workers shouting slogans as “Chhattisgarh ada hua hai, Bhupesh ke saath khada hua hai (Chhattisgarh is standing by Bhupesh)” that spoke of the power struggle within the party. Some MLAs, meanwhile, are staying away from either camp. “There is total chaos because there is no communication from the party high command...We are afraid to take sides because we know that a small mistake will ruin our political career,” said a legislator. On Tuesday, Baghel and Singh Deo met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in the presence of general secretary in charge of the state, PL Punia, and general secretary (administration) KC Venugopal, reportedly to discuss the power-sharing formula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baghel-to-be-back-in-delhi-on-friday-for-meeting-with-rahul-gandhi-101629980362514.html
26-08-2021||India||Mysuru gangrape: 'They should not have gone there,' says Karnataka home minister||The perpetrators of the Mysuru gangrape will soon be caught and brought to justice, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, who is in New Delhi, said on Thursday as political mudslinging between the BJP and the Congress began over the alleged gangrape. Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra told ANI that the incident took place at a deserted area where the girl went with her male friend. "They should not have gone there," the minister said evoking a sharp response from the Congress.Slamming the Congress for making it a political issue, the home minister said, "Rape has happened there (in Mysuru), but the Congress was trying to rape me, they are trying to rape the Home Minister. They are trying to gain political mileage."College girl, on bike with friend, allegedly gangraped in Mysuru, CM orders probeKarnataka Congress on Thursday tweeted several allegations against the BJP and said in BJP's rule, one MLA has also been raped. Citing examples of how BJP always blame the victim, the Congress referred to the home minister's statement and said that in this case too the home minister has blamed the victim."When such incidents happen, instead of exerting pressure to see it from a humanitarian perspective and detect (the culprits), attempts are on to get political mileage in such a situation. People will see it. I will not say much on this. Instructions have been given on what has to be done by the police so that such things don't recur and we are at it," the home minister said.Congress leader DK Shivakumar said it seems the home minister likes the word 'rape'. "He (Home Minister) has claimed that Congress was raping him, he is using the word rape very lightly...it seems he likes that word. I seek the response of BJP leaders on this statement. When home minister is saying that Congress is raping him, what is the administration of the state doing?" D K Shivakumar said urging the police to arrest anyone who is "raping the home minister".On Tuesday, a college girl was allegedly raped by five men near Chamundi Hill in Mysuru. The girl was accompanied by a male friend and both of them are now undergoing treatment. The duo reportedly went to Chamundi Hill and was returning from there when they were stopped by the perpetrators. The boy was assaulted after he told them he did not have money and the girl was raped by all of them, reports said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-home-minister-on-mysuru-gangrape-they-should-not-have-gone-there-101629979378247.html
26-08-2021||India||DGCA lifts ban on Boeing 737 Max aircraft||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Thursday lifted the ban on Boeing 737 Max aircraft after grounding them for more than two years.The DGCA had banned the operation of Boeing 737-8 and 737-9 aircraft over Indian airspace on March 13, 2019, following two fatal accidents involving Lion Air flight 610 and Ethiopian Airlines flight 302.However, in April this year, the DGCA allowed the grounded aircraft to resume flying over the Indian airspace and also allowed foreign-registered aircraft to be ferried out of the country to conduct operational readiness flights. It, however, did not allow Indian aircraft grounded in the country to fly at that time.The latest order, however, rescinds any kind of ban DGCA had earlier imposed on Boeing 737 Max aircraft, after the American aviation regulator Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the European regulator European Union Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) approved the airworthiness directive and return to service of the aircraft with extensive fixes.ALSO READ | ‘Too soon’ to let Boeing 737 MAX fly again, say families of Lion Air crash victimsThe DGCA said in its latest order that it lifted the ban after reviewing the approvals of the FAA and the EASA and on lines of 17 other regulators across the world who have also allowed flight of Boeing 737 Max aircraft."A sizeable number of airlines (34) with B737 Max airplane (345) are operating currently and have attained 1,22,824 total departures with 2,89,537 cumulative hours since the un-grounding from December 9, 2020, with no untoward reporting, " the DGCA order issued on Thursday read.The Centre had grounded all Boeing 737 Max aeroplanes in the country after the Ethiopian Airlines flight 302 operating with 737 Max plane crashed near Addis Ababa on March 10, 2019, killing 157 people, including four Indians. The crash was the second such incident in five months. In October 2018, a 737 Max plane operated by Lion Air crashed into the Indonesian Java Sea, minutes after take-off, killing 180 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dcga-lifts-ban-on-boeing-737-max-aircraft-101629978878621.html
26-08-2021||India||Still in the midst of Covid-19 second wave, upcoming months crucial: Govt||Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Thursday said that the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has not subsided yet and asked the people to follow Covid-19 preventive measures to protect themselves.Bhushan said that the upcoming months, due to the festive season, remain crucial for the nation. He said that events which can lead to crowds should be strictly avoided. “We are still in the surge of the second wave of Covid-19 in our country. The second surge has not concluded. It is not over. We have to maintain all necessary precautions,” Bhushan said.84-day gap between Covid vaccine doses for better efficacy: Centre to Kerala HC“Based on our experience, we have seen a spike after every festival. The coming months of September and October are crucial because we will be celebrating a few festivals. Festivals have to be celebrated following Covid-19 appropriated behaviour,” he further added.ICMR director-general Professor Balram Bhargava pointed out that the weekly test positivity rate remains above 10% in at least 41 districts. He also said that the nation is in the midst of the second wave and there are 27% such districts where the weekly test positivity rate remains between 5-10%.Covid-19: Kerala, Maharashtra among top contributors to fresh nationwide surgeBhargava also said that the Covid-19 vaccines are ‘disease-modifying vaccines’ and not ‘disease-preventing vaccines’ and stressed upon continuing using masks to prevent further spread of Covid-19 even after being vaccinated.“Vaccines reduce disease severity and the chances of hospitalisation. They also avert chances of death to the tune of 98-99%,” the ICMR director general said.Meanwhile, Bhushan said that the cumulative recovery rate is higher than 97% as he outlined that there are 31 states with less than 10,000 active cases, four states with 10,000 to 1 lakh active cases and only one state, Kerala, with more than 1 lakh active cases. Kerala also contributed to 51.19% of the total number of active cases in the country.Availability of oxygen ahead of third waveDuring the briefing the health ministry officials also said that adequate measures are being taken to ensure there is no shortage of oxygen. It said that oxygen buffers have been created both at district and hospital levels across states and Union territories. The government is making sure that public health facilities have their own captive plants.“The government has sanctioned 1,500 such plants and 900 plants have been commissioned,” Bhushan said. He also said under the Covid Emergency Response Package announced by the Centre, public health facilities will have storage tanks and funds are being provided to hospitals to ensure setting up of such tanks at a cost of ₹23,123 crore.“We will create equitable oxygen distribution storages within a state or municipal corporation area. Each one of these storages will have to be put under the charge of a senior officer and the contact details of these officers will be shared in the public domain in situations where there is an SOS so that hospitals can contact them,” he further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/still-in-the-midst-of-covid-19-second-wave-upcoming-months-crucial-govt-101629979070580.html
26-08-2021||India||Lok Sabha Speaker says Army won’t let political turmoil affect India||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Thursday India’s Armed forces will not let political turmoil in other nations affect India, in an apparent reference to the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan.“We have full faith in our Armed forces that they wouldn't let political turmoil in any other country (Afghanistan) affect India,” Birla was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Birla is currently on a tour to Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, as part of a parliamentary outreach programme which aims to empower Panchayati Raj institutions. The Lok Sabha Speaker said that he is visiting the region to strengthen the Panchayati Raj system and democratic institutions in the Valley. He also said that India favours democratic form of governance in all nations.Birla’s comments come a day after Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat said terrorism spilling out of Afghanistan will be dealt in the same manner India deals with terrorism currently. Rawat said that India will also welcome any intelligence inputs that might help it contain terrorism spilling over from Afghanistan. Rawat also expressed the need of remaining alert with reference to Pakistan and China and said that both the neighbours are ‘nuclear capable’.Birla also weighed in on the recent tension on the LAC and echoed similar concerns while blaming the border tensions on a few countries and their ‘expansionist approach’. He is scheduled to visit far-flung areas of Ladakh region including Pangong Lake and Nubra Valley. Birla will also visit Pahalgam and Srinagar to interact with the Panchayat leaders from these places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-speaker-says-army-won-t-let-political-turmoil-affect-india-101629977842079.html
26-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: BJP MLA asks Chhattisgarh CM for clarity on 'instability' remark and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Clarify who is trying to destabilise Chhattisgarh govt': BJP MLA asks BaghelReferring to Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel’s “political instability” statement pertaining to the power sharing formula in the state, BJP legislator from Kurud constituency, Ajay Chandrakar, said that the former should give clarification. Read more.Sex between married couple not marital rape even if by force: Chhattisgarh HCThe Chhattisgarh high court on Thursday acquitted a man charged with marital rape stating sexual intercourse or any sexual act between legally wedded couple is not rape even if done by force. The court, however, upheld charges framed against the man under Section 377 (unnatural sex) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Read more.Afghan woman MP complains she was 'treated like criminal', deported from IndiaAmid India's ongoing evacuation operation from Afghanistan, an Afghan woman MP has now claimed that she was deported from New Delhi's Indira Gandhi International Airport on August 20. Read more.After Narayan Rane arrest, Uddhav’s ‘beat Yogi’ video goes viral, BJP seeks FIR﻿After Union Minister Narayan Rane’s dramatic arrest over “would have slapped Uddhav” comment, an old video of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray went viral. Watch here.Shashi Tharoor checks on ‘patient Kerala’ at ‘roadside ICU’ during IYC protestCongress minister Shashi Tharoor on Thursday “inaugurated” and took part in a protest organised by the Indian Youth Congress in Kerala against the state government’s handling of the Covid-19 situation. Read more.'I'm offering peace on Hussain's behalf': Atherton tells Gavaskar. India legend repliesThe Sunil Gavaskar and Nasser Hussain banter saw a new chapter before the start of play on Day 2 in the third India-England third Test at Headingley in Leeds without the latter even being present. Former England captain Mike Atherton, who is one of Hussain’s very good friends, came on the pre-match show on Sony Sports Network on Thursday and offered ‘peace on Hussain’s behalf' to Gavaskar. Read more.Ola S1 to Chetak: Electric scooters in India with longest single-charge rangeThe electric scooter market in India is flourishing with new launches and a wide variety of EV two-wheeler options nowadays. Only recently, Ola Electric has introduced its S1 and S1 Pro electric scooters, while automakers such as Ather, Bajaj Auto and TVS already have some very promising options to choose from. Read more.Nusrat Jahan gives birth to baby boy, Yash Dasgupta says 'mother and child are healthy'Actor-politician Nusrat Jahan has become a mother. She delivered her first baby, a boy, on Thursday. Nusrat's rumoured boyfriend, actor Yash Dasgupta said both of them are well. "For those who have been enquiring about Nusrat's health, the mother and child are healthy and doing well," he said. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-mla-asks-baghel-for-clarity-on-instability-remark-101629975703366.html
26-08-2021||India||Sitharaman to visit Tripura on Friday; to launch projects worth ₹151 crore||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is scheduled to visit Tripura on August 27 to launch a slew of projects, officials said on Thursday. In her two-day visit, Sitharaman would inaugurate 11 projects worth ₹151 crore apart from visiting a Covid -19 vaccination centre at Gandhigram , a few kilometres from Agartala, hold meetings with chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb and his Cabinet ministers and also with the top administrative officials. The next day, she will offer prayers at Tripurasundari temple located in Udaipur of Gomati district, 55 kilometres from Agartala. She will also interact with local village council leaders and self-help group members of the district before flying back to Delhi the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sitharaman-to-visit-tripura-on-friday-to-launch-projects-worth-rs-151-crore-101629977182471.html
26-08-2021||India||India’s only investment in Afghanistan is on its people, will get full-value in return: Jaishankar||External affairs minister S Jaishankar today said that India had only invested in friendship of Afghan people and was sure that it would get full value of its investment in Afghanistan.Replying robustly on behalf of the Narendra Modi government before 37 leaders from 31 parties attending the all-party meeting on Afghanistan situation, Jaishankar made it amply clear that India was very much at the centre of the global diplomacy post capture of Kabul by the Taliban and the ground situation was too fluid to take a call on future ties with present regime.After patiently hearing out 26 speakers for three and a half hours in Parliament, the External Affairs Minister lucidly replied to each question and observation posed by the Members of Parliament. Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla briefed the Parliamentarians for 45 minutes before Jaishankar intervened.While the all-party meeting appreciated the ministry of external affairs for handling the Afghan situation after two clips of scenes in Kabul streets were shown with Taliban firing and general chaos, the MPs questioned what steps were India taking towards engagement with the Taliban and the recognition of the new regime in Kabul.Also Read | Afghan situation critical, evacuation priority: Jaishankar at all-party meetTo this question, Jaishankar replied that India was in a wait and watch mode as there was no certainty either on the ground in Kabul or within the international community over the new rulers of Afghanistan. He said due to divisions with the Taliban, there was no certainty about the government in Kabul, the Doha Process was in a stalemate, there is no consensus over sanctions against Afghanistan if any, law and order situation in the entire country was critical and there was no final decision on till when the US will stay in that country. Under the circumstances, Jaishankar said, it would be foolhardy to take a policy call on Kabul and India should avoid the path where events force it to take a decision and that too without full assimilating the facts on ground.To the allegation that India had been isolated, Jaishankar shot back that Russian President Vladimir Putin, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, UK Foreign Minister Dominic Raab, Saudi Arabian State Foreign Minister Adel Aljubeir have all been in touch with India. The Qatar government wants to keep in touch with India over Afghanistan and India as president of UNSC called a special session on Afghanistan on August 16. India is also playing a role as the chairman of the UN 1988 sanctions committee for listing and delisting of terror entities and individuals. The EAM fully defended the e-visa step as he said that national security was of paramount importance and all evacuees from Afghanistan were being screened.Acutely aware that the Indian mission in Kabul had been attacked thrice and consulates multiple times by terrorists, the Modi government observed deterioration of security situation in Kabul since April 2020 and took preemptive steps from time to time to ensure safety of its diplomats and citizens. Given the deterioration of situation, India based personnel were withdrawn from Herat and Jalalabad consulates in April 2020. In June 2021, India scaled down its presence in Kabul, closed down its old chancery and moved all personnel to new chancery in the most protected Green Zone of Kabul. The Indian personnel in Kandahar mission were evacuated on July 10-11, 2021 in a special flight and the Mazar-e-Sharif mission was shut on August 10-11, 2021. In the past three months, India issued no less than four advisories asking Indian citizens to leave Afghanistan.Under Operation Devi Shakti, no less than 565 people have been evacuated from Afghanistan through IAF and Air India flights and evacuation was also offered to neighbourhood countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-only-investment-in-afghanistan-is-on-its-people-will-get-full-value-in-return-jaishankar-101629975634988.html
26-08-2021||India||'Clarify who is trying to destabilise Chhattisgarh govt': BJP MLA asks Baghel||Referring to Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel’s “political instability” statement pertaining to the power sharing formula in the state, BJP legislator from Kurud constituency, Ajay Chandrakar, said that the former should give clarification.“Honourable chief minister (Chhattisgarh Congress), the post of 'chief minister' is not of an individual but it is an institution. Who is trying to destabilise the government of three-fourth majority? 'Delhi Darbar' or someone else? You should clarify. Your (Baghel’s) statement will affect the development of Chhattisgarh,” Chandrakar tweeted in Hindi tagging Baghel and Chhattisgarh Congress in-charge PL Punia.Notably, Baghel on Wednesday said that those talking about a two-and-a-half-year power-sharing deal with Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo “would never succeed” and were made to bring in political instability in the state. The reports come after Baghel along with Deo and Punia returned to Raipur on Wednesday following a meeting with Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi and party leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday. The meeting happened amid reports of a power tussle between Baghel and Deo.Also Read | Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel returns to Chhattisgarh to show of strengthChandrakar wasn’t the only BJP leader who spoke on the “political instability” remark by Baghel as party MLA and Leader of Opposition in Chhattisgarh Assembly Dharamlal Kaushik said it seemed fighting over the CM’s chair isn’t over within the ruling Congress yet. “The way the CM said that discussions were held about development (during meetings with senior leaders in Delhi), it seems the fight for the chair is not over yet,” Kaushik was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.He added that this fight has only begun and it’s “going to be long.”Kaushik also said Baghel, who calls himself a farmer’s son, should answer as to why “injustice” was done on farmers of the state under his leadership. “Farmers have allegedly committed suicide. He cannot understand the pain of farmers as he focused on the chair for two-and-a-half years,” the BJP leader added.The Chhattisgarh chief minister received a grand welcome at the Raipur airport on Wednesday following his return from the national capital. Speaking to the reporters at the venue, he said that he will step down when Sonia and Rahul “orders” him to.Chhattisgarh: Congress workers welcomed CM Bhupesh Baghel upon his arrival in Raipur after meeting Rahul Gandhi in Delhi"I'll step down when Sonia&Rahul Ji order me. Those talking about 2.5-2.5 years plan are trying to bring political instability but will never succeed,"he said pic.twitter.com/yOahtOMj7ZMeanwhile, Punia said on Wednesday that there was no discourse on transfer of power during the meeting with Rahul, and instead discussions were held on various schemes and projects being rolled-out in Chhattisgarh.Following Congress’ triumph in the 2018 Assembly polls, speculations were rife that Deo – another contender in the fray, would be given the nod to take over as the head of the state after two-and-a-half years. Baghel completed his two-and-a-half years in office in June.Tensions between Deo and Baghel intensified when the former had walked out of the state Assembly demanding clarity from the government over allegations that one of his kin was involved in an alleged attack on Congress legislator Brihaspat Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clarify-who-is-trying-to-destabilise-chhattisgarh-govt-bjp-mla-asks-baghel-101629974663233.html
26-08-2021||India||Police taking side of ruling party a disturbing trend, says CJI Ramana||Filing of sedition cases when regimes change is a “disturbing trend”, the Supreme Court said on Thursday while granting protection from arrest to the suspended Director of Chhattisgarh Police Academy against whom two criminal cases of sedition and amassing of disproportionate assets have been filed by the state government."State of affairs in the country is sad," said a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana.Gurjinder Pal Singh, the 1994-batch IPS officer who had served as the IG of Raipur, Durg and Bilaspur during the earlier BJP rule, was initially booked in the disproportionate assets case following raids at his premises by state's Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and Economic Offences Wing (EOW).Another case of sedition was invoked against him later on the grounds of his alleged involvement in promoting enmity and hatching a conspiracy against government.The bench expressed displeasure over the trend of filing of sedition cases just after senior advocate F S Nariman made opening submissions on behalf of Singh, saying “the gentleman has served as the Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) and was acting as the Director of the Police Academy and now the proceedings under section 124A (sedition) of the IPC have been initiated against him”.The bench, which also comprised Justice Surya Kant, directed the Congress-led state government not to arrest Singh for four weeks in either of the cases.It also directed Singh to cooperate with the agencies in the investigation.“This is a very disturbing trend in the country and the police department is also responsible for this... When a political party is in power, police officials take the side of the particular (ruling) party.“Then when another new party comes into power, the government initiates action against the police officials. This needs to be stopped,” the bench said.The top court issued the notice on two separate pleas of Singh to the state government, represented by senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Rakesh Dwivedi and lawyer Sumeer Sodhi.At the outset, Nariman said the issue of custodial interrogation of the police officer does not arise as the charge sheet has already been filed.The officer was once called by the present Chief Minister and asked to help in taking action against the former Chief Minister, he said.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the state government, opposed Singh's plea saying that he had been the head of the police academy in the state and “look at his conduct, he has been absconding”.“No relief such as protection from arrest should be granted to him,” Rohatgi argued.“We will consider the sedition case. This is a very disturbing trend and the police department itself is responsible for this... Do not say this that your client (Singh) was fair, your client must have acted as per the directions of the government of the day...,” the bench observed.Dwivedi also opposed granting any relief to the suspended police officer saying that the probe agency has found disproportionate assets “nine times more than the known sources of his income”.Senior lawyer Vikas Singh, representing the suspended police officer in the assets case, sought protection against any possibility of the arrest.Recently, the Chhattisgarh High Court has refused to quash the sedition case against the officer who moved the top court against the order.Earlier, the Chhattisgarh government had moved the top court by filing caveats in the matter seeking hearing if any order is passed on his plea.According to the police, the documents recovered during the ACB/EOW raids revealed that Singh was allegedly involved in promoting enmity and hatching a conspiracy against the established government and public representatives and was booked under sedition charges.Singh was booked under IPC sections 124-A (sedition) and 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc) of the IPC at Raipur’s City Kotwali Police Station.He has sought the case be handed over to the CBI or other independent agencies to ensure a fair probe.The director of the state police academy was suspended on July 5 after the ACB/EOW, on June 29, registered an FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act in connection with the disproportionate assets he had allegedly amassed.The ACB/EOW, which carried a three-day search at around 15 locations linked to Singh from July 1 to 3, claimed to have discovered movable and immovable assets worth around ₹10 crore.During the raid at the official residence of Singh, torn pieces of paper were also found from the backyard of the house. When the pieces were rearranged, serious and sensitive contents were found to be written and typed on it, the FIR said.“These papers contained objectionable comments against leaders of reputed political parties along with detailed plans of conspiracy. Besides, secret assessments related to representatives and candidates of different assembly constituencies along with comments on serious issues of the concerned area were also written on it. The papers also contained critical comments on several government schemes, policies, social and religious issues”, it said.Similarly, the raid at Singh's associate Mani Bhushan's house unearthed a five-page document, in which comments were written in English against public representatives, officials, government schemes and policies, it added.The seized documents contain provocative content that can promote hatred and dissatisfaction against the government, the FIR said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-taking-side-of-ruling-party-a-disturbing-trend-says-cji-ramana-101629973406102.html
26-08-2021||India||SC orders transfer of ex-Unitech directors from Tihar over ED's collusion report||The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered immediate transfer of former Unitech directors Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra from Tihar Jail to Mumbai’s Arthur Road Jail and Taloja Central Jail on a report by the Enforcement Directing alleging collusion of the jail authorities in helping the accused engage in illegal activities within the prison. Expressing its displeasure over the way they are allegedly operating from Tihar jail, the apex court also directed the Delhi police commissioner to conduct an inquiry into the matter and submit a report in four weeks.The ED said it had unearthed a “secret underground office” in Delhi which was being operated by erstwhile Unitech founder Ramesh Chandra and visited by his sons -- Sanjay and Ajay while on parole or bail.The agency, which has been investigating money laundering charges against the Chandras’ and Unitech Ltd, said that both Sanjay and Ajay had rendered the entire judicial custody otiose as they had been freely communicating, instructing their officials and disposing of their properties from inside the jail.Also read | ED tells apex court Unitech assets worth ₹600cr attachedA bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah was informed by additional solicitor general Madhavi Divan, appearing for the ED, that Chandras’ had asked their officials outside the jail to communicate their instructions to those outside.“During one of our search and seizure operations, we have unearthed a secret underground office, which is being used by Ramesh Chandra and visited by his sons when they are out on parole or bail."We have recovered hundreds of original sale deeds from that office, hundreds of digital signatures and several computers which contain sensitive data with regard to their properties in India and abroad,” Divan told the bench.She said the probe agency had submitted two status reports in sealed cover to the court and had provisionally attached Unitech Ltd properties worth ₹600 crore both in India and abroad.Divan said the agency had found a very “intricate web of money trail” through shell companies and the properties were being disposed of in real time, creating a hurdle in the investigation.“They (Chandras’) have been operating from inside the jail premises. They have rendered the entire judicial custody otiose. They are freely communicating and passing on instructions with the help of people deputed outside the jail premises. ED has found that they have even tried to influence a “dummy director" when he was being interrogated by the agency”, Divan said.Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the Chandras, said that nothing was done against the jail manual. The top court said it was not hearing the Chandras at present and would first hear the ED's submission.On June 4, the top court had granted 15-day interim bail to Sanjay Chandra to attend the last rites of his father-in-law after which he had surrendered.On August 14 last year, the top court had dismissed the bail plea of Chandra, who was a month earlier granted interim bail for 30 days on "humanitarian grounds" as both his parents had tested positive for Covid-19, and asked him to surrender within three days.The apex court had also dismissed the bail application of Chandra’s brother Ajay Chandra, who is in jail since August 2017.Both Sanjay and Ajay are accused of allegedly siphoning home buyers' money. The top court in its October 2017 order had asked them to deposit ₹750 crore with the apex court registry by December 31, 2017.The Chandras have claimed that they complied with the court’s conditions and they had deposited an amount in excess of ₹750 crore and, therefore, they were granted regular bail.The matter pertains to a criminal case which started initially by one complaint lodged in 2015 and later joined by 173 other home buyers of Unitech projects -- 'Wild Flower Country' and 'Anthea Project' -- situated in Gurugram.On January 20 last year, in a respite to over 11,000 hassled home buyers of Unitech, the top court had allowed the Centre to take total management control of the realty firm and appoint a new board of nominee directors.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-orders-transfer-of-ex-unitech-directors-from-tihar-over-ed-s-collusion-report-101629971800099.html
26-08-2021||India||60%-70% Indians with hypertension unaware of their condition: Study||India has one of the lowest rates of hypertension diagnosis in the world, a new study published in the peer-reviewed journal The Lancet has shown. Between 60% and 70% of men and women in the country are unaware of their condition. This lack of diagnosis further trickles down to extremely low rates of hypertension treatment leaving people predisposed to life-threatening conditions such as heart attacks and strokes. Hypertension or high blood pressure is a serious medical condition that can be easily detected at primary health care centres and controlled with low-cost treatment. Yet, India ranked 193rd for women and 170th for men in the rate of hypertension diagnosis among 200 countries, according to the study. “Low diagnosis was the main reason for India’s low treatment rate,” Dr Bin Zhou, a research fellow at the School of Public Health at Imperial College London, who led the analysis told Hindustan Times in an email. “India’s hypertension treatment rate (35% in women and 25% in men) was about one third lower than the global average (47% in women and 38% in men) and less than half of what the best country achieved (>75%).” India ranked 160th for women and 143rd for men in the treatment rate. “It means that India’s treatment rate is lower than nearly 80% of all countries,” said Zhou. An unhealthy diet which includes excessive intake of salt, saturated fat, trans fats, lack of exercise, and obesity are some of the factors linked to hypertension. A family history of hypertension and existing comorbidities such as diabetes and kidney diseases can also put one at risk of high blood pressure. Hypertension increases the risk of heart, brain, kidney and other diseases. Medical experts said that undetected and untreated hypertension is one of the key reasons for India’s high burden of cardiovascular diseases. Heart disease and stroke contributed to nearly 28.1% of total deaths in India in 2016, according to an earlier Lancet study. Medical experts in India said that diet played a big role in hypertension prevalence. “Salt intake in India has increased tremendously over the past two decades despite many awareness campaigns linking salt intake to hypertension,” said Dr Rajan Ravichandran, the founder chairman of Chennai based non-profit Sapiens Health Foundation that has been campaigning for lower salt intake. “Consumption of packaged food has gone up over the years. People pay little attention to the hidden salt content in the packaged foods,” he said. According to Ravichandran, there is also a tendency among Indians to simply link hypertension to stress and avoid medication. “While stress can be a contributing factor, there could be many other reasons for the elevated blood pressure. Avoiding medication can be damaging,” he said calling hypertension a silent killer. Mumbai based nephrologist Dr Bharat Shah agreed. “Many are not aware of being hypertensive and those who get diagnosed are often inadequately treated,” said Shah. “Hypertension is easy to diagnose and control with medication. But often, people take medication for a few days and stop it abruptly,” he said. Shah advises that everyone should keep a blood pressure machine at home. The authors of the Lancet study pointed that while nutritional, behavioural, and environmental causes of increased blood pressure are well established, there is little knowledge actions and interventions that can be widely replicated in order to reduce hypertension prevalence. Little transferable guidance exists on how to achieve high rates of detection, treatment, and control for entire populations, the authors state. Doctors in India, however, root for two crucial policies: mandatory detection of blood pressure during every visit to a doctor and a nationwide salt regulation plan. “For better diagnosis, we need to first start checking the blood pressure frequently,” said Ravichandran. “Secondly, India needs a salt regulation act in order to reduce salt content in foods. As many as 64 countries now have salt regulating laws and it’s high time for India to have one.” The hypertension study was conducted by a global network of physicians and researchers with data taken from 1201 studies including 104 million participants in the age group of 30 to 70 years. The study covered the period between 1990–2019. Hypertension was defined as having systolic blood pressure ≥140 millimeters of mercury (mmHg), diastolic blood pressure ≥90 mmHg, and/or taking medication for hypertension. Globally, the number of adults with hypertension jumped from 650 million to 1.28 billion over the period of 30 years, the study said, adding that the burden had shifted from wealthy nations to low- and middle-income countries. Canada, Peru, Switzerland had among the lowest prevalence of hypertension in 2019. Higher prevalence was seen in countries like Dominican Republic, Jamaica, Paraguay, Hungary among others. Top 5 countries with the lowest hypertension prevalence in 2019 WOMEN 1. Switzerland, 17% 2. Peru, 18% 3. Canada, 20% 4. Taiwan (Province of China), 21% 5. Spain, 21% MEN 1. Eritrea, 22% 2. Peru, 23% 3. Bangladesh, 24% 4. Canada, 24% 5. Ethiopia, 25% Top 5 countries with the highest hypertension prevalence in 2019 WOMEN 1. Paraguay , 51% 2. Tuvalu , 51% 3. Dominica , 50% 4. Dominican Republic , 49% 5. Sao Tome and Principe , 48% MEN 1. Paraguay , 62% 2. Hungary , 56% 3. Poland , 55% 4. Argentina , 54% 5. Lithuania , 54% Top 5 countries with the highest hypertension treatment rate in 2019 WOMEN 1. Republic of Korea, 77% 2. Costa Rica, 76% 3. Kazakhstan, 74% 4. United States of America, 73% 5. Iceland, 72% MEN 1. Canada, 76% 2. Iceland, 71% 3. Republic of Korea, 67% 4. United States of America, 66% 5. Kazakhstan, 66% Top 5 countries with the lowest hypertension treatment rate in 2019 WOMEN 1. Rwanda, 11% 2. Niger, 15% 3. Kiribati, 15% 4. Ethiopia, 16% 5. Vanuatu, 16% MEN 1. Rwanda, 10% 2. Kenya, 10% 3. Mozambique, 10% 4. Vanuatu, 11% 5. Solomon Islands, 11%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6070-indians-with-hypertension-unaware-of-their-condition-study-101629971301949.html
26-08-2021||India||Afghan situation critical, evacuation priority: Jaishankar at all-party meet||The government informed a meeting of parliamentary leaders of political parties that India’s immediate priorities in Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover were the evacuation of all Indian nationals and providing help to Afghan nationals in distress. External affairs minister S Jaishankar briefed the MPs on the latest developments in Afghanistan following the capture of the capital Kabul on August 15 after the collapse of the government of President Ashraf Ghani. Jaishankar told the lawmakers that India’s immediate priorities in the current circumstances included the evacuation of all Indian nationals, the safety of Indian diplomatic staff and providing assistance to Afghan nationals in distress, according to people familiar with the briefing. In a string of tweets, Jaishankar said: “Our immediate concern and task is evacuation and long term interest is the friendship for the Afghan people.” He said the evacuation operations were carried out in “extremely difficult conditions especially at the airport”. He added: “There is longstanding national sentiment on Afghanistan. Therefore there is national concern now at developments. We are gathered with a national spirit.” Jaishankar tweeted that India’s “strong friendship with the people of Afghanistan is reflected in the more than 500 projects we have there. This friendship will continue to guide us.” He said that “India’s footprint and activities naturally keep in mind the ongoing changes” in Afghanistan. The people cited above said India, which holds the rotating presidency of the UN Security Council for August, also chaired a special session on Afghanistan and made a statement at a session of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva. Besides, India is involved in international coordination and humanitarian efforts in Afghanistan, Jaishankar told the MPs. Also Read | ‘Pakistan our second home, there is peace in Afghanistan’: Taliban spokespersonHe further said India currently chairs UN 1988 sanctions committee, which oversees the designation and delisting of Taliban leaders, according to the people cited above. The sanctions committee is expected to play a key role on the issue of extending a travel exemption for sanctioned top Taliban leaders such as Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar in September. Jaishankar also informed the MPs about pre-emptive measures taken by India since last year, when the Taliban launched a campaign of attacks and violence following the signing of a peace deal with the US in February 2020. These pre-emptive measures included the withdrawal of India-based personnel from the consulates in Herat and Jalalabad in April 2020, the scaling down of personnel at the embassy in Kabul in June this year, the evacuation of personnel from the consulate in Kandahar during July 10-11, and from the consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif during August 10-11. The Indian embassy issued a series of security advisories for Indian nationals on June 29, July 24, and August 10 and 12. The final advisories asked Indians to leave immediately and warned them about the discontinuation of commercial flights. The external affairs ministry also set up a 24x7 special cell on Afghanistan and launched an e-visa system for Afghan nationals in distress. The government has so far evacuated a total of 565 people, including 175 embassy personnel, 263 other Indian nationals, 112 Afghan nationals, including Hindus and Sikhs, and 15 nationals of third countries. The government also facilitated the evacuation of Indians by other agencies. Among the challenges faced during the evacuation were frequent incidents of firing near Kabul airport and inside the city, multiple checkpoints set up by different groups, logistics and other issues at the airport, delays in obtaining landing permissions for aircraft and overflight clearances from countries in the region. The external affairs ministry’s special cell on Afghanistan, set up on August 16 to coordinate repatriation and other requests, attended 3,014 calls, responded to nearly 8,000 messages on WhatsApp and answered more than 3,101 emails. Union minister and leader of the house in the Rajya Sabha, Piyush Goyal, and parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi were present during the briefing held at the parliament house annexe. The briefing was attended by 37 leaders from 31 parties, including NCP leader Sharad Pawar, Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, leader of the Congress party in Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, TR Baalu of the DMK, former prime minister HD Deve Gowda and Anupriya Patel of Apna Dal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-situation-critical-evacuation-priority-jaishankar-at-all-party-meet-101629971062103.html
26-08-2021||India||Sex between married couple not marital rape even if by force: Chhattisgarh HC||The Chhattisgarh high court on Thursday acquitted a man charged with marital rape stating sexual intercourse or any sexual act between legally wedded couple is not rape even if done by force. The court, however, upheld charges framed against the man under Section 377 (unnatural sex) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).According to a report in LiveLaw, the woman has levelled allegations of harassment for dowry and domestic abuse against her husband and her in-laws. She has also made specific allegations of her husband engaging in unnatural physical relations with her despite her protests.Reading out the order, Justice NK Chandravanshi of the Chhattisgarh High Court said, “sexual intercourse or sexual act by a man with his wife, the wife not being under 18 years of age, is not rape."“In this case, the complainant is legally wedded wife of applicant No 1, therefore, sexual intercourse or any sexual act with her by the applicant No 1/husband would not constitute an offence of rape even if it was by force or against her wish," the judge further said.The man was then discharged under Section 376 of the IPC, even though the court upheld the charges under sections 377, 498A and 34 under the same penal provisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sex-between-married-couple-not-marital-rape-even-if-by-force-chhattisgarh-hc-101629970181481.html
26-08-2021||India||Afghan woman MP complains she was 'treated like criminal', deported from India: Reports||Amid India's ongoing evacuation operation from Afghanistan, an Afghan woman MP has now claimed that she was deported from New Delhi's Indira Gandhi International Airport on August 20. Reports said that Rangina Kargar who represents the Faryab province in Afghanistan flew in India from Istanbul and had an appointment at 11am at a South Delhi hospital. Her return ticket was on August 22 to Istanbul. However, she was not allowed to step out of immigration and was later sent back to Istanbul via Dubai on the same airline, reports said."They deported me, I was treated as a criminal. I was not given my passport in Dubai. It was given back to me only in Istanbul. I never expected this from Gandhiji’s India. We are always friends with India, we have strategic relations with India," Rangina Kargar told the Indian Express. Airport officials reportedly told her that they were helpless and they could do nothing at that point.'Operation Devi Shakti': India evacuates more than 800 people from AfghanistanAfter she was reportedly deported, India evacuated two Afghan Sikh MPS, Narinder Singh Khalsa and Anarkali Kaur Honaryar who arrived in India on evacuation flights. Rangina Kargar has clarified that she travelled to India like she had done in the past on the same passport. She had her return tickets booked and was not planning to stay in the country.Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge on Thursday said that the issue of the deportation of the female diplomat was raised in the all-party meet held by the external affairs minister. "We raised the issue of a female (Afghan) diplomat who was deported. They said that they made a mistake, it won't be repeated and they will look into the matter," Kharge said. #WATCH | "We raised the issue of a female (Afghan) diplomat who was deported. They said that they made a mistake, it won't be repeated & they will look into the matter," says Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge after the all-party briefing by EAM Jaishankar on Afghanistan pic.twitter.com/5rXQHYCVhDThe woman MP has been in Afghanistan politics since 2010 and is an independent politician. Currently, she stays in Turkey and in 2020 had applied for political asylum in Canada.After the fall of Kabul on August 15, India operated several evacuation flights from Kabul as it said the government is committed to rescue all Sikhs and Hindus living in Afghanistan and all Afghans who are willing to come to India. The Union home ministry has also introduced a fast-tracked e-visa provision for Afghan nationals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-woman-mp-complains-she-was-treated-like-criminal-deported-from-india-reports-101629969722453.html
26-08-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor checks on ‘patient Kerala’ at ‘roadside ICU’ during IYC protest against state’s Covid-19 management||Congress minister Shashi Tharoor on Thursday “inaugurated” and took part in a protest organised by the Indian Youth Congress in Kerala against the state government’s handling of the Covid-19 situation.The protest took place in front of the secretariat at the state capital Thiruvananthapuram a day after Kerala reported a single-day count of 31,445 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday.Tharoor alleged that the government charged “unaffordable” fees to patients. Taking to Twitter, the Thiruvananthapuram parliamentarian said, “Inaugurated an @iyc protest in front of the Secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram this morning against #Covid mismanagement in the state. Kerala is in the ICU — symbolised by a patient & a doctor (who happens to be an IYC member), while the Govt charges unaffordable fees to patients!,” sharing pictures from the protest site.Inaugurated an @iyc protest in front of the Secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram this morning against #Covid mismanagement in the state. Kerala is in the ICU — symbolised by a patient & a doctor (who happens to be an IYC member), while the Govt charges unaffordable fees to patients! pic.twitter.com/4cSC1oFwpaIn a subsequent tweet, Tharoor also shared a video from the protest in which he was seen inspecting a man lying down on a stretcher with a stethoscope. The man was mimicking “patient Kerala,” Tharoor noted in the tweet, in what was termed the “roadside ICU.” He shared the video with the tweet saying “At the @IYC protest, checking the health of the patient Kerala in the roadside ICU.”At the @IYC protest, checking the health of the patient Kerala in the roadside ICU! pic.twitter.com/3T6j0yZ8pkMeanwhile, several people who reacted to the tweets on the microblogging platform expressed their concerns about the protest which had gathered a significant number of people at one place. They said that the protest was not ideal during the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state. Some others had also pointed to people in the video who were not wearing their face masks properly and also said that no physical distancing norms were followed in the protest. It could be seen in the video that a few in the crowd were not wearing their masks properly.Also read | Kerala using Covid-19 for political goals: What Union Minister V Muraleedharan said on spikeOn Wednesday, Kerala’s total confirmed cases tally reached 3,883,429 after 31,445 people tested positive for the disease on the day. Further, the death toll reached 19,972 following 215 more fatalities, a bulletin from the state government showed.The state has 170,829 active cases as of 8am on Thursday, which, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s data, was more than half of the national tally of active cases. The data also showed that it was the highest among all other states in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-checks-on-patient-kerala-at-roadside-icu-during-iyc-protest-against-state-s-covid-19-management-101629966288730.html
26-08-2021||India||Take care of yourself, govt busy in sales: Rahul Gandhi's Covid message||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday took a jibe at the Narendra Modi government over the sale of the country’s assets amid a surging coronavirus pandemic. He urged citizens to take care of themselves as the government is "busy in sales". He further said the worrying Covid-19 crisis called for an expedited pace of vaccination to avoid a crisis in a possible next wave of the pandemic.Rising #COVID numbers are worrying. Vaccination must pick up pace to avoid serious outcomes in the next wave. Please take care of yourselves because GOI is busy with sales."Rising COVID numbers are worrying. Vaccination must pick up pace to avoid serious outcomes in the next wave. Please take care of yourselves because GOI is busy with sales," he wrote on Twitter.Also read | ‘Does Rahul Gandhi understand..?’: Nirmala Sitharaman defends monetisation planGandhi has been attacking the BJP government over its move to sell state-owned assets built over the last 70 years, after it announced its asset monetisation pipeline plan. On Tuesday, he dubbed the new move as an attempt to create a monopoly in critical areas that he said would cut down more job opportunities and wipe out the informal sector.“We are not against privatization. Our (UPA government’s) privatization had a logic and there was no privatization of strategic industry such as the railways. All this privatization is for creating monopolies. You know who owns ports and getting airports,” he said, alleging the PM was “selling the crown jewels of India.”India’s Covid-19 tally jumped for the second straight day after registering a massive surge of more than 10,000 cases on Thursday. As many as 46,164 new infections were recorded along with 607 deaths in the last 24 hours. This pushed the country's total number of cases so far to 3,25,58,530 and death toll to 4,36,365.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-care-of-yourself-govt-busy-in-sales-rahul-gandhi-s-covid-message-101629966154315.html
26-08-2021||India||TN introduces Bill for quota to govt school students in professional courses||Tamil Nadu on Thursday introduced a Bill in the assembly to provide 7.5% reservation to government school students for admissions in professional courses. These include engineering, law, veterinary sciences, fisheries and agricultural courses in universities, private colleges, government, and government-aided colleges.The Cabinet decision to table the Bill was based on the recommendation of the justice (retired) D Murugesan committee to address the issue of fewer government students getting into professional courses. “Government students competing with private students are struggling to get higher education of their choice,” chief minister MK Stalin said in the assembly, quoting data from the past few years that showed a declining trend of government students in professional colleges. Stalin said the government is introducing a 7.5% reservation in this case, similar to the 7.5% internal reservation introduced last year for undergraduate medical admissions. Also Read | IIT Madras teacher resigns citing caste discriminationThe commission recommended not less than 10% of seats to be set apart for government students in professional courses without affecting the existing reservation of the state. This would apply to students who have studied from class 6 to 12 in state government schools. The Government decided “to take affirmative action so as to bring about real equality” between government school students and private school students by “setting apart certain percentage of seats on preferential basis”, the statement regarding the Bill read. “The Bill seeks to give effect to the above decision,” it said.Last year, the AIADMK-led government introduced a 7.5% horizontal reservation to government school students who cleared the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admissions in undergraduate medical colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-introduces-bill-for-quota-to-govt-school-students-in-professional-courses-101629966081596.html
26-08-2021||India||Justice BV Nagarathna poised to be first woman Chief Justice in 2027||In a landmark moment, President Ram Nath Kovind approved the appointment of Justice BV Nagarathna, and eight others to the Supreme Court, paving the way for her to be the first woman Chief Justice of India (CJI) in 2027. After the new judges take oath, the Supreme Court will have a working strength of 33, with just one vacancy.Justice Nagarathna is presently a judge at Karnataka high court, and is among the three women judges whose names were cleared by the President on Thursday. The two other women judges are, Telangana high court chief justice Hima Kohli and justice Bela Trivedi of the Gujarat high court.The Supreme Court currently has only a lone woman judge, Justice Indira Banerjee, who is set to retire in 2022. Till date the apex court has had only eight women judges.The other names recommended for elevation were that of Karnataka high court chief justice Abhay Oka, Gujarat court chief justice Vikram Nath, Sikkim high court chief justice JK Maheshwari, justice CT Ravikumar of Kerala high court, and justice MM Sundaresh of the Madras high court.The collegium in the Supreme Court comprising CJI NV Ramana, and justices Uday U Lalit, AM Khanwilkar, Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao had cleared the nine names for appointment to the country’s top court on August 17.Justice Nagarathna, who started as a lawyer in Bengaluru, will be the second CJI in her family, as her father, ES Venkataramiah, was the CJI for almost six months in 1989. She was appointed to Karnataka high court as an additional judge in February 2008, and made a permanent judge two years later.As an advocate she dealt with cases pertaining to constitutional law, commercial law, and administrative law, and as a justice of Karnataka high court she delivered judgements on regulation of electronic media, on education policies etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-bv-nagarathna-poised-to-be-first-woman-chief-justice-in-2027-101629965238618.html
26-08-2021||India||'Bumper-to-bumper' insurance to be mandatory for all new vehicles from September 1: Madras HC||In a significant order, the Madras High Court has ruled that "bumper-to-bumper" insurance should be mandatory whenever a new vehicle is sold, from September 1. This must be in addition to covering the driver, passengers and owner of the vehicle, for a period of five years. Thereafter, the owner of the vehicle must be cautious in safeguarding the interest of driver, passengers, third parties and himself/herself, so as to avoid unnecessary liability being foisted on the owner of the vehicle, as beyond five years, as on date there is no provision to extend the bumper to bumper policy, due to its non-availability, Justice S Vaidyanathan said in a recent order. The judge was allowing a writ petition from the New India Assurance Company Limited in Avalpoondurai, challenging the orders dated December 7, 2019 of the Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal, Special District Court in Erode. The Insurance company pointed out that the insurance policy in question was only an "Act Policy", which would cover only the risk that might be confronted by a third party to the vehicle and not its occupants. The coverage for an occupant of the vehicle could be extended upon payment of additional premium by the owner of the car, the insurance company contended. The judge passed this order, which would go a long way in coming to the aid of lots of accident victims. He, however, could not come to the rescue of the claimants in this case, as the vehicle, in which their breadwinner was travelling/driving, was covered only with third-party insurance. Left with no other choice but to deprive the claimants of the accident benefits ordered by the Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal in Erode, the judge quashed the order of the Tribunal awarding a compensation of ₹14.65 lakh to K Parvathy and three others. The judge, however, made it clear that this order will not preclude the claimants from claiming compensation for the death of the deceased from the owner of the car, as per the terms of the policy for which the car was insured. Before parting with this judgment, the judge said that it is saddening to point out that when a vehicle is sold, the purchaser/ buyer is not clearly informed about the terms of policy and its importance. Similarly, at the time of buying the vehicle, the buyer is also not interested in thoroughly understanding the terms and conditions of the policy, as he/ she is more concerned about the vehicle's performance and not about the policy. When a buyer is ready to pay a huge amount for purchase of a vehicle, it is really shocking as to why he/ she is not interested in spending a paltry sum to take a policy so as to safeguard himself/ herself and others. "Therefore, this court directs that whenever a new vehicle is sold after September 1, it is mandatory for coverage of bumper to bumper insurance every year, in addition to covering the driver, passengers and owner of the vehicle, for a period of five years. Thereafter, the owner of the vehicle must be cautious in safeguarding the interest of driver, passengers, third parties and himself/ herself, so as to avoid unnecessary liability being foisted on the owner of the vehicle, as beyond five years, as on date there is no provision to extend the bumper to bumper policy, due to its non-availability, the judge said. In view of untoward incidents like the present one on hand, the order shall be circulated by the Additional Chief Secretary, Transport department, to all the insurance companies and he must ensure that the above direction is followed scrupulously in letter and spirit without any deviation, the judge added and posted the matter on September 30 for reporting compliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bumpertobumper-insurance-to-be-mandatory-for-all-new-vehicles-from-september-1-madras-hc-101629964267957.html
26-08-2021||India||Jaishankar says Afghan situation critical, evacuation priority at all-party meet||At an all-party meeting, convened by the Centre to discuss the prevailing situation in Afghanistan was held on Thursday, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said the crisis in Afghanistan was "extremely critical" and India's top priority was to evacuate "as many as possible". "Thirty-five people have been brought back today," he said. Further, the EAM reportedly said the Taliban "have not kept their word given in Doha" while finalising on the peace treaty, adding India, at the moment, had adopted a "wait and watch" policy over the chaos in Afghanistan.Among other things, the Doha pact, signed between Taliban leaders and the US in February 2020, envisaged religious freedom and democracy, with a government in Kabul that represented all sections of Afghan society.India was trying to bring out as many people as possible from Afghanistan, the minister said and evacuating Indian personnel was a "top priority", the EAM said.Jaishankar spoke to leaders of several political parties, including the Congress and Trinamool Congress, on the latest situation in the war-ravaged nation after the Taliban seized power last week.Also read | India makes e-Visa must for Afghan nationals, all previous visas invalidated The briefing came amid a massive evacuation exercise undertaken by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) from Afghanistan following the fall of the Western-backed elected government, led by Ashraf Ghani. Earlier in the day, the United States and allies urged people to move away from Kabul airport due to the threat of a terror attack by Islamic State militants as a rush to evacuate more citizens before an August 31 deadline intensified.Following Jaishankar's speech, all opposition parties unanimously congratulated the government on its position on the crisis in Afghanistan and lauded the minister for India's evacuation programme.Besides Jaishankar, Union minister and Leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi were present during the briefing in Parliament House annexe. Indian ambassador to Afghanistan Rudrendra Tandon and Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla were also in attendance.Congress MPs Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Mallikarjun Kharge, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar, DMK's TR Baalu, former prime minister HD Deve Gowda and Apna Dal's Anupriya Patel took part in Thursday’s meeting.Earlier, Jaishankar said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asked the MEA to brief floor leaders of all political parties on the recent developments in Afghanistan.Opposition parties had also asked the government to issue a statement on the Afghanistan crisis.Also read | Day before Jaishankar’s address, Oppn prepares for govt’s Afghan briefingAfghanistan plunged into crisis after the Taliban entered the presidential palace in the Afghan capital on August 15 and declared its victory over the government after months of violence across the countrySoon after, most nations, including the US and UK began bringing out their citizens from the country along with Afghan nationals desperate to escape the Islamic militant group’s rule.On August 17, India announced it would issue an emergency e-visa to Afghan nationals who want to come to the country in view of the prevailing situation.Also read | 'Operation Devi Shakti': India evacuates more than 800 people from AfghanistanThe same day, Modi chaired a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) and instructed all officials concerned to undertake all necessary measures to ensure the safe evacuation of Indian nationals from Afghanistan in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-says-afghan-situation-critical-evacuation-priority-at-all-party-meet-101629958228736.html
26-08-2021||India||Kerala using Covid-19 for political goals: What Union Minister said on spike||Union minister V Muraleedharan accused the Kerala government of using the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic for political objectives on Thursday and urged the Pinarayi Vijayan-led LDF government to follow the guidelines prescribed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in tackling the spead of the virus.Calling the situation in Kerala "grave", the Union minister said, "The state, instead of using scientific methods to contain the spread, is trying to use pandemic for political objectives. I urge it to follow ICMR guidelines."The health ministry data show that Kerala alone accounted for over 68% of India's caseload on Thursday, after the southern state recorded 31,445 cases out of 46,164 Covid-19 infection that India recorded on Wednesday. With a test positivity rate of 19.03% , it was the highest case tally for Kerala in the past three months, with Ernakulam (4,048 cases) and Thrissur (3,865 cases) being the worst-affected districts. The national test positivity rate on Wednesday was only 2%. "Kerala's home quarantine plan has miserably failed," Muraleedharan told news agency ANI.The Kerala government blamed the spike in the number of cases to the festival of Onam, which was celebrated last week.Even as Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan cautioned the states regarding a surge in Covid cases owing to the upcoming festival season, and advised them to undertake public health measures to curb the spread of the infection, bazaars across the state were found chock-a-block with people in ahead of Onam.The Union minister of state for external affairs claimed that the testing mechanism, as suggested by the ICMR and the number of samples being tested for Covid-19 were less in Kerala."The state should give more attention to restricting the spread of the virus," Muraleedharan was quoted as saying by ANI in a tweet.ALSO READ | Covid-19: Kerala, Maharashtra among top contributors to fresh nationwide surgeThe fourth round of the sero survey conducted by the ICMR in July showed antibody prevalence was 67. 7% nationally but it was only 42.7 % in Kerala, signifying that a large chunk of its population is still susceptible to the virus.However, the state of vaccination in Kerala paints a positive picture, with 56.28% of the population having received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine.V Muraleedharan has been a strong critic of the Pinarayi Vijayan government in Kerala. On Wednesday, he hit out at the LDF government and said it “clearly failed” to protect people’s lives.Earlier this month, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya had visited Kerala and announced a ₹267.35 crore package for the state government to strengthen its fight against the viral disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-covid-19-pandemic-v-muraleedharan-pinarayi-vijayan-icmr-101629956628881.html
26-08-2021||India||Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel returns to Chhattisgarh to show of strength||Returning to Chhattisgarh to a show of strength at the Raipur airport after meetings with senior Congress leaders in Delhi on a reported two-and-a-half year power-sharing agreement with state health minister TS Singh Deo, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said that those talking of such a formula “would never succeed”.The remark, however, came even as speculation over a possible change of guard in the state grew on Wednesday evening, particularly since Singh Deo has remained in Delhi for more meetings with the party top brass.Baghel was welcomed at the airport by a loud raucous crowd of supporters that included eight MLAs and two ministers, in signs of battle lines being increasingly drawn within the government.On Tuesday, Baghel and Singh Deo met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in the presence of general secretary in charge of the state PL Punia and general secretary(administration) KC Venugopal at Gandhi’s residence for over three hours, attempting to thrash out a solution.Also Read | Scindia writes to five CMs over aviation infraThe impasse stems from a reported power-sharing arrangement between Baghel and Singh Deo in the aftermath of the Congress win in the state in December 2018. While the two-and-a-half year marked passed on June 17, there have been several bookmarks in the past two months of the conflict, eventually leading to the meeting on Tuesday.Party functionaries in Delhi and Raipur said there were indications that the chief minister could step down, with the CM saying that he will leave the post when the party high command tells him to.“As far as the incumbent state government is concerned, Sonia ji (Sonia Gandhi) and Rahul ji ( Rahul Gandhi) entrusted responsibility to a farmer like me. I am happy about it. This government is of farmers, tribals, labourers and 2.80 crore people of the state. The government is functioning well… Those who are propagating the two-and-a-half-year formula and are trying to bring political instability and they will never succeed,” Baghel said.People close to him said indicated that another meeting in Delhi was likely in the next few days.Landing at Raipur earlier on Wednesday, Baghel was greeted by around 400 party workers, who shouted slogans such as “Chhattisgarh ada hua hai, Bhupesh ke saath khada hua hai (Chhattisgarh is adamant, is standing by Bhupesh) that spoke of the power struggle within the party.Among the supporters waiting for Baghel at Raipur airport were eight MLAs from different districts and ministers Amarjeet Bhagat and Ravindra Choubey. They declined to comment.Earlier in the morning, CM Baghel, who was camping at Chhattisgarh Bhawan in New Delhi, met Venugopal at around 11.30am for 25 minutes. After Baghel’s meeting with Venugopal, sources claimed that a meeting between Singh Deo and Venugopal also took place, which lasted for a similar period of time.Functionaries close to Singh Deo did not specify when he will return to the state capital.One legislator who asked not to be named said that the uncertainty of who will lead Chhattisgarh was becoming a tricky situation for them to navigate, with many hedging their bets. “This is a testing time for the MLAs of Chhattisgarh, who are trapped between the politics of Singh Deo and Baghel. For us taking sides will be very difficult which could cause further distrust and infighting,” the MLA said.Political commentators in the state said that the uncertainty on the issue of leadership was a poor message for a party that won a huge majority.“In Chhattisgarh, Congress has won huge majority and the uncertainty on leadership issue is not good for it. The statement issued and language used by all stake holders in this regard lacks clarity. The sooner it is resolved the better in the interest of the party,” said Sudeip Shrivastva , a political commentator based in Chhattisgarh.The Bharatiya Janata Party ruled the state for 15 years until 2018, with former chief minister Raman Singh in power for three terms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chief-minister-bhupesh-baghel-returns-to-chhattisgarh-to-show-of-strength-101629964281318.html
26-08-2021||India||Govt notifies liberalised drone rules to replace unmanned aircraft norms||The civil aviation ministry on Thursday notified the liberalised Drone Rules, 2021, that replace the Unmanned Aircraft System Rules (UAS), 2021, which came into force in March. The new rules are aimed at making it significantly easier for people and companies to own and operate drones. They also streamline a labyrinthine certification process for manufacturers, importers and users.“India has the potential to be a global drone hub by 2030 as drones offer tremendous benefits to all sectors of the economy and can be significant creators of employment and economic growth due to their reach, versatility, and ease of use,” the ministry said on Thursday.Also Read | BSF opens fire at drone in Jammu’s Arnia sectorAccording to the new rules, special drone corridors will be developed for cargo deliveries. Several approvals have also been abolished. They include unique authorisation number, unique prototype identification number, certificate of manufacturing and airworthiness, certificate of conformance, certificate of maintenance, import clearance, acceptance of existing drones, operator permits, authorisation of R&D organisation, student remote pilot licence, remote pilot instructor authorisation, drone port authorisation etc.Building on its attempt to make rules easier, the new rules say no pilot licence will be required for micro drones (for non-commercial use), nano drones and for R&D organisations. There will no longer be a ban on the use of drones by foreign-owned companies registered in India. No security clearance will be required before any registration or licence is issued.The government plans to open what is known as the Digital Sky platform, which manufacturers will be able to use for the certification process, and from where interactive airspace maps with green, yellow, and red zones can be accessed.Digital Sky will also serve as a unified platform for users to obtain the mandatory registration number and remote pilot license. People will need to check the service to determine if any restrictions are in place before they fly a drone at a location. The platform will be under India’s aviation regulator, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation.Drones have been under the spotlight since such a device was used to target an Indian Air Force base in Jammu with explosives in June. Officials have since said they are working on anti-drone technologies. Typical consumer drones usually have some inbuilt safeguards, which mean not all are unsafe.Drones now form a significant new consumer tech category, particularly among hobbyists and visual artists, and are being tested for a range of practical as well as industrial uses such as automated package deliveries by e-commerce companies.In March, the civil aviation ministry published the UAS Rules, 2021. “They were perceived by academia, Startups, end-users and other stakeholders as being restrictive in nature as they involved considerable paperwork, required permissions for every drone flight and very few ‘free to fly’ green zones were available. Based on the feedback, the Government has decided to repeal the UAS Rules, 2021 and replace the same with the liberalised Drone Rules, 2021,” the aviation ministry said.“Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS), commonly known as drones, offer tremendous benefits to almost all sectors of the economy like – agriculture, mining, infrastructure, surveillance, emergency response, transportation, geo-spatial mapping, defence, and law enforcement etc,” the ministry said.Drones can be significant creators of employment and economic growth due to their reach, versatility, and ease of use, especially in India’s remote and inaccessible areas, the ministry noted. “In view of its traditional strengths in innovation, information technology, frugal engineering and huge domestic demand. India has the potential to be global drone hub by 2030,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-notifies-liberalised-drone-rules-to-replace-unmanned-aircraft-norms-101629962961393.html
26-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Centre to launch e-SHRAM portal for unorganised workers today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bhupender Yadav to launch e-SHRAM, portal for unorganised workforce, todayLabour minister Bhupender Yadav will be launching the e-SHRAM portal, the database of unorganised workers in the country, today. Read more'Virat Kohli was upset': Rishabh Pant reveals ball was thrown at Mohammed Siraj on Day 1 of 3rd Test against EnglandIndia wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant on Wednesday revealed that the spectators in the crowd threw a ball at pacer Mohammed Siraj on Day 1 of the third Test at Headingley in Leeds. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan did Chehre for free, paid for his own chartered flight; producer Anand Pandit calls him 'committed'Amitabh Bachchan did Chehre for free and even bore his own international travel expenses to shoot the film. Producer Anand Pandit revealed in an interview that for tax reasons, Amitabh Bachchan has been credited for a 'friendly appearance' in the film. Read moreTata Tigor EV launch on August 31, may ensure battery-powered mobility for moreThe new Tata Tigor EV will be officially launched in the country on August 31 and has the potential of taking the electric vehicle movement in India to the masses. Read moreAnkita Konwar flaunts muscle flexibility with split stretching exercises at homeMuscular imbalances, weakness, overuse or injury can render our hip flexors inflexible or make our hips tight and stiff which can hinder our ability to split or extend our legs to their full range of motion but Milind Soman’s wife Ankita Konwar sorted our fitness woes. Read moreLittle girl’s act of kindness to help another kid wins hearts. Watch“Be kind whenever possible. It is always possible,” these words by Dalai Lama XIV perfectly capture the essence of a video which is now winning people’s hearts on Instagram. It is a clip that shows a little girl helping another while playing in the park. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-to-launch-e-shram-portal-for-unorganised-workers-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101629961800719.html
26-08-2021||India||Assam man arrested for attacking woman with cleaver; 2nd incident in a week||Police in Assam’s Kamrup Rural district have arrested a 24-year old man for assaulting a 25-year-old woman with a meat cleaver at Changsari on the outskirts of Guwahati on Wednesday evening, police officials said on Thursday. The incident took place close to a market and barely 150 metres from the Changsari police station at 5:30 pm on NH31. The condition of the woman, who sustained severe injuries on her stomach, is stated to be critical, police said. “The victim, Manowara Begum, and the accused, Imram Hussain, are said to have been in a relationship. But the victim started avoiding him since January this year. This angered Hussain and he attacked her brutally on Wednesday evening,” Hitesh Roy, superintendent of police, Kamrup Rural, said. “The victim received several injuries to her stomach and internal organs. The accused was later surrounded by people present near the spot and handed over to the police,” he added. The woman was first rushed to a nearby hospital from where she was shifted to a private hospital, from where she was moved to Guwahati Medical College Hospital, where she is currently battling for her life. Wednesday’s incident happened four days after a 2nd year college student was attacked with a machete by an employee of the same college at Dhemaji. The victim succumbed to her injuries at a hospital in Dibrugarh on Wednesday. The accused, who was arrested the same day, attacked her allegedly for refusing to marry him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-man-arrested-for-attacking-woman-with-cleaver-2nd-incident-in-a-week-101629962421417.html
26-08-2021||India||India notifies Drone Rules 2021, license regulations eased: 10 points||The central government on Thursday officially notified the national drone policy, the draft for which was seen by HT last month. The Drone Rules 2021 make it significantly easier for people and companies in the country to now own and operate drones since under the new drone policy, no security clearance is required before registration of license issuance.Also Read | India eases drone norms in boost for future techHere's all you need to know about the Drone Rules 2021 announced by the Union ministry of civil aviation on Thursday:1. Under the new rules, coverage of drones has been increased from 300kg to 500kg, now including heavy payload-carrying drones and drone taxis.2. No security clearance is required before any registration or license issuance for drones. The requisite fees for permissions have also been reduced to nominal levels.3. Several approvals have been abolished, including the unique authorisation number, the unique prototype identification number, the certificate of conformance, the certificate of maintenance, the operator permits, the authorisation of the R&D organisation, and remote pilot instructor authorisation, among others.4. Under the new national drone policy, the maximum penalty for violating rules has been reduced to ₹1 lakh, and even that is not applicable for penalties imposed for violation of other laws.5. A Unmanned Aircraft Systems Promotion Council is to be set up to facilitate a business-friendly regulatory regime, according to the new drone policy.6. The import of drones will be regulated by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT). Drone corridors will also be developed for cargo deliveries, the new rules dictate.7. Interactive airspace map with green, yellow, and red zones will be displayed on the digital sky platform. The yellow zone has been reduced from 45km to 12km from the airport perimeter. No permission is required for operating a drone in the green zone and up to 200 feet in the area between 8km-12km from the airport perimeter.8 . Online registration of all zones shall occur through the Digital Sky platform, with an easy process prescribed for the transfer and deregistration of drones.9 . The new drone policy aims to provide for the regularisation of the existing drones in India. All drone training and examination will be carried out by an authorised drone school. The DGCA shall prescribe training requirements, oversee drone schools, and provide pilot licenses online.10 . Safety features like 'No permission - no take-off (NPNT)' real-time tracking beacon, geo-fencing, and the like shall be notified in the future, the policy notes. A minimum six-month lead time will be provided for compliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-notifies-drone-rules-2021-license-regulations-eased-10-points-101629958688410.html
26-08-2021||India||Diamond excavation plummets in Madhya Pradesh’s Panna||Only 77.72-carat diamond has been found in Madhya Pradesh’s Panna since January, the lowest over the last five years, while 184-carat was excavated last year, according to state mining department data.Mining officer Ravi Patel said for the diamond business has come down by over 20%. “The auctioning of diamonds is also not taking place due to poor availability of diamonds.” He added the resumption of mining at the National Mineral Development Corporation (NMDC)’s mine at Majhganwa in Panna can boost the diamond business, but it is yet to get environmental clearance.The NMDC mine was closed after 60 years as its environmental clearance ended on December 31, 2020.Apart from NMDC’s, there are shallow mines in the region that are leased out. The state mining department and NMDC organise auctions of diamonds in Panna and in other cities.Panna Diamond Merchants Association president Shrinivas Richariya said a large number of businessmen would come to Panna for NMDC’s auction. “They used to take shallow mines on lease and also purchase the diamonds excavated. But this year, the excavation of diamonds from shallow mines decreased due to the poor availability of labourers. The footfall of businessmen also decreased.”Also Read | Cubs kill prey, learn to survive with tiger’s help in MP’s Panna reserveThe number of mining leases issued has reduced to 542 this year compared to 637 in 2020 during Covid-19 restrictions. As many as 711 leases were issued in 2019.Rampyare Vishwakarma, 45, a labourer, said after years three of them found a 14.4-carat diamond in February. “But we are waiting for the auction. We do not know when we will get money.”At least 300 labourers and qualified workers have lost jobs due to the closure of NMDC mine.The State Wildlife Board gave clearance to the NMDC mine in January this year. The Central Wildlife Board in March followed suit, but the matter is pending before a Supreme Court panel.The NMDC mining project began in 1959. It was shut down due to environmental issues in August 2005 before the mining resumed in June 2009 when the Supreme Court allowed it until 2020. An NMDC official said the complete excavation of diamonds will be completed by 2035.The Madhya Pradesh Forest Department is in favour of resuming the mining saying it would not affect wildlife in Panna. Panna Tiger Reserve filed director UK Sharma said they have already cleared the permission for mining by NMDC as there is no threat to wildlife due to its mine. “The movement of tigers and other animals are negligible in Manjhganwa.”State mining minister Brijendra Pratap Singh said the mining activity will be resumed soon. “We are also going to start a diamond museum in Khajuraho to boost the diamond business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diamond-excavation-plummets-in-madhya-pradesh-s-panna-101629960740972.html
26-08-2021||India||Mother Teresa birth anniversary: As tributes pour in, here’s more on the saint||Mother Teresa, also known as Saint Teresa of Calcutta, was born on August 26, 1910. This year marked the peace Nobel laureate’s 111th birth anniversary.On the occasion, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal reflected on the time he spent working with the founder of the Missionaries of Charity. “After working for Tata Steel, I volunteered at Mother Teresa's ashram in Kalighat. It was a spiritual experience that inspired me to be in service of humanity for life. On her birth anniversary, I join the millions whose lives she touched to remember her,” Kejriwal wrote on Thursday.After working for Tata Steel, I volunteered at Mother Teresa's ashram in Kalighat. It was a spiritual experience that inspired me to be in service of humanity for life. On her birth anniversary, I join the millions whose lives she touched to remember her.https://t.co/TKMRoQJQNpIn his tribute, Union minister Hardeep Puri said she dedicated her life to the service of humanity. "Remembering Bharat Ratna & Nobel Laureate Mother Teresa Ji on her birth anniversary. She established ‘Nirmal Hriday’ & dedicated her life to the service of humanity," the minister said on Twitter.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot too took to Twitter to commemorate the occasion. "Humble tributes to #MotherTeresa on her birth anniversary. Her life was dedicated to serving the poor, destitute and sick. Her compassion and selfless service for the welfare of mankind shall always remain an inspiration," Gehlot tweeted.Here’s more on the Catholic nun who worked tirelessly for the country’s poor.Teresa, baptised Gonxha Agnes, was born in Skopje, present day capital of Macedonia, to Nikola and Drana Bojaxhiu. She was the youngest child in a Kosovar Albanian family. Her father died when she was eight and her mother raised the children in his absence.A winner of multiple honours, including the Ramon Magsaysay Peace Prize, Teresa left home at the age of 18 to join the Sisters of Loreto at Loreto Abbey in Rathfarnham, Ireland, intent on joining the missionary. There she was given the name Sister Mary Teresa after St. Thérèse de Lisieux. She arrived in the then Calcutta in 1929 and was assigned to the Loreto Entally community where she taught at St. Mary’s School for girls, according to data available at the Mother Teresa of Calcutta centre.On September 10, 1946, during a train ride from Calcutta to Darjeeling for her annual retreat, Teresa received her “inspiration ,” her “call within a call”.“On that day, in a way she would never explain, Jesus’ thirst for love and for souls took hold of her heart and the desire to satiate His thirst became the driving force of her life,” the centre’s database read.Teresa answered the call in 1948 and began working with the poor. She also spent some time at the Medical Mission Sisters in Patna to receive basic medical training. In 1950, Teresa received permission from the Vatican for the diocesan congregation, which would later become the Missionaries of Charity. She envisioned that it would care for "the hungry, the naked, the homeless, the crippled, the blind, the lepers, all those people who feel unwanted, unloved, uncared for throughout society, people that have become a burden to the society and are shunned by everyone."She passed away on September 5, 1997, her feast day, and beatified on October 19, 2002. Despite certain controversies, Teresa was admired globally for her charitable work. She was accorded a state funeral by the government of India for her service to the poor irrespective of religion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mother-teresa-birth-anniversary-as-tributes-pour-in-here-s-more-on-the-saint-101629956167178.html
26-08-2021||India||Tension for 2nd consecutive day after Meghalaya cops and civilians enter Assam||There was fresh tension at a border point between Assam and Meghalaya on Wednesday after policemen and civilians from Meghalaya entered the Assam side.On Tuesday, a group of people from Meghalaya had allegedly damaged a police post at Umlapher area of Assam’s West Karbi Anglong district in retaliation against Assam police’s alleged misbehaviour with a Meghalaya resident at a border checkpoint on Monday night.“The situation had returned to normal on Tuesday after I had a talk with my counterpart in Ri Bhoi district of Meghalaya. But on Wednesday morning, some Meghalaya policemen accompanied by around 150 civilians entered Assam seeking a meeting on Tuesday’s incident,” said Ajagwran Basumatary, superintendent of police, West Karbi Anglong.“This led to civilians from Assam also gathering at the place. The situation was brought under control after our police and civilians managed to send the Meghalaya policemen and residents back,” he added.Basumatary said that tension flared up again after a few hours, when the deputy superintendent of police of Meghalaya’s Ri Bhoi district entered nearly 15 km inside Assam’s territory along with his security personnel, without any intimation to authorities in West Karbi Anglong district.“We had no information and [we] don’t know why he turned up after the situation was brought under control earlier in the day. The Meghalaya police vehicles were intercepted by civilians on the Assam side and there was some pushing and heckling between both groups,” said Basumatary.He said the police team from Meghalaya was finally escorted back to the interstate border by Assam Police personnel. “We have deployed some extra personnel at the site and the additional superintendent of police is present there,” he added.Ri-Bhoi additional district magistrate (ADM) MB Tongper said that the first group of policemen and Meghalaya residents, who entered Assam on Wednesday, meant to express solidarity with Assam residents but their visit was mistaken as intimidatory.“Since yesterday we had agreed on joint patrolling and hence the officer with his team was present, which probably raised tension as residents thought police were accompanying the visitors and it resulted in an altercation,” Tongper claimed that at least one Meghalaya cop was manhandled by someone in the crowd.The ADM accepted that while the intention of the visiting group was welcome, their timing was wrong, especially since no prior information was intimated to the Assam administration about this move.Ri-Bhoi deputy commissioner Rosetta M Kurbah said, “The incident could have been averted had people from our side not attempted to visit Umlapher on Wednesday. Luckily better sense prevailed.”Kurbah said she and her Karbi Anglong counterpart will meet on September 1. “Since Tuesday, we both have agreed to maintain the status quo and ensure no untoward incident takes place in our respective territories. The fact that my ADM reached the spot swiftly and contained the situation was because he was already on a tour of the area,” she said.Meghalaya was carved out of Assam in 1972, but both states have a long-pending boundary dispute, especially over 12 border points.Meghalaya doesn’t accept a 1951 Assam government notification which merged Block I and Block II of Jowai sub-division (which comprise 356 villages) with United Mikir and North Cachar Hills (now Karbi Anglong in Assam).In a bid to resolve the border dispute, chief ministers of both states held two rounds of meetings in July and August at Shillong and Guwahati where they agreed to sort the issue in a phased manner, focusing first on 6 of the 12 areas of contention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tension-for-2nd-consecutive-day-after-meghalaya-cops-and-civilians-enter-assam-101629956180324.html
26-08-2021||India||Bhupender Yadav to launch e-SHRAM, portal for unorganised workforce, today||Labour minister Bhupender Yadav will be launching the e-SHRAM portal, the database of unorganised workers in the country, today.“The e-SHRAM portal will be a game-changer for having the database of crores of unorganised workers and linking them to social security and other schemes of the government from time to time,” a government statement said. Earlier on Tuesday, Yadav had launched the logo of the said portal.“Though it is a big challenge but as always, the entire country has risen to such type of challenges. The e-SHRAM portal would (later) be handed over to the states/Union Territories by… minister for labour & employment,” the government said.Minister of state for labour and employment, Rameswar Teli, will also be present at the launch.Also Read | 302 Shramik Special trains run so far, around 3.4 lakh migrants ferried: RailwaysThe aim is to get nearly 380 million unorganised workers across India registered over the portal. These would include construction labourers, migrant workers, street vendors, domestic workers, agriculture workers and similar other sub-groups of unorganised workers.As per Yadav, national toll-free number 14434 will also be launched alongside the portal to help the workers in the registration process. Following the registration with their Aadhar card number, bank account details and other personal information, the workers will be provided with an e-SHRAM card which will have a 12-digit unique identification number.The government was earlier pulled up by the Supreme Court over the delay in the launch of this portal. On June 10, the apex court bench had pressed upon the government that since only a registration “module” was to be created, why was the government taking so long for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupender-yadav-to-launch-e-shram-portal-for-unorganised-workforce-today-101629954920111.html
26-08-2021||India||India reports 46,164 new Covid-19 cases, spike of over 20,000 infections in 2 days||India’s Covid-19 tally jumped for the second day straight after registering a massive surge of more than 10,000 cases on Thursday.According to latest updates from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, India recorded 46,164 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the overall tally of active cases to 333725. This was a huge spike from the 37,593 infections the country registered a day ago. With the latest figures, the country’s coronavirus tally has now exceeded 32 million.The country had reported 25,467 new cases on Tuesday and 37,593 cases a day later. With today’s jump, the spike in cases has neared 20,000 in just two-days.There was a slight fall in the death tally with 607 patients losing their lives to the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the overall fatality to 4,36,365. As many as 648 deaths were recorded on Wednesday. As many as 34,159 people also recovered from the disease during the day, pushing the overall tally to 3,17,88,440.At present, active cases comprised 1.03 per cent of the total infections, while the nationwide recovery rate was recorded at 97.63 per cent, the ministry said.The southern state of Kerala contributed majorly to the spike with 31,445 new Covid-19 cases being registered on Wednesday, its highest single-day tally in three months. The test positivity rate (TPR) also soared to a three-month high of 19.03 per cent. Kerala too witnessed an individual spike in its daily tally as the state had recorded 24,296 cases on Tuesday. The latest onslaught is likely to have been brought by Onam celebrations from last week. Last year too, the state had witnessed a similar peak in the number of cases after celebrations had ended.Maharashtra too witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, breaching the 5,000-mark after a hiatus of five days. The state recorded 5,031cases after testing a total of 207,995 samples, and reported 213 Covid-related mortalities.Meanwhile, the country reached a major milestone of administering about 60.38 crore (60,38,46,475) doses of vaccine against the coronavirus as part of the nationwide drive launched earlier this year. Of these, 80,40,407 beneficiaries were inoculated in the last 24 hours. Since the vaccination was rolled out 603,846,475 beneficiaries have been inoculated, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-46-164-new-covid-19-cases-spike-of-over-20-000-infections-in-2-days-101629952107946.html
26-08-2021||India||Kerala alone accounts for over 68% of India's new Covid-19 caseload||India on Thursday recorded 46,164 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry data, which pushed up the nationwide tally to 3,25,58,530. The country has seen the daily infection count spike, by over 20,000, and the reason for it is the resurgence of Covid-19 in some states, especially Kerala.According to health ministry data, Kerala alone accounts for over 68 per cent of India's caseload on Thursday. According to state health department, the southern state recorded 31,445 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest in three months. Ernakulam (with 4,048 cases) and Thrissur (with 3,865 cases) are the worst affected districts.The test positivity rate (TPR) in Kerala is 19.03%, also the highest in the last three months.The state government said that the reason for the spike is the festival of Onam, which was celebrated last week. “We expected a hike after Onam. A special drive is on to increase testing and vaccination. Since sero prevalence is very low in Kerala we have to find the infected and quarantine them at the earliest,” Kerala health minister Veena George said on Wednesday.Markets were jam-packed ahead of the festival; last year, too, the state saw a surge in cases after Onam.The fourth round of the sero survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research in July showed antibody prevalence was 67. 7% nationally but it was only 42.7 % in Kerala, meaning a huge chunk of its population is still susceptible to the virus. However, this theory is yet to be proven, and ICMR itself has said it does not make sense to disaggregate its overall sero-prevalence number across states.At a high-level meeting on Wednesday, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan cautioned the states regarding a spike/surge in Covid cases during the upcoming festival season and advised them to undertake all possible public health measures to curb this. He cited the example of Kerala.Another state which has been a cause of concern for the Centre is Maharashtra. The daily Covid-19 cases breached the 5,000 mark in Maharashtra - already the worst affected state - after a gap of five days on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-alone-accounts-for-over-68-of-india-s-new-covid-19-caseload-101629952174438.html
26-08-2021||India||India has administered at least 602 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 602 million Covid vaccine doses by Wednesday, August 25. The Union health ministry has asked the states to vaccinate all their teachers by September 5. Mansukh Mandaviya announced that at least 20 million additional vaccine doses will be distributed to states this month to ensure that teachers are vaccinated before Teachers’ Day.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Wednesday, 602,425,271 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 6,622,337 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 4,672,355 got their first dose while 1,949,982 got their second dose.Also Read | Covid-19: Kerala, Maharashtra among top contributors to fresh nationwide surgeIn the 18-45 age group, 3,432,703 were given the first dose while 998,964 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 227,378,071 people have been given the first dose while 22,221,573 have got their second shot as well.Among the healthcare workers, 10,355,095 have been given the first dose while 8,270,913 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,311,679 have got their first dose and 12,774,285 have got their second dose too.Covid cases have recorded a sharp spike in Kerala after Onam. The state reported 31,445 cases on Wednesday, with a test positivity rate of 19.03%, both the highest in three months, suggesting that experts’ fears about the impact of Onam may not be misplaced. In fact, Kerala reported 70% of the cases recorded in the country on Wednesday.India reported on Thursday 46,164 new COVID cases in the last 24 hours, the government said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-602-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101629951979744.html
26-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Kerala, Maharashtra among top contributors to fresh nationwide surge||India’s Covid-19 tally saw a major upward trend on Thursday with Kerala making the single-largest addition, followed by Maharashtra. The unrelenting surges have the administration deeply worried even as the pandemic situation seemed to have improved considerably in most other states and Union territories.Of the nationwide total of 46,164 new infections, Kerala’s contribution was 31,445 and Maharashtra’s 5,031. This corresponded to 3,33,725 active cases in India, 1,70,292 in Kerala and 50,183 in Maharashtra.Also read | India nears vax milestone: At least 1 jab to 50% adultsWhile Kerala has been witnessing an alarming rise in fresh infections ever since Onam festivities, Maharashtra’s tally crossed the 5,000-mark after five days. Among other states where active cases continued to remain high are Karnataka (19,318), Tamil Nadu (20,370) and Andhra Pradesh (14,601). However, none of these states saw a major spike in fresh infections -- Karnataka (1,224), Tamil Nadu (1,573) and Andhra (1,601).Kerala alone has about 70 per cent of the total cases registered across the country on Wednesday. It reported 31,455 new cases with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 19.03 per cent, the highest caseload and TPR in three months, according to its state health department. Its death toll is also on the rise with 215 patients losing their lives to the disease on Wednesday taking the overall tally to 19,972. Experts had warned against an easing of curbs ahead of Onam and the latest statistics have proved their concerns were justified.Also read | Indian tourism rebounds, demand for airline fuel surges amid Covid-19In Maharashtra, coronavirus cases breached the 5,000 mark after a gap of five days, with the state recording 5,031 fresh cases and 216 infection-related deaths. Health officials said people were gradually giving up Covid-appropriate behaviour and if the current trend continued, a third wave of the pandemic was not far behind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-kerala-maharashtra-among-top-contributors-to-fresh-nationwide-surge-101629951508815.html
26-08-2021||India||Bihar minister seeks subsidy for ethanol units||Bihar industries minister Syed Shahnawaz Hussain met Union minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday and sought the removal of bottlenecks ethanol project proponents face in Bihar.Hussain said the financing procedure introduced by banks required ethanol units to get approval before January 14, 2021, even though the Ethanol Production Promotion Policy was introduced in the state in March 2021. He added therefore most ethanol project proponents of Bihar are unable to avail benefit under the Centre’s interest subvention scheme nor are they able to get financing from banks. Also Read | Man kills pregnant wife, 2 kids in Bihar; arrestedHussain said that ethanol production should be promoted in Bihar because the state has raw materials in abundance. He added due to the availability of raw materials and financial incentives of the state government, investors have shown an overwhelming interest and unprecedented proposals were received.Goyal assured him the ethanol produced in Bihar will be used for blending in diesel and jet fuel also. Regarding permitting Bihar to produce ethanol up to the availability of raw material, Goyal said the matter will be tabled at a Group of Ministers meeting.“He (Goyal) has assured that more and more ethanol units should be set up in Bihar, for this full help will be given from the center. Bihar has also got a positive response from the Union Minister on the demand of two hundred acres of two textile parks,” Hussain tweeted after meeting Goyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-minister-seeks-subsidy-for-ethanol-units-101629948799352.html
26-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: President Kovind to begin four-day UP visit today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ayodhya visit is highlight of President Ram Nath Kovind ’s 4-day trip to UPPresident Ram Nath Kovind will become the first President to pay obeisance to Ram Lalla in Ayodhya and also pray at the under-construction Ram temple site during his four-day visit to Uttar Pradesh that begins on Thursday. Read MoreRise of Taliban is internal security challenge for IndiaWhen Safdar Nagori, former president of banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI), was arrested from Indore in March 2008, the radical Islamist told his interrogators that he regards Mullah Omar, then Emir-ul-Momeen of Taliban, the true Caliph of Muslim world. Read MoreKremlin critic Alexei Navalny calls prison time akin to Chinese labour campsIn his first interview from jail, Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny has compared Russian prisons to Chinese labour camps, stating inmates have to mandatorily watch state television programmes and propaganda films for more than eight hours everyday. Read MoreWATCH: IAF’s MiG-21 Bison crashes in Barmer; 4th accident involving the jet in a yearSpotlight on safety of India’s longest-serving fighter plane. IAF’s MIG-21 bison aircraft crashed in Rajasthan’s Barmer on August 25. The fighter aircraft crashed during a training sortie. However, the pilot ejected safely & no casualties were reported. Watch HereYahoo shuts down news operations in India over FDI regulations, details hereAmerican web services provider Yahoo shut down its services in India on Thursday, August 26, thereby ceasing the publication of content operations across the country from this day onwards. However, the web portal, owned by technology company Verizon Media, assured its users that their Yahoo accounts, e-mail, and search experiences will not be affected in any manner. Read More'More beneficial to team': Brian Lara explains why Cheteshwar Pujara should 'try to create lot more shots'Cheteshwar Pujara's strike rate has become a topic of hot discussion in the recent past. Several experts and cricketers have had their say on India's Test mainstay's approach, who is also going through a lean patch at present. The latest to join the discussion is Brian Lara. Read More'Virat Kohli should call Sachin Tendulkar, ask what to do': Gavaskar after Anderson dismisses India captain againSunil Gavaskar said India captain Virat Kohli should think about giving a call to Sachin Tendulkar to sort out the technical problems he has been having in England, particularly against pacer James Anderson. Gavaskar’s comments came after Kohli was dismissed by Anderson on Day 1 of the third Test at Headingley in Leeds for 7 runs after facing just 17 balls. Read MoreKangana Ranaut praises Karan Johar-produced Shershaah, calls it 'glorious tribute' to Captain Vikram BatraActor Kangana Ranaut, who has been engaged in a long-running feud with filmmaker Karan Johar, took to social media on Thursday to praise his latest offering -- the war film Shershaah. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-president-kovind-to-begin-four-day-up-visit-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101629947856729.html
26-08-2021||India||ED raids human hair merchants in Andhra Pradesh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday said it carried out a search operation at 8 premises of human hair exporters in Hyderabad and West Godavari district in Andhra Pradesh in connection with a Foreign Exchange Management Act violation case and seized ₹2.90 crore “unaccounted” cashIn a statement, the ED said that while investigating a money-laundering case against Chinese betting apps, hawala transactions to the tune of ₹16 crore came to light which was paid to a human hair exporter. A separate investigation was later launched.Also Read | Scindia writes to 5 CMs over aviation infraAccording to the statement, the ED found several domestic hair merchants were aggregating and selling raw hair to foreigners based in Hyderabad, Guwahati and Kolkata. The hair was then smuggled from Manipur, Mizoram, and Myanmar to China. The Chinese merchants allegedly labelled the hair as domestic and avoided 28% import duty. The ED alleged that many Indian exporters have been undervaluing their products.In course of the searches, the ED seized 12 mobile phones, three laptops, a computer, diaries, account books, and sheets of paper which they said contained incriminating evidence.The ED said two Hyderabad-based merchants received 3.38 crore for domestic sales to Northeast merchants through an illegal Chinese app. The agency added a few Myanmarese living in Hyderabad have been purchasing human hair locally and then exporting it to Myanmar by using the IEC code of Indian persons at under-valued prices. The difference amount is settled either locally or through hawala channels, it said. It said further investigation into the matter is going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-raids-human-hair-merchants-in-andhra-pradesh-101629948199417.html
26-08-2021||India||Ayodhya visit is highlight of President Ram Nath Kovind ’s 4-day trip to UP||President Ram Nath Kovind will become the first President to pay obeisance to Ram Lalla in Ayodhya and also pray at the under construction Ram temple site during his four-day visit to Uttar Pradesh that begins on Thursday. As per his itinerary, which has not been released officially, he will also attend convocation and foundation laying ceremonies, but the highlight of the trip will be a journey to Ayodhya on a special train from Lucknow on Sunday, officials aware of the developments said.President Kovind is likely to attend the ninth convocation of Lucknow’s Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University (BBAU) as his first engagement on Thursday, however, an official schedule has yet not been received by authorities there.On the second day, he is expected to unveil a statue of former UP chief minister Dr Sampurnanand and inaugurate an auditorium at the Captain Manoj Pandey Sainik School in Lucknow, officials said. The President, they added, would also attend the 26th convocation of Lucknow’s Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS).On Saturday, Kovind will lay the foundation stone of Ayush University and inaugurate Mahayogi Guru Gorakhnath University in Gorakhpur. Ahead of the President’s visit, chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited Gorakhpur to review preparations for the event.Gorakhnath university, a private institution, has been established by the Gorakhnath Temple Trust and named after Guru Gorakhnath, the founder of Nath Panth. Gorakhpur will now have four universities.An officer said the state government plans to spend ₹815 crore on the construction of Ayush University on 52 acres of land acquired near Pipri and Tarkulhi villages. The PWD has earmarked ₹299.87 crore for the construction of the university.Though the President’s final itinerary hasn’t been announced, it is being speculated that he might visit the Gorakhnath temple too. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is the head priest of the temple.On Sunday, President Kovind will go to Ayodhya from Lucknow by a special train.“He will launch various projects of the state government’s department of culture and tourism, including renovation and construction of Tulsi Smarak Bhavan and the development of a bus stand in the city. The President is also expected to visit the site where the Ram temple is coming up in Ayodhya. He will also perform pooja at the site,” an officer said.Ahead of the President’s visit, chief minister Yogi Adityanath called on governor Anandiben Patel on Wednesday evening. While officials described it as a “courtesy call”, it is learnt that the two leaders discussed the President’s four-day visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-visit-is-highlight-of-president-ram-nath-kovind-s-4-day-trip-to-up-101629947719425.html
26-08-2021||India||Mother Teresa birth anniversary: Union minister Hardeep Puri pays tribute||Union minister Hardeep Puri paid tributes to Mother Teresa on her birth anniversary on Thursday. The minister said she dedicated her life to the service of humanity."Remembering Bharat Ratna & Nobel Laureate Mother Teresa Ji on her birth anniversary. She established ‘Nirmal Hriday’ & dedicated her life to the service of humanity," the minister said on Twitter.Remembering Bharat Ratna & Nobel Laureate Mother Teresa Ji on her birth anniversary.She established ‘Nirmal Hriday’ & dedicated her life to the service of humanity. pic.twitter.com/pgOhtl2VFfMother Teresa, born Agnes Gonxha Bojaxhiu, was an Albanian-Indian Roman Catholic nun and missionary. She was borh on August 26, 1910 to a family of ethnic Albanians in Skopje in Macedonia.Mother Teresa left her home for Irelands's Rathfarnham at the age of 18 to join the Sisters of Loreto. She wanted to learn English in the hopes of becoming a missionary, and English was the language of instruction for the Sisters of Loreto in India.Mother Teresa came to India in 1929, and after a period of teaching at St. Teresa’s School in Darjeeling, she took her first religious vows on 24 May 1931.She later went on to teach at a school in Kolkata, where she served for almost two decades. However, serving the poor and needy was Mother Teresa’s true calling and in 1948 she began her journey of serving the poor and the needy.In 1950, she founded the Roman Catholic religious congregation which later went on to be known as Missionaries of Charity.During her life Mother Teresa set up many homes for the poor, needy, those dying from AIDS, leprosy and tuberculosis all over India. She won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1979.In 2017, she was posthumously canonized as a Patron Saint by the Vatican Pope for her service to the needy and poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mother-teresa-birth-anniversary-union-minister-hardeep-puri-pays-tribute-101629946842850.html
26-08-2021||India||Widespread rain likely over several N-E parts, says IMD||Widespread and heavy rain is likely over several parts of northeast India till end of August while weak monsoon conditions will continue over northwest, central India and the west coast according to India Meteorological Department.The entire monsoon trough at mean sea level is lying close to the foothills of the Himalayas. It is likely to remain there till Thursday. In view of the likely formation of a cyclonic circulation over northwest and adjoining westcentral Bay of Bengal on Friday, the eastern end of the monsoon trough is likely to shift southwards from Friday. The western end is likely to start shifting southwards from Sunday.Also Read | Subdued monsoon likely over NW India at least for next 5 daysStrong southerly/south-westerly winds from Bay of Bengal to northeast India are very likely to continue to prevail till Thursday. Due to these meteorological conditions, widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is likely to continue over northeast India, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim till Friday. Isolated extremely heavy rain is also likely over Arunachal Pradesh on August 25. Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is very likely to continue over Uttarakhand till Saturday and isolated heavy falls likely over Bihar and east Uttar Pradesh till Friday. Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rain over Tamil Nadu is also likely during the next five days and over Kerala till Saturday.Subdued rainfall activity is likely to continue over northwest, central India and the west coast during the next four days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-likely-over-several-n-e-parts-says-imd-101629946999191.html
26-08-2021||India||Yahoo shuts down news operations in India over FDI regulations, details here||American web services provider Yahoo shut down its services in India on Thursday, August 26, thereby ceasing the publication of content operations across the country from this day onwards. However, the web portal, owned by technology company Verizon Media, assured its users that their Yahoo accounts, e-mail, and search experiences will not be affected in any manner."As of August 26th, 2021, Yahoo India will no longer be publishing content," a statement on the Yahoo India homepage read. "Your Yahoo Account, Mail, and Search experiences will not be affected in any way and will operate as usual. We thank you for your support and readership."According to the frequently asked questions (FAQ) section on the Yahoo website, the company has decided to cease publication of all content in India, shutting down Yahoo's content operations across the country. The content offerings closed include Yahoo News, Yahoo Cricket, Yahoo Finance, Entertainment, and MAKERS India."We did not come to this decision lightly," Yahoo said, adding that the company's operations in India were impacted by the recent changes to the country's regulatory laws "that now limit the foreign ownership of media companies that operate and publish digital content in India."Verizon Media took the decision to shut down Yahoo India's operations due to the changes in rules limiting foreign funding of more than 26% in digital news media outlets. The new IT rules meant that Yahoo India would have to restructure its entire media business within a specified timeframe to operate the news and current affairs business in the country.Thanking all its users in India for the "support and trust" over the past two decades, Yahoo reiterated that the development does not impact Yahoo Mail and Yahoo Search, which it said, "will continue to serve users in India as before, without any change."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yahoo-shuts-down-news-operations-in-india-over-fdi-regulations-details-here-101629943631831.html
26-08-2021||India||BJP leaders seek FIR against Uddhav Thackeray for remarks against Yogi Adityanath, file complaint||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders on Wednesday filed complaints against Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, his wife and 'Saamana' editor Rashmi Thackeray and Yuva Sena president Varun Sardesai, seeking FIRs against them. This came a day after Union minister and BJP leader Narayan Rane was arrested in Maharashtra over controversial remarks against Thackeray.All the three complaints have been filed in Nashik. The police confirmed that the BJP leaders submitted the three complaint applications, news agency PTI reported.The first complaint has been given by Rishikesh Jayant Aher against Thackeray and Sardesai. It accused Sardesai of staging an "illegal demonstration" outside Rane's Mumbai residence on Wednesday, and claimed that CM Thackeray later felicitated him at his official residence Varsha, which sent a "wrong message". Aher cited the videos of the protest broadcast on television channels and social media.He has demanded that Sardesai should be booked under sections 153(A), 107, 212 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the cyber crime laws.The second complaint has been lodged by Sunil Raghunath Kedar against Thackeray, saying had allegedly passed derogatory remarks against Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath.A video has emerged on social media from 2018, when Thackeray was not the chief minister, which shows the Shiv Sena chief as saying that Yogi should be "slapped with his chappal" for garlanding a photo of Shivaji wearing a footwear. The complainant said that Adityanath is not only the chief minister of UP and a BJP leader, but also the mahant of Gorakhpur Math and therefore the sentiments of many Hindus are attached to him.The third complaint has been lodged by Shivaji Nivrutti Barke against Rashmi Thackeray. It says that in the editorial published in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' on Wednesday, many abusive words were used against Rane, which was an "insult" of the constitutional post of Union minister that he holds.Rane was arrested on Tuesday afternoon from Maharashtra's Ratnagiri district for remarks made during the 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' in Raigad a day before. Rane claimed that Thackeray forgot the year of India's independence during his August 15 address and that he would have slapped the chief minister for it. His comments had set off protests by Shiv Sainiks in many cities of Maharashtra.Rane was granted bail by a magistrate court late on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leaders-seek-fir-against-uddhav-thackeray-for-remarks-against-yogi-adityanath-file-complaint-101629944061182.html
26-08-2021||India||Rise of Taliban is internal security challenge for India||When Safdar Nagori, former president of banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI), was arrested from Indore in March 2008, the radical Islamist told his interrogators that he regards Mullah Omar, then Emir-ul-Momeen of Taliban, the true Caliph of Muslim world.Nagori told his interrogators that his objective was to wage jihad in India under the leadership of Mullah Omar, who said to have died in Zabul in 2013. The SIMI radical said that he had great respect for then Al Qaeda Chief Osama bin Laden but could not consider him to be Caliph as he had been uprooted from his own soil or Saudi Arabia. Mullah Omar, on the other hand, waged jihad within his own country and on his own territory. Like Mullah Omar and the Taliban, Nagori was a Deobandi, which also draws inspiration from ultra-conservative Wahabi branch of Islam. Osama bin Laden was practitioner of Salafi Islam.While, according to Indian counter-terrorism experts, SIMI does not exist, but many its cadre have shifted to Wahadat-e-Islam in India. Despite Nagori’s desire to establish links with Mullah Omar through Gulf contacts, SIMI could not reach out to the Taliban chief cleric. It is also important to note that many SIMI’s cadre morphed into Indian Mujahideen, a Salafi terrorist organization trained by Lashkar-e-Taiba and promoted by Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). Jaish-e-Mohammed, the other Pakistan based outfit targeting India, is the umbilical brother of the Taliban like Haqqani Network or Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) on the Deobandi platform.Given the fact that Sunni radicals in India draw inspiration from the Sunni Pashtun group currently controlling Kabul, the rise of Taliban in Afghanistan, under the leadership of not to be seen Haibatullah Akhundzada, sends a clear message to all jihadists that practitioners of true Islam will finally emerge victorious, and this is the only way to Dar-ul-Islam.From the Indian perspective, rise of Taliban will not only pose an internal security challenge to the Modi government with large scale radicalisation as a first step, it will also embolden Pakistan based terrorist groups to attack India. Even though Deobandi and Salafi are separate schools, the Pakistani deep state has used Salafi groups like LeT to attack Indian embassy in Kabul in the past with the help of Deobandi Haqqani network. “ While Jaish and Lashkar cadres are not known to conduct joint operations against India, the ISI has ensured that they are launched from the same pads in Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK). Similarly, Jaish has operated with the Taliban in Afghanistan but it was the ISI that forced Haqqani Network to help LeT cadre to attack Indian embassy and consulates in Jalalabad and Kandahar in the past. Lashkar on its own has limited influence in Kunar province of Afghanistan,” said a veteran Indian CT expert.With Pakistan being the mother lode of jihad, it is quite evident that the ISI will be the elephant in Taliban’s jihad control room in Afghanistan and will use the Sunni terrorist group for also settling personal scores in India and against its global adversaries. This will be the new global headache.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rise-of-taliban-is-internal-security-challenge-for-india-101629943366329.html
26-08-2021||India||Fresh Covid cases in Maharashtra again go past 5000 after 5 days||After a gap of five days, Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra again breached the 5,000-mark on Wednesday with the state recording 5,031 fresh cases and 216 infection related deaths, as per official data.Dr Satyendra Nath Mehra, medical director of Masina Hospital, said people were gradually giving up Covid-appropriate behaviour. “We are seeing that people are not maintaining social distance and have become very careless with regards to wearing masks and taking precautions. We are seeing an increasing number of Delta Plus virus cases and if this continues, we might face a third wave,” warned Dr Mehra.Mumbai’s tally of new Covid cases rose to 342 with four deaths taking the toll to 15,956 in the metropolis. The total number of Covid-19 patients recorded in Maharashtra has now reached 6,437,680 including 50,183 active patients. Maharashtra’s death toll due to the disease has reached 136,571.Pune has 12,673 active patients- the most in the state, followed by 7,041 in Thane and 5,400 in Satara. The state also recorded 4,380 recoveries from the disease on Wednesday.A total of 207,995 tests were carried out across the state on Wednesday,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-covid-cases-in-maharashtra-again-go-past-5000-after-5-days-101629943885263.html
26-08-2021||NA||News highlights: Four US Marines killed in Kabul airport attack, reports agencies||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get the latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Death toll from Kabul airport blasts between 13 and 20: Taliban spokesman#BREAKING Death toll from Kabul airport blasts 'between 13 and 20': Taliban spokesman pic.twitter.com/IYUCnPnbncEvacuation operation Afghanistan over, says German minister#BREAKING Germany's evacuation operation in Afghanistan over: minister pic.twitter.com/IMb8s1XHBIFour US Marines killed in Kabul airport attack, reports agenciesStatement on this morning's attack at #HKIA: pic.twitter.com/Qb1DIAJQJUTaliban condemn blasts in 'area where US forces are responsible', reports AFP citing a statement#BREAKING Taliban condemn blasts in 'area where US forces are responsible': statement pic.twitter.com/1AHF7PkgOS'Unprecedented milestone': Mandaviya says 50% of eligible Indian population administered first dose of Covid-19 vaccineIndia achieves unprecedented milestone!5️⃣0️⃣% of the eligible population inoculated with the first dose of #COVID19 vaccine.Keep it up India 👏Let us fight Corona 💪🏼 pic.twitter.com/O6ufYrnUnOAt least 3 US Marines reportedly injured in Kabul explosionFollowing the explosion Kabul, at least three US Marines are reported to have been injured in the outside the airport from where the US, India and other countries have been evacuating their citizens and partners.Around 60 wounded have arrived so far from airport explosions, says an emergency hospital in KabulAn emergency hospital in Kabul says that nearly 60 wounded people have arrived so far from airport explosions, news agency Reuters reported.Evacuation from Kabul airport should continue after 'horrific terrorist attack', says NATO chief Jens StoltenbergI strongly condemn the horrific terrorist attack outside #Kabul airport. My thoughts are with all those affected and their loved ones. Our priority remains to evacuate as many people to safety as quickly as possible.Gunfire heard outside Kabul airport, US Embassy asks Americans to avoid travelling to airportUS Embassy in Kabul on Thursday issued a statement asking its citizens to avoid travelling to Kabul airport due to a large explosion at the venue, and saying that there are reports of gunfire. "US citizens who are at the Abbey Gate, East Gate, or North Gate now should leave immediately," the statement added.US official says Kabul airport blast 'definitely believed' to have been by Islamic StateA U.S. official says the attack outside Kabul airport is “definitely believed” to have been carried out by the Islamic State group. https://t.co/WPZtXztbnmUS official said that the blast outside Kabul airport was "definitely believed" to have been carried out by the Islamic State terrorist group, reports AP.French ambassador to leave Afghanistan, will try to evacuate more Afghans: Emmanuel Macron#BREAKING France will try to evacuate 'several hundred' more Afghans from Kabul: Macron pic.twitter.com/jFMl0SmNYbFrench President Emmanuel Macron said that his ambassador to Afghanistan will leave the country and work from Paris. He also said that France will try to evacuate several hundreds more Afghans, reports AFP.5 dead, 12 wounded taken to hospital after Kabul airport blast, reports AFP#BREAKING Five dead, a dozen wounded taken to hospital after Kabul airport blast: AFP pic.twitter.com/PKOYrabRlMFive people were dead and a dozen others were wounded and taken to hospital after blast at Kabul airport, reports AFP.UK govt to hold crisis meeting after Kabul airport explosion, reports AFP#BREAKING UK govt to hold crisis meeting after Kabul airport explosion: Downing Street pic.twitter.com/BGZzJ4qk2NThe UK government has decided to hold a crisis meeting after the explosion at Kabul airport, reports AFP.US confirms explosion at Kabul airport's Abbey Gate was result of a 'complex attack'We can confirm that the explosion at the Abbey Gate was the result of a complex attack that resulted in a number of US & civilian casualties. We can also confirm at least one other explosion at or near the Baron Hotel, a short distance from Abbey Gate. We will continue to update.John Kirby confirmed that the explosion at the Abbey Gate in the Kabul international airport was the result of a complex attack and has caused a number of US and civilian casualties. He also said that another explosion happened at or near the Baron Hotel, a short distance from the gate.Russia says at least 2 killed, 15 wounded in 'suicide attack' outside Kabul airportThe Russian Foreign Ministry says a suicide attack outside Kabul airport killed at least two people and wounded 15. https://t.co/CfmTELUrKhThe Russian foreign ministry has said that at least two people were killed and 15 wounded in a suicide attack outside the Kabul airport, reports AP.Pashupati Kumar Paras asks for Z Plus security, alleges threat to lifeAlleging threat to his life due to "political conspiracy", Lok Janshakti Party leader and Union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras writes to Home Minister Amit Shah and urges that he be given 'Z Plus' securityLok Janshakti Party leader and Union minister Pashupati Paras Kumar wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah asking for 'Z Plus' security alleging threat to his life due to 'political conspiracy,' reports PTI.Explosion near Abbey Gate of Kabul airport with unknown number of casualties: PentagonWe can confirm that the explosion near the Abbey Gate of the Kabul airport has resulted in an unknown number of casualties. We will continue to update.Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said that there was an explosion outside Kabul airport's Abbey Gate that has resulted in an unknown number of casualties. More updates are expected.Explosion reported outside Kabul airport, casualties unclear, says PentagonWe can confirm an explosion outside Kabul airport. Casualties are unclear at this time. We will provide additional details when we can.An explosion has been reported outside the Kabul international airport and the casualties are unclear, the Pentagon had said.Pentagon says evacuation operations at Kabul airport to continue till Aug 31, rejects reports of ending earlyThe Pentagon said that the evacuation operation at the Kabul airport will continue till August 31 and rejected reports that suggested it might end early, reports AFP.Canada ends Afghanistan evacuation operations, reports AFP#BREAKING Canada ends Afghanistan evacuation operations: government pic.twitter.com/5nlck7kGZAThe Canadian government has decided to end its evacuation operations in Afghanistan, reports AFP.'India has very good environment for startups': President Kovind at BBAU's ninth conviocationSpeaking at the BBAU convocation, President Ram Nath Kovind said that India has a very good environment for startups. "I will urge the students of this university to use this environment to become entrepreneurs," he added.President Ram Nath Kovind attends 9th convocation of BBAU in LucknowPresident Ram Nath Kovind along with Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and governor Anandiben Patel attended the ninth convocation of the Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University (BBAU) in Lucknow. "BBAU is a glowing symbol of inclusive society which Babasaheb dreamed of. We all must strive to nurture this dream," the President said."It is essential that the students of today adapt to the rapid changes and evolve as leaders of tomorrow," he added.Kerala reports over 30,000 new Covid-19 cases for second consecutive dayKerala reports 30,007 new #COVID19 cases, 18,997 recoveries and 162 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases 1,81,209 Death toll 20,134Test positivity rate is 18.03%1,66,397 samples tested in the last 24 hoursKerala reported 30,007 new Covid-19 cases and 162 deaths in last 24 hours. Active caseload was recorded at 181,209 while death toll climbed to 20,134. Test positivity rate stood at 18,03%, reports ANI.Nearly 13,400 people evacuated from Afghanistan in 24 hours: White HouseIn addition, 74 coalition aircraft evacuated approximately 8,300 people. Since August 14, the US has evacuated & facilitated the evacuation of approximately 95,700 people. Since the end of July, we have re-located approximately 101,300 people: White House OfficialThe US White House said that approximately 13,400 people have been evacuated from Afghanistan in 24 hours between Wednesday and today. While US planes carried nearly 5,100 people, allied flights lifted 8,300, reports ANI.St. Joseph's School in Mumbai sealed after 22 test positive for Covid-19In Mumbai's St. Joseph boarding school, 95 people were tested for Covid-19, of whom, 22 tested positive. Four were below 12 years of age, while 12 people were between 12 and 18 years of age. Also, six adults were among those tested positive.No proposal currently for changing gap between vaccine doses: NTAGI chief Dr NK AroraProgrammatic data collection processes are on to assess vaccine effectiveness. NTAGI reviewing vaccine effectiveness data on regular basis. Currently, there's no proposal for change in dose interval for COVISHIELD, COVAXIN & SPUTNIK V under consideration: NTAGI Chief Dr NK Arora pic.twitter.com/yc6Ylq9mv3Currently there are no proposals under consideration to change the duration between two doses of the Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V vaccines, chief of National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation in India (NTAGI) Dr NK Arora said, reports ANI.DGCA lifts ban on Boeing 737 max after grounding for more than two yearsThe Directorate General of Civil Aviation has lifted the ban on Boeing 737 Max flights after a period of over two years.RBI appoints Ajay Kumar as executive director from August 20The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has appointed Ajay Kumar as executive director with effect from August 20, 2021, reports ANI.Upcoming months crucial due to the festive season, second wave hasn’t subsided, says govtUnion health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that the upcoming months are crucial in the efforts against Covid-19 because of the festive season. He also said that the second wave has not subsided yet. He urged people to celebrate festivals following Covid appropriate measures.Nina Singh appointed additional DG of CISF on deputation basis up to July 31, 2024Nina Singh appointed as Additional Director General in Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on deputation basis from the date of joining the post and up to 31st July 2024 (date of her superannuation) or till further orders whichever is earlier: Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) pic.twitter.com/x9R3dXwRjvThe Union ministry of home affairs said that Nina Singh has been appointed as additional director general in Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on deputation basis until July 31, 2024 or till further orders, reports ANI.Centre to meet officials from Kerala, Maharashtra to discuss Covid-19 situation in respective statesUnion Home Secy, Health Secretary to hold a virtual meet today at 5 pm in view of rising COVID cases in Kerala & Maharashtra. Respective states' Chief Secretary & senior officers will be present to discuss prevailing situation and containment efforts in these two states: SourcesUnion home secretary and health secretary are scheduled to meet state officials from Maharashtra and Kerala virtually at 5pm today to discuss rising Covid-19 cases, reports ANI.France to end Kabul evacuation operation for nationals and Afghans in danger Friday: PM#BREAKING France to end Kabul evacuation operation for nationals and Afghans in danger Friday: PM pic.twitter.com/fS9DaOzs6xSC orders immediate transfer of Unitech directors from Delhi's Tihar Jail to Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail and Taloja Central JailThe Supreme Court on Thursday ordered the immediate transfer of former Unitech Directors Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra from Delhi's Tihar Jail to Mumbai’s Arthur Road Jail and Taloja Central Jail on a report by ED citing collusion of Tihar Jail authorities in helping accused engage in illegal activities within jail precincts in violation of Jail manual.'Govt's focus is on evacuation': S Jaishankar after briefing all parties on situation on AfghanistanWe briefed the Floor Leaders of all political parties today on the Afghanistan situation today. Our focus is on evacuation and the government is doing everything to evacuate people: EAM Dr. S Jaishankar pic.twitter.com/21GUrca33LExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar said that the focus of the government is on evacuation of people from Afghanistan, after briefing all political parties about the situation in Afghanistan, reports ANI.Sanjay and Ajay Chandra, erstwhile Unitech promoters, operating from Tihar Jail, ED tells SCFormer Unitech founders deputed staff outside Tihar jail premises to communicate with outside world and dispose of properties, the enforcement directorate (ED) to the Supreme Court, reports PTI.Dutch to halt Kabul evacuation flights, says government#BREAKING Dutch to halt Kabul evacuation flights: government pic.twitter.com/xMwCvZNwyeFrance won't able to evacuate people from Kabul airport after Friday night, says MacronBREAKING: French prime minister says France will no longer be able to evacuate people from Kabul airport after Friday night. https://t.co/Wluc5vqnX7President gives nod to appointment of Justice BV NagarathnaPresident Ram Nath Kovind approved the appointment of Justice BV Nagarathna, along with 8 other names, to the Supreme Court on Thursday, paving the way for the appointment of India's first woman CJI in 2027Terrorist threat against Kabul airport 'very serious' and 'imminent', says British minister#BREAKING Terrorist threat against Kabul airport 'very serious' and 'imminent': British minister pic.twitter.com/wcYYbTQAWzCentre notifies drone rules, coverage increased to include heavy-payload and drone taxisCentre notifies drone rules on Thursday, several approvals have been abolished and processes made easier; number of forms reduced from 25 to 5; coverage of drones increased from 300 kg to 500 kg; and fee has been reduced to nominal levels.S Jaishankar briefs all-party panel on Afghanistan#WATCH Delhi | External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar briefs all-party panel over the present situation in Afghanistan pic.twitter.com/AhyaggYDV1Chandigarh-Manali highway blocked due to landslideThe Chandigarh-Manali highway, Nation highway number 3, has been blocked due to a landslide, and restoration work will begin soon, Ashish Sharma, ASP of Mandi told ANI on Thursday.India reports 46,164 new Covid-19 casesIndia reported 46,164 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total tally of cases 32,558,530. The country recorded a spike of over 20,000 infections in the last two days. In the last 24 hours, 607 deaths were also recorded, the death toll now stands at 436,365.Taliban wants to keep Kabul airport functional, says USUS Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Wednesday that the Taliban has "expressed a strong interest" in keeping Kabul airport functional. "The Taliban have made clear that they have a strong interest in having a functioning airport. We and rest of the international community have a strong interest in that, primarily for the purpose of making sure that anyone who wants to leave can leave past the 31st using airport," Blinken said. IAF flight with 24 Indians en route to Delhi from KabulIndian Air Force flight with 24 Indian and 11 Nepalese evacuees from Kabul, Afghanistan is on its way to Delhi: Ministry of External Affairs pic.twitter.com/mmP3Za0CCMUS State dept warns citizens to leave Kabul airport 'immediately'US State dept warned citizens to leave Kabul airport "immediately" due to threats. "US citizens who are at the Abbey Gate, East Gate, or North Gate now should leave immediately," a security alert from the US Embassy in Kabul said.Pfizer seeks US approval for Covid-19 vaccine boosterPfizer seeks U.S. approval for COVID vaccine booster https://t.co/GP1SDMFYd8 pic.twitter.com/pa0R66C4iU||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-august-26-2021-101629934724584.html
26-08-2021||India||Rajasthan panchayat elections: First phase of polling today, 519 seats in fray||The first phase of the Rajasthan panchayat polls will be held today (Thursday, August 26), in which voting in six districts of the state will be held to elect the zila parishad and panchayat samiti members. As many as 519 seats are in the fray, with the elections to two seats postponed due to "litigation reasons", according to news agency PTI, which cited a spokesperson of the state election commission. These two seats are situated in the Jalsu and Virat Nagar panchayat samiti, the official familiar with the matter was quoted as saying by PTI.Also Read | Former Rajasthan minister gets bail in Bhanwari Devi caseThe Rajasthan panchayat polls are being conducted to elect the representatives in seats for as many as 200 zila parishad and 1,564 panchayat samiti members. One zila parishad and 26 panchayat samiti members have already been elected unopposed.Polling will begin in the first phase of the Rajasthan panchayat elections from 7:30am on Thursday and will go on till 5:30pm, according to schedule announced by the state election commission. The polling is expected to take place in as many as 3,599 booths spanning the six districts - Bharatpur, Dausa, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Sawai Madhopur, and Sirohi.In the first phase of the Rajasthan panchayat polls, there are 26.55 lakh eligible voters. A total of 77,94,300 voters are registered in the six districts, of which 41.23 lakh are male and 36.71 lakh are female.Also Read | Rajasthan official suspended for asking women to give up property rightsPS Mehra, the state election commissioner in Rajasthan, said on Wednesday that all necessary preparations for the panchayat elections have been completed. Adequate strength of security personnel has been deployed, he said, adding that officials will ensure "free and fair polls" and also enforce all coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related norms wherever necessary.The Rajasthan panchayat elections are being held in three phases. While the first phase of the polls commences from Thursday, the second and third phases of these elections will take place on August 29 and September 1, respectively. The counting of votes for the Rajasthan panchayat polls will be done on September 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-panchayat-elections-first-phase-of-polling-today-519-seats-in-fray-101629936584653.html
26-08-2021||India||Quad countries all set to start Malabar exercise from today||The navies of India, United States, Japan and Australia will kick off the 25th edition of the Malabar naval drills off the coast of the Pacific island Guam on Thursday. The latest edition, called Malabar 21, will be held from August 26 to 29. All four members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or the Quad have been participating in the exercise since 2020."The aim of the exercise is to increase interoperability amongst the participating navies, develop common understanding and SOPs for Maritime Security Operations", the Indian Navy said in a statement on Wednesday. Two Indian warships, INS Shivalik and INS Kadmatt, a P-8I maritime reconnaissance aircraft, and the navy’s marine commandos (MARCOS) will be taking part in this year’s Malabar drill.The navies of the four quad nations will be holding exercises involving destroyers, frigates, corvettes, submarines, helicopters, long-range maritime patrol aircraft and elite special forces elements including the US Navy SEALs and MARCOS, Indian Navy said in a statement to the press on August 25.“A wide range of surface, sub-surface and air operations will be carried out by the participating navies during the exercise. Special operations teams --- US Navy SEALs, Indian MARCOS and Special Boarding Units of the Japanese Maritime Self-Defence Force (JMSDF) --- will carry out visit, board, search and seizure (VBSS) training and simulated hostage rescue operations,” an official told Hindustan Times.India is also planning to conduct its first tri-service exercise with the United Kingdom in the Arabian Sea towards the end of October, an official familiar with the developments told Hindustan Times. India and France are also planning on boosting their defence cooperation by holding a new format of military exercises involving their armies, navies and air forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-countries-all-set-to-start-malabar-exercise-from-today-101629936608835.html
26-08-2021||India||Afghanistan situation: All-party meet today, Jaishankar to brief floor leaders||The central government has called an all-party meeting on Thursday on the Afghanistan situation. The meeting is scheduled to take place at 11am.Also Read: Race to flee Taliban picks up paceThis comes as the government asked external affairs minister S Jaishankar to brief the floor leaders of all the political parties on Afghanistan after the Taliban seized power there. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said the Jaishankar will do so at the in-person meeting."Floor Leaders of Political Parties would be briefed by EAM @DrSJaishankar on the present situation in Afghanistan, on 26th August, 11 am in Main Committee Room, PHA, New Delhi. Invites are being sent through email. All concerned are requested to attend," he tweeted on Tuesday.Floor Leaders of Political Parties would be briefed by EAM @DrSJaishankar on the present situation in Afghanistan, on 26th August, 11am in Main Committee Room, PHA, New Delhi. Invites are being sent through email. All concerned are requested to attend. https://t.co/iBX9NRd0qqThe government's briefing is expected to focus on its evacuation mission from Afghanistan as well as its assessment of the situation in the war-torn country in the wake of the Taliban seizing control of almost all key Afghan towns and cities, including capital Kabul.Also Read: Day before Jaishankar's address, opposition prepares for govt's Afghan briefingWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that representatives of her party, the Trinamool Congress, will attend the meeting. All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi told news agency ANI that he has received an invite for the meeting and he will be attending it.India has so far brought back more than 800 people from Afghanistan, where the Taliban swept to power two weeks before the withdrawal of American forces. Since August 15, when Taliban took over, a number of flights have brought back Indian nationals and members of the Afghan Sikh and Hindu communities.A fresh batch of 180 people, evacuated from Afghanistan, is expected to arrive in India from Kabul in a military aircraft on Thursday. India has named its evacuation mission 'Operation Devi Shakti'.Personnel from the US central command have been handling the security at the Hamid Karzai international airport in Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-situation-all-party-meet-today-jaishankar-to-brief-floor-leaders-101629935398906.html
26-08-2021||India||India nears vax milestone: At least 1 jab to 50% adults||A little over seven months since the day India launched its Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16, the mass inoculation programme is closing in on a major milestone, with nearly half the country’s adult population receiving at least one shot of the vaccine.On several fronts, the drive has seen progress – the pace of vaccination has picked up in recent weeks; India’s overall population coverage is now on par with the global average. But data shows that there is still a long way to go if India wants to achieve its stated target of vaccinating its entire adult population of 940 million by the end of 2021.Till Wednesday night, India has administered 602.4 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine to 465.7 million people with 329 million people partially vaccinated and 126.7 million people having received both doses of the vaccine. When seen alongside the country’s projected adult population of 940 million (according to the Census of India’s National Commission on Population), this means that 49.5% of people above the age of 18 years have received vaccine shots – 35% have been partially vaccinated and 14.5% having received both doses.The proportion is likely to cross the 50% mark as early as Thursday.The headline number on population coverage, however, glosses over the wide variations in different states.While Himachal Pradesh is the standout in terms of administering doses to the largest proportion of its adults (97% with at least one shot), it is followed by Uttarakhand (75.3% adults vaccinated with at least one shot) and Kerala (74.2%). Delhi, with 60.4% of estimated adult population having received at least one dose of the vaccine, lies above the national average. At the other end, several high population states such as West Bengal (37.3%), Uttar Pradesh (37.6%), and Bihar (38%) trail far behind the pack.The milestone comes at a time when the country’s rate of vaccination, which has been patchy at best, has finally settled into high gear. In the past week, an average of 5.2 million doses has been administered across the country every day. While this number is still slightly off peak levels seen in the week ended June 26 when the rate of vaccination touched 6.4 million a day, it has hovered within the 4.9 million-5.5 million range almost throughout August – a significant improvement for the drive which had consistently remained in sub-2 million levels through most of May.Data shows that the country needs to double the current pace of vaccinations till the end of the year to completely vaccinate all adults by the end of December, a commitment the government has made in a submission to the Supreme Court. In total, India needed to administer around 1.88 billion doses by the end of the year to meet this target. Since 602 million of these have already been administered, that leaves 1.28 billion doses still left in the remaining 128 days in the year, or 10 million doses a day – a feat that has not been achieved on even a single day so far.Government officials are confident that the pace of vaccinations will accelerate.“September is a crucial month as things will improve further because of availability of more vaccine doses. We are capable of administering many more vaccine doses in a single day (at least 10 million); and it will happen soon,” said NK Arora, chairman, National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation said on Wednesday.In absolute numbers, India is second only to China (with 1.98 billion doses administered) in terms of total shots given in a country, but it lags several others in terms of total proportion of people vaccinated – only 33% of the country’s total population (including those under 18) have been vaccinated with at least one dose. This figure is on par with the global average, according to data collated by Our World in Data. However, much of the western world has covered nearly twice their proportion of population. The US, for instance, has administered 364 million shots as of Tuesday night (it is in the third spot in overall doses given), thus covering around 60% of its population. Portugal has covered 82% of its population, Spain 77%, Canada 73% and the United Kingdom 70%.An HT analysis done on August 4 showed that while the Delta variant of Covid-19, a highly contagious variant of Sars-CoV-2, has led to a massive surge in infections nearly across the world, nations that have high vaccination rates have managed to keep their deaths far lower than in previous waves, while nations in Asia and Africa with low vaccination coverage are struggling to do the same.This, experts said, is a crucial factor for improving India’s coverage. Should a possible third wave of Covid-19 hit the country, mass vaccination may give large swathes of the population protection from hospitalisation, severe disease, and if things go south, death.“It’s a very pertinent milestone for the country to cross in our battle against Covid-19. It is equally important that the people of this country get not one, but both doses as quickly as possible because we do not know if or when the third wave can hit us. Mass vaccination is perhaps one of the most important and long-lasting measure we can take that can delay or reduce the impact of a possible third wave,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology at ICMR.“But vaccination can’t be the only measure... We still need to wear masks, avoid crowded areas even after being fully vaccinated. This is because new mutations can always take place that can even evade the immunity produced by vaccines. This is where the role of local government comes into play – they need to constantly screen positive results for new variants. Whenever we record new mutations we need to be able to correlate it with the epidemiological picture so we can stay ahead of the virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-nears-vax-milestone-at-least-1-jab-to-50-adults-101629931441811.html
26-08-2021||India||Three key medium-term questions on the economy||GDP numbers for the first quarter of 2021-22 will be released on August 31. In its latest resolution, the Monetary Policy Committee of the Reserve Bank of India projected 21.4% growth in the quarter. This will not make up for the 24.4% contraction in the same period last year. Other forecasters, such as State Bank of India’s chief economist have projected lower growth rates. The only reason these numbers have not set alarm bells ringing is because the June quarter saw a big disruption due to the second wave of Covid-19 infections. There is a view, especially within the government, about the inevitability of economic activity gathering momentum going forward. The biggest proof of this is the government’s roll-out of National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) for the next four years (from 2021-22 to 2024-25) this week. NMP is basically an exercise in leasing public assets to private players at a pre-determined price. The government expects to raise ₹6 lakh crore from this exercise over the period. Any such exercise only makes sense if the government can convince bidders that the economy will do well in the future. It is for this reason that the estimated proceeds have been qualified in the press release announcing the NMP. “The monetisation value that is expected to be realised by the public asset owner through the asset monetisation process, may either be in form of upfront accruals or by way of private sector investment. The potential value assessed under NMP is only an indicative high-level estimate based on thumb rules”, the release said. But what is the real state of the macro economy?Also Read | National Monetisation Pipeline: What is it and how will it benefit the country?1) The question of financeThe press release issued on the roll-out of NMP has left the modalities of the implementation very broad based. “The assets and transactions identified under NMP are expected to be rolled out through a range of instruments. These include direct contractual instruments such as public private partnership concessions and capital market instruments such as Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvIT) among others.” One question that emerges is the method of financing such a monetisation programme. It is reasonable to assume that domestic capital will be a significant player in this exercise and private debt will be an important instrument. The sum involved is bound to have a significant impact on the debt market for infrastructure. RBI data available in the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) database shows that the total outstanding credit to infrastructure sector was ?10.9 lakh crore at the end of 2020-21. So, the expected NMP proceeds are almost 60% of total outstanding credit to infrastructure. This highlights the credit market churn which NMP will unleash, even more so, when it is read along with an ambitious target for private investment under the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP). These numbers also underline the risk to the financial system any exuberance in valuation of the assets being monetised can bring, via future bad loans.2) How important are capital market driven wealth effect tailwinds for formal sector engine of the economy?Anybody who invested a significant sum when the stock markets crashed in March 2020 would have almost doubled it today. The ongoing stock market rally is bound to have generated a significant amount of positive wealth effect in the economy, especially among the classes and institutions which matter when it comes to big ticket investments. A look at the PE multiple – the ratio of price of a share and earnings per share – of the benchmark BSE Sensex shows that the stock market is more overvalued than it was before the pandemic. The persistence of a loose monetary environment has also encouraged another route to making stock market windfalls, where both institutional and high net worth individual players have exploited low interest rates to borrow money and invest in IPOs just to make listing day gains. The problem with such capital gains avenues is that they are not self-sustaining. As expectations of monetary tightening, both in India and abroad, increase, capital flight to advanced countries and profit booking endeavours might lead to a significant correction. Any such development is bound to create a significant negative wealth effect. While financial market exposure is not as high in India as it was in the US during the 2008 crisis, any significant correction will have a not insignificant effect on business sentiment. And corporate profits did not suffer significantly during the pandemic, ruling out the possibility of a large rebound as things improve. This reduces the likelihood of significant tailwinds to capital markets.3) Will inflation put a squeeze on future growth?Since December 2019 the Consumer Price Index has grown above RBI’s target of 4% every quarter. In the minutes of the latest MPC meeting, members warned against the practice of treating the upper band of 6% as the inflation target instead of the actual monetary target. RBI continues to maintain that the current phase of high inflation should be seen as transient and supply-side driven and monetary policy should do all it can do boost aggregate demand. Such an approach amounts to kicking the proverbial can of ”what will happen to already high inflation when aggregate demand picks up” down the road. The government has ruled out the possibility of providing any significant relief in petroleum prices. This is a direct fallout of the precarious fiscal situation. This will create a cascading effect on inflation. As the 2024 elections near, the government will have to consider bigger hikes in Minimum Support Prices, which have grown at a lower rate than retail inflation. Many experts expect a spike in services inflation, once vaccinations cross a critical threshold and demand picks up. Persisting high inflation can adversely affect growth via two routes. It can spook foreign capital , leading to exchange rate depreciation, adversely affecting India’s trade balance in energy (every barrel of oil will cost more in rupee terms). There is also the danger of high prices putting a squeeze on un-indexed earnings of informal sector workers, which will weaken aggregate demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-key-medium-term-questions-on-the-economy-101629928713087.html
26-08-2021||India||K’taka govt aims to double farmers’ income: CM||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said that the state government will form two committees and a second directorate for agriculture to supplement efforts in fulfilling Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of doubling farmers’ income. The Karnataka government has set itself a deadline between 2023-24 to achieve this feat by implementing the new changes and schemes. “Karnataka is taking a lot of interest in this and wants to be the first to achieve doubling farmers’ income,” Bommai said. He added that the state will set up two committees, one involving farmers, and the other with the help of agricultural universities to help implement the programmes. A team, led by Ashok Dalwai, chief executive of the National Rainfed Area Authority (NRAA), and an empowered body of the DFI (doubling farmers’ income), and others from the Union ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare met CM Bommai and other cabinet ministers of the state and made a presentation on the Centre’s strategy for doubling farmers income. The developments come even as farmers in the state have been struggling with the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and extreme weather conditions, oscillating between droughts and floods, plummeting prices of the products and other factors that have adversely affected the income of the agricultural community in the state and other parts of the country. Bommai said that a second directorate involving sericulture, horticulture, agriculture, fisheries, dairy and animal husbandry among others would be formed to aid efforts. The secondary directorate would help in the marketing and sale of agro-based products and value additions, he said. On Wednesday, Bommai met agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in New Delhi, where the Karnataka chief minister arrived this afternoon. The Prime Minister’s grand DFI schemes have come under sharp criticism as the farmers in north India and several parts of Karnataka continue to oppose the contentious farm laws. In Karnataka, farmers are yet to receive relief for floods, droughts or damaged property from the government, according to the farmer leaders and political opposition. Kodihalli Chandrashekar, the president of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, on Wednesday, said that he will be travelling to all parts of the state to discuss and understand the problems of farmers and convey them to the government. “If the government fails, we will come to the streets to protest,” he said. Chandrashekar said that he asked the chief minister to speak to farmers on the issue, but the latter appears to be only in some celebratory mood since taking over the top job.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-govt-aims-to-double-farmers-income-cm-101629921855155.html
26-08-2021||India||Mahadayi dispute should be resolved politically: K’taka congress leader||The ongoing Mahadayi interstate water dispute involving Goa and Karnataka should be resolved politically rather than in courts, said Prakash Rathod, Congress leader and member of the Karnataka Legislative Council in Goa on Wednesday. Rathod, who has been appointed one of the AICC observers for the upcoming polls in Goa, when asked about the party’s stance on the dispute, said, “As far as the Mahadayi issue is concerned, first and foremost there is a BJP government at the Centre, Karnataka and Goa. If the PM wants a solution; it can be found within two minutes. But he does not have the will to do it. They only want to make Goa and Karnataka fight.”“The case is currently being fought in the Tribunal and the Supreme Court. I want that a political decision should be made by making the Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka governments sit together. The Modi government at the Centre has failed to redress this issue,” he added.Goa has opposed any diversion of waters of the River Mahadayi which originates in the Western Ghats in Karnataka, takes a detour via Maharashtra and enters Goa as the Mandovi. The Mahadayi river basin drains comprises an area of 2,032 sq.km., out of which an area of 375 sq.km. lies in Karnataka, 77 sq.km. in Maharashtra and rest in Goa.Both the Goa and Karnataka governments have, for very different reasons, challenged the final award granted by the Mahadayi Interstate Water Disputes Tribunal which in a verdict in August 2018 granted Karnataka a total of 13.42 thousand million cubic feet (tmc) of water out of their demand for 36.558 tmc of water.While Goa has approached the Supreme Court arguing that Karnataka shouldn’t be allowed to divert any water owing to the fact that the Mahadayi river is a water deficient river, Karnataka is before the Supreme Court argued that the tribunal erred by granting it only 13.42 tmc of water.Past efforts at holding ‘talks’ between the two states have failed because Goa and Karnataka hold irreconcilable positions on the issue given Goa’s stance that no water should be diverted outside the basin while Karnataka believes that it can ‘negotiate’ the quantum of water they should be allowed to divert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahadayi-dispute-should-be-resolved-politically-k-taka-congress-leader-101629921794230.html
26-08-2021||India||Smugglers now taking the ‘innovative’ route||Bengaluru: On August 17, the officials of the Directorate Revenue Intelligence (DRI) were waiting for a passenger, who had boarded a connecting flight from Dubai, to land at the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). The African national who claimed he had come to India for treatment of kidney ailment, was pulled aside for checking on arrival. After the baggage didn’t show anything, the officials took him for a medical scan. According to the DRI officials, they had received a specific input that he had drugs in his stomach, and the tip was proven right during the scan. “He had consumed 1.3 kg of cocaine worth around ₹12 crore. The cocaine was consumed as small capsules. They were double packed in condoms and he swallowed them,” said a senior DRI official. This is among the many bizarre and creative ways used to smuggle contraband through Bengaluru’s Kempegowda International Airport in the recent past. Despite the pandemic and restrictions on travel that followed, there have been several attempts to smuggle contraband, said officials at the airport. From seizing gold, drugs, and raw materials for drug manufacturing, the customs department at the airport has been busy over the past year. Not only that, attempt has also been made to send out contraband from the airport.An official spokesperson of the customs department said that a particular incident involving gold smuggling was busted in March when two passengers were caught smuggling gold in the form of screws and rods of trolly bags. The first instance was reported on March 3, when the Customs Department officials searched a bag of a passenger based on a tipoff. The trolley bag was fitted with 42 screws and four rods, which were made of gold and coated with rhodium to camouflage the gold. The 42-year-old passenger, a resident of Karwar was subsequently arrested. Just a day after, another person was caught smuggling gold using the same operandi. In this case, the 30-year-old passenger’s laptop bag had a strip of gold and had 23 gold screws fitted to it, which were covered in copper to avoid detection.In another case reported on June 2, a 35-year-old Zimbabwean woman was carrying 8 kg of heroin worth ₹56 crore, which she had hidden in a false bottom of her bag. “In both cases where drugs were seized, the common factor was that the two arrested persons entered the country on a medical visa. We have passed the information on to the concerned authorities for further action,” the DRI official added. It was not just passengers and cargo coming into the country, but even the consignment leaving the country have come under the customs department’s radar. According to an official, two instances of smuggling drugs using photo albums and wedding cards stood out in 2020. “The first incident was reported in February 2020. In this case, the 5 kilograms of ephedrine worth around ₹5 crore was found inside several wedding invitations. The drug was hidden between gaps of 43 wedding cards, packed in plastic covers. Each wedding card had two of such packets,” said the DRI official. By August, a similar incident was reported in which 13.2 kg of pseudoephedrine worth around ₹13 crore was seized at the Kempegowda International Airport. On August 17, 2020, a tipoff was received by the department officials claimed that a large quantity of pseudoephedrine was en route to Australia from Bengaluru. “The consignment was in Singapore when we got the tipoff, so we recalled it. On checking it, we found photo albums, phone frames, and other personal items. It looked liked memorabilia of a private event being sent to relatives in Australia, but each item had drugs in it,” said the DRI official. Drugs were hidden in the thick covers of the albums and photo frames. Thin sheets of pseudoephedrine were kept under the photographs in the albums and similarly in the photo frames. “This is one of the largest consignments seized in recent times at the international airport. The market value of this product was more than ₹13 crore,” said the DRI official. According to a statement from a DRI spokesperson, pseudoephedrine is becoming the main precursor chemical preferred in the manufacture of methamphetamine in Australia. Only 1.5 kg of pseudoephedrine is needed to obtain one kg of methamphetamine.This incident brought out the supply of raw materials to produce drugs to Australia and other countries, over the past five years. “Despite the pandemic, the total amount of ephedrine and pseudoephedrine seized by the DRI across India this year has already crossed 500 kg, clearly pointing to a mass diversion of the precursor drug to Australian markets,” read the statement. Crystalline methamphetamine, sold as crystal meth or ice, is manufactured in clandestine drug laboratories in Australia and is a highly purified form of the drug that is recognizable by its translucent crystalline appearance. “In recent times, there has been an ever-increasing number of cases that have been detected by enforcement agencies of attempted smuggling from India to Australia of both ephedrine and pseudoephedrine,” said the DRI KIA officials said that with the travel restrictions easing, they are looking at more attempts to smuggle contraband from using more innovating methods and the customs department is strengthening its vigilance and informant networks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smugglers-now-taking-the-innovative-route-101629921675205.html
26-08-2021||India||In a first, BJP bags Mysuru local seat after Cong-JD(S) talks fail||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday managed to wrest control of the Mysuru city corporation for the first time in its history after talks between the Janata Dal (Secular) and Congress collapsed at the last moment. With this, BJP’s corporator Sunanda Palanethra became the mayor of the heritage city.According to people aware of the developments, the Congress and JD(S) were holding talks till just 15 minutes before the elections. But the two parties were not able to find a middle ground, costing them the control over the city administration. The Congress stormed out of the council hall, sloganeering against the JD(S) after negotiations and a fragile alliance between the two fell apart. “Until 11.45 am we were talking to the JD(S) and the elections were at 12 pm,” R Dhruvanarayana, a Congress leader and former member of Parliament from Chamarajanagar, told Hindustan Times. The BJP has 25 votes that includes 22 corporators, one MLA and one MP while the JD(S) had 21 votes which includes 17 corporators, one MLA and three MLCs. The Congress has 21 votes that includes one MLA. Former chief minister BS Yediyurappa in a tweet on Wednesday congratulated Palanetra for being elected as the Mayor of Mysuru. “The BJP was able to get the Mayor’s post for the first time and it is an indication that the party’s roots are widening. Hearty congratulations to Sunanda Palanetra, who has been elected as the Mayor of Mysuru,” Yediyurappa tweeted. The developments come at a time when the BJP is looking to expand its footprint in the Old Mysuru region or south interior Karnataka belt, where it has little or no presence and is key for its ambitions to return to power with a full majority on its own in the 2023 assembly elections. This region, however, is considered a stronghold of the JD(S) and the Congress. Despite the friction and turbulent past, the two bitter rivals decided to come together in 2018 and continued its alliance to keep the BJP out of the district administration, much like how they did after the fractured verdict in the previous assembly polls. The elections were important for all three parties in their own way. For the BJP, it was to make inroads in a region where it has no presence while the JD(S) is trying to stop the juggernaut of the saffron outfit in the one geography that gives it all its strength and faces an existential crisis if it does not stop the former from surging ahead. For the Congress, which believes the JD(S) and BJP are in an informal alliance, it is to win back as much ground as possible before the 2023 elections if it does have any hopes of ousting the BJP. ST Somashekar, a cabinet minister and in-charge of Mysuru district said that the JD(S) had met the BJP this year as well and requested that the party to support the regional outfit for the post of Mayor. Srikante Gowda, the MLC of the JD(S) said that there was just four months remaining in the Mayor’s term and that they had asked the Congress to allow the former to take control and the favour would be reciprocated next term. There are two more years of the corporation before it heads to the polls again. Dhruvanarayana, however, said that there has been an “informal alliance’ between the JD(S) and the BJP. This holds true in most other elections in Karnataka where the JD(S) and BJP have helped each other against the Congress, whom both consider a common enemy. The JD(S), headed by former prime minister HD Deve Gowda and his former chief minister son HD Kumaraswamy, are the only major outfit to have allied with both the Congress and BJP in the past, allowing them to play “kingmaker” on more than one occasion. However, Dhruvanarayana said that the BJP is unlikely to benefit from the Mysuru city corporation elections as it has no presence on the ground. Dhruvanarayana, considered a top performer formidable candidate in neighbouring Chamarajanagar, was ousted by V Srinivas Prasad of the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, giving the saffron outfit an unprecedented 25 out of the total 28 seats in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-bjp-bags-mysuru-local-seat-after-cong-jd-s-talks-fail-101629921555726.html
26-08-2021||India||Row intensifies after 5 teachers consume poison during protest in Bengal||Kolkata: I have been transferred from Bakkhali to Cooch Behar. We cannot live like this. The government has pushed us to this point,” a temporary teaching assistant at a Sishu Siksha Kendra (SSK) in West Bengal’s South 24 Parganas district had said, according to her colleagues, before drinking pesticide during an agitation on Tuesday. She was among the five teachers who consumed poison from small bottles they were carrying on Tuesday, as part of a protest outside Bikash Bhawan, the secretariat of the state school department at Salt Lake in Kolkata’s eastern district. For her, the transfer meant relocating to a place 746 km away, a distance which, according to Google maps, takes around 18 hours to cover by car. “Transfer orders, that had asked her and four other teachers working on contract for SSKs and Madhyamik Siksha Kendras (MSK) to report for duty in districts hundreds of miles away from their homes, led to the mass suicide bid,” said Maidul Islam, general secretary of the Paschimbanga Sikshak Aikya Mukta Mancha, which has demanded permanent placement and revocation of the transfer orders. SSK and MSK teaching assistants working on contractual basis are usually posted in schools that are not too far from their homes, Islam said, adding, “None of us knew that the five women were carrying poison. What they did was not right.” Run by the panchayat and rural development department, SSKs and MSKs are schools where teaching assistants used to be paid ₹5,400 per month till the state government revised the salary to ₹10,340 in October last year, following a long agitation. “Along with the revised pay came transfer orders for some of those who were part of the movement,” Islam said. The Mancha earlier moved court and held protests outside the residence of education minister Bratya Basu. All five teachers are now under observation at critical care units in the state-run RG Kar Hospital and NRS Hospital in Kolkata. Another teacher from Jiaganj in Murshidabad district has been transferred to the Mal community block in Jalpaiguri. The 409-km distance entails an almost 11-hour road trip via NH-12. “What’s more, he has been transferred to a Hindi-medium SSK. Similarly, another teacher, a tribal woman teaching at an SSK at Salboni in West Midnapore district, has been transferred to a Hindi-medium school at Dhupguri in Jalpaiguri district,” said one of the agitators, who did not want to be named fearing disciplinary action. A teacher from Mahishadal in East Midnapore has been asked to go to Harirampur in South Dinajpur district while another one from Balagarh in Hooghly district has to report to a Madrasah in Malda district, 314 km away. Both attempted suicide. The incident, being the first of its kind in Bengal, has triggered a slugfest between the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which won 77 seats in the March-April assembly polls. “During the Left Front regime, teaching assistants at SSKs and MSKs used to get a token honorarium. They had no job security and post-retirement benefit. The government has now introduced provident fund scheme for those who opt to retire at 60. Women get maternity leave and all are entitled to healthcare benefits and 18 casual leaves a year. Those who are agitating even after getting all these must be BJP cadres,” education minister Bratya Basu tweeted on Wednesday afternoon. BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu visited NRS Hospital to check on the teachers during the day. “Even if a TMC worker’s home is damaged by a falling tree the ruling party will accuse the BJP. The accusation does not surprise us. We don’t support this suicide attempt. It cannot be a mode of protest. The education minister should spend more time meeting teachers and hearing out their problems instead of visiting Tripura. He should resign after what has happened,” said Basu. “The Mancha is not affiliated to any political party,” said Islam.Doctors at both hospitals said the women were in stable condition but could not be declared out of danger before 72 hours. They showed symptoms triggered by organophosphorus compounds used in pesticides. Deputy commissioner of police (eastern suburban division) Priyabrata Roy said, “Police personnel tried their best to stop the agitators from taking poison. We hope they get well soon.” If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-intensifies-after-5-teachers-consume-poison-during-protest-in-bengal-101629921494164.html
26-08-2021||India||Indian military aircraft set to fly out 180 from Afghanistan tonight||NEW DELHI: India is set to evacuate up to 180 people, including its nationals and Afghan citizens, in a military aircraft from Afghanistan on Wednesday night ahead of the looming August 31 deadline for withdrawal of US and foreign troops.Indian officials have been working in trying circumstances to get all Indian nationals who have been traced and Afghan citizens, including Hindus and Sikhs, to the Kabul airport in the face of assertions by the Taliban that they would not allow the evacuation of Afghans.The desperate evacuation operations at Kabul by all countries have picked up pace after the Taliban warned that the US must adhere to the deadline for pulling out all its troops. There are also concerns about possible suicide attacks on the airport and the crowds there by the Islamic State-Khorasan, with US President Joe Biden personally acknowledging the threat.An Indian military aircraft was set to fly out up to 180 people late on Wednesday night, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The group is expected to reach India on Thursday.As with recent evacuation efforts, Afghan citizens given Indian visas have had problems in accessing Kabul airport because of strict checks being conducted by Taliban fighters on all routes.Given the difficulties associated with organising evacuation flights ahead of the August 31 deadline for the US withdrawal, Indian officials have focused on ensuring that no Indian nationals are left behind, the people added. The US and its allies have evacuated more than 80,000 people, including their nationals, NATO personnel and Afghans at risk, since August 14, the day before the Taliban marched into Kabul after the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. Biden has spurned calls from G7 leaders to keep American troops at the airport beyond the deadline, which was set under an agreement signed by the previous Donald Trump administration with the Taliban in February last year. Officials of G7 states have said no country will be able to evacuate all their citizens and at-risk Afghans by August 31. Tens of thousands of Afghans have thronged Kabul airport over the past week but most of them have been unable to secure seats on evacuation flights. The Pentagon said on Wednesday that military flights from Kabul will continue until the final hours of the August 31 deadline, though there will be a balance in getting out evacuees and 5,400 American troops and their equipment in the final days and hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-military-aircraft-set-to-fly-out-180-from-afghanistan-tonight-101629921374794.html
26-08-2021||India||Indian military aircraft set to fly out 180 from Afghanistan today||New Delhi: India was set to evacuate up to 180 people, including its nationals and Afghan citizens, in a military aircraft from Afghanistan on Wednesday ahead of the looming August 31 deadline for withdrawal of US and foreign troops. Indian officials have been working in trying circumstances to get all Indian nationals who have been traced and Afghan citizens, including Hindus and Sikhs, to the Kabul airport in the face of assertions by the Taliban that they would not allow the evacuation of Afghans. The desperate evacuation operations at Kabul by all countries have picked up pace after the Taliban warned that the US must adhere to the deadline for pulling out all its troops. There are also concerns about possible suicide attacks on the airport and the crowds there by the Islamic State-Khorasan, with US President Joe Biden personally acknowledging the threat. An Indian military aircraft was set to fly out up to 180 people late on Wednesday night, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The group is expected to reach India on Thursday. As with recent evacuation efforts, Afghan citizens given Indian visas have had problems in accessing Kabul airport because of strict checks being conducted by Taliban fighters on all routes from the city leading to the airport. There have been several instances of Afghans with Indian visas being turned back by the Taliban, the people said. Given the difficulties associated with organising evacuation flights ahead of the August 31 deadline for the US withdrawal, Indian officials have focused on ensuring that no Indian nationals are left behind, the people added. The US and its allies have evacuated more than 80,000 people, including their nationals, NATO personnel and Afghans at risk, since August 14, the day before the Taliban marched into Kabul after the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. Biden has spurned calls from G7 leaders to keep American troops at the airport beyond the deadline, which was set under an agreement signed by the previous Donald Trump administration with the Taliban in February last year. Officials of G7 states have said no country will be able to evacuate all their citizens and at-risk Afghans by August 31. Tens of thousands of Afghans have thronged Kabul airport over the past week but most of them have been unable to secure seats on evacuation flights. The Pentagon said on Wednesday that military flights from Kabul will continue until the final hours of the August 31 deadline, though there will be a balance in getting out evacuees and 5,400 American troops and their equipment in the final days and hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-military-aircraft-set-to-fly-out-180-from-afghanistan-today-101629920834815.html
26-08-2021||India||Day before Jaishankar’s address, Oppn prepares for govt’s Afghan briefing||The Congress on Wednesday held a high-level internal meeting where it consulted two former diplomats on the Afghanistan situation, a day before the Union government’s briefing on the issue. Other Opposition parties, too, were busy preparing background notes or holding discussions on the latest developments related to the Taliban’s grip on war-torn Afghanistan, people aware of the developments said.Former national security adviser Shivshankar Menon and former foreign secretary Shyam Saran joined the Congress’s discussions on the Afghanistan situation on Wednesday. The virtual meeting chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi was also attended by former prime minister Manmohan Singh, party leaders Rahul Gandhi, leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, Anand Sharma and Congress’s Lok Sabha leader Adhir Chowdhury, among others.Also Read | Ready for overflow of Afghanistan terror to India: CDSExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar will brief parliamentary floor leaders of various parties on the prevailing situation in Afghanistan at 11 am on Thursday after the Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan fuelled chaos, protests and exodus from Kabul.The Congress’s meeting went on for an hour and the party discussed 10 broad points ranging from the role of the Northern alliance to evacuation efforts to the stand against Taliban. Later, the party decided to restructure the 10 broad points into four-five specific issues on which the party leaders would seek the government’s reply.HT’s request for comments to both Menon and Saran went unanswered.The Trinamool Congress (TMC) has prepared a note based on inputs of former external affairs minister Yashwant Sinha, who joined the West Bengal’s ruling party earlier this year. TMC MP Derek O’Brien said, “We want to hear the government first. Our response should be based on what the government tells us at the meeting.” The party’s background note, accessed by HT, suggests the government should talk “openly and transparently” with Taliban and must extract assurance “that their land will not be used (to nurture terrorist groups and provide training to these outfits) to Indian delegations if there is a one-on-one meeting.”The TMC’s note also suggests, “India should immediately open its embassy in Kabul and send back the ambassador. We must remember that the people of Afghanistan have great love for India. Pakistan is not popular with the people of Afghanistan.”Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury held an internal briefing of the party on Wednesday. The party is likely to criticise the US, a usual policy for the communists, but ask the government on the security and strategy issues. “We are deeply concerned about the developments on Afghan soil,” said Yechury.The last all-party meeting on Afghanistan was held 20 years ago, on October 30, 2001, after US forces launched an attack against the Taliban in the aftermath of the 9/11 terror strike. The upcoming meeting, organised by the parliamentary affairs ministry, underlines how history has turned a full circle on Afghan soil.Both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha leaders of various parties have been invited for the meeting, which will see Jaishankar briefing the parties before answering their questions. It will be the first all-party parliamentary meeting on an external situation during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tenure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-before-jaishankar-s-address-oppn-prepares-for-govt-s-afghan-briefing-101629920715756.html
26-08-2021||India||High court cancels FIR against Jammu journalist, says is attack on press freedom||Jammu: The Jammu and Kashmir high court on Tuesday cancelled a First Information Report (FIR) registered against a local journalist for a news report on alleged custodial torture of a man in 2018, ruling that the police decision to file charges against the journalist “is undoubtedly an attack on the freedom of press”. “No fetters can be placed on the freedom of press by registering the FIR against a reporter, who was performing his professional duty by publishing a news item on the basis of information obtained by him from an identifiable source,” justice Rajnesh Oswal said in his ruling delivered on Tuesday. The verdict was uploaded on the high court’s website on Wednesday.In his April 2018 report published in a local daily Early Times, journalist Asif Iqbal Naik extensively quoted the family members of a Kishtwar resident Akhter Hussain who alleged that he was torture. The police claimed that the news report was factually incorrect and filed an FIR against the journalist, accusing him of trying to instigate the people of Kishtwar against the police by “creating a rage/confusion among the public”. It also accused the journalist of provoking people to vandalism.The FIR accused Naik of offences under sections 500 (defamation), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 505 (statement conducting to public mischief) of the Ranbir Penal Code (RPC).The judge said, “the mere fact that FIR was lodged only against the journalist and not against the person, who has disclosed the said incident to the journalist prima facie establishes malice on the part of the respondents.” It also noted that the reported allegations were repeated by the man’s family in complaints to the police.“The mode and manner in which the impugned FIR has been lodged clearly reflects the mala fide on the part of respondents as the respondents could have given their version by similar mode but they chose unique method of silencing the petitioner and it is undoubtedly an attack on the freedom of press,” the judge said in his 14-page verdict.The court said the police, which disputed the facts, should have given its version to the newspaper contesting the allegations.Naik said the high court came to his rescue in 2018 as well when the Kishtwar administration barred him from entering the district magistrate’s office complex for the second time after reports that he said, “exposed the corrupt practices of the officials” there.He said the FIR was registered against him because he sought action against the officer who misused his power. “The case is a classic example of settling personal grudges by a senior police official (through use of his power),” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-cancels-fir-against-jammu-journalist-says-is-attack-on-press-freedom-101629920234603.html
26-08-2021||India||Kids in Pithoragarh risk their lives, cross a swollen river to reach school||Children in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district are risking their lives nearly every day while crossing a swollen river in a rickety trolley ropeway to reach their schools on the other side of the river. These school children from Gharuri village of Bangapani sub-division have no other choice but to use a makeshift trolley hung on the rope to cross river Gori, after the under-construction bridge was washed away in last year’s flash-floods. “After schools were reopened earlier this month, our children have to go to school on a daily basis. The schools are situated in Bangapani and Baram towns across the swollen river. They use this temporary trolley hung on a rope to reach their schools. We know this is very dangerous but we have no other option,” said Harish Singh, a resident of Gharuri village. Singh said after the under-construction bridge and permanent trolley over the river were washed away by floods last year, the students had to use this temporary trolley made by villagers over the river. “This makeshift trolley is not safe. We remain worried about the children till they return from school every day,” said Ganesh Singh, another villager. Dharchula MLA, Harish Dhami said he had for long been demanding the construction of a permanent bridge at Gharuri, as it would ensure that the children in the area don’t have to risk their lives by crossing the river in such a dangerous way. “The state government should take this matter seriously as otherwise, some untoward incident will take place,” said Dhami. Vineeta, a class 9 student, who studies at a school in Bangapani, said they want to go to school and as such, they have to take the risk of crossing the river. “The other option is crossing the river by wading through it, which is more dangerous. So, we are using this temporary trolley on the rope to cross it,” she said. When contacted, District Magistrate Pithoragarh Ashish Chauhan said he has been apprised of the seriousness of the situation in the area. “I have ordered PRD (Prantiya Rakshi Dal) jawans to keep guard at both ends of the temporary trolley for the safety of the students. We are also considering arranging classes for students in their respective villages till the bridge or permanent trolley is constructed over the river,” said Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kids-in-pithoragarh-risk-their-lives-cross-a-swollen-river-to-reach-school-101629920054532.html
26-08-2021||India||E-visa mandatory for all Afghans||The Union government on Wednesday cancelled with immediate effect all previously issued visas to Afghan nationals who are currently not in India, and announced that they can now travel to the country only on an electronic visa or e-visa.A government order said that the introduction of the “e-Emergency X-Misc visa” last week has streamlined the visa process, and officials aware of the matter pointed out that the decision was taken after intelligence agencies received reports that several Afghan nationals issued physical visas misplaced their passports, suggesting that they may either not be able to use the visas, or that the visas could be misused.The Indian embassy and all consulates in Afghanistan were closed in the last two months.“Owing to the prevailing security situation in Afghanistan and streamlining of the visa process by introduction of the ‘e-Emergency X-Misc visa’, it has been decided that all Afghan nationals henceforth must travel to India only on e-Visa,” a home ministry spokesperson said.“Keeping in view some reports that certain passports of Afghan nationals have been misplaced, previously issued visas to all Afghan nationals, who are presently not in India, stand invalidated with immediate effect. Afghan nationals wishing to travel to India may apply for e-Visa at www.indianvisaonline.gov.in,” the spokesperson added.As HT reported on Wednesday, intelligence agencies have alerted the government that some unidentified Urdu-speaking men forced their way into an office in Kabul dealing with visa distribution on behalf of the Indian missions there, and seized and unknown number of Afghan passports with stamped visas.The incident took place on August 15, the day Taliban captured Kabul.People familiar with the matter said that Indian agencies suspected the men who seized Afghan passports stamped with Indian visas had links with Pakistan, and the passports could be used for anti-India activities.Those who have lost their passports in Afghanistan and wish to travel to India will now have to get a new passport in Kabul, and then apply for an Indian e-visa, said one of the people. He added the e-visa applications will be examined and processed in New Delhi.The “e-Emergency X-Misc visa” will initially be valid for six months, and all Afghans, irrespective of their religion, can apply for it.Afghanistan nationals were so far not eligible for e-visas for India because the country came under the Prior Reference Category (PRC) for grant of visa. Under PRC, people travelling to India have to be cleared by home ministry first. People covered under PRC include nationals from Pakistan, Iraq and Sudan, foreigners of Pakistani origin, and stateless persons. China is in the PRC category only for employment visas.India has so far evacuated 800 people from Kabul, including its embassy staff, Indians who lived there, several Afghans, including two members of parliament, and Hindus and Sikhs who faced threats from the Taliban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evisa-mandatory-for-all-afghans-101629919815113.html
26-08-2021||India||Online gambling threat, can’t make profit at the cost of young lives: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Wednesday observed that online gambling is “dangerous” and portals cannot be allowed to make money at the cost of youngsters’ lives.Agreeing to examine a plea seeking regulation of such portals, a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh told the All India Gaming Federation: “We don’t want to join you as a party. Enough is enough. You just wait and watch..You are more concerned with your game and earning your money. But people are losing their money. Youngsters are committing suicide..You are concerned about earning at the cost of the lives of others. This cannot be at the cost of the life of youngsters..It (online gambling) is dangerous.”The bench’s observations came as it refused to hear the federation in connection with the petition filed by one advocate and chartered accountant, Avinash Mehrotra, who contended that gambling, i.e. wagering on games of chance, was illegal as per the law and most state legislations had also forbidden the same.Despite the presence of various provisions under the law, a large number of websites providing gambling, betting and wagering games continued to be accessible in the country, the petitioner said.Also Read | What’s the legal status of gambling regulations in India in 2021?This plea also sought quashing of an order by the Centre last October, where it stated that it does not have the competence to block gambling and betting websites in India. On December 14, the court had issued a notice to the Union government on the plea and sought to know their stand.In its response in an affidavit filed through standing counsel Anil Soni, the Centre said that framing laws and regulating online gaming platforms was a “state subject”. “Since gaming/gambling are state subjects, States are the appropriate governments to issue notice to the intermediaries to block access to any gambling websites. Thus the respondent no. 1 (MEITY) is not authorised to direct any intermediary to block any online gaming or gambling websites,” the affidavit said.“It is submitted that as per the Allocation of Business Rules 1961, ‘Games or Gambling’ do not fall under the functional mandate of MeitY (ministry of electronics and information technology). MeitY is not the ‘appropriate government’ to regulate such online games. States being the ‘appropriate government’ have already enacted laws to regulate games/gambling activities, and some states have expressly framed laws to regulate online games also,” it added.The Centre also said that several states had already framed laws to regulate online gambling and hence, it is for the Delhi government to formulate its policy.MeitY, on the other hand, said that while the petitioner sought a complete ban on online gaming and betting across the country, he has not impleaded other states as a party.“…the petitioner has not chosen to make any of the states (Sikkim, Nagaland, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, or Tamil Nadu) which have brought out legislations that specifically regulate online gaming. Without hearing the views of the states (which are the ‘appropriate governments’ given the legislative mandate enshrined under the Constitution of India), effective adjudication is not possible in this case,” the ministry said.It added that the legislative competence to determine whether a game is a game of skill or a game of chance or is involved in gambling (played with stakes or not) is conferred on the states or to the court of laws.“MeitY does not possess the judicial wisdom to determine whether an online game is involved in gambling or not,” it added.The court posted the matter for October 11 after the petitioner’s counsel said that he had not received the Centre’s reply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/online-gambling-a-threat-portals-can-t-make-profit-at-the-cost-of-young-lives-delhi-hc-101629919576142.html
26-08-2021||India||In Bengal, teachers consume poison in bid to prevent transfers to far-flung areas||“I have been transferred from Bakkhali to Cooch Behar. We cannot live like this. The government has pushed us to this point,” Putul Mondal, a temporary teaching assistant at a Sishu Shiksha Kendra (SSK) in Bengal’s South 24 Parganas district had said, according to her colleagues, before drinking the pesticide she was carrying in a small bottle during Tuesday’s agitation outside Bikash Bhawan, the secretariat of the state school department at Salt Lake in Kolkata’s eastern outskirts. For Mondal, the transfer meant relocating to a place 746 km away, a distance which, according to Google maps, takes around 18 hours to cover by car. “Transfer orders, that had asked Mondal and four other teachers working on contract for SSKs and Madhyamik Shiksha Kendras (MSK) to report for duty in districts hundreds of miles away from their homes, led to the mass suicide bid, said Maidul Islam, president of the Paschimbanga Shikshak Aikya Mukta Mancha, which has demanded permanent placement and revocation of the transfer orders. SSK and MSK teaching assistants working on contractual basis are usually posted in schools what are not too far from their homes, Islam said. “None of us knew that the five women were carrying poison. What they did was not right,” Islam added. Run by the panchayat and rural development department, SSKs and MSKs are schools where teaching assistants used to be paid ₹5400 a month till the state government revised the salary to ₹10,340 in October last year following a long agitation. “Along with the revised pay came transfer orders for some of those who were part of the movement,” Islam said. The Mancha earlier moved court and held protests outside the residence of education minister Bratya Basu. The situation is no different for the other four teachers who, along with Mondal, are now under observation in critical care units at the state-run RG Kar Hospital and NRS Hospital in Kolkata. Chhobi Chaki Das from Jiaganj in Murshidabad district has been transferred to the Mal community block in Jalpaiguri. The 409 km distance entails an almost 11-hour road trip via NH-12. “What’s more, Das has been transferred to a Hindi-medium SSK. Similarly, Jyotsna Tudu, a tribal woman teaching at an SSK at Salboni in West Midnapore district, has been transferred to a Hindi-medium school at Dhupguri in Jalpaiguri district,” said one of the agitators who did not want to be named fearing disciplinary action. Sikha Das from Mahishadal in East Midnapore had been asked to go to Harirampur in South Dinajpur district and Anima Nath from Balagarh in Hooghly district has been asked to report to a Madrasah in Malda district, 314 km away. Both attempted to commit suicide. The incident, being the first of its kind in Bengal, has triggered a slugfest between the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“During the Left Front regime, teaching assistants at SSKs and MSKs used to get a token honorarium. They had no job security and post-retirement benefit. The government has now introduced provident fund scheme for those who opt to retire at 60. Women get maternity leave and all are entitled to healthcare benefits and 18 casual leaves a year. Those who are agitating even after getting all these must be BJP cadres,” the education minister tweeted on Wednesday afternoon. BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu visited NRS Hospital to check on the teachers during the day. “Even if a TMC worker’s home is damaged by a falling tree the ruling party will accuse the BJP. The accusation does not surprise us. We don’t support this suicide attempt. It cannot be a mode of protest. The education minister should spend more time meeting teachers and hearing out their problems instead of visiting Tripura. He should resign after what has happened,” said Basu. Doctors at both hospitals said the women were stable but could not be declared to be out of danger before 72 hours. They showed symptoms triggered by organophosphorus compounds used in pesticides. Deputy Commissioner of Police (eastern suburban division) Priyabrata Roy said, “Police personnel tried their best to stop the agitators from consuming poison. We hope they get well soon.” Cases have been registered against the teachers since attempting suicide is a crime. Charges have also been brought against the agitators for violating Covid-19 pandemic restrictions on assembly in a public place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-teachers-consume-poison-in-bid-to-prevent-transfers-to-far-flung-areas-101629919034678.html
26-08-2021||India||TN BJP expels two from party in connection with Raghavan sting video||Tamil Nadu unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday expelled party member and YouTuber Madan Ravichandran, along with his associate G Venba, a day after they released a video state general secretary KT Raghavan’s sexually explicit chat with a woman, the party said in a statement. Raghavan resigned from his post on Tuesday after the video went viral on social media. The BJP also said that a committee is set-up to probe allegations of sexual misconduct against Raghavan. Both Ravichandran and Venba met state chief Annamalai on Wednesday and agreed to cooperate with the probe, the party said in its statement. “Madan and Venba have been removed from their party posts for releasing videos that go against the ideals of the party,” the statement signed by another state general secretary Karu Nagarajan read. “We ask administrators and party cadres not to have any interaction with them in matters related to the party.”The YouTube channel Madan Diary, with more than 141,000 subscribers, and through which Ravichandran uploaded the video, has been taken down. In the video, Ravichandran said he began to look into the issue based on allegations of sexual harassment and sexual exploitation of women by male leaders of the party in the state. “I have video evidence of 15 BJP leaders but I’m releasing his video first because Mr K T Raghavan is promoted as Mr Clean by the media,” Ravichandran said in his piece to the camera. Reacting to the controversy, Annamalai, who took over as the state BJP president last year, questioned Ravichandran’s intent behind threatening to release video evidence of more BJP leaders on social media. “This act of him is purely unacceptable,” Annamalai had said on Tuesday. He confirmed Ravichandran had met him twice over this issue and sent him a text pressuring him to take action. Annamalai said he can only take action when the allegations are probed and proved and asked for the video evidence, but Ravichandran didn’t give it to him. “I stood firmly on my stand that disciplinary actions cannot be taken without knowing the real facts of the accusations. Therefore, I replied (to) him shortly in the message that ‘You may proceed if you want justice’,” he said. Raghavan had taken to Twitter on Tuesday to announce he is resigning but denied all the allegations and said that the video was released to tarnish his image. Ravichandran said that the audio in the video is muted, and the woman’s identity is protected as she agreed to do the sting operation. Ravichandran joined the BJP last October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tnbjpexpels-two-from-party-in-connection-with-raghavan-sting-video-101629918314318.html
26-08-2021||India||Onam fallout: Kerala logs 31,455 new Covid-19 cases, 215 deaths||Kerala is witnessing an alarming rise in Covid-19 cases after the festival of Onam. On Wednesday, the state reported 31,455 new cases with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 19.03 per cent, the highest caseload and TPR in three months, the state health ministry indicated. With ramped-up testing, Covid-19 cases are shooting up exponentially and the worried health ministry has said it will tighten restrictions and increase vaccination to tide over the difficult situation. In vaccination the state is ahead-- 56.28 per cent of the population have got at least one dose of vaccine while it is 43 per cent in Tamil Nadu and 54 per cent in Karnataka, statistics show. What is disturbing is that when cases have shrunk considerably in the rest of India, Kerala shows no signs of relenting. Its death toll is also on the rise. It reported 215 deaths on Wednesday taking total fatalities to 19,972. Many experts had warned a big surge after the Onam festivities and latest statistics prove their concerns were justified. Norms were eased and markets were jam-packed ahead of the festival-- last year also there was a surge after Onam. The intensity of the surge can be gauged when compared with the national situation. On Wednesday the country reported 37,593 new cases and with TPR below 2%. Many hospitals have started feeling the pinch of the high caseload. Leading government hospitals said they have only 10 per cent beds left but there is no shortage of oxygen or essential medicine. The ICU occupancy (both private and public) is stable now with 2,080 patients in ICU and 780 are on ventilators. Doctors said there is a 10 per cent hike in hospitalisation in the last two days. Out of 14 districts, four reported more than 3,000 fresh infections. During the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the state was praised for its effective handling of the situation but the second wave dragged and it reported more than 65 per cent of the total cases of the country. Experts blame low testing, low sero prevalence and over confidence for the sorry state. As cases surge experts and medical bodies have asked the state government to conduct more genetic studies and sero-prevalence surveys to confirm the presence and depth of various strains in the state. “We expected a hike after Onam. A special drive is on to increase testing and vaccination. Since sero prevalence is very low in Kerala we have to find the infected and quarantine them at the earliest. We will do everything possible to contain the surge,” said state health minister Veena George. It seems the health ministry appears to be resigned to the fate that a major surge is inevitable after Onam and is now bracing to see how the graph will rise. Experts have asked the state to shed its soft corner for cheap antigen tests and do more RT-PCR tests.On Monday when Tamil Nadu had 1,52,000 RT-PCR tests, Karnataka had 91,982 and Kerala’s share was 86,650. “The surge is on expected lines. The government will have to increase tests and vaccinate maximum people. It is time to act,” said Dr N M Arun, an internal medicine expert who has been tracking the case trajectory of the state. The fourth round of the sero survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research in July showed antibody prevalence was 67. 7% nationally but it was only 42.7 % in Kerala, meaning a huge chunk of its population is still susceptible to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/onam-fallout-kerala-logs-31-455-new-covid-19-cases-215-deaths-101629917894505.html
26-08-2021||India||Scindia writes to 5 CMs over aviation infra||Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia has written to the chief ministers of five states – Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar and Chhattisgarh – seeking personal intervention in matters related to land allocation and funding to boost aviation infrastructure in the regions, the central government said on Wednesday.In a letter to Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, the aviation minister noted that the state had already handed over a quantum of land in most of its airports. “However, some portions of land are yet to be handed over to AAI by the state government,” the letter read.The ministry also noted that an amount of ₹14.64 crore needs to be deposited with the Regional Air Connectivity Fund Trust by the state.Similarly, Scindia sought the intervention of Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu in land acquisition for various aviation sector projects, including the installation of Non-Directional Beacon and construction of a residential colony for the airport staff at Tezu Airport.In his letter to Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, Scindia said: “Out of the total projected land, only 8.5 acre of land has been handed over at Dibrugarh Airport, and rest of the land parcels are yet to be handed over by the state government.”The aviation minister told Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar that the state should take into consideration the scope for international connectivity and consequently viability of operation of a wide body aircraft.While writing to Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, Scindia highlighted matters related to land requirement of 569 acre at Raigarh for development of the airport to make it suitable for operations of ATR72/Q400 type of aircraft in Phase-l and AB-320 type of Aircraft in Phase-II.Urges 22 states to reduce VAT on ATF to 1-4% Scindia has urged 22 states and Union Territories to reduce value-added tax on aviation turbine fuel and bring it within the range of 1-4% across all airports in order to give an impetus to air travel, the civil aviation ministry said.“The price of ATF is a major component of the operating cost of airlines. With that, the tax on ATF contributes significantly to the ATF price,” according to a statement issued by the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scindia-writes-to-5-cms-over-aviation-infra-101629917534339.html
26-08-2021||India||Decide plea on top cop in two weeks, SC tells Delhi high court||The Supreme Court, on Wednesday asked the Delhi high court to decide within two weeks the petition filed before it challenging the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police commissioner, observing that “time is of the essence”.A bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana allowed an NGO, Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL), to move a plea before the high court and argue its case “substantially”.“We understand time is of the essence in this matter. We can fix a time limit of two weeks for the high court to dispose of this matter... you can argue your petition substantially without getting bothered by the other petitioners before the high court,” the bench, which included justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant, told CPIL’s lawyer Prashant Bhushan.The court also kept CPIL’s petition before it against Asthana’s appointment pending, observing it would like to have the benefit of the high court order before the case is taken up after two weeks.“We request the Delhi high court to consider the matter as early as possible and preferably within a period of two weeks from today to enable us to have the benefit of the judgment of the said court... If the petitioner (CPIL) wants to file any intervention application in the matter pending before the high court and/or to assist the said court, it would be at liberty to do so,” the bench stated in its order.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Union government, submitted that two weeks could be insufficient for a decision in the case by the high court. “Heavens are not going to fall. Two weeks may not be sufficient. We have to also put in our reply. Give at least four weeks,” argued Mehta.But the court turned down the SG’s plea for extending the time. “Let the high court say something,” responded the CJI.A day earlier, the high court adjourned a similar petition filed before it by an advocate to September 24 after taking note of Bhushan’s statement that CPIL’s petition for identical relief is coming up before the Supreme Court on Wednesday. The high court observed that there should not be contradictory orders passed by two different courts in identical matters.On Wednesday, when the CJI-led bench took up CPIL’s petition, the SG questioned why the NGO’s petition should be entertained directly by the Supreme Court when the Delhi high court is competent to decide the issues involved. “What fundamental rights of the petitioner have been taken away by this appointment?” asked Mehta.When asked by the bench, Bhushan said that he does not want to argue this case before the high court since the petition there could be an “ambush petition” by somebody, who in complicity with the government, wants the case to be dismissed. He contended that Asthana’s appointment on July 27 was in egregious violation of the laws and the orders of the apex court and violated the fundamental rights of the people in Delhi.Bhushan also submitted that the petitions seeking quo-warranto (a writ) can be filed under Article 32 (writ jurisdiction for protection of fundamental rights) and that the Supreme Court has earlier issued directions regarding the appointment of the central vigilance commissioner in a petition filed by CPIL.At this, CJI Ramana expressed his reservations in hearing the petition, pointing out that the CJI had conveyed his views about Asthana when the 1984-batch IPS officer was being considered for the post of chief of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).In May, CJI Ramana, while participating in the high-powered committee for the selection of the CBI director (the Prime Minister and the leader of the opposition in the Lok Sabha were the other members), flagged a 2006 Supreme Court ruling that required a police chief to have a minimum residual tenure of six months, resulting in the disqualification of Asthana from being considered for the post of CBI director.“There are two issues. One, I have expressed my views about this gentleman during the CBI selection...I don’t want to comment on the merit of this case. And second, there is already someone who has moved the high court. We are fixing a time limit of two weeks so that the high court could decide it,” the CJI told Bhushan.Interestingly, CPIL’s petition references the same 2006 Prakash Singh case.On his part, Bhushan insisted that the Supreme Court should not simply send this matter to the high court, and argued that Asthana’s appointment was one of the most brazen examples of flouting the laws and the orders of the apex court.“There was first an order in July approving his (Asthana’s) inter-cadre deputation from Gujarat cadre to AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram and Union Territory) cadre to make him eligible for the post. Then he is given an extension of one year and finally, four days before his retirement, he is appointed as the police chief. And he is appointed only for one year. The rule regarding the minimum six months’ tenure; the rule regarding empanelment by the UPSC; the rule regarding a minimum tenure of two years; everything has been thrown to the wind just to appoint this gentleman,” claimed the lawyer.The -G contested Bhushan’s statements regarding “ambush petitions” and said that the court has seen professional PIL litigants who file surrogate pleas. “Suppose, tomorrow there is a petition challenging the appointment of police commissioner in Chandigarh or Bengaluru. Will this court entertain it directly under Article 32?” asked Mehta.The bench, however, said that it will adjourn the case for two weeks while asking the Delhi high court to decide the matter before it by then.CPILapproached the top court to quash Asthana’s appointment as Delhi Police chief, contending that the appointment order is in clear and blatant breach of the directions passed by the top court in the Prakash Singh case, which required a police chief to have a minimum residual tenure of six months. Besides, CPIL claimed, no UPSC panel was formed for the appointment and the criterion of having a minimum tenure of two years was also ignored.“The post of commissioner of police in Delhi is akin to the post of DGP of a state and he is the head of police force for the NCT of Delhi and therefore, the directions concerning the appointment to the post of DGP passed by this Hon’ble Court in the Prakash Singh case had to be followed by the central government while making the impugned appointment,” stated the plea.Another petition seeking to initiate contempt of court action against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah over the decision to appoint Rakesh Asthana as the Delhi Police commissioner was filed by advocate ML Sharma who mentioned the same before the Supreme Court on August 6. This plea, however, has not been listed to date.Advocate Sadre Alam has filed a similar petition before the Delhi high court where the Union government has taken a preliminary objection against the plea on the ground that the lawyer has no locus standi (legal standing) to challenge Asthana’s appointment. Representing the Centre, additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma argued on August 18 that service matters cannot be challenged in a PIL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decide-plea-against-capital-s-top-cop-rakesh-asthana-in-two-weeks-supreme-court-tells-delhi-high-court-101629917293756.html
26-08-2021||India||Modi chairs 37th PRAGATI meeting, reviews 8 Projects||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday chaired the 37th PRAGATI meeting where he reviewed the functioning of eight projects worth rupees 1,26,000 crore. He also reviewed the progress of the One Nation One Ration Card (ONORC) scheme. PRAGATI is a communications platform that stands for Pro-Active Governance and Timely Implementation. Officers from various states were part of the meet.“Among the eight projects, three projects each, were from the Ministry of Railways and Ministry of Road Transport & Highways and two projects were from the Ministry of Power. These eight projects have a cumulative cost of Rs. 1,26,000 crores concerning 14 states…” a statement from PM’s office said adding that PM emphasised on timely completion of these projects.While reviewing progress on the ONORC scheme, PM told the officials to “explore the multiple utilities of the technological platform developed under the scheme.”The national database formed under the scheme lists the migrant workers and will be launched on Thursday by Labour Minister Bhupendra Yadav. Earlier on Tuesday, its logo was launched by the same minister.Various NGOs and even apex court had been stressing upon the government for early completion of this database. Migrant workers had complained of ration crisis ahead of the mass interstate migration of workers during the two Covid waves in the country.ONORC scheme aims at providing subsidised food grains to migrant workers and their family members at any fair price shop anywhere in the country under the National Food Security Act, 2013. Launched in August 2019, until now 32 states and Union Territories have joined the ONORC, and beneficiaries include over 739 million people.At the meeting, PM also stressed on states to keep monitoring the construction of oxygen plants and availability of hospital beds. “In the previous 36 PRAGATI meetings, 292 projects having a total cost of 13.78 lakh crore have been reviewed,” PM’s office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-chairs-37th-pragati-meeting-reviews-8-projects-101629917123298.html
26-08-2021||India||Bengal to go slow on Pegasus probe after SC calls for ‘restraint’||Nudged by the Supreme Court, the West Bengal government on Wednesday agreed to go slow on its probe into the Pegasus snooping controversy by a two-member commission of inquiry headed by retired judge Madan B Lokur.A top court bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, was clear that since the entire gamut of the Pegasus controversy was being considered by it in a separate bunch of cases where the Union government has offered to set up an expert committee to examine various aspects of charges related to the alleged snooping, it made sense for the West Bengal panel to “show restraint”.“Of course, it (commission by West Bengal) has a bearing with the set of other matters being heard by us. In all fairness, we expect that you can wait for some time. If you want us to pass some orders, we can do that too. But you will have to maintain restraint,” the bench, which also included justice Surya Kant, told senior lawyer Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who appeared for the state government.At the outset of the hearing, senior advocate Harish Salve, who represented the petition filed by NGO Global Village Foundation Public Charitable Trust seeking disbanding of the commission, submitted that there cannot be two parallel inquiries in the same subject matter.Opposing this, Singhvi questioned the bona fide of the petition but the bench remained firm that notwithstanding the petitioner’s legal standing, the state government will have to hold its hand till the court takes up all the cases together sometime next week.“The other cases will have pari materia effect (form part of the same subject matter) on this case too. We will have your assistance when we hear those cases but you will have to agree to not do anything. You will not issue public notice or hold hearings,” the bench told Singhvi.At this, the senior counsel sought to point out that nothing drastic will be done by the commission in the next one or two weeks, but it must also be taken note of that there is a panel which is already examining the matter. “Between now and next week, nothing earth shattering is happening. But a single word by your lordships word will create a huge splash and that’s what they want,” submitted Singhvi.The bench, however, retorted: “But it is you who is inviting an order. We are saying that we will not stay (the proceedings before the commission) because you have agreed that you will not precipitate the matter. But if you start hearing and holding inquiries then we will have to stop it. Please, show restraint.”With the writing on the wall clear, Singhvi responded: “Please, say nothing. The court does not need to say anything. I will convey it. Nothing will happen for one or two weeks.”Following the assurance from Singhvi, the court issued a formal notice on the NGO’s petition and tagged it with the clutch of other cases filed by journalists, politicians and civil rights activists who have demanded a court-monitored investigation into the alleged snooping row.The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international investigative consortium reported that the phones of Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 that were potentially targeted by Pegasus, Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. According to this consortium, Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning a phone into a pocket spy.On August 18, the bench agreed to examine the NGO’s petition, argued by advocate Saurabh Mishra who also asked for an immediate stay on proceedings before justice Lokur’s commission to avoid any parallel inquiry.On Tuesday, the West Bengal government filed its reply affidavit to the NGO’s petition, calling the Union government “non-committal and evasive” on the issue. Justifying the creation of the panel, which also comprised former acting chief justice of the Calcutta high court Jyotirmay Bhattacharya, the state said that the commission will “put into place effective countermeasures against any rogue foreign spyware”.The Mamata Banerjee-led government also questioned the motive behind the NGO’s plea, claiming that the trustee and chairman of the NGO has close links with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and its affiliate, Swadeshi Jagran Manch.“It cannot be disputed that RSS and the Swadeshi Jagran Manch and the ruling party at the Centre, the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) are affiliates and have often vilified the state government for political gains,” stated the affidavit, contending that the petition is filed with the intent to obstruct any independent inquiry into the matter.The West Bengal government further maintained that given the potential ramifications of the media reports on the fundamental right to privacy, independence of public institutions and the preservation of democracy, “the state government could not sit as a silent spectator particularly when the Union government was not only non-committal and evasive on the subject but had also at the very threshold dismissed the allegations under the rubric of sensationalism”.The Supreme Court is expected to take up next week a bunch of other petitions on the Pegasus controversy. Responding to these petitions, the Union government has offered to set up an expert committee to look into the row while maintaining that a “false narrative” is being spun over the use of Pegasus. The Centre has, however, refused to disclose whether it used Pegasus for tracking individuals, citing concerns of national security and defence of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-to-go-slow-on-pegasus-probe-after-sc-calls-for-restraint-101629916994342.html
26-08-2021||India||Ready for overflow of Afghanistan terror to India: CDS||India is concerned about terrorist activity in Afghanistan spilling over into the country after the Taliban’s takeover, but contingency plans are in place to deal with the scenario, chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat said on Wednesday.The CDS’s comments came days after Taliban wrested control of the Afghan capital Kabul, capping a swift takeover of most major cities in that country. Rawat, the country’s senior-most military commander, said India anticipated the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan but its rapid pace was still a surprise.“From the Indian perspective, we were anticipating the Taliban takeover. We were concerned about terrorist activity overflowing into India from Afghanistan. Our contingency planning is ongoing, and we are prepared for that,” Rawat said.He was speaking at an Observer Research Foundation (ORF) seminar on India-US Partnership: Securing the 21st Century, sharing the stage with Admiral John C Aquilino, commander, US Indo-Pacific Command. The two military leaders held a separate meeting on Wednesday and discussed matters related to peace and security in the region as well as bilateral military defence cooperation.“Everything that has happened [in Afghanistan] was anticipated. Only the timelines changed and certainly surprised us because we were anticipating this [takeover] happening a couple of months down the line,” Rawat said at the ORF event.In an assessment as recently as last month, the Indian side concluded that the Taliban would shift its campaign to capture territory from rural areas to urban centres and provincial capitals only by the end of August, after the completion of the withdrawal of US forces. The Indian side also expected that there would be air support for Afghan security forces from the US if the Taliban entered urban areas. Assessments done by both the Indian and Afghan sides also suggested that the fighting would continue for at least two to three months, till winter set in.However, the Taliban rapidly stepped up its offensive this month, seizing one provincial capital after another, both in the southern part of Afghanistan, the traditional stronghold of the group, and the north, where it had faced greater resistance in the past.This was done by concluding agreements with warlords and commanders of the security forces, and thousands of troops simply surrendered without a fight at a time when the Ashraf Ghani government showed no indication of taking the fight to the Taliban. There was no air support on display either.Rawat said the group, which was ousted from power in Afghanistan by US-led coalition forces in 2001, was the same Taliban that existed 20 years ago. “All that has happened is that partners have now changed. It is the same Taliban with different partners…We will make sure that any activity which is likely to flow out of Afghanistan and find its way into India will be dealt with in the manner in which we are dealing with terrorism in the country,” the CDS added.India should stay prepared for terror spillover from Afghanistan into Jammu and Kashmir via Pakistan, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd).“But working on a matrix of probability and possibility, the probability is there but possibility of terror inflow in J&K in the near future appears distant. The reason is that taking over control of Afghanistan by Taliban was easy but establishing control will be difficult. The group will channelise its energy to establish control there,” Jaswal said. He said India has a window of opportunity to finish off home-grown terrorism is J&K before the Taliban attempts to send a few leaders to exploit that network in India.With the Taliban now firmly in control of nearly all of Afghanistan, the biggest concern for Indian security agencies is the presence there of between 7,000 and 10,000 terrorists from Pakistan-based groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed, Haqqani Network, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi and Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan. These groups have targeted Indian interests in Afghanistan in the past, and some like LeT have carried out attacks on Indian soil.Mullah Mohammad Yaqoob, the son of Taliban founder Mullah Mohammed Omar and the head of the group’s military operations, is believed to work closely with both LeT and JeM commanders. These two terror groups have also helped the Taliban with fund-raising, recruitment, and military advice.The ORF event on India-US partnership also put the spotlight on China expanding its military capabilities at a swift pace, including acquiring strategic weapons and building a fleet of aircraft carriers to operate and dominate waters thousands of miles away from its shores.“It is the largest military buildup since World War II, both in the conventional and the nuclear domain. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s words don’t really match their deeds,” said Aquilino, raising questions about Beijing’s intentions.Rawat said India was quite capable of dealing with China and Pakistan in the conventional domain. “Strategic weapons are weapons of deterrence, not for engaging nations in combat. We have two neighbours armed with strategic weapons. India is evolving its own strategies and has a triad,” he said. India’s nuclear triad gives it the capability to carry out nuclear strikes from land, air and sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-for-overflow-of-afghanistan-terror-to-india-cds-101629916874840.html
26-08-2021||India||Posters slam AMU V-C for condoling former CM’s death||Agra: Posters against Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) vice-chancellor (VC) Prof Tariq Mansoor for condoling the death of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh appeared on the varsity campus, prompting the state government to warn of strict action against those with “Talibani thinking” after getting the matter probed. The posters, which appeared on Monday night, were later removed from the campus and strict vigilance was maintained to ensure they do not reappear, a college official familiar with the matter said.“Around 10 pm on Monday, a few posters were found pasted on the notice board near the mosque premises within the varsity campus. Some posters were found lying on the ground. These posters were removed. A search was also held to trace similar posters elsewhere in the campus but nothing was found,” Prof Wasim Ali, proctor of Aligarh Muslim University, said. “A team led by two assistant proctors kept vigil and no posters were found after that. These posters were in English but not signed. No individual or group owned responsibility for them. We have launched an inquiry into the matter,” Ali added. According to the official cited above, the posters claimed that the VC hurt religious sentiments by condoling the death of Singh, who was the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh when the Babri Mosque was demolished on December 6, 1992. Singh had resigned that same evening.The former chief minister passed away in Lucknow on Saturday after a prolonged illness. One poster said that Mansoor’s words condoling the passing of Singh were “ not only a matter of shame but also hurting religious sentiments of our community since it is against the ethos, culture and tradition of AMU”. It went on to blame Singh for the “demolition of Babri Masjid”. The posters were attributed to “Students of Aligarh Muslim University” . Taking note of the developments, state minister Mohsin Raza said the VC acted as per “our culture” and the posters were an attempt to vitiate the atmosphere. “If some persons of Talibani soch (thinking) are there, we will also treat them accordingly,” he said, adding that the matter will be investigated and strict action will be taken to set an example for others. “This is a university of Hindustan. The Taliban (Afghanistan’s militia group) is not here. This is an attempt to vitiate the atmosphere,” the minister of state for minority welfare, Muslim Waqf and Haj, added. In his condolence message, the VC on Sunday said: “Shri Kalyan Singh played an important role in the public life of the country and development of Uttar Pradesh. May his soul rest in peace and Almighty God give solace and strength to his family to bear this great loss.”Singh was among 32 people, along with BJP veterans L K Advani and M M Joshi, who were acquitted by a special CBI court in the Babri demolition case in September last year. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/posters-slam-amu-v-c-for-condoling-former-cm-s-death-101629916816825.html
26-08-2021||India||Committed to holding caste census: BJP MP||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s member of Parliament from Maharashtra, Pritam Munde, also the daughter of one of the party’s most prominent Other Backward Class(OBC) leaders, the late Gopinath Munde, has reiterated the ruling party’s commitment to conduct a caste census, as articulated by her father on the floor of Parliament in March, 2011.Munde said that the BJP was not the kind of party that said one thing in opposition and then changed its position in government. Munde’s words come at a time when the demand for a caste census has grown louder .The demand is supported by some members of the BJP itself, many of its allies, including the Janata Dal United, and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, friendly parties such as the Biju Janata Dal and the YSR Congress, and almost the entire Opposition.The government itself has not explicitly taken a stand on the issue, give its sensitivity and the possibility that it could trigger a backlash, both from OBCs that lose out on benefits if th reservation formula is redefined following the census, and from upper castes that fear the survey could be a precursor to breaching the 50% limit for reservations.“My father was deputy leader of opposition when he spoke about it. It does not matter if you are in the opposition or in the ruling party as long as you feel for a cause. I don’t think we are that sort of party who come into power and then change their agenda or manifesto’’ Munde said.“When you already have reservation depending on caste system, then you need to know the total number of people belonging to a particular community. We do believe it should be done else how are we going to decide how much to reserve. Who decides OBCs are 27%?’’To be sure, the 27% number was arrived despite the Mandal commission estimating the OBC share of the population at 52% to ensure reservations did not breach the 50% ceiling mandated by the Supreme Court in the Indra Sawhney case. People belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes get 22.5% reservation for jobs and admission to educational institutions.In 2011, Gopinath Munde made a 20 minute speech in parliament where he put forth his party’s position on why an OBC census is required. In an emotive speech , and cheered on by other Opposition members, he said OBCs were wronged by having just one census in 1931.Interestingly the 2011 Census was accompanied by a caste census but its findings were never made public. The government claimed this was on account of inaccuracies in data gathering but it is likely political compulsions stayed its hand.Munde’s speech is now being referred to by those within the BJP who support the idea, including former Bihar deputy chief minister, and Rajya Sabha member Sushil Modi.”I have never come across anybody who is opposing this concept,’’ said Munde. “In the general census, in forms they ask you if you belong to SC or ST community, but no columns for OBC. If SC/ST need to be counted, then OBC should also be counted.’’When all parties from Bihar met the Prime Minister this week, he heard out all the leaders and the government is expected to take a call on a survey soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/committed-to-holding-caste-census-bjpmp-101629916815285.html
26-08-2021||India||Need SC approval for 10% EWS quota in medical colleges, Madras HC rules||The concept of reservation as envisioned by the Constitution was turned on its head by repeated extensions, the Madras high court said on Tuesday as it ruled that quotas for the economically backward classes in medical colleges needed approval from the Supreme Court.A bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice PD Audikesavalu approved a July notification by the Centre to provide 27% reservation to Other Backward Class (OBC) candidates in medical colleges under the all-India quota (AIQ), and closed a contempt petition by Tamil Nadu’s ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on the matter.But it raised a question on implementation of 10% EWS quota as it breached the 50% cap set by the Supreme Court in a landmark 1992 judgment.The HC observed that the concept of reservation, as envisioned by those framing the Constitution, had been “turned on its head” by repeated amendments and “the veritable reinvigoration of the caste system”.“Rather than the caste system being wiped away, the present trend seems to perpetuate it by endlessly extending a measure that was to remain only for a short duration to cover the infancy and, possibly, the adolescence of the Republic. Though the life of a nation state may not be relatable to the human process of aging, but at over-70, it ought, probably, to be more mature,” the bench added.The DMK’s contempt petition contended that central government officials should be punished for not implementing an order of the high court issued in July 2020 in favour of OBC reservations in medical seats.“The notification of July 29, 2021 issued by the Union as a consequence of the order dated July 27, 2020, appears to be in order insofar as it provides for reservation for scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and OBC categories...” the bench said.”The additional reservation provided for economically weaker sections in the notification of July 29, 2021 cannot be permitted, except with the approval of the Supreme Court in such regard,” the bench added.The bench’s objections appeared to stem from the fact that with the 10% quota for EWS, the total quantum of reservation breaches the 50% cap set by the Supreme Court. In a verdict in May this year, the top court refused to relook at the 50% cap.Challenges to the EWS reservation -- instituted in 2019 ahead of the general elections -- are pending before the apex court.In a response in Parliament in July, the government had said that the May verdict of the Supreme Court won’t affect EWS quotas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-sc-approval-for-10-ews-quota-in-medical-colleges-madras-hc-rules-101629916759595.html
26-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh Class 9 student stabbed to death in school; 2 minors arrested||RAIPUR: A 15-year-old was stabbed to death allegedly by two minors in a government school in Raigarh 250 km from state capital Raipur, police said on Wednesday.Police said the incident took place on Tuesday afternoon on the school premises.“We have arrested the accused teenagers, both aged around 17, and booked them under relevant sections of IPC,” said superintendent of police, Raigarh, Abhishek Meena. He said the teenager who died was a Class 9 student“The deceased had a fight with a girl in the school and the girl told her boyfriend about the fight. The boyfriend along with his friend, also a minor, reached the school and stabbed him thrice,” said the SP.“The victim tried to escape... Later the teachers rushed him to the hospital where he died,” said the SP. The deceased’s sister, who also studies in the same school, told police that the two accused had beaten her brother in the past also After the incident on Tuesday, Meena constituted four police teams to trace the accused who were later arrested.A case was registered against the accused under Indian Penal Code Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-class-9-student-stabbed-to-death-in-school-2-minors-arrested-101629916759122.html
26-08-2021||India||Rajasthan internal rift may reflect in AICC reshuffle||For the Congress, which is busy firefighting in Punjab and Chhattisgarh, its crisis in Rajasthan is far from over. And it might reflect in the forthcoming organisational reshuffle of the All India Congress Committee.There is speculation that former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan Sachin Pilot, who rebelled against chief minister Ashok Gehlot, might be assigned a plum position in the party organisation. Pilot, 43, has been a former Union minister, deputy CM and president of Rajasthan Congress.Congress leaders claimed that going by the negotiations between Pilot and the party high command, he is expected to handle an “important” organisational responsibility and may even return to the Rajasthan government at a later stage. When contacted, Pilot said, “I am a loyal soldier of the Congress. I have not heard anything. But I will give my 100% in whatever task my party gives me.”The biggest hurdle in a smooth resolution, according to two Congress insiders, is the pending issue of “resettlement” of MLAs loyal to Pilot who are now out of the Gehlot government. Before the resettlement happens, it might be politically difficult for Pilot to be accommodated in the top rung of the party leadership.“Party workers, who actually fought the election, toiled on the ground and helped the Congress win the election in 2018, have not been rewarded. Pilot had raised this issue repeatedly with the high command. But so far, there is no decision,” said a senior Congress leader from Rajasthan.The Congress, especially Ashok Gehlot, however, has not much to worry about immediately as the state government survived the threat of rebellion last year and is now in a comfortable position in the assembly. The rebellion fizzled out and Pilot lost both his deputy CM berth and the chair of the state Congress.But for the long-term prospects of the Congress, which lost young leaders such as Jyotiraditya Scindia (now the Union civil aviation minister), Himanta Biswa Sharma (now the Assam CM) and Jitin Prasada, an early resolution of the Rajasthan crisis could be helpful. In fact, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, in his breakfast meeting on August 3, had reportedly told some opposition leaders, “I am trying to resolve the Rajasthan issue soon.”But the recent political appointments in Rajasthan have further complicated the situation. The state has appointed chairpersons and members to various commissions, but a majority of these posts have gone to retired bureaucrats allegedly close to Gehlot. A close relative of former Aam Aadmi Party leader Kumar Vishwas and a relative of West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar have also been allegedly given appointments, but Pilot loyalists are still left out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-internal-rift-may-reflect-in-aicc-reshuffle-101629916693694.html
26-08-2021||India||SC tells CBI, ED not to delay investigations in cases against MLAs, MPs||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) not to keep the sword of investigation hanging over MPs and MLAs indefinitely, and to conclude such cases one way or the other.“There is a case pending investigation since 2010 by ED...another case by CBI since 2013. The charge sheet is yet to be filed. Why should an investigation remain pending for so long? Don’t keep the sword hanging over them...don’t give an impression that the investigation is still on. Either file a charge sheet or close the case,” a bench, led by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for CBI and ED.The bench, which also comprised justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant, was hearing a public interest litigation filed by Bharatiya Janata Party leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, who has raised the issue of fast-tracking criminal trial against lawmakers and constitution of special courts.After going through the status report submitted by CBI and a note shared by amicus curiae (to assist the court) and senior advocate Vijay Hansaria, the bench underscored that out of 121 cases probed by CBI against sitting and former MPs and MLAs, investigations were not over in 37 of them.Similarly, in 122 cases registered by ED under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), investigations were pending in 76 cases.“We want an explanation of the delay in investigations by the CBI and ED... We have a lot of time but we don’t know if investigating agencies also have the time to analyse why these cases have been pending for so long,” commented the bench.It observed that the court does not want to demoralise CBI or ED but the delay in completion of the probe required a proper explanation and swift action.About the cases being probed by ED, the bench told Mehta: “Your report is very inconclusive. You have not given any reason for not filing a charge sheet for 10 years in some of the cases. You attach properties but you do not file charge sheets. No purpose will be served only by attaching properties... We are not here to create hindrances in the probe but the cases have to be decided either way. You have to conclude them.”The court also asked the S-G to have an action plan to evaluate the manpower and other resources required by CBI and ED. “Just like us (courts), investigating agencies are also suffering from lack of infrastructure, manpower and other resources,” observed the bench.At this, Mehta said that he would have a joint meeting of directors of both the agencies to figure out the shortcomings and resolve the issues relating to manpower.The S-G also requested the bench to issue directives on expediting the trials against the lawmakers by fixing a timeline of six months for completion of investigations and a reasonable time frame for conclusion of trials.“Where are the judges? There are 1000 cases pending in one trial court. How do you expect us to expedite trials? We wanted the Government of India to create special courts separately and provide infrastructure but it looks like you are not in a position to do it... We are all in the hands of the S-G. As and when he can provide us infrastructure, we can hear the cases on an urgent basis,” retorted the court.Hansaria also urged the bench to pass certain directives for speeding up the cases of legislators before the trial courts but the bench was of the view that no generic order can be issued to hear one category of cases out of turn. “You have to be practical. There is a shortage of judges. They have to hear several other cases too. Many other cases are also priority matters,” it said.The amicus further raised the issue of withdrawal of cases by several state governments including the Uttar Pradesh government that has withdrawn 77 cases against political leader Sadhvi Prachi and three sitting MLAs – Sangeet Som, Suresh Rana and Kapil Dev — for making inflammatory statements during the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots.The bench said that it has already issued a direction earlier this month that no criminal case against MPs or MLAs can be withdrawn without an approval of the high court of the concerned state.“We are not against withdrawing cases but they cannot be withdrawn just by using the term ‘malicious prosecution’. But sitting in Delhi, we cannot examine all the cases states want to withdraw. Let the states go to the high courts and satisfy the high courts about withdrawal,” said the court, adding it will soon issue further directions in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-tells-cbi-ed-not-to-delay-investigations-in-cases-against-mlas-mps-101629916574611.html
26-08-2021||India||Shiv Sena MLA comment adds fuel to Rane ‘slap CM’ row||A defiant Union minister Narayan Rane targeted the Maharashtra government on Wednesday over his dramatic arrest as political tensions continued to simmer in the state with the Shiv Sena issuing threats and the Bharatiya Janata Party deciding to move court.A former Sena leader turned BJP minister, Rane was arrested on Tuesday for saying that he wanted to slap chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who allegedly forgot the year of India’s independence during a speech. Rane became the first sitting Union minister to be arrested in 20 years but was released on bail late in the night by a court in Raigad district.On Wednesday, the state government told the Bombay high court that it will not take any “coercive” action against Rane but the minister remained combative.“I am not afraid of anyone and I am not backing out. My words were an expression of anger against the chief minister who forgot the year of India’s Independence. I only told reporters what he had already said, so how can it be a crime?” he said.The 69-year-old politician also alleged that Thackeray in the past had said Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath should be hit with sandals. “Thackeray called Union home minister Amit Shah shameless. He even said he was using unparliamentary words deliberately to describe Shah. Why was no action taken then?” Rane asked.Shiv Sena leader and spokesperson Sachin Ahir said, “The law is equal for all, we do not deny it but Rane has been targeting our party and leadership continuously without any reason for the last two years. Whatever Uddhav ji has been speaking against leaders from BJP has been a reaction to issues pertaining to that particular time. We do not justify the violence by our workers but it’s a reaction to the remarks by Rane. Action has been taken against them as well.”Rane’s comments had sparked violent clashes across Maharashtra on Tuesday as Sena workers went on a rampage, vandalising some BJP offices. Tempers continued to run high on Wednesday.The party’s Hingoli legislator Santosh Bangar dared Rane to remove his security and face him. “We have the strength to come and bash you at your house. You keep your police protection aside. I, Santosh Bangar, a Sena activist will come alone and if I don’t remove your guts then I will never take my name again,”Bangar told local channels.BJP legislator Ram Kadam said the party would like to see the action taken by the Sena-led government. “These are all empty threats but since they are made by the legislator we would like to see what action will be taken against Bangar for threatening a union minister,” said Kadam.Sena defended Bangar. “Shiv Sainiks are emotional about their chief and Narayan Rane provoked them with such insulting remarks. Its Rane’s fault which is facing such backlash,” said Sena spokesperson Manisha Kayande.Nitesh, Rane’s younger son and BJP lawmaker, tweeted a video indicating that a befitting reply will be given for the action against his father.In a speech on Monday, Rane criticised Thackeray for allegedly confusing the number of years since India’s independence during the chief minister’s August 15 address. “It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire (with his aides) about the count of years of independence during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given him a slap under his ears,” Rane had said.On Tuesday afternoon, he was arrested while addressing events as part of the Jan Aashirwad tours being done by newly inducted Union ministers across the country.On Wednesday, the minister for micro, small and medium enterprises defended his comments and attacked Thackeray.“Thackeray asked his party workers, on August 1, to give a tight slap to (BJP legislator) Prasad Lad who had threatened to attack Sena Bhavan. Thackeray used derogatory language against Yogi Aadityanath and said that he should be beaten with chappals. He also called Union home minister Amit Shah shameless. Why action was not taken against him and why only against me? Whatever I spoke was out of the anger against Thackeray for him forgetting the year of independence of the country,” said Rane.He also condemned the violent clashes.“Sena has no power to beat up any BJP worker or leader. They pet stones from distance. BJP would not allow the violence to take place here in Maharashtra like it happened in West Bengal,” he said, referring to post-poll violence in the eastern state.The BJP also threatened to move court against Sena leader and transport minister Anil Parab for his purported orders to the police to arrest Rane.Parab, a close aide of Thackeay, was caught on camera giving instructions to someone--apparently a police officer--to arrest Rane without waiting for an arrest warrant and use force if necessary.“He asked the police to arrest Rane without warrant. We are moving court to understand in which capacity he was giving orders to the police. We are also moving court against Sena leader and deputy chairman of legislative council Neelam Gorhe for her political statement. The government has been acting with political vengeance by misusing police force,” said Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil.BJP leader and former minister Ashish Shelar demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into Parab’s alleged orders.“The leaked video clip was shot between 11 and 1pm on Tuesday when the hearing on bail application by Rane in high court and the session court had yet to begin. Despite which he told the IPS officer on other side that the application was rejected. He also orders the officer to arrest union minister by using force. The entire episode is shaky and needs to be investigated by a central agency like CBI,” he said.BJP’s vice president from Nallasopara, NAME, filed an FIR against Parab.Neither Sena nor Parab responded to requests for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-not-afraid-of-anyone-stand-by-my-wordsrane-101629916154966.html
26-08-2021||India||Vaccinate all teachers by September 5: Centre to states||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday announced that more than 20 million additional doses of Covid-19 vaccines will be distributed to states this month to vaccinate all school teachers on priority before Teachers’ Day on September 5. “This month, under the government’s free vaccination programme, we are providing 2 crore additional Covid-19 vaccine doses to all States. We have urged all states that before September 5 that is observed as Teachers Day, states should try and vaccinate all school teachers on priority,” the health minister tweeted. In a letter to all states, additional secretary of health ministry Manohar Agnani said the step was being taken to ensure protection of all teachers against Covid-19. “To facilitate this priority vaccination of all school teachers… additional Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to all states during the current month (to reach the States between 27th Aug to 31st Aug), for special campaign to vaccinate beneficiaries due for 2nd dose along with teaching and non-teaching staff of all government and private schools,” Agnani said in his letter.The Centre had allowed state governments to decide on reopening of schools keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation, in October last year. While several states had partially resumed physical classes, there was a complete closure again in April this year after a second wave of the disease hit the country.With an improvement in the Covid-19 situation again amid drop in cases, several states have begun reopening schools now even as concerns have been expressed over the staff and teachers not being completely vaccinated.As part of the exercise, the Centre directed states to document the vaccination status of teachers and non-teaching staff from secretaries of the school education department. The data should be triangulated with a unified district information system for education database to know the district wise number of teachers and non-teaching staff of schools.“This triangulation exercise will help in estimation of beneficiary load for special vaccination campaigns, thereby supporting efficient microplanning of such campaigns at district and subdistrict level through convergence of health and education department officials… and tailor made strategies as per the local needs,” the letter read.Union education minister Dharmedra Pradhan welcomed the health ministry’s decision and requested all states to cooperate. “Along with securing our future generation against Corona, this will prove to be a decisive step towards removing the obstacles in their studies caused due to this pandemic. I also request all the state governments to give their support and cooperation to this campaign in order to strengthen the foundation of the future,” he tweeted.States were also directed to make use of district magistrates to oversee the implementation of special vaccination campaigns; and earmarking specific days or specific Covid vaccination centres for conducting such campaigns so as to fully cover the target population group. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan also chaired a high-level meeting with states to review the vaccination progress. The health secretary advised states to focus on enhancing second dose coverage, for which he stressed on having a definite district level plan to cover maximum beneficiaries.“The states were also requested to identify districts whose vaccine coverage is lower than the state average and monitor as well as enhance progress of vaccination in these districts,” a statement by the health ministry on the review meeting read. The secretary also reviewed the policy of maintaining adequate buffer stock of medicines used in treating Covid-19. The states were told that they could also procure and maintain a buffer stock of medicines they deemed necessary other than the eight essential Covid drugs compulsorily mandated by the health ministry. “…most of these medicines can be supplied for use only after two to four weeks post production when the batch undergoes necessary quality testing; therefore advance planning for their procurement is required. Stock up early when cases are less and therefore demand is low, and procurement should happen in a staggered manner so that the logistics of production are not overwhelmed,” Union pharma secretary S Aparna said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccinate-all-teachers-by-september-5-centre-to-states-101629915558523.html
26-08-2021||India||Kerala records sharp increase in Covid infections after Onam||Kerala reported 31,445 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 19.03%, both the most in three months, suggesting that experts’ fears about the Onam effect may not have been misplaced.The cases reported were 70% of the total cases reported from the country on Wednesday.“We expected a hike after Onam. A special drive is on to increase testing and vaccination. Since sero prevalence is very low in Kerala we have to find the infected and quarantine them at the earliest. We will do everything possible to contain the surge,” said state health minister Veena George.Kerala’s biggest festival Onam was celebrated last week; the government relaxed restrictions for it, despite the state being an outlier in terms of positive cases over the past few months. Markets were jam-packed ahead of the festival; last year too, the state saw a surge in cases after Onam.The fourth round of the sero survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research in July showed antibody prevalence was 67. 7% nationally but it was only 42.7% in Kerala, meaning a huge chunk of its population is still susceptible to the virus. However, this theory is yet to be proven, and ICMR itself has said it does not make sense to disaggregate its overall sero-prevalence number across states.What is evident -- but again, not established -- is that Kerala, which escaped the brunt of the second wave in April and May is now seeing it, with infections likely being driven by a variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. If there’s a silver lining it’s the state’s vaccination numbers: 47.5% of the eligible population have received at least one dose of the vaccine and26.8% have been fully vaccinated. These are among the best numbers in the country for a mid-sized state.On Wednesday, the state reported 215 deaths taking total fatalities to 19,972. The number of active cases in the state as on Wednesday evening, was 170,292.Many hospitals have started feeling the pinch; government hospitals said only 10% of their beds are available, but added that there is no shortage of oxygen or essential medicines. The ICU occupancy (both private and public) is stable, the government claimed: 2,080 patients are in ICU and 780 are on ventilators. Out of 14 districts, four reported more than 3,000 fresh cases. Highest cases were reported from Ernakulam (4,048) followed by Thrissur (3,865) districts.Experts have asked the state to move away from cheap antigen tests and conduct more RT-PCR tests; the latter are considered the gold standard in testing. On Monday, Tamil Nadu conducted 1,52,000 RT-PCR tests and Karnataka 91,982 while Kerala’s share was 86,650. “The surge is on expected lines. The government will have to increase tests and vaccinate more people,” said Dr N M Arun, an internal medicine expert who has been tracking the case trajectory of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-records-sharp-spike-in-covid-cases-after-onam-101629915195162.html
26-08-2021||India||Three important medium-term questions about the economy||GDP numbers for the first quarter of 2021-22 will be released on August 31. In its latest resolution, the Monetary Policy Committee of the Reserve Bank of India projected 21.4% growth in the quarter. This will not make up for the 24.4% contraction in the same period last year. Other forecasters, such as State Bank of India’s chief economist have projected lower growth rates . The only reason these numbers have not set alarm bells ringing is because the June quarter saw a big disruption due to the second wave of Covid-19 infections.There is a view, especially within the government, about the inevitability of economic activity gathering momentum going forward. The biggest proof of this is the government’s roll-out of National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) for the next four years (from 2021-22 to 2024-25) this week. NMP is basically an exercise in leasing public assets to private players at a pre-determined price. The government expects to raise ₹6 lakh crore from this exercise over the period.Any such exercise only makes sense if the government can convince bidders that the economy will do well in the future. It is for this reason that the estimated proceeds have been qualified in the press release announcing the NMP. “The monetisation value that is expected to be realised by the public asset owner through the asset monetisation process, may either be in form of upfront accruals or by way of private sector investment. The potential value assessed under NMP is only an indicative high-level estimate based on thumb rules”, the release said.But what is the real state of the macro economy?The question of finance The press release issued on the roll-out of NMP has left the modalities of the implementation very broad based. “The assets and transactions identified under NMP are expected to be rolled out through a range of instruments. These include direct contractual instruments such as public private partnership concessions and capital market instruments such as Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvIT) among others.”One question that emerges is the method of financing such a monetisation programme. It is reasonable to assume that domestic capital will be a significant player in this exercise and private debt will be an important instrument. The sum involved is bound to have a significant impact on the debt market for infrastructure.RBI data available in the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) database shows that the total outstanding credit to infrastructure sector was ₹10.9 lakh crore at the end of 2020-21. So, the expected NMP proceeds are almost 60% of total outstanding credit to infrastructure. This highlights the credit market churn which NMP will unleash, even more so, when it is read along with an ambitious target for private investment under the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP). These numbers also underline the risk to the financial system any exuberance in valuation of the assets being monetised can bring, via future bad loans.How important are capital market driven wealth effect tailwinds for formal sector engine of the economy? Anybody who invested a significant sum when the stock markets crashed in March 2020 would have almost doubled it today. The ongoing stock market rally is bound to have generated a significant amount of positive wealth effect in the economy, especially among the classes and institutions which matter when it comes to big ticket investments. A look at the PE multiple – the ratio of price of a share and earnings per share – of the benchmark BSE Sensex shows that the stock market is more overvalued than it was before the pandemic. The persistence of a loose monetary environment has also encouraged another route to making stock market windfalls, where both institutional and high net worth individual players have exploited low interest rates to borrow money and invest in IPOs just to make listing day gains.The problem with such capital gains avenues is that they are not self-sustaining. As expectations of monetary tightening, both in India and abroad, increase, capital flight to advanced countries and profit booking endeavours might lead to a significant correction. Any such development is bound to create a significant negative wealth effect. While financial market exposure is not as high in India as it was in the US during the 2008 crisis, any significant correction will have a not insignificant effect on business sentiment. And corporate profits did not suffer significantly during the pandemic, ruling out the possibility of a large rebound as things improve. This reduces the likelihood of significant tailwinds to capital markets.Will inflation put a squeeze on future growth? Since December 2019 the Consumer Price Index has grown above RBI’s target of 4% every quarter. In the minutes of the latest MPC meeting, members warned against the practice of treating the upper band of 6% as the inflation target instead of the actual monetary target. RBI continues to maintain that the current phase of high inflation should be seen as transient and supply-side driven and monetary policy should do all it can do boost aggregate demand. Such an approach amounts to kicking the proverbial can of ”what will happen to already high inflation when aggregate demand picks up” down the road.The government has ruled out the possibility of providing any significant relief in petroleum prices. This is a direct fallout of the precarious fiscal situation. This will create a cascading effect on inflation. As the 2024 elections near, the government will have to consider bigger hikes in Minimum Support Prices, which have grown at a lower rate than retail inflation. Many experts expect a spike in services inflation, once vaccinations cross a critical threshold and demand picks up. Persisting high inflation can adversely affect growth via two routes. It can spook foreign capital , leading to exchange rate depreciation, adversely affecting India’s trade balance in energy (every barrel of oil will cost more in rupee terms). There is also the danger of high prices putting a squeeze on un-indexed earnings of informal sector workers, which will weaken aggregate demand.All the three questions discussed above can be combined in a simple, yet profound question: has the pandemic and the slowdown which preceded it damaged India’s potential growth rate?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-important-medium-term-questions-about-the-economy-101629904933070.html
26-08-2021||India||Scholar, Ambedkarite movement activist Gail Omvedt dies at 81||Gail Omvedt, a scholar renowned for her writings on Dalit history and politics, the Ambedkarite movement and social movements that challenged the caste hegemony prevalent in academic discourse,died on Wednesday at age 81. She is survived by her husband Bharat Patankar, daughter Prachi, granddaughter Nia and son-in-law Tejaswi.Born in Minneapolis in the United States, Omvedt came to India in 1971 for doctoral research on social movements and the work of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule. She began to live in Maharashtra and became an Indian citizen in 1983.Patankar, a well-known left activist, and Omvedt set up the socio-political organisation Shramik Mukti Dal in 1980 to address the issues of farmers and others toiling on land in Maharashtra. Over the years, the organisation took up concerns of those affected by dams, drought and project evictions, besides fighting caste-based oppressions.Omvedt’s scholarly writings were deeply connected with her activism on ground, and through both she influenced generations of students and young people. She was the head of the department of sociology and the Phule-Ambedkar chair in Sociology at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU).Omvedt was also a prolific writer, having published 22 books including Mahatma Phule, Dalit and the Democratic Revolution, Understanding Caste, and a biography of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar. She also wrote articles for newspapers and worked on projects with the United Nations Development Programme.“As a researcher and a scholar, Dr Omvedt contributed significantly to the social movements, folk traditions, literature in India as well as for the rights of women and the underprivileged. Her contribution will always be remembered as a scholar who had devoted herself for the society,” Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said.The Dalit Intellectual Collective said she was one of India’s most original thinkers who did not let caste and class be erased in the feminist movement. “Time is yet to produce another scholar and incisive and capacious thinker like her,” it said in a statement.Historian Ramchandra Guha, Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Sitaram Yechury, Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar also offered their condolences.“Dr Gail Omvedt was a very high level public intellectual because she actually integrated with the aspirations of the common people particularly the Bahujan class in Maharashtra. Her analysis of the cultural movements in Maharashtra, particularly of Mahatma Phule’s Satyashodhak movement, took the Left movement ahead in the state,” Senior CPI (M) leader Ajit Abhyankar said.“She was always juggling with new ideas, concepts and analysis,” said Dr Shruti Tambe, Head of Department of Sociology at SPPU.“She wrote on the history of intellectual history of western Maharashtra when she spoke about the colonial resistance movement and brought out the contributions by Mahatma Phule, Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj and Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar in making western India different from other parts of India. She was a passionate student of sociology and visited India to study social movements. She then settled here to participate in various campaigns, agitations and movements,” Tambe said.“She was always busy writing, giving lectures even outside the university and contributing to serious academic gatherings. Her involved participation in the women’s movement and the movements of Adivasi, Bahujan and the landless people was very important in shaping her scholarship,” she added.Activist Kiran Moghe, president of the Pune Zilla Ghar Kamgaar Sanghatan said, “As a part of women’s and progressive movements, she made very prominent contributions to class, caste and gender issues. She made us all think about all the complexities of the situation we were grappling with as activists in the state. Her writing in English gave all these issues a kind of a global platform and it got projected globally.”“Her contribution in the social field will not be forgotten. Her work for displaced and project-affected people in particular,” activist Vivek Pandit said.Omvedt will be laid to rest on Thursday morning at the Krantiveer Bapuji Patankar Sanstha campus in Sangli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/american-research-and-rights-activist-gail-omvedt-passes-away-101629885310600.html
