27-08-2021||India||BRICS nations call for differentiated responsibilities on climate change||New Delhi: The BRICS nations—Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa, released a New Delhi Statement on Environment at the 7th meeting of BRICS environment ministers on Friday, emphasising the principle of Common but Differentiated Responsibilities and Respective Capabilities (CBDR-RC) that means countries will act on climate change based on their respective capabilities.The statement said BRICS countries will cooperate closely ahead of the critical UN climate change negotiations (COP 26) and underlined that developed countries will have to honour their financial commitment of USD 100 billion per year to developing countries for climate change mitigation. “We agree to cooperate closely in the run up to the 26th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC COP26) in the United Kingdom and the 15th meeting of the Conference of Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD COP15) in China. We took note of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Working Group 1 contribution to the Sixth Assessment Report and noted that it is a clarion call for rapid, sustained and effective science-based responses to climate change,” the statement said.“We underscored the need to honour the commitments made by developed countries in the pre-2020 period even as we have moved into the post-2020 era, including the yearly US$ 100 billion goal for climate finance. We noted with grave concern the proposals for introducing trade barriers, such as unilateral carbon border adjustment, that are discriminatory,” it added. On March 10, the European Parliament adopted a resolution titled: “A WTO-compatible EU carbon border adjustment mechanism” which will put a carbon price on imports of a targeted selection of products so that ambitious climate action in Europe does not lead to ‘carbon leakage,’ according to the European Commission.The ministers acknowledged the importance of global action against climate change by recognizing the “fundamental equality of all people in accessing economic growth and sustainable development.” The statement also acknowledged the need to address marine plastic litter, cleaning of rivers, biodiversity and forest cover management.Union environment minister, Bhupender Yadav who chaired the meeting stated that India gives great importance to BRICS—”2021 is a very crucial year not only for the BRICS but for the whole world as well, as we have UN Biodiversity COP 15 in October and UNFCCC COP 26 in November. BRICS Countries can play a very significant role in addressing the contemporary global challenges of climate change, biodiversity loss, air pollution, marine plastic litter, etc.”COP 26 President Alok Sharma had met Yadav and other ministers earlier this month regarding raising ambition ahead of COP 26. Sharma in an interview to Hindustan Times had said “We want every country to set out plans to go to net-zero by the middle of the century.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brics-nations-call-for-differentiated-responsibilities-on-climate-change-101630088849920.html
27-08-2021||India||HT This Day: August 28, 1962 -- Milkha wins 400 metres in new Asian timing||Milkha wins 400 metres in new Asian timingJakarta- As expected, the "Flying Sikh" Milkha Singh won the 400 metres without much opposition to give India the second gold medal in athletics in the fourth Asian Games here today.The silver medal in the event was also gained by India through Makhan Singh.Milkha improved upon his own Asian timing of 47 sec. made at Tokyo by 0.1 sec. His timing today was, however, the same as his heats timing yesterday--46.9 sec.Finishing five metres ahead of his colleague, Milkha Singh did not strain much to amprove upon his timing of yesterday.At close today, India had a tally of four gold medals, national champion, Malwa, having been adjudged winner in the flyweight division of the wrestling championships. Genpat Andalkar claimed a gold medal in the heavyweight class.India's first gold medal had come on Saturday when Tarlok Singh had claimed the 10,000 metres.But the expectation that Tarlok Singh might return a 'double' did not come true as he finished third in the 5,000 metres and had to be content with the bronze medal in this event.The 5,000 metres turned out to be a struggle between Tarlok Singh, Pakistan's Mubarak Shah and Japan's Yokomizo.Tarlok, who was leading till the last three rounds, was cleverly overtaken by the Pakistani who set up a terrific pace in the last lap to finish 20 metres ahead of the second placed Japanese.All the three athletes in this race broke the Asian timing of 14 min. 39.4 sec.Tarlok's timing of 14 min. 31.4 sec. was, however, better than his Indian performance.Local hero, Mohammad Sarengat gave another gold medal to his country today when he prevailed in a photo-finish with Ghulam Razak, of Pakistan, to win the 110 metres hurdles in the record timing of 14.3 see.India's decathlon participant, Gurbachan Singh, finished fifth in this event.Both Amrit Pal and Mohinder easily won their respective heats in the 1,500 metres to make sure of the first two places in the final tomorrow.In volleyball, India became the winners of Pool B when they defeated Cambodia 15-10, 15-6, 15-5. India have thus reached the final.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-august-28-1962-milkha-wins-400-metres-in-new-asian-timing-101630088433999.html
27-08-2021||India||Indian Railways: Economy AC 3-tier fares to be 8% less than regular AC fare||As the Indian Railways is planning to introduce the special Economy AC 3-tier coached in September, the fare tariff has been fixed at 8% less than normal AC 3-tier, reports said. Since these special coaches are aimed at sleeper class passengers, the fare was a tricky issue as it has to be lower than normal AC 3-tier fare but higher than sleeper class fare. Reports said, the base fare for up to 300 km will be ₹440 which is the lowest according to the distance, while the highest base fare is ₹3,065 for 4,951 to 5,000 km.The first Economy AC 3 tier coach will be fitted in a special Prayagraj-Jaipur Express, reports said.The air-conditioned three-tier economy coaches are being seen as a gamechanger as they will offer the best AC travel at the cheapest price, the railways claimed earlier. According to the railways' plan, around 806 new coaches are to be rolled out by this fiscal, either by this year or at the beginning of the next year. "By the end of 2021, or in 2022, we will 806 AC three-tier economy class coaches. All our coach factories will work simultaneously to manufacture these coaches. The Railways is getting future-ready and will ensure that all passengers get better travelling experience than ever before," a railway official earlier said.The AC and the fare are not the best features of these coaches as the railways promised improved design, individual AC vents for each berth etc. The features of these special coaches include the modular design of seats, individual reading points, mobile charging points, more headroom for the upper and the middle berths.But how will it be feasible for the railways? In the newly designed coaches, there is a 15 per cent increase in the numbet of berths than regular AC coaches as the railways has converted the side two berths into three berths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-economy-ac-3-tier-fares-to-be-8-less-than-normal-ac-fare-101630084014434.html
27-08-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh schools to reopen from September 1 for classes 6 to 8||Schools in Madhya Pradesh are set to reopen from September 1 for classes 6 to 8 with 50% capacity, an official aware of the development said. For classes 9 to 12, schools will also be reopened daily with about 50% capacity. As of now, classes from 9 to 12 are being conducted once and twice a week. In a review meeting chaired by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan held on Friday evening, it was decided that classes will be held on all working days of the week with 50% capacity. Students will be able to attend the school with the consent of their parents, said Inder Singh Parmar, school education minister. The principals of the schools will be allowed to take a decision regarding the timings of schools and the ways to follow Covid-19 protocol. Parmar said that it would be mandatory for all the staff working in schools to have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Apart from the offline classes, online classes will be continued for students, who don’t want to attend school. Educational material will continue to be telecast on Doordarshan and WhatsApp groups for students of government schools. The decision to re-open schools was taken after reviewing the number of cases of Covid-19. The positivity rate of MP continued to be below 1% for the past one month. The total number of active cases in MP is 82 and on Friday, only 16 people tested positive for the viral disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-schools-to-reopen-from-september-1-for-classes-6-to-8-101630083270286.html
27-08-2021||India||Samyukt Kisan Morcha calls for 'Bharat Bandh' on September 25||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, spearheading the anti-farm laws protests, on Friday called for a 'Bharat Bandh' on September 25.The SKM said the move is aimed at further strengthening and expanding the farmers' agitation which completed nine months on Thursday.Addressing a press conference at Delhi's Singhu border, Ashish Mittal from SKM said, "We are calling for a 'Bharat bandh' on September 25. This is happening after a similar 'bandh' was organised on the same date last year, and we hope that it would be more successful than the one last year which was held amid the Covid-19 pandemic."Mittal, who was also the convener of the all-India convention by farmers that concluded on Friday, said the two-day event was a success, and saw the participation of representatives from 22 states, of not just 300 farm unions but also members of organisations that work for the welfare of women, labourers, tribals as well as youth and students.During the convention, discussions and deliberations took place on the farmers' struggle that has been going on for the last nine months, and it focused on making their agitation against the farm laws a pan-India movement, he said."During this convention we understood how the government has been attacking the farming community with the pro-corporate laws, and how by capturing the market, farmers' produce will be bought at lower prices."The government which is on the verge of bankruptcy, is trying to recover the money from the farmers, labourers and the common man by increasing the fuel prices and prices of cooking gas. All these anti-public steps are to benefit the corporate. It is important to strengthen our agitation against all of these factors," Mittal said.He added that their demands for repeal of the three farm laws, legal guarantee for MSP of all crops, repeal of Electricity Bill, 2021, and no prosecution of farmers under the 'Commission of AQ Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas Bill 2021' were also reiterated during the convention.Mittal also elaborated on the farmers' upcoming rally in Uttar Pradesh scheduled to take place in Muzaffarnagar on September 5, saying it is expected to witness the participation by lakhs of people."A call for strengthening this movement will be made from there. The movement will be taken to every zila there, and we have appealed to people to participate in large numbers."We have also appealed to farmer and labour organisations at the zila and lower levels to come together and discuss the impact of these laws and create a collective agitation across the country," he said.On Thursday, the farmers' protest against the three contentious laws completed nine months since they first arrived at the Delhi borders. The farmers have been demanding the repeal of the laws which they are afraid will do away with the MSP system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations.Over 10 rounds of talks with the government that has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samyukt-kisan-morcha-calls-for-bharat-bandh-on-september-25-101630081712415.html
27-08-2021||India||‘Long-term plan not been best of ideas’: Centre on letting Afghans stay for six months||India on Friday said that Afghan citizens being evacuated and brought to India from Afghanistan can arrive in the country only on a six-month visa and that the government will “take it from there.” “That’s the current plan for six months. This is an evolving situation. Making long-term plans has not been the best of ideas,” Union ministry of home affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told news agency ANI.This comes in the aftermath of India announcing that all Afghan nationals must arrive in the country only on the emergency e-visas, which was announced by the home ministry on August 17 in view of the Taliban taking over Afghanistan after two decades.Bagchi further told reporters during a weekly press briefing that more than 550 people have so far been flown out of Afghanistan by India on six independent flights – either from Kabul or Tajikistan’s capital Dushanbe. “Of these, over 260 were Indians. The government also facilitated the evacuation of Indian nationals through other agencies. We were in touch with various countries like [the] US and Tajikistan,” he added.Referring to the deportation of an Afghan woman MP Rangina Kargar, who claimed she was treated “as a criminal” in India, Baghchi cited “confusion over the e-Emergency visa system” to be the reason behind the incident and termed it as “unfortunate.”Also Read | Afghan woman MP complains she was 'treated like criminal', deported from India: Reports“There were reports of a group of people who raided one of our outsourcing agencies where Afghan passports with Indian visas were there,” he told reporters.A senior official on Thursday said that over 1,000 visas issued by the Indian embassy were reportedly stolen in Afghanistan due to which more than 11,000 visas given to Afghans between August 12 and 14, were cancelled. According to a separate ANI report, India has issued around 300 e-visas to Afghans so far.The official also said that intelligence agencies had anticipated the stolen visas could be misused amid the situation in Afghanistan.Also Read | Over 1,000 visas issued by Indian embassy were stolen in Afghanistan: ReportBagchi also said that India was able to evacuate “some Afghan nationals as well as [those] from other countries,” and that several of them were Sikhs and Hindus. “Primarily, our focus will be on Indian nationals, but we’ll also stand by Afghans who stood by us,” he was quoted as saying.Throwing light on the overall evacuation process, the home ministry spokesperson said that the “vast majority of Indians” who wish to return have been flown out of Afghanistan. “I don’t have the exact number for that,” Bagchi added.The evacuation deadline for foreign nationals and Afghans are only a few days away after the US President recently reinstated his move to stick to August 31, even as allied forces pushed him for an extension. His reaffirmation had come soon after the Taliban gave an ultimatum that an extension would invite “consequences.”Meanwhile, explosions at Kabul’s Hamid Karzai International Airport on Thursday, which was claimed by the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISIS-K), reportedly caused the death of at least 90 Afghans and 13 US Marines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-best-of-ideas-centre-on-not-allowing-long-term-stay-to-afghan-nationals-101630080116290.html
27-08-2021||India||CBI teams visit more Bengal families to investigate post-poll violence||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday recorded the statements of some families in at least three districts of West Bengal while carrying out an investigation into post-poll violence, said officials aware of the development. The investigation was ordered by the Calcutta high court on July 19. Two CBI teams went to South 24 Parganas and Nadia districts; while a third team revisited the home of Jaiprakash Yadav, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker who died in a bomb attack by motorcycle-borne assailants at Bhatpara in North 24 Parganas district on June 6. A fourth team is supposed to leave for north Bengal. Each of these four teams --- which comprise deputy inspector generals and superintendents from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Karnataka and other states – is being headed by a joint director. All the officers have arrived in Bengal. The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) is providing security to the visiting teams. A CBI team recorded the statements of Yadav’s parents on Thursday. “On Friday, the family was asked to identify the victim’s blood-soaked clothes which were kept in the custody of Bhatpara police station. This was done because Yadav’s face was mutilated beyond recognition by the bomb that hit him on the head,” a CBI officer stationed in Kolkata said on condition of anonymity. Members of the four CBI teams did not talk to the media in any of the districts they visited. On Thursday, they visited Kolkata, Purulia, Nadia and Bankura districts and registered nine first information reports (FIR). One of these was in connection with BJP worker Abhijit Sarkar’s murder in Kolkata’s Narkeldanga area on May 2. The Kolkata Police has so far arrested seven people in this case. On Friday, CBI officers who visited Nadia district talked to the family of BJP worker Palas Mandal who was killed on June 14 in Krishnanagar town. In South 24 Parganas district, the officers met some families in the Usthi area that witnessed violence after Trinamool Congress (TMC) swept the polls. On June 18, the Calcutta high court asked the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to probe the allegations of murders, rapes, extortion and arson that were raised from across the state after the March-April state polls in which the BJP won 77 seats against 213 bagged by the TMC. The BJP has alleged that 36 of its workers have been killed since May 2. After studying the final report the NHRC filed on July 13, the high court, on August 19, ordered a CBI probe into allegations of murder and rape and a parallel probe into the other offences by a three-member special investigation team (SIT) comprising IPS officers posted in Bengal. The NHRC recommended a CBI probe and hearing of the cases outside Bengal. The state government told the court that the NHRC report was biased and prepared with a political motive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-teams-visit-more-bengal-families-to-investigate-post-poll-violence-101630080570428.html
27-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kerala brings back Sunday lockdown amid Covid surge and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala sees another surge; brings back Sunday lockdownKerala on Friday reported another massive surge of Covid-19 infections as the state recorded 32,801 new cases taking the test positivity rate to 19.22 per cent. This is the second time since May 20, the peak of the second wave, that the state recorded over 30,000 fresh cases in 24 hours. Read more...China asks Taliban to break terror ties after Kabul airport attacksChina on Friday condemned the Kabul airport attacks and urged the Taliban to live up to its promise of breaking all ties with terrorist organisations. Read more...India administers record 90 lakh Covid vaccine doses in a single dayIndia on Friday administered a record 90 lakh vaccine doses against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya announced, saying the number is expected to go up. "This is highest ever vaccination achieved in a single day since the start of our vaccination drive," the ministry of health and family welfare said in a statement. Read more...IMD issues orange alert for 6 districts in Kerala for 2 daysThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday issued orange alerts for six districts in Kerala for two days on August 28 and 29. The weather body has also issued yellow alerts to all other districts in the state for the two days. Read more...India opener's uppercut six impresses Gavaskar, Manjrekar - videoThere was a glimpse of the white-ball Rohit Sharma on Day 3 of the third Test between India and England at Headingley in Leeds. Rohit played an upper cut off Ollie Robinson that flew over the slips and laded over the ropes to give India their first six of the match on Friday. Watch here...Samsung Galaxy Watch 4, Galaxy Buds 2 launched in IndiaSamsung earlier this month hosted the Galaxy Unpacked event wherein it launched the Galaxy Flip 3 and the Galaxy Fold 3 foldable display smartphones. Alongside the foldable display smartphones, Samsung also launched the Galaxy Watch 4 series smartwatch and Galaxy Buds 2 TWS earbuds. Read more...Anurag Basu comments on Shilpa Shetty’s return to Super Dancer 4 after Raj Kundra’s arrestShilpa Shetty, who took a few days off from Super Dancer 4 after her husband Raj Kundra’s arrest in a porn-related case, returned to the show earlier this month. She is one of the judges, alongside Anurag Basu and Geeta Kapur. In an interview, Anurag said that he comforted Shilpa with a hug as she came back on Super Dancer 4. Read more...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kerala-brings-back-sunday-lockdown-amid-covid-surge-and-all-the-latest-news-101630075725716.html
27-08-2021||India||Pilot of plane hijacked in 1999 says Afghan airspace very risky, explains why||Taliban ground fighters do not follow rules and hence Afghan airspace remains very risky, Captain Devi Sharan, the former Air India pilot whose IC-814 was hijacked to Kandahar in December 1999 said at a time India is operating evacuation flights to and from Kabul. India has been allowed two evacuation flights daily as the airspace remains restricted. Back-to-back blasts near Kabul airport on Thursday threatened the security of the evacuation drive countries are continuing, but threats are in the airspace as well, Sharan said."There is a lot of grey area. We have to always monitor the corridor route which we are following because the Taliban government says something and somewhere down their forces are doing something else. In such a situation, entering Afghanistan's airspace is very risky. They can always shoot the aircraft down," Sharan told ANI."I have operated many times over Afghanistan while flying to Europe and the USA. Whenever we used to hear the voice of air traffic controllers who were mainly American people, it used to give us a sense of security. We never felt the need to take an alternate route due to an emergency while we used to be en-route Kabul and Kandahar. We were quite comfortable if we had to land in Kabul or Kandahar in case of a technical emergency. We were quite satisfied with that because we used to listen to American traffic controllers on ATC," said Captain Devi.Earlier, Devi Sharan had said that he did not find any change in the Taliban fighters after the fall of Kabul on August 15, from their photos and videos. Seeing Taliban fighters roaming with weapons on Kabul street, Devi Sharan remembered the fighters who surrounded his hijacked plane in Kandahar and said that unlike the claims made about a refined Taliban 2.0, he could hardly spot any difference.On resuming air operations between India and Kabul, Devi Sharan said, "If our government and their government make sure that no untowardly incident will take place and everything is safe, then only we should resume air operations otherwise we should not take the risk."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilot-of-plane-hijacked-in-1999-says-afghan-airspace-very-risky-explains-why-101630076122683.html
27-08-2021||India||Considering possibility of more evacuation flights from Kabul: India on Afghan crisis||India is considering the possibility of mounting more evacuation flights to bring back nationals still in Afghanistan even as the government has adopted a cautious approach to recognising any new set-up in Kabul in view of the fluid situation there. At least 20 Indian nationals and some 140 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus were unable to access Kabul airport to board a military evacuation flight on Wednesday, reportedly due to impediments created by the Taliban. The security situation at the airport has taken a turn for the worse after Thursday’s devastating suicide attack by the Islamic State-Khorasan that killed nearly 100 people, including 13 US military personnel. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi declined to give an exact number for Indian citizens who are still in Afghanistan, saying the figure changes as requests come in from people to be evacuated, though he acknowledged that at least 20 Indians had missed the flight from Kabul on Wednesday. “Our overall assessment is that the vast majority of Indians who wished to return have been evacuated, but of course, some more are likely to be in Afghanistan. I don’t have an exact number for that,” he told a regular weekly news briefing on Friday. Describing the situation on the ground as “very difficult”, he said India is in touch with “various parties regarding when we can mount evacuation flights”. The last evacuation flight had about 40 people, and there were reports that Afghan nationals were facing difficulties in reaching the airport. “Some Indians, say around 20...were also trying to reach [the airport] and as you’ve seen the kind of chaos at the airport, they could not reach. And so our flight had to come without these Indian nationals,” he said. Indian evacuation flights have so far brought back more than 550 people, including more than 260 Indians, from Kabul or Dushanbe. The government has also facilitated the evacuation of Indians through other countries. These evacuation efforts have involved coordination with several countries, particularly the US, which controls Kabul airport, and Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Iran. While the current focus is on the safe evacuation of people, India, like other countries, has adopted a wait and watch attitude on the issue of recognising any Taliban regime in Kabul. “The situation on the ground is uncertain...Currently, there is a lack of clarity or no clarity about any entity forming a government in Kabul. I think we are jumping the gun here regarding recognition,” Bagchi said. “We continue to monitor the situation very carefully,” he said, adding there various reports about whether the next set-up in Kabul will be inclusive and whether other elements of Afghan polity will find representation in it. “There is a peace process, and discussions are ongoing now. Let’s wait and see how it develops,” he said. Bagchi reiterated that India will “stand by Afghans who stood by us”, and said a recent incident of an Afghan MP being sent back to Turkey after she travelled to New Delhi on her diplomatic passport was the outcome of “confusion”. After the security situation deteriorated following the Taliban takeover on August 15, groups of people raided one of India’s outsourcing agencies handling Afghan passports with Indian visas. “In the light of the loss of Afghan passports containing Indian visas, our authorities were in a state of high alert,” he said, adding that the resultant confusion led to the “unfortunate incident of denial of entry” to the Afghan MP. Responding to a question on the status of Afghans who enter India through a new emergency e-visa regime, Bagchi said they would be allowed to stay in the country for six months. “We will take it from there...that’s the current plan for six months. This is an evolving situation, I think making long-term plans has not been the best of ideas considering the changes of the last few days,” he said. “India has always been a place where people have come in times of distress; people have come here before this problem started. Discussions are going on to see what can be the modalities, how to deal with Afghans already here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/considering-possibility-of-more-evacuation-flights-from-kabul-india-on-afghan-crisis-101630076849991.html
27-08-2021||India||'Momentous feat': PM Modi lauds record 1 crore vaccination doses in single day||India on Friday administered a record 1 crore vaccine doses against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the ministry of health and family welfare announced. Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded the record vaccination numbers, saying it is a momentous feat."Record vaccination numbers today! Crossing 1 crore is a momentous feat. Kudos to those getting vaccinated and those making the vaccination drive a success," PM Modi tweeted.Earlier in the day, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya had said that India administered 90 lakh vaccine doses, adding that the number was expected to increase."Congratulations to the citizens as India today administers historic 90 lakh #COVID19 vaccines until now - and still counting!" tweeted Mandaviya.After Mandaviya's tweet, the ministry of health and family welfare said in a separate statement that India administered more than 93 lakh doses under its nationwide vaccination drive."This is highest ever vaccination achieved in a single day since the start of our vaccination drive," the ministry said.As per the latest provisional report, India’s Covid-19 vaccination coverage has now surpassed the cumulative figure of 62 crores.Also Read | Covid-19 bigger blood clot threat than vaccines: UK studyOver 83 lakh healthcare workers and more than 1.29 crore frontline workers have been fully vaccinated, according to government data. In the age group of 18-44, over 2.45 crore individuals have been fully vaccinated while about 23.72 crore individuals have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine."The Union Government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country," the health ministry had said in a statement.India has been reporting less than 50,000 daily new infections for 61 consecutive days now. The health ministry data shows the active caseload currently stands around 3.44 lakh.India has so far conducted over 51.49 crore cumulative tests and the last 24 hours witnessed a total of 18,24,931 tests being conducted across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/-momentous-feat-pm-modi-lauds-record-1-crore-vaccination-doses-in-single-day-101630073109245.html
27-08-2021||India||Anurag Thakur launches e-Photo, virtual film poster exhibition to celebrate Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav||Union minister of information and broadcasting, and youth affairs and sports, Anurag Thakur along with Union minister of tourism G Kishan Reddy on Friday inaugurated the e-Photo exhibition namely ‘Making of the Constitution” and Virtual Film Poster Exhibition ‘Chitranjali@75’. They were accompanied by Union minister of state (MoS) for information and broadcasting (I&B) L Murugan, MoS for parliamentary affairs and culture Arjun Ram Meghwal, and MoS for external affairs and culture Meenakshi Lekhi.The programme was organised as part of the ‘Iconic Week’ being celebrated by the Ministry of I&B along with various media units to celebrate Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, aimed at showcasing the journey of New India and celebrate the contribution of freedom fighters including the ‘Unsung Heroes’ of the freedom struggle through massive outreach activities, according to an official statement by the I&B ministry.Also Read | Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav: Union minister Anurag Thakur to kick-off ‘Iconic Week’ celebrationsSpeaking at the event, Thakur said that the exhibition’s objective is to “inform people” on the making of the constitution. “The exhibition, a step in the direction of Jan-bhagidari, will not only encourage the youth of the country to learn about the constitution but also educate them on their rights as well as enlighten them on the spirit of their duties towards the nation,” the statement further stated.Furthermore, Thakur said that the Centre will soon run a ‘Know Your Constitution’ programme to motivate the youth of the country to partner in the efforts to propagate the founding principles of India’s constitution.He added that the compilation has been released in a digital format in sync with the nation’s “transformative digital freedom.” “The book will be released in eleven Indian languages along with Hindi and English. This unique collection will celebrate the various milestones of our journey to independence,” the union minister said.The virtual exhibition comprises an amalgamation of videos and speeches along with an interactive quiz with a provision for e-certificate.Talking about ‘Chitranjali@75,’ Thakur said that it represents 75 years of Indian cinema and that he is “sure it’s going to evoke sacred memories of our freedom fighters, our social reformers and the valour of our soldiers.”He further stated that the as many as 75 such iconic films have been included in the poster exhibition.Meanwhile, Reddy said that it’s the “vision” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that Amrit Mahotsav doesn’t remain limited to a government event, but becomes an event of the people – the major thread of which is Jan-Bhagidari.He added that PM Modi wishes these events inspire the youth to “imagine a strong, powerful and confident India” in 2047 when the country celebrates 100 years of independence.“Chitranjali@75 will remind people of the sacrifices made by our freedom fighters. This is an opportunity to look at our films as a part of our cultural heritage. Indian films have a unique opportunity to further India’s soft power. I am sure the photo and poster exhibition will inspire and energize the youth of the country,” Reddy added.Thakur, Reddy, Meghwal and Lekhi also unveiled a collage of images from the exhibitions at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anurag-thakur-launches-e-photo-exhibition-to-celebrate-azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-101630072637234.html
27-08-2021||India||IMD issues orange alert for 6 districts in Kerala for 2 days on August 28, 29||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday issued orange alerts for six districts in Kerala for two days on August 28 and 29. The weather body has also issued yellow alerts to all other districts in the state for the two days.Warning of an increase in rainfall activity over Kerala, the IMD, on Friday afternoon, said in a bulletin, “An offshore trough at mean sea level runs from Karnataka coast to Kerala coast. A cyclonic circulation lies over Northwest Bay of Bengal off West Bengal coast.Under its influence, a Low Pressure Area is likely to form over Northwest & adjoining Westcentral Bay of Bengal by tomorrow, the 28th august, 2021. In view of all these, increase in rainfall activity is expected over Kerala during 27-29 August 2021.”Also read | With over 32,000 fresh Covid infections, Kerala brings back Sunday lockdownAmong the districts, Wayanad, Malappuram, Palakkad and Idukki have been forecasted to receive extremely rainfall on Saturday and Sunday, while Kannur and Kozhikode have been given the warning on Saturday and Kottayam and Pathanamthitta for Sunday. However, on both days, all remaining districts in the state have been issued a yellow alert.Further, fishermen have also been advised against venturing into the sea until the end of August. “Strong wind with speed reaching 40-50 Kmph gusting to 60 Kmph is likely over Southwest and West Central Arabian Sea. Fishermen are advised NOT TO venture into these sea areas during the period mentioned,” the IMD said.The IMD also recorded over 13cm rainfall at Kozha in Kottayam district, 12cm at Cherthala in Alappuzha district and over 11cm each at Aluva and Keerampara, both in Ernakulam district.An extremely heavy rainfall indicates an intensity of over 204mm of rainfall. An orange alert usually indicates very heavy rainfall between 6cm and 20cm in 24 hours and is issued as a warning to be prepared for the rainfall. The yellow alert indicates a heavy rainfall between 6cm and 11cm and is usually issued in cases where the situation should be watched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-orange-alert-for-6-districts-in-kerala-for-2-days-on-august-28-29-101630070949247.html
27-08-2021||India||'No one died of oxygen shortage': Pinarayi defends Kerala model amid criticism||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan defended his government’s model for containment of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), saying no one died in the state due to lack of oxygen. Writing for CPI(M) magazine 'Chintha', Pinarayi accused government critics of neglecting facts and deliberately creating confusion.“There are some unnecessary controversies surrounding the second wave. Some sections are trying to create fear among people by portraying the high numbers during the second wave as a cause of concern,” he wrote.Union minister V Muraleedharan has been leading the attack against the Pinarayi-led government over the spike in Covid-19 cases. He has repeatedly accused the state government of not following the health guidelines issued by the World Health Organization (WHO) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).On Thursday, the minister of state for external affairs urged the Kerala government to follow the guidelines prescribed by the ICMR for tackling the pandemic."The state, instead of using scientific methods to contain the spread, is trying to use pandemic for political objectives. I urge it to follow ICMR guidelines," Muraleedharan told news agency ANI.Also Read | Kerala using Covid-19 for political goals: What Union Minister said on spikeThe Kerala government has been facing flak over the Covid-19 response as the state continues to report the highest number of daily new infections in India. On Friday, Kerala reported more than 32,000 new Covid cases and 179 related deaths in the last 24 hours. The test positivity rate continues to hover around 19%.“If Kerala model is wrong in covid containment, then which model should we follow?” asked Pinarayi. “No one had died in Kerala due to a lack of oxygen. No person was deprived of medical aid or medical bed.”Highlighting the results of previous seroprevalence studies, Pinarayi said that Kerala has the least percentage of the population infected. He added that the southern state did not waste a “single drop of vaccine and successfully inoculated extra doses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-one-died-of-oxygen-shortage-pinarayi-defends-kerala-model-amid-criticism-101630069861238.html
27-08-2021||India||Once a TMC ally, Darjeeling Gorkha leader to launch new political party||Anit Thapa, a former general secretary of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM), which is an ally of West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), said on Friday that he will launch a new political party in Darjeeling next month. “I will make the announcement on September 9. Many intellectuals and literary personalities will join it,” said Thapa who, along with his associates, sided with the TMC government in 2017 when it cracked down on the Gorkhaland movement, forcing GJM founder Bimal Gurung to go underground. Gurung resurfaced in 2020 and offered to support Mamata Banerjee in the assembly polls held in March-April this year. Since 2017, Thapa was the general secretary of the GJM faction that was headed by Binoy Tamang, Gurung’s lieutenant-turned-rival. On July 15, Tamang resigned and handed over the party’s flag to Gurung. He has held meetings with Gurung as well. “I offer my best wishes to Thapa. I hope his party will be corruption-free,” Tamang said on Friday. In 2019, the state government made Thapa the chairman of the board of administrators of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), a semi-autonomous development body, after Tamang stepped down from the post to contest the assembly by-election in Darjeeling. He lost to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Thapa was removed from the GTA before the recent assembly polls and since then the autonomous body is being run by a senior bureaucrat. Since 1986, Darjeeling and Kalimpong have witnessed four movements in support of the demand for Gorkhaland, a separate state for Gorkhas. The regional parties are now divided. Some have forged an alliance with the BJP while the rest support the TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-a-tmc-ally-darjeeling-gorkha-leader-to-launch-new-political-party-101630069169389.html
27-08-2021||India||Former police officer held for fabricating evidence in BSP MP rape case||Former Indian Police Service officer Amitabh Thakur was arrested on Friday in Lucknow after he was booked for the alleged harassment of the woman, who accused the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) Member of Parliament Atul Rai of raping her in 2019. Thakur was booked on the basis of the findings of a two-member committee that was constituted after the woman and her associate set themselves on fire outside the Supreme Court on August 16. The two later succumbed to their injuries. Minutes before their self-immolation, the two in a Facebook Live levelled allegations against at least five police officers of harassing her to save Rai in the rape case. In the 10-minute-long video, the woman said she was also being framed in a false case.Lucknow police commissioner DK Thakur confirmed Amitabh Thakur’s arrest and added he was taken to Hazratganj police station.Also Read | Self-immolation outside SC: 2 cops suspended in UPA second police officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Amitabh Thakur has been booked under Indian Penal Code’s Sections 167 (public servant framing an incorrect document with intent to cause injury), 195-A (threatening any person to give false evidence), 218 (public servant framing incorrect record or writing with intent to save a person from punishment or property from forfeiture), 306 (abetment of suicide), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation). He said Rai, who is already in jail in the rape case, has been booked in fresh case too.The second officer said the probe committee also found the woman wrote a letter on November 10, 2020, saying Amitabh Thakur was allegedly in connivance with Rai fabricating evidence against her and her associate. He said the woman alleged that Amitabh Thakur intentionally tried to create fake evidence. The second officer said the woman alleged at least seven criminal cases were lodged against her and her associate by Rai to harass her and to pressure her to withdraw the rape case. He said the probe committee. in its report, said the woman also wrote how they were being allegedly forced to end their lives.The committee earlier on Thursday questioned Amitabh Thakur even as he refuted all allegations. On August 17, the state government formed the committee to look into allegations against him and submit a report within two weeks.Earlier on Friday, Amitabh Thakur announced the formation of a new political party. On August 14, he said he would contest the 2022 state assembly polls from wherever chief minister Yogi Adityanath would seek re-election. Amitabh Thakur faced multiple inquiries during his service. He was compulsorily retired in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-police-officer-held-for-fabricating-evidence-in-bsp-mp-rape-case-101630069048996.html
27-08-2021||India||‘They thought I’d be scared’: Rane on getting bail over ‘slap CM’ remark||Days after getting arrested and then released on bail over his ‘slap’ remark on Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Union minister Narayan Rane said that he didn’t do any “wrong” and that the ruling Shiv Sena arrested him only because they “enjoy power” in the state.“Maharashtra is number 1 in Covid-19. During Covid-19, they didn’t take any action. [Bollywood actor] Sushant Singh (Rajput) was murdered. Disha Salian was raped and killed, [and] yet the perpetrators roam freely,” Rane was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The union minister further said that Shiv Sainiks, who had gone to his house, were welcomed by the police. “What has Shiv Sena given to [the] Konkan region in [the] last two years? They thought I would be scared if they took action against me. But our journey has been successful,” he told ANI.Rane also addressed Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s “West Bengal is the tiger of the country” remark, saying that the former “speaks without any sense.” “Vinayak and Sanjay Raut will lead to the fall of Shiv Sena…The difference between Konkan and Kashmir is the same between making Mamata Banerjee the Prime Minister,” he added.What does the 'won't let Maharashtra become West Bengal' statement (by Narayan Rane) mean? You (BJP) lost in West Bengal. If you keep on using same language, your presence in Maharashtra will also become insignificant.West Bengal is the tiger of the country: Sanjay Raut,Shiv Sena pic.twitter.com/RRwwTyJZqMRane flew to Ratnagiri on Friday morning to resume his Jan Ashirwad Yatra that was halted owing to his arrest and subsequent bail late on Tuesday. The yatra, which the new Union council of ministers are undertaking across the nation, will end in the neighbouring Sindhudurg district on Sunday.Notably, Rane had made the controversial ‘slap CM’ remark after Thackeray apparently forgot the year of India’s independence and asked it from someone.He was granted bail by the court of the first-class judicial magistrate in Mahad, even as the advocate representing the state government appealed for seven-day judicial custody. The union minister’s counsel pleaded for his bail on several grounds, including his health.Also Read | 'Slap CM' row: Fresh notice to Rane; court says arrest justified, not custodyThe 69-year-old Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader – who was a Sena leader in the past, was slapped with at least three First Information Report (FIRs) – one each in Pune, Mahad and Nashik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-thought-i-d-be-scared-rane-on-getting-bail-over-slap-cm-remark-101630068248814.html
27-08-2021||India||With over 32,000 fresh Covid infections, Kerala sees another surge; brings back Sunday lockdown||Kerala on Friday reported another massive surge of Covid-19 infections as the state recorded 32,801 new cases taking the test positivity rate to 19.22 per cent. This is the second time since May 20, the peak of the second wave, that the state recorded over 30,000 fresh cases in 24 hours. Given the surge in the cases, the state government decided to bring back Sunday lockdown, which was done away with in the last two weeks because of the Independence Day and Onam celebrations.Kerala's Covid situation has deteriorated with the state seeing an Onam spike. State health minister Veena George put the blame on home isolation and recently said that a majority of the people are getting infected from their family members as infected people are not following containment rules properly in home isolation.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan too dismissed the constant attack on Kerala's Covid management as 'unwanted' and said that these are deliberate attempts to undermine people's fight against the pandemic. "These moves were to trigger public sentiments against the government and thus create a situation in which the fight against the virus infection was viewed lightly by the people," the chief minister wrote in the latest edition of the party's mouthpiece."In Kerala, not a single person had died due to the dearth of oxygen. No one has been denied access to health services or anyone faced a situation of not getting a hospital bed during emergencies," the CM wrote adding that those who are criticising Kerala's model are not aware that the second wave started a bit late in the state.The Union home secretary chaired a meeting on Thursday with the state government officials of Kerala and Maharashtra as these are the two states with an unusual graph of Covid at present. The Centre also suggested placing a night curfew in areas of high positivity. Cases of reinfections have been found to be higher in Kerala than in other states, which contributed to the ongoing surge that started in the last week of July. Another peak just after Onam was predicted and the state government was alerted accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-over-32-000-fresh-covid-infections-kerala-sees-another-surge-brings-back-sunday-lockdown-101630068504640.html
27-08-2021||India||Police can further probe Kodanad case, rules Madras high court||In another setback for former Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami, the Madras high court on Friday gave the go-ahead to police to conduct further investigation in the 2017 Kodanad heist-cum-murder case which is currently in the trial stage. Justice M Nirmal Kumer passed the orders while dismissing a petition filed by prosecution witness N Ravi seeking a direction to police to stop conducting fresh investigations. The court said the petitioner has no locus standi to oppose further investigations. The petitioner, who is also the joint secretary of AIADMK’s wing Amma Peravai in Coimbatore district had also sought for the trial at the Nilgiris sessions court to be fast-tracked and conducted on a day-to-day basis. Though Palaniswami is not a party in the case, the order is seen as a setback for him as he has repeatedly claimed that the DMK has begun fresh investigations to frame him and other AIADMK leaders. Also Read | 27% for OBC in medical colleges gets HC nodIn 2019, key accused KV Sayan alleged Palaniswami’s involvement in the crime. The DMK had then sought Palaniswami’s resignation even as the latter had denied the charge. This August 17, Nilgiris police questioned Sayan, leading to a political and legal slugfest in the state. Palaniswami alleged that a ‘secret statement’ was taken from Sayan to frame him. He even led a walkout from the assembly, and complained to Governor Banwarilal Purohit. Dismissing AIADMK’s allegations of a political vendetta, chief minister MK Stalin has said it was DMK’s election promise to bring the real culprits of Kodanad case to book. The advocate general of the state, R Shanmugasundaram reiterated in court today that there is no political motive. Besides the witnesses’ plea seeking a stay on further investigations, three out of the ten accused in the case also approached the Madras high court asking for Palaniswami and V K Sasikala who co-owned the estate with late J Jayalalithaa to be questioned. The case also came up at the trial court in Nilgiris on Friday where Sayan was produced but the court decided to defer the hearing as Ravi’s plea was being heard in the high court. The trial court’s next hearing is on September 2. The next hearing in the trial court is on September 2.There are several unanswered questions in the four-year-old case. The 900-acre Kodanad tea estate in Nilgiris was Jayalalithaa’s summer retreat. She purchased it with her close confidante Sasikala and her family in the 1990s. On the intervening night of April 23 and 24, there was a break-in and the estate’s security guard was murdered. Two of the accused met with road accidents where Jayalalithaa’s former driver C Kanagaraj also died. Sayan escaped with serious injuries, but his wife and daughter died on the spot. The charge sheet stated that wristwatches and a rhinoceros miniature were stolen from the estate. This raised questions on the motive as the accused were found to have gone to the estate in high-end SUVs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-can-further-probe-kodanad-case-rules-madras-high-court-101630067309142.html
27-08-2021||India||Over 550 people, including over 260 Indians, evacuated from Afghanistan: Govt||More than 550 people have so far been evacuated from Afghanistan via six flights following the Taliban’s takeover of the country, the Indian government said on Friday. Of the 550, over 260 are Indians, the government also said.“We have evacuated over 550 people in 6 separate flights, either from Kabul or Dushanbe. Of these, over 260 were Indians. GoI also facilitated evacuation of Indian nationals through other agencies. We were in touch with various countries, like [the] US,Tajikistan,” said Arindam Bagchi, spokesperson for the ministry of external affairs (MEA), news agency ANI reported.Further, the ministry said that the “vast majority” of Indians who wanted to return from Afghanistan have been evacuated out of the country. However, Bagchi said that he did not have the exact count of people who wanted to remain in the country. “Our overall assessment is that the vast majority of Indians who wish to return have been evacuated. Some more are likely to be in Afghanistan. I do not have the exact number for that,” he said.Also read | 'We are jumping the gun': MEA on recognition of Taliban rule by IndiaBriefing more on the operations, Bagchi said that the last flight from Afghanistan had close to 40 people in it and also said that some Afghan citizens, including Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, faced difficulties in reaching the Kabul airport on August 25 and so the flight had returned without them.The primary focus of the government would be on evacuating Indian nationals who are stranded in Afghanistan, he said, adding that the government would also “stand by” Afghan nationals. “We were able to bring out some Afghan nationals as well as nationals from other countries. Of these, many of them were Sikhs and Hindus. Primarily, our focus will be on Indian nationals, but we'll also stand by Afghans who stood by us,” he said.While the ministry said that there was no clarity regarding the formation of the government in Kabul currently, it also assured that the government is monitoring the situation in Kabul “very carefully.”Meanwhile, the United Kingdom earlier on Friday said that the country’s evacuation operation at the Kabul airport was in its “final hours” and also closed processing centres near the airport for further clearance. Few other European nations such as Spain, Italy and France have also announced their plans to end operations on Friday while the US has said that it will not extend its presence on the Afghan soil after August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-550-people-including-over-260-indians-evacuated-from-afghanistan-govt-101630064820414.html
27-08-2021||India||'We are jumping the gun': MEA on question of recognition of Taliban rule by India||The ministry of external affairs on Friday reiterated that the first priority of the government at this moment is to safely evacuate people from Afghanistan. The question of whether to recognise the Taliban rule in Afghanistan or not comes later. "The situation on the ground is uncertain (in Afghanistan). The primary concern is the security and safety of people. Currently, there is no clarity about any entity forming a government in Kabul. I think we are jumping the gun regarding recognition," MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said during a press briefing on Friday.External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Thursday briefed an all-party meeting on the Afghanistan situation where he underlined that the current stance of India is to wait and watch. At the same time, India is engaged with important stakeholders and other countries on the Afghan issue. What need to be seen first is whether the new dispensation in Afghanistan will be solely a government of the Taliban or be part of a power-sharing arrangement with other Afghan leaders, the ministry has clarified.Also Read | India’s only investment in Afghanistan is on its people, will get full-value in return: JaishankarOn August 15, the Taliban completed its capture of Afghanistan except for the Panjshir province, as Kabul fell to the hands of the group. Since then, several rounds of consultations are going on regarding the next government of Afghanistan. While initially an interim set-up was proposed, later the Taliban reportedly claimed their government and names of several ministers have been already announced. But the anti-Taliban force which has been negotiating a peace deal with the Taliban is pitching for an all-inclusive government.Unless it's cleared who is going to govern Afghanistan, the question of recognition does not arise, the external affairs ministry has made it clear. India has been in touch with countries such as the US, UK, France, Russia, China, Germany, Qatar, Iran, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Kazakhstan as well as with the UN Secretary-General and UN Security Council on the developments in Afghanistan, the ministry has said.Countries like China, Canada, Tajikistan have already clarified their stance on recognising or not recognising the Taliban in Afghanistan. During the Taliban's previous rule in Afghanistan, they remained antagonistic with India as India refused to recognise the Taliban government and had supported the anti-Taliban Northern Alliance, led by Ahmad Shah Massoud.India's evacuation drive from Kabul will go on, Bagchi said adding that a vast majority of Indians who wanted to return have been evacuated. Some Afghan nationals have also been rescued, the spokesperson said adding that the primary focus of India will be to evacuate Indian nationals but India will also stand by Afghans who stood by Indians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-jumping-the-gun-mea-on-recognition-of-taliban-rule-in-india-101630064250822.html
27-08-2021||India||Pilot suffers heart attack mid-air, Dhaka-bound flight makes emergency landing in Nagpur||A flight of the official carrier of Bangladesh, Biman, made an emergency landing at Nagpur International airport here on Friday after its pilot suffered a massive heart attack.Dhaka-bound flight BG 22 was carrying 126 passengers from Muscat, the port capital of Oman, when the pilot, Captain Naushad, took ill.Also Read | US evacuates 7,500 people in last 24 hrs from Afghanistan after Kabul attackAirports Authority of India (AAI) sources said the Kolkata ATC was contacted which asked the flight to make a medical emergency landing at Nagpur airport. “The flight was flying over Chattisgarh when the incident took place. The flight made a safe landing at around 11.37am after which the pilot was rushed to a nearby hospital,” said an AAI official.As per the reports, all the passengers on board are safe. “The passengers were at the terminal and are now waiting for an alternative flight,” said Nagpur airport director MA Abid Ruhi.He said Capt. Naushad “is stable and out of danger”.Biman Bangladesh Airlines recently resumed flight services with India. Air travel between the two countries has been allowed by the governments following a long suspension because of the coronavirus pandemic.(With inputs from Neha LM Tripathi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilot-suffers-heart-attack-mid-air-dhaka-bound-flight-makes-emergency-landing-in-nagpur-101630062988691.html
27-08-2021||India||Green activists hail top court’s decision to curb quarrying in Kerala||Green activists and conservationists have hailed the Supreme Court order to stay the Kerala High Court verdict that allowed quarrying in a 200 metre radius of populated areas. Last August, the High Court had stayed an order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) which stipulated that quarries in the state must be at least 200 metres away from residential areas. After the HC order many new quarries came up in ecologically fragile areas and now they will have to wind up. Nature lovers feel the latest order of the SC will help cap unmindful quarrying in ecologically sensitive areas (ESA) and those close to dwelling units. Earlier the minimum distance for quarrying was 50 metres away from populated areas and later the NGT raised it to 200 metres which was stayed by the HC. The state is burdened with mindless quarrying for quite some time now posing a serious threat to fragile areas of the Western Ghats that play a crucial role in breaking rain clouds over the sub-continent. Many hills have turned barren as the powerful quarry lobby started carving them. After the 2018 floods and landslides that claimed 400-odd lives, noted environmental scientist Dr Madhav Gadgil had said it was a man-made disaster pointing accusing fingers at many illegal quarries functioning in sensitive areas of the Western Ghats. “Illegal sand mining destroyed many rivers of the state and quarrying turned many lush hills barren. It seems the state is yet to learn a lesson from recurring tragedies,” said Dr S Vijayan, one of the members of the Gadgil Committee, formed to study growing human intervention in Western Ghats.“Judicial intervention in environmental issues is paramount. Quarrying, sand mining and illegal tree felling pose a big threat to the sensitive ecology of the state,” said N Badusha, president of the Wayanad Prakruti Samrakshana Samiti. The samiti played a crucial role in exposing the recent illegal tree felling in Muttil in Wayanad (north Kerala) in the guise of a weird government order. Last year the International Union for Conservation of Nature, the official advisory committee of the UNESCO, in a report expressed serious concern over the degradation of Western Ghats. It said if immediate action was not taken to check the overexploitation rich biodiversity of the mountain ranges would be in danger. Despite many such warnings, exploitation of mountain ranges which start from Gujarat to Kerala continues. Two expert committee reports (Gadgil and Kasturirangan), intended to save the Ghats, are gathering dust at administrative offices. Fearing backlash nobody dared to touch them. The state had witnessed violent agitation against the Gadgil committee in 2012. When all six states under the periphery of the Ghats opposed the Gadgil Panel recommendations, another committee was constituted under former ISRO chief Dr Kasturirangan. A mellowed one, Kasturirangan Panel had made some changes in the zonal classification and reduced ESA to 37 per cent from the 64 per cent suggested by the earlier panel. But many states opposed the Kasturirangan panel also forcing the government to freeze both reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/green-activists-hail-top-court-s-decision-to-curb-quarrying-in-kerala-101630061908977.html
27-08-2021||India||NRIs can apply for Aadhaar on arrival: Here's how to do it||In May 2020, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had proposed that Non-Resident Indians (NRIs), who hold Indian passports, be issued their Aadhaar cards on arrival, instead of completing their mandatory waiting period of six months. Now, the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), the body which issues Aadhaar, has put out a tweet stating that the NRIs can apply for their Aadhaar cards on arrival.“NRIs need not wait for 182 days. Those with valid Indian passports may apply for Aadhaar on arrival. Visit your nearest enrolment centre,” the UIDAI said in its tweet.#AadhaarforNRIsNon-Resident Indians (NRIs) need not wait for 182 days. NRIs with valid #Indian #passport may apply for #Aadhaar on arrival.Visit your nearest #AadhaarEnrolment Centre: https://t.co/oCJ66DUBEkFor more details, call at 1947 or write to us at help@uidai.gov.in pic.twitter.com/alON4X19MIThe application process is valid for both minors and adults. Here’s how to apply:(1.) Visit any enrolment centre (Aadhaar Kendra) with a valid Indian passport.(2.) Fill up the enrolment form and provide an Email ID, which is mandatory for an NRI.(3.) Since the declaration for NRI is slightly different, read it carefully and sign on it in the enrolment form.(4.) Now ask the enrolment officer to enrol you as an NRI. Give your passport as a proof of identity.(5.) You can also present another valid document instead of passport. Click here to read which other documents you can submit.(6.) Complete the biometric capture process and check all details on the screen (in English and local language).(7.) Once done, ask the officer to submit your details.(8.) You will now receive your acknowledgment/enrolment slip which has 14-digit enrolment ID, date of enrolment and stamp.(9.) Though it takes around three months for the Aadhaar card to be prepared and dispatched, you can check its status here.(10.) For more details, visit uidai.gov.in, call at 1947 or drop a mail at help@uidai.gov.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nris-can-apply-for-aadhaar-on-arrival-here-s-how-to-do-it-101630059390518.html
27-08-2021||India||Delhi schools to reopen from September 1; senior classes first||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority has decided to reopen schools in a phased manner starting from September 1. Students of classes 9 to 12 can attend physical classes from September 1, while physical classes for students of class 6 to class 8 will begin from September 8.The decision was taken at the meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Friday. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier told that the government was considering reopening schools as early as possible but the final decision would be taken only after consulting all the stakeholders. "There has been a mixed experience of states which have reopened schools. We have been monitoring the situation," the Delhi CM had said.On August 6, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal had asked officials to set up an expert panel to deliberate the reopening of schools in the national Capital.While many states opted to reopen schools in July and August, the expert panel suggested that Delhi should take more time and should reopen schools only in a phased manner starting from September. According to the suggestion of the committee, the senior classes should be called to the schools first, following the middle-level classes and the primary classes. The committee also suggested a 50 per cent cap on the number of students to be present.After reopening in February, Delhi schools were closed in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic.Online classes will continue and parents will be able to opt for online classes. Parents consulted for reopening schools were also in favour of the resumption of physical classes.The states are reopening schools amid the threat of a third wave of the pandemic as the government experts have assured that physical classes can be resumed in a staggered manner following all Covid-19 precautions as those aged below 18 are not at any greater risk of contracting the infection than other age groups. Among states which have recently reopened schools, Himachal Pradesh had to reverse the move after several students tested positive amid an overall Covid spike in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-in-delhi-to-reopen-from-september-1-101630057723709.html
27-08-2021||India||Back-to-back cyclones prompt Bengal farmers to shift to salt tolerant paddy||In May, when cyclone Yaas was tearing through Odisha, 51-year-old Ananda Das, a farmer from Sandeshkhali in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district, was devastated. With his farmlands all submerged under saline water, which gushed into the villages through breaches in the river embankments, the future seemed bleak. Three months down the line, Das has something to rely upon. He along with fellow villagers, whose farmlands have also turned saline, are now growing salt-tolerant varieties of paddy, which were grown in community seedbeds on higher grounds with the government’s help.“The yield could be a bit less compared to what we used to get from the high yielding variety (HYV) of paddy. But in such highly saline conditions, the HYV won’t survive. We would get at least some yield from the salt-tolerant varieties,” he said.Three cyclones - Bulbul in November 2019, Amphan in May 2020, and Yaas in May 2021 – have highlighted the state’s vulnerability to the climate crisis. Over the years, farmers living in the coastal belt of West Bengal have been gradually shifting to salt-resistant paddy.After Amphan, the West Bengal government distributed around 550MT of salt-tolerant varieties of paddy seeds to around 91,000 farmers. After Yaas, around 1200 MT of seeds were distributed in the three coastal districts.“Each farmer was given a kit comprising six kilos of seeds along with seed-treating chemicals. Six varieties of paddy seeds – CSR-10, CSR036, CSR-43, Luna Swarna, Luna Sampad, Lunishree and Dudeshwar were distributed. Luna Swarna was distributed for the first time,” said Onkar Singh Meena, secretary of the state agriculture department.Also Read | Bengal professors’ body questions rationale behind ‘drinking poison’ by teachersGovernment officials said that with this 1200MT of seeds, salt-tolerant paddy could be grown in around 38,890 hectares of farmland which in turn will benefit around 30,00,00 farmers if all goes well.“With an estimated yield of at least three MT per hectare, if not more, we are expecting that the production would be around 1.16 lakh MT. This would be worth around ₹217.9 crore instead of zero crops because of high salinity levels after the cyclone. On average an HYV paddy yields around five MT per hectare,” said an official.As cyclone Yaas coincided with the perigean spring tide, it triggered a huge storm surge up to a few metres high and saltwater gushed into the villages. Nearly 1.42 lakh hectares of farmlands in three coastal districts – East Midnapore, North 24 Parganas, and South 24 Parganas - turned saline, which is around 2.5% of the state’s total cultivable land.“While the electrical conductivity in a normal soil is less than 1 decisiemens per metre (dS/m) after Amphan and Yaas when saline water entered the villages, the electrical conductivity went up to 34 dS/m. A normal high-yielding variety of paddy crop would die if the value were more than 10 dS/m,” said a state agriculture department official.As the saline water, which entered the villages during Yaas through breaches in river embankments, took time to recede community seedbeds were formed on higher grounds where the water had receded, and the ground had dried up.The community seedbeds were prepared so that the seedlings could be raised on time and later could be transplanted in farmlands when the water receded. Each community seedbed sprawled over two to three hectares which would serve at least 150 to 200 farmers. The farmers were convinced, and they came forward in large numbers, said Chowdhury Monirul Haque, assistant director of agriculture, Sandeshkhali block - II.While on one hand, farmers were not aware of the technology on how to produce good salt tolerant paddy, another impediment was that salt-tolerant seeds were not available in the initial stages, as farmers over the past few decades had shifted to high yielding varieties. The government took up the project Nona Swarna through which salt-tolerant seeds, produced from traditional varieties and stored in government research institutes, were distributed.Awareness programmes were held through live phone-in, television, and radio talks.Conservationist Debal Deb, founder of the rice seed banks Vrihi and Basudha, has some unpleasant memories when it comes to promoting salt tolerant paddy varieties.“After Cyclone Aila hit the Sunderbans in May 2009, I distributed four varieties of salt-tolerant paddy to around 40 villagers. Our initiative continued over the next four years till 2012 covering six blocks. In all, we distributed seven varieties. The villagers adopted it but only for a few years. The moment they saw that their farmlands have become fertile again and the effect of Aila had faded, they discarded the salt-tolerant varieties and returned to the HYV. Then came Amphan and Yaas and they were hit again,” said Deb.Experts say even though cyclones have been common in the Bay of Bengal for centuries, over the years their intensity is increasing because of the warming sea surface, leading to more evaporation and stronger winds. A recent World Bank report pointed out that the long-term trend of cyclone landfalls, between 1877 and 2016, shows northern Odisha and Sunderbans are the highest-impact zones.“Our analysis is that that severity of cyclones in the Bay of Bengal has increased over the years. This, in turn, is inflicting the damage in terms of raging winds and huge storm surge,” said Tuhin Ghosh, director of the School of Oceanographic Studies, Jadavpur University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/backtoback-cyclones-prompt-bengal-farmers-to-shift-to-salt-tolerant-paddy-101630056868338.html
27-08-2021||India||Fresh row as Assam workers allege attack on Mizoram border||Silchar: Fresh trouble erupted at the Assam-Mizoram border after a group of labourers in Assam alleged an attack with stones and slingshots by people from the neighbouring state over a road construction. The alleged incident at Khulichera area in Cachar district, near the border, on Thursday came at a time when the two governments are trying to find solutions to the 164.6km-long-border dispute following the July 26 clashes that killed seven people. While Mizoram Police refuted all claims of an attack and alleged forceful construction by Assam on their land, Assam Police said the work was being carried out three kilometres away from the border. “They did not attack anyone,” Mizoram’s Kolasib district superintendent of police Vanlalfaka Ralte said. Sharing details of the alleged incident, the labourers said that they were attacked by a group of masked men carrying guns and insisted that the accused were from Mizoram. One of them alleged that the group was attacked by around 30 people with stones and slingshots. “Some of them were carrying bows and arrows and a few had guns. It looked like they planned to kill us, so we left the area. Hundreds of slingshots were fired at our vehicle and we heard a few gunshots too,” the labourer said, preferring anonymity. Cachar superintendent of police Ramandeep Kaur said the identity of the attackers were yet to be confirmed. “Since the attackers were masked, we cannot say they were from Mizoram. The area is near the inter-state border which is a no-network zone. Our workers could not call for help immediately. We need to probe the matter carefully,” he said. Kaur also said that the attack will not affect the construction work. “The rest of the work will progress as per plan, and we will provide adequate security to the workers,” he said. Ralte, however, accused Assam of forcefully holding construction work on their land. “Assam is forcibly constructing the road on Mizoram’s land which angered the people here. They moved forward and tried to stop the work but did not attack,” he said. To this, Kaur responded: “This is an Assam government-sanctioned work which cannot be in Mizoram’s territory. The work is going on under Pradhanmantri Gramin Sadak Yojana, three kilometres from the Mizoram border according to the Survey of India map. They are violating the agreement between two states and now trying to spread lies.”Meanwhile, Carolyne Pachuau, an official in Mizoram’s Kolasib district claimed the overall situation at the border had improved ever since the violent clashes between forces of the two sides last month. Over 8,000 vehicles carrying essential goods have entered the state ever since the informal economic blockade by a few Assamese groups in Lailapur was lifted on August 7, she added. Things have changed, trucks carrying essentials are entering smoothly. But common people are still a bit hesitant to cross the border. We are conducting discussions among locals from both sides. We want peace to prevail,” she said. Police forces of the two states fought a pitched gun battle at a disputed border in southern Assam on July 26, in which six Assam policemen and a civilian died. Assam claimed Mizoram police opened fire on its forces who objected to a road being constructed by Mizoram on a patch of forested land it claims. Mizoram claimed the land belongs to it.Tensions flared up immediately but eased after central intervention. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rules Assam and the Mizo National Front, a part of the BJP-led North East Democratic Alliance, is in power in Mizoram.Can check for political reactions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assamese-workers-allege-attack-along-mizoram-border-101630056210565.html
27-08-2021||India||SEC recommends phase 1 clinical trials of Reliance's 2-dose Covid-19 vaccine||The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) has recommended phase 1 clinical trials of Reliance Life Sciences’ vaccine candidate against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency ANI reported on Friday. The proposed vaccine candidate comprises two doses, and is based on recombinant protein platform, as per reports.Now that the SEC has recommended phase 1 trials, the next step for Reliance Life Sciences is to receive approval from the Drugs Controller General India (DCGI). Once the country’s top drugs regulator grants permission, the company can begin the first phase of clinical trials for its vaccine candidate.Also Read | Zydus vaccine for kids likely to be available by Oct, says CentreWhile Reliance Sciences itself is a testing centre for Covid-19, the exercise will be conducted at 10 sites, including those in in Delhi, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Phase 1 lasts for nearly two months, or 58 days, and is conducted to detect the highest number of doses that most patients can tolerate.The DCGI has thus far granted Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) to six vaccines, of which two are indigenous while the rest are foreign-made. Covaxin and Covishield were the first two shots to receive EUA, followed by Sputnik V, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson and ZyCoV-D respectively. Among these, Covaxin and ZyCoV-D are made in India vaccines.The nationwide vaccination drive against Covid-19 began on January 16 and every citizen above the age of 18 is eligible to be inoculated. Till now, 612,208,542 doses have been administered across the country, including 7,948,349 in the last 24 hours, as per the Union health ministry’s dashboard.Also Read | India has administered at least 610 million Covid vaccine doses till nowReliance Life Sciences describes itself as a research-driven organisation developing business opportunities in bio-therapeutics, pharmaceuticals, clinical research, molecular medicine etc. As the name suggests, it comes under the Promoter Group of Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries Limited (RIL).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sec-recommends-phase-1-clinical-trials-of-reliance-s-2-dose-covid-19-vaccine-101630055009733.html
27-08-2021||India||La. Ganesan sworn in as Manipur governor||Former Rajya Sabha member and BJP leader from Tamil Nadu La. Ganesan, who was appointed as Governor of Manipur on Sunday, has been sworn in as 17th Governor of the state at the Durbar Hall of Raj Bhavan in Imphal on Friday.Manipur high court chief justice PV Sanjay Kumar administered the oath of office and secrecy to Ganesan.Also Read | Union minister launches 7 indigenous Manipuri food items as part of Make in IndiaChief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh, deputy chief minister Yumnam Joykumar Singh, Speaker of Manipur assembly Y Khemchand Singh,council of ministers,Chief Secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar led other officials and senior citizens were present during the ceremony. Ganesan said he will work sincerely work for the welfare of the Manipur.Later, the new Governor also inspected guard of honour. The Governor’s post fell vacant after Najma Heptulla’s retirement earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/la-ganesan-sworn-in-as-manipur-governor-101630054948325.html
27-08-2021||India||Baghel back in Delhi for more meetings amid signs of possible change in guard||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel flew to Delhi for another set of meetings with Congress’s central leadership on Friday amid growing signs of a possible change in guard in the state. State minister TS Singh Deo on Thursday fuelled the speculation about the change saying anyone who plays in a team “wants to be the captain” even as at least 20 legislators backing Baghel flew to New Delhi late on Thursday in a show of defiance.Baghel and Deo met Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, PL Punia, the in-charge of Chhattisgarh, and general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal on Tuesday to thrash out a solution to the impasse in the state. The impasse has been caused by a power-sharing agreement put in place when Congress formed the government in the state in December 2018.Baghel said Venugopal sent him a message on Thursday that the former has to meet Rahul Gandhi. “As per his direction, I am going there and I do not have more information,” Baghel told reporters before flying to Delhi. “Why cannot they go to meet their leaders. I got a call therefore I am going, and they were going uninvited. Due to the pandemic, nobody could have visited Delhi for a long time and now they have gone to meet leaders,” he said when asked about lawmakers and ministers camping in New Delhi. Baghel refused to comment on Deo’s captain remarks.Also Read | Chhattisgarh HC order: ‘Sexual act with wife is not rape, even if forced’State ministers Ravindra Chaubey and Mohammad Akbar were also seen entering the Raipur airport before Baghel flew to Delhi. Over 40 lawmakers are believed to be camping in New Delhi to meet the top Congress leaders.Deo on Thursday stopped short of referring to any power-sharing deal, saying that the party has never publicly spoken about this. He added there is rivalry even among siblings, and that he would “carry out the responsibility that has been given to him”.In December 2018, when Congress returned to power in the state with 68 of 90 seats in the assembly, Baghel, state minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, speaker Charan Das Mahant and Deo were seen as the contenders to the chief ministerial post.Baghel has since Tuesday met at least a dozen legislators and other functionaries close to him. He said on Tuesday that “those propagating the two-and-a-half-year power-sharing formula were trying to bring political instability and would never succeed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baghel-back-in-delhi-for-more-meetings-amid-signs-of-possible-change-in-guard-101630052428179.html
27-08-2021||India||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot undergoes angioplasty at SMS hospital||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot underwent angioplasty at SMS hospital in Jaipur on Friday. The 70-year-old Congress leader has had health issues ever since he tested positive for coronavirus in April this year. “The CM’s angioplasty has been done successfully. Everything is fine now,” Gehlot’s OSD Lokesh Sharma tweeted. Earlier in the day, the CM tweeted about his impending angioplasty. “Post Covid-19, I was having health issues and since yesterday, I was having severe pain in my chest. Just got my CT angiography done in SMS hospital and angioplasty will be done,” he posted. Also Read | Over 1 crore people fully vaccinated against Covid in Rajasthan: Health minister“I am happy that I am getting it done at SMS Hospital. I am fine and will be back soon. Your blessings and well wishes are with me,” he added. Gehlot was accompanied to the hospital by health minister Raghu Sharma, Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi, MLA Rafiq Khan, and other officials from his office. Good wishes poured in for the chief minister. Former CM Vasundhara Raje said, “Got the news of the Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot being unwell. I pray to God for his speedy recovery.” Former deputy CM Sachin Pilot and State BJP chief Satish Poonia also tweeted for his speedy recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-undergoes-angioplasty-at-sms-hospital-101630051708091.html
27-08-2021||India||Tiger buffer zones earn MP revenue; concerns remain over impact on conservation||The opening of buffer zones of six tiger reserves in Madhya Pradesh for tourists this monsoon has earned the state ₹26 lakh revenue even as there have been concerns about the impact of the move on conservation. Tiger habitats are closed in the rainy season. The move to open their buffer zones for tourism has drawn flak with wildlife experts saying revenue is being preferred over conservation.The zones with over 80 tigers were opened for tourism for the first time in the monsoon under the “buffer main safar (travel in buffer)” programme. Officials said the highest revenue of ₹12 lakh each was collected from Bandhavgarh and Kanha tiger reserves. The Bandhavgarh reserve is one of the most congested in India with 124 tigers including at least 45 in its buffer zone. Kanha has 108 tigers. They include 25 in its buffer zone. According to the 2018 tiger census, there were 526 tigers in Madhya Pradesh.Also Read | MP govt contemplating to reopen schools for Classes 6 to 8 from next monthPrincipal chief conservator of forests Alok Kumar insisted they were following all the guidelines and regulations to protect the tiger. “If reserve officials receive any information about the movement of tigers (in an area)...we do not allow the tourists there.” Kumar added the zones were opened following discussions with experts and conservationists.Wildlife Institute of India (Dehradun)’s senior tiger ecologist, YV Jhala, said there is no problem with the concept if it is being done in a regulated manner. “There is no fixed time of mating of tigers, and it was proved in many studies. The forest department should do this with a dynamic plan by giving priority to conservation.”Wildlife expert Suhas Kumar said tiger reserves are not set up to promote tourism and earn money. “Their prime objective is conservation by educating people and making them sensitive towards wildlife. The National Wildlife Action Plan, 2017, clearly said that if there is a conflict between tourism and conservation in the wildlife area, conservation should prevail.”Conservationist Ajay Dubey the concept makes tourism the prime objective. “In 2016, NTCA (National Tiger Conservation Authority) issued guidelines with a provision for a ban on the movement of tourists during monsoon for rejuvenation and favourable and peaceful environment for wild animals... but this has been diluted.” Dubey said buffers zones are nothing but supplementary areas for the free movement of tigers from overcrowded core areas. “The forest department has overlooked everything to generate revenue.”Vinay Varman, a former eco-tourism board managing director, said most of the tigers are killed in buffer zones in the absence of patrolling. “...tourist movement (there) can help forest officials in keeping an eye on tigers and in stopping free movement of poachers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-buffer-zones-earn-mp-revenue-concerns-remain-over-impact-on-conservation-101630050147996.html
27-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot to undergo angioplasty at Jaipur hospital and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot to undergo angioplasty at Jaipur hospitalRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot will undergo angioplasty at SMS hospital in Jaipur. Gehlot was taken to a private diagnosic centre after complaining of severe chest pain all of Thursday. He was then taken to the hospital. Read moreRane to lead a show of strength in Maharashtra’s Sindhudurg todayUnion minister Narayan Rane will lead a show of strength in his home district of Sindhudurg in Maharashtra on Friday evening three days after he was arrested and later released on bail over his slap remark about chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Read moreSonu Sood is ambassador for Delhi’s ‘Desh ke Mentor’ initiative for school kidsActor Sonu Sood will be the ambassador for Delhi government’s ‘Desh Ke Mentor’ initiative for school children, likely to be launched next month, the actor and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a joint press conference on Friday. Read moreLatest from Kabul airport: Death toll from attack rises, evacuations continueThe death toll in the Kabul airport attack blamed on Islamic State Khorasan Province rose on Friday as evacuation efforts, led by the United States, continued to get citizens and officials out of war-torn Afghanistan. Read moreIndian Railways to begin 2 Vistadome trains from tomorrow. Check detailsThe Indian Railways is all set to begin two Vistadome train services in Assam and West Bengal from Saturday. According to the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR), the Vistadome tourist special trains will run between Guwahati-New Haflong in Assam and New Jalpaiguri-Alipurduar Junction in North Bengal. Read more'Tough situation': Dawid Malan says he's 'committed to IPL' amid uncertainty over England T20 World Cup, Ashes squadsDue to the rising number of Covid cases inside the tournament's bubble, the 2021 edition of the Indian Premier League tournament was stopped midway. Read moreThe Empire review: Horrendous Hotstar show rips off Game of Thrones, apes Sanjay Leela BhansaliWith entire scenes lifted from Game of Thrones, forts that look like they’re made of polystyrene, and stone floors that wobble when people fall on them, The Empire would be unintentionally hilarious if it wasn’t so unbearably dull. Read moreMouni Roy's sizzling pastel blue bikini look at Maldives makes fans go 'dizzy'Making us want to invest in pastels as she brings back the summer heat this monsoon, Mouni Roy sizzled in a pastel blue bikini and her throwback pictures from Maldives have set the Internet on fire. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-to-undergo-angioplasty-at-jaipur-hospital-and-all-the-latest-news-101630048179087.html
27-08-2021||India||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot to undergo angioplasty at Jaipur hospital||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot will undergo angioplasty at SMS hospital in Jaipur. Gehlot was taken to a private diagnosic centre after complaining of severe chest pain all of Thursday. He was then taken to the hospital.Tweeting about his health condition on Friday, Gehlot wrote, “Post Covid-19, I was having health issues and since yesterday, I was having severe pain in my chest. Just got my CT Angiography done in SMS hospital and angioplasty will be done.”Post Covid I was having health issues & Since yesterday I was having severe pain in my chest. Just got my CT NGO done in SMS hospital.Angioplasty will be done.I am happy that I'm getting it done at SMS Hospital.I am fine & will be back soon.Your blessings & well wishes r with me.“I am happy that I am getting it done at SMS Hospital. I am fine and will be back soon. Your blessings and well wishes are with me,” he said.Gehlot was accompanied by health minister Raghu Sharma, chief whip Mahesh Joshi, MLA Rafiq Khan, and other officials from his office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-to-undergo-angioplasty-at-jaipur-hospital-101630047087771.html
27-08-2021||India||Rane to lead a show of strength in Maharashtra’s Sindhudurg today||Union minister Narayan Rane will lead a show of strength in his home district of Sindhudurg in Maharashtra on Friday evening three days after he was arrested and later released on bail over his slap remark about chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. He flew to Ratnagiri on Friday morning to resume his Jan Ashirwad Yatra, which was halted because of his arrest on Tuesday. The Yatra, which new inductees into the Union council of ministers are undertaking across the country, will culminate in neighbouring Sindhudurg district on Sunday.Rane was scheduled to pay respect to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and BR Ambedkar at their statues in Ratnagiri before heading to his home district of Sindhudurg. He will meet his supporters in Lanja and Rajapur en route. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was preparing for his welcome at Kharepatan, the entry point to the district, where he will lead a roadshow.Also Read | Tussle between Governor Koshyari and Maharashtra govt yet to end?Rane underwent a health check-up on Thursday as he took a two-day break after his arrest over his remarks on Monday. He hit out at Thackeray on Wednesday and asked why action was not taken against him for his similar remarks against BJP leaders.Vinayak Raut, the ruling Shiv Sena Member of Parliament from Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg, said they are not against Rane’s Yatra. “But it should be held in the manner it is expected to be carried out. He has been attacking and targeting Shiv Sena and our leadership out of his personal enmity. Whether to give permission or not is the decision to be taken by Sindhudurg administration amid the prohibitory orders (restricting assembly of people).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rane-to-lead-a-show-of-strength-in-maharashtra-s-sindhudurg-today-101630044807730.html
27-08-2021||India||Agriculture minister Tomar launches national food and nutrition campaign||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday launched a national food and nutrition campaign for farmers. “Efforts are also being made to make agriculture and farmers connected with new technology. We have expertise in production, but it is also important to manage this abundance. It is the responsibility of the farmers along with the government to ensure that our products should be of better quality, meet global standards. Farmers should be attracted towards costly crops,” Tomar said at the launch.Also Read | Low wholesale veg prices fail to reach end user as retailers look to cash inHe added that increasing productivity in India is a “matter of pride”, but India is at a stage, where it has to introspect into farmers’ challenges and their solutions. He lauded the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). Tomar added ICAR has been working successfully on which crops should be cultivated and which seeds should be invented for rain fed and other areas. Tomar said farmers associated with Krishi Vigyan Kendras should also ensure participation of all farmers in various schemes including Agri Infra Fund.Tomar said when the Modi government took over, the budget for agriculture was about ₹21,000crore which has now been increased to over ₹1.23lakh crore. “For the development of gram panchayats, the amount of the Finance Commission’s grant has been increased almost five times by the PM,” Tomar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agriculture-minister-tomar-launches-national-food-and-nutrition-campaign-101630042587532.html
27-08-2021||India||NTPC hires all-women engineering executive trainees batch||Marking Women’s Equality Day on Thursday, National Thermal Power Corporation Limited (NTPC) said it has recruited an all-women engineering executive trainees (EETs) batch to “reaffirm its stand on diversity and inclusion.”“NTPC received an overwhelming response of the recruitment advertisement, which was published in April, 2021. The engineering graduates were selected… in the Electrical, Mechanical, Electronics and Instrumentation disciplines,” NTPC said, adding that out of 50 offers sent, 30 trainees have joined the company. The special EET batch is currently undergoing a customised induction-cum-training programme at NTPC’s Regional Learning Institutes where they are trained in the mechanical, electrical, and control & instrumentation disciplines.Also Read | High court cancels FIR against Jammu journalist, calls it attack on press freedomNTPC is one of India’s largest energy-generating firms. It added that it has also planned to set up an all-female operation control room.“NTPC is establishing the regular interaction of new recruiters with the senior management and other employees to ensure that the youngsters are assimilated into the and culture of the organisation,” it said.It added that the company has been working on improving its gender ratio wherever possible. “It has always believed in providing equal opportunity to all the sections of society and has consciously promoted diversity through its hiring practices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ntpc-hires-all-female-engineering-executive-trainees-batch-101630040519745.html
27-08-2021||India||Indian Railways to begin 2 Vistadome trains from tomorrow. Check details||The Indian Railways is all set to begin two Vistadome train services in Assam and West Bengal from Saturday. According to the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR), the Vistadome tourist special trains will run between Guwahati-New Haflong in Assam and New Jalpaiguri-Alipurduar Junction in North Bengal.A railway official said that the New Jalpaiguri-Alipurduar train will have a Vistadome coach, two air-conditioned chair cars and two non-airconditioned chair cars, apart from a luggage car and a power coach, adding that it will run three days a week -- Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays, reports news agency PTI.The Vistadome coach in the New Jalpaiguri-Alipurduar train with a 44-seating capacity will have a fare of ₹770, the air-conditioned chair cars will cost between ₹300 and 400 per seat and a non-airconditioned seat will cost only ₹85, the official added.It has huge windows and transparent roofs, thus allowing an obstruction-free view of the surroundings. "There are jungles, wildlife and tea gardens on the route between NJP and Alipurduar, thus providing a tourist with the opportunity to view the natural beauty of Dooars during their travel," the official said.The special Vistadome train service between Guwahati and New Haflong will initially run two days a week -- on Wednesdays and Saturdays -- with stops at Manderdisa and Maibong stations.NFR manager said that the introduction of Vistadome trains are meant to help tourists experience the scenic beauty and to display the cultural heritage of the region during the unique journey. "The joint effort with the tourism department will help to boost the tourism sector and as well as the local economy," he added.NFR chief public relations officer Guneet Kaur said that the introduction of these Vistadome trains will help to generate additional revenue for the railways and also for local people of these areas. "NFR hopes that the initiative to boost the tourism sector of Assam and north Bengal will be very well patronised by the local people as well as by visitors from other states," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-to-begin-2-vistadome-trains-from-tomorrow-check-details-101630038261483.html
27-08-2021||India||India has administered at least 610 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 610 million Covid vaccine doses by Thursday, August 26. Zydus Cadilla’s vaccine against Covid, the first approved for children as young as 12 in the country, will likely be available by the first week of October, a senior health ministry official said on ThursdayMeanwhile, by 7pm on Thursday, 611,043,573 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 6,787,305 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 4,688,114 got their first dose while 2,099,191 got their second dose.Also Read | Meghalaya to relax Covid-19 protocols for tourism sector, schools from Sep 1In the 18-45 age group, 3,459,041 were given the first dose while 1,027,572 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 231,895,731 people have been given the first do while 23,374,357 have got their second shot as well.Among the healthcare workers, 10,356,040 have been given the first dose while 8,292,060 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,314,022 have got their first dose and 12,854,105 have got their second dose too.India reported on Friday 44,658 new Covid cases in the last 24 hours, a government statement said.With this, the country’s total tally reached 32,603,18. The death toll stood at 436,861.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-610-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101630038207208.html
27-08-2021||India||Militants gun down 5 in Assam, set trucks afire||Guwahati Five persons were killed and one injured after suspected militants belonging to the Dimasa National Liberation Army (DNLA) fired indiscriminately at seven trucks and set them ablaze in Assam’s Dima Hasao district, police said on Friday.The trucks, loaded with cement, coal and other materials, were on their way to a cement factory at Umrangso when they were stopped at Diyungbra at around 8.30 pm on Thursday and attacked by the group.A cement factory’s refusal to yield to the DNLA’s extortion demands recently may have probably triggered the attack, police said.“The group fired at the vehicles for several minutes and then set them afire. Five persons were killed and one sustained injury. All of them are drivers and handymen of the trucks,” Dima Hasao superintendent of police Jayant Singh said. “Additional forces were rushed to the spot immediately after the incident and a combing operation is underway to nab the culprits,” he added. The injured person was rushed to the nearest government hospital.Formed in April 2019, the DNLA is an Assam-based insurgent group which seeks an independent nation for the Dimasa community through armed struggle. Dimasa is one of the indigenous tribes of the state. Around 142,413 Dimasas were concentrated in Dima Hasao district, as per the 2011 census, while others lived in neighbouring Nagaland. In recent months, nearly 20 members of the outfit have either surrendered or been killed in gun battles with security forces. DNLA claims to be fighting for protecting the tribe’s culture and language, and restoring the Dimasa kingdom, one of the earliest of the region. Rebel groups such as Dima Halam Daogah and Black Widow were initially operative in the region but gradually turned inactive.Assam has a history of armed groups representing various communities seeking sovereignty, a separate state or an autonomous region. Several of them, like the National Democratic Front of Bodoland and United Liberation Front of Asom (pro-talks faction), have given up the armed struggle and signed peace deals with the Centre.On May 14, two persons were killed in a grenade blast at Digboi in Tinsukia district, allegedly carried out by the United Liberation Front of Asom (Independent).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-killed-1-injured-as-suspected-militants-attacks-trucks-in-assam-district-101630034607050.html
27-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: C'garh CM to visit Delhi amid buzz over change of guard and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Chhattisgarh Congress on the line? As Baghel visits Delhi today, here's what we know so farAmid rumours of a growing rift in the Chattisgarh Congress unit, the state's chief minister Bhupesh Baghel is set to visit the national capital for the second time this week on Friday, August 27, for a meeting with the party's senior leadership in Delhi. Read moreMaharashtra continues to register over 5,000 new Covid cases for 2nd day in rowMaharashtra on Thursday breached the 5,000-mark for the second day in a row with 5,108 new Covid-19 cases and 159 deaths. Mumbai’s saw 398 new cases with seven deaths. Read moreSwine flu, dengue cases rise in Delhi; doctors say no need to panicWith the change in weather in the national capital, hospitals in Delhi have been witnessing a sudden spike in seasonal flu, swine flu and dengue cases in the last few days. Read moreUS evacuates 7,500 people in last 24 hrs from Afghanistan after Kabul attackAmid chaos and mayhem, the US on Thursday (local time) evacuated 7,500 people from Afghanistan after a twin blast rocked Kabul airport and Baron Hotel that killed 13 US troops and injured an additional 15 service members as well as numerous Afghan civilians. Read more'India must start rotating players': Salman Butt names two players who should play in the XI against EnglandFormer Pakistan captain Salman Butt said India must rotate their players in the ongoing series in England to avoid fatigue. Butt’s comments came after England ran away with the advantage by the end of Day 2 to place themselves as firm favourites to win the third Test at Headingley in Leeds. Read moreChehre movie review: Amitabh Bachchan-Emraan Hashmi's thriller resorts to preachy theatrics, wastes a good ideaIt takes a lot to waste such a gripping premise with poor writing. But director Rumi Jafry's Chehre does just that. The film starts on a promising note, but it soon starts to go downhill. Chehre is so bizarre after a point that even seasoned actors like Amitabh Bachchan, Anu Kapoor, and Emraan Hashmi aren't able to lift the script. Read moreWe are trying to be a Global Development Centre for people in India, says Zoom GM & Head of India Sameer RajeZoom has witnessed tremendous growth ever since the pandemic started. The video conferencing platform had just 10 million users globally back in December 2019, which ballooned to 200 million in March 2020. This trend has only increased in the past year. Read moreWatch| Made guns & supplied to Khalistani activists via social media, two arrested by Delhi Police﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-c-garh-cm-to-visit-delhi-amid-buzz-over-change-of-guard-101630034000946.html
27-08-2021||India||EC conducts voters’ education, electoral participation workshop||The Election Commission (EC)’s two-day Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) consultation workshop ended on Thursday. The agenda of the workshop was to review state SVEEP plans and deliberate on the important aspects of SVEEP for a strategy for the forthcoming elections.Addressing the participants, chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra said that each voter interacts with the election machinery during enrolment and poll day and the two experiences must be pleasant.Also Read | Maldives govt signs contract for India-funded $500 million connectivity projectHe added the field teams should ensure that the enrolment process is seamless, and the polling experience remains hassle free. Chandra called it imperative that they evaluate their strategy and current interventions at regular intervals, identify critical gaps and address the challenges to devise deliverable action points. He emphasised that implementation of the strategy at the ground level is important.Chandra and election commissioner Rajiv Kumar also unveiled a new initiative to reach out to new voters through a personalised letter from the EC along with their voter ID cards. The package would include a guide for new voters along with a congratulatory letter and a pledge for ethical voting.Election commissioner Anup Chandra Pandey highlighted the importance of synergy between the use of social media and traditional forms of communication in the SVEEP strategy. He said state teams should conduct similar workshops and deliberations with district electoral officers and their teams in the states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-conducts-voters-education-electoral-participation-workshop-101630034366923.html
27-08-2021||India||Maharashtra continues to register over 5,000 new Covid cases for 2nd day in row||Maharashtra on Thursday breached the 5,000-mark for the second day in a row with 5,108 new Covid-19 cases and 159 deaths. Mumbai’s saw 398 new cases with seven deaths.The state’s Covid-19 tally has now reached 6,442,788, while the toll stands at 136,730. There are currently 50,393 active cases across the state, of which Pune tops with 13,085 followed by Thane with 7,092, and Satara with 5,381.Also Read | Fatigue, shortness of breath last a year for many Covid-19 patients, says studyThe state government is likely to request the state election commission to postpone the coming municipal corporation and district council election to prevent further spike in Covid cases. State health minister Rajesh Tope said, “The third wave is imminent; hence it would be better if elections are postponed in Maharashtra. Chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray), deputy chief minister (Ajit Pawar) and members of the state task force will explain to the concerned authority why it is necessary to postpone polls in the state.”“We want the state election commission not to make any announcement before consulting the state government as we all are worried about the anticipated third wave,” said a senior minister on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-continues-to-register-over-5-000-new-covid-cases-for-2nd-day-in-row-101630033287120.html
27-08-2021||India||PM Modi praises Bengaluru student for his paintings, views on public health||Prime Minister Narendra Modi praised a 20-year-old Bengaluru student after he sent him two beautiful paintings of his and a letter as well.Expressing happiness at the interest and devotion of young people in creative fields, Modi wrote to Steven Harris that the paintings showed his talent for experiencing things deeply, a PMO statement said, sharing the paintings."The minute expressions executed with subtlety are heartwarming," the prime minister said.He also lauded the young artist for his views about public health and welfare during the current difficult period.Modi said that the vaccination campaign, discipline and collective efforts of 130 crore Indians are providing strength to the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic.The prime minister expressed hope that people will be inspired by the Steven’s effort to spread positivity, the PMO said.Steven had told the prime minister in his letter that he is painting for the last 15 years and has won more than 100 awards at various levels.He described Modi as his inspiration and praised India’s vaccination programme in the fight against the coronavirus, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-praises-bengaluru-student-for-his-paintings-views-on-public-health-101630032504889.html
27-08-2021||India||Subdued rain likely mover NW India till Sunday, says IMD||Subdued rain is likely over northwest India and central India till Sunday. Weak monsoon conditions are likely to revived after Sunday, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).The western end of the monsoon trough continues to run along the foothills of the Himalayas and it is likely to shift gradually southwards from Saturday. The eastern end of the monsoon trough now passing through Hardoi, Varanasi, Daltonganj, Digha and thence east-southeast to North Bay of Bengal. An off-shore trough at mean sea level is running from Karnataka coast to Kerala coast. A cyclonic circulation is lying over southeast Arabian Sea off north Kerala coast. Strong southerly/south-westerly winds from Bay of Bengal to northeast India are very likely to continue till today. Also Read | Climate crisis: India now confronts a droughtDue to these meteorological conditions, widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is very likely to continue over northeast India, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim today and reduce thereafter with isolated heavy rainfall over the region. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) is also likely over Arunachal Pradesh and sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim, Assam and Meghalaya today. Fairly widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls is very likely over coastal and south interior Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Mahe during the next two days. Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rain is very likely to continue over Uttarakhand till Sunday.Subdued rainfall activity is likely to continue over northwest and central India till Sunday and increase thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/subdued-rain-likely-mover-nw-india-till-sunday-says-imd-101630032626990.html
27-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh Congress on the line? As Baghel visits Delhi today, here's what we know so far||Amid rumours of a growing rift in the Chattisgarh Congress unit, the state's chief minister Bhupesh Baghel is set to visit the national capital for the second time this week on Friday, August 27, for a meeting with the party's senior leadership in Delhi. It was only on Tuesday that Baghel had travelled to Delhi to meet Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who also talked to state health minister TS Singh Deo in a bid to resolve a power tussle between the two senior leaders of the Chhattisgarh unit. There has been considerable speculation over a possible change in guard in the state, even as people familiar with internal party matters told news agencies that Baghel has rejected talks about a rotation of the chief minister's post.Also Read | Buzz over Chhattisgarh change of guard growsHowever, it is not just Bhupesh Baghel who is looking to consolidate support with the Congress high command in Delhi; in a show of strength, at least 20 legislators backing Baghel also flew to the national capital late on Thursday night. According to a report by the PTI news agency, several party MLAs who are close to Baghel left for Delhi, while two state ministers and some legislators are already camping in the national capital.The meeting on Tuesday seems to have been called to thrash out a solution to the impasse in Chhattisgarh, caused by a power-sharing agreement put in place when the government was formed in December 2018. However, PL Punia, in charge of the state's Congress unit, said that the talks among Baghel, Deo, and Gandhi centred around developmental issues and not leadership change. He also told reporters that the senior Congress leaders had not "summoned" any of the state's lawmakers to the national capital.According to senior leaders close to Chhattisgarh chief minister Baghel, the fresh set of meeting with the party leadership on Friday would bring up “many things still not discussed.”After meeting the former Congress president, Baghel had said that those who are talking about "two and a half years' (power-sharing formula) are trying to bring political instability and they will never succeed."Meanwhile, Singh Deo, who has remained in Delhi since the meetings on Tuesday, said, “If a person plays in a team, then doesn’t he think of becoming the captain? Everyone thinks about that but the question is not about thoughts, it’s about capabilities. The high command takes a decision.” Leaders close to the health minister said that they were staying in Delhi to avoid a situation of competing shows of strength in Raipur, and hoped for a quick declaration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-congress-on-the-line-as-baghel-visits-delhi-today-here-s-what-we-know-so-far-101630025772030.html
27-08-2021||India||Krishna River Management Board to meet today to discuss flow of funds, water allocation||The Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) will on Friday discuss among other issues budgetary support and the working arrangement for sharing of waters of the Krishna during the 2021-22 water year during its full board meeting. One of the agendas of the meeting, over the ongoing tussle between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in regard to the utilisation of Krishna water, is also to shift the KRMB headquarters from Hyderabad to Visakhapatnam.According to a notice by KRMB member-secretary DM Raipure, providing budgetary support to the board is one of the critical issues that will come up for discussion at the meeting to be also attended by water resources officials of the two states.During its third meeting, the KRMB proposed to create a reserve fund of ₹10 crore but so far both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have not contributed any amount. Though a budget of ₹18 crore has been approved for the 2021-22 financial years, the two states have not released any money so far. "Even after repeated correspondence with both the states, the KRMB did not receive requisite funds. The Board now has a bank balance of only ₹2.46 crore,” Raipure said.The KRMB has requested the two states to release ₹10 crore each immediately to meet its expenditure. The Telangana government released ₹3.5 crore last year against its allocated amount of ₹8.37 crore. "No funds were received from the Andhra Pradesh government in the last two years," Raipure added.According to the notice, the agenda of the meeting would also be to discuss the working arrangement for sharing of Krishna water during 2021-22 water year as Telangana requested an emergency sharing ratio of 50:50 against the agreed 66:34.Raipure further stated that Telangana's request for allowing it to carry over the unutilized share of water to the next year and Andhra Pradesh’s objection to it would also be discussed in the meeting.The meeting would also discuss the Andhra Pradesh government’s complaint against the construction of several micro-irrigation projects in Telangana and the utilization of 175.54 tmc feet (one thousand million cubic feet) of water against the allotted share of 89.15 tmc ft. The KRMB would also focus on Telangana’s demand for an additional share of 45 tmc ft of Krishna water since Andhra Pradesh was diverting Godavari water to the Krishna basin and the two states’ tussle over hydel power generation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/krishna-river-management-board-to-meet-today-to-discuss-flow-of-funds-water-allocation-101630020925123.html
27-08-2021||India||Nirmala Sitharaman on 2-day Tripura visit from today, set to launch slew of projects||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is set to visit Tripura on Friday as part of a two-day tour to the state to inaugurate a number of developmental projects. This will be her first visit to Tripura since the alliance of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Indigenous People's Front of Tripura (IPFT) came to power in the state in March 2018. During her visit this time, Sitharaman is also expected to conduct meetings with the state government officials, according to people at the chief minister's office (CMO) familiar with the matter.Nirmala Sitharaman may also hold a meeting with Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb during her visit, according to an unnamed functionary of the chief minister's office cited by news agency PTI. She is also likely to hold a meeting with top state government officials later in the day to discuss in detail various issues related to the state's progress and development, the official added.Sitharaman, on the first day of her visit on Friday, is slated to inaugurate as many as 11 developmental projects which are worth ₹151 crore in total. Later in the day, she will also be paying a visit to a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination centre at Gandhigram near Tripura's capital Agartala, as per updates provided by the functionary.On the second day of her visit on Saturday, the Union finance minister will travel to Udaipur (formerly known as Rangamati), the third-largest city in Tripura, to offer her prayers at the famous Tripura Sundari temple there. Notably, the temple is considered to be one of the 51 'Shakti Peethas', significant Hindu shrines and pilgrimage destinations scattered across India.Sitharaman, after offering her prayers at the temple, is scheduled to hold meetings with the members of a local self-help group in the district. Thereafter, she will fly back to Delhi during the second half of Saturday, the CMO official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirmala-sitharaman-on-2-day-tripura-visit-from-today-set-to-launch-slew-of-projects-101630021121958.html
27-08-2021||India||‘Huge amount of investment needed to meet 1.5 degree goal’: Ajay Mathur||India is inching closer to achieving one of its goals under the Paris Agreement that of having 40% of its electric power from renewable sources by 2030, Ajay Mathur, director general of International Solar Alliance tells HT’s Jayashree Nandi in an interview. He said India will possibly do more than that with major boost in development of battery storage facilities in the next few years but coal power will continue to be a large source of electricity generation till 2040s and that the 1.5 degree goal may be impossible without carbon capture and storage facilities or extremely large investments in clean technologies globally. Edited excerpts:How far are we from achieving one of our targets under the Paris Agreement of having 40% of electricity from non-fossil fuel sources by 2030?Today we are at 33-34% that’s pretty close to 40%. However, one of the things that I would like to stress is that India’s internal targets of achieving 100 GW of solar and 60 GW of wind by 2022 and then the 450 GW by 2030 will take us way beyond the 40% target. It’s quite possible that in 2040 not just 40% of capacity but 40% of energy generation will come from renewable energy sources.What are the challenges in achieving our renewable energy targets?There is a challenge. We will achieve our 40% target there is no question about it. But if we want to keep growing the challenge is the price of electricity from renewable energy round the clock has to be less than fossil fuel energy. Solar is available round the day when the sun is shining but the largest demand for electricity occurs in the evening... What is important is that cost effective storage is available well before 2030... this will happen between 2022 and 2025. Because Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) had put out tenders for round-the-clock electricity from renewable energy... This is not to say that fossil fuel-based electricity will come to zero but the additional electricity will come from renewables plus batteries.How much of our electricity capacity is from solar and what is the growth trajectory like?In 2015, when we pledged our goals before the UN Paris Conference, less than 5% of the electricity was from solar and wind combined. Today, solar alone is around 11% and in the years to come solar plus wind plus large hydro plus nuclear will be 40% if we are able to meet the cost curve...We are expecting a doubling of 11% from solar to 22 to 24% in 2030.Many countries are pledging a net zero emissions goal by mid-century. Is that a feasible goal and are there foolproof intermediate plans to achieve it?We need to be sure that technologies are available for zero CO2 in all sectors not just power... So, the question is will we have cost effective technologies by 2030? That is the only way you can be net zero by 2050...A large number of resources will have to be invested by every country to enable net zero to occur. Net zero goal is based on two assumptions: that we have technologies and they are cost effective and second, that countries are politically willing to put in resources that are needed to offset the emissions that occur even at that time...Despite our progress in renewable energy, coal mines are being auctioned, thermal plants continue to supply a major chunk of electricity and PM Modi during his Independence Day speech said India will be a large gas based economy? Why so? Will coal continue to be a major energy source for us?Coal will continue to be a major source of electricity for the next ten years, may be even longer... I think the goal of the auctions is to replace coal that is imported and replaced by coal produced in India. In the net, there will be no increase in the amount of coal used in India. Already we have had four years when no new financial approvals for new coal capacity have occurred. Coal will however continue to be a major energy source possibly into the 2040s because we have existing coal mines and coal plants which will still be competitive and the total electricity we get from solar and solar plus batteries will be limited capacity. Coal demand and production will still be there but beyond 2027-2028 or around that time it will not grow any further.The latest IPCC report seems to suggest the 1.5 degree warming goal is nearly impossible. Is that goal still alive?The 1.5 degree goal is impossible to achieve unless there is very large net extraction of CO2 from the atmosphere. We need very large CO2 sinks like large carbon capture and storage technologies or large afforestation programs only then 1.5 degree is possible. Otherwise realistically speaking, we do not have cost effective technologies and therefore a huge amount of investment will be needed to meet the 1.5 degree goal. I don’t see that kind of political appetite for that kind of investment in almost any country in the world. It had been thought that by 2020 there will be a large number of carbon capture and storage facilities. There are two facilities that are working. Price estimates suggest they cost around 30 to 80 dollars per tonne of CO2 so the technologies are very expensive. The geology for CCS is also very specific. So, it is restrictive.What have been ISA’s achievements in furthering solar energy capacity globally?ISA is about enabling solarisation across the world. Solar will become the energy source of choice if it's easily doable, if it creates jobs and if getting money for doing it is comparatively easier as compared to getting money for doing fossil fuel-based projects. What ISA does is three things--first is looking at how we are able to capture the information on the progress that is happening in solar. We are giving out annual progress reports on solar technologies; solar investments and solar markets. This year, we will do these assessments for 98 countries. The second is if you need to do this you will need people and systems. You need human, institutional and financial capacity. We bring out a number of training programs across the cycle for bankers, policymakers and others. The other point is how do we bring money into it? A vast amount, around 95% of the cost of electricity generated from renewable energy even with storage is based on the capital cost as opposed to fossil fuels where only 50% is based on the capital cost. Clearly, the interest rate at which you borrow money becomes very important. Our focus is how do we create this risk mitigation and readiness. We are starting off by creating a blended finance facility—first it is for Africa and then we will expand it for Asia and Latin America. This is going to be a $700million facility which is going to provide risk finance and readiness capital.Solar rooftop projects haven’t picked up in a big way in Indian cities yet. Why?There are two major issues with solar rooftop projects. Electricity utilities are needed to commit to buying excess solar electricity generated by households and to supplying the electricity when households need it. Households need it at night so distribution companies will have to commit to generating companies that if we had solar roof tops, we would get electricity at night. That when I have excess electricity, they will buy it, which is typically in the afternoon when the company has too much electricity in hand. If it has to buy the electricity that I generate at the price at which it sells electricity, then it’s incurring a loss. So, distribution utilities have been extremely hesitant in providing full support to net metering facilities. Second problem relates to physical infrastructure. Bidirectional meters needed but they are still limited. Transformers also have to enable distribution. It will take time to develop physical infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/huge-amount-of-investment-needed-to-meet-1-5-degree-goal-101630023026338.html
27-08-2021||India||Minister blames survivor, says Oppn trying to ‘rape’ him||A political row pertaining to the Mysuru gangrape erupted on Thursday after Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra questioned the timing of the survivor’s visit to a deserted spot and alleged that the Congress was trying to “rape” him by targeting him in the case.While addressing reporters here, Jnanendra, a first-time minister who was inducted into the Basavaraj Bommai cabinet recently, said: “It was a deserted place. First of all, they should not have gone there at night. We cannot stop anyone from going anywhere. People don’t go there as it is deserted, but these two people had gone there. Now, people have blamed the police for not patrolling the area. I will look into these lapses.”Accusing the Congress of trying to “rape” him by trying to gain political mileage out of the case, Jnanendra said: “The rape has taken place there (Mysuru). But Congress is trying to rape me, the home minister, here. They are trying to get political mileage out of this incident. This is an inhuman act. We have to worry about how to prevent such incidents in the future and how our police force must work.”The Congress had criticised the law and order situation in the state after a 22-year-old woman was allegedly raped by five men near Chamundi Hill in Mysuru on Tuesday. The girl and her male friend, who was assaulted by the gang, are undergoing treatment in a private hospital.Chief minister Basavaraj S Bommai disapproved of the home minister’s remarks and said he had sought a clarification in this regard. “I just don’t agree with the comments made by my home minister regarding the gang-rape incident. I have advised him to give clarification,” he told reporters.Condemning the home minister’s remarks, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president DK Shivakumar urged the police to arrest his partymen involved in “raping the home minister”. “The Home Minister has taken the word ‘rape’ very lightly. He claims the Congressmen are trying to rape the home minister of the state and I demand the DGP file an FIR under section 376 of the Indian Penal Code against all the Congressmen who are trying to rape and immediately arrest them,” Shivakumar said.Later, a statement from Jnanendra’s office said he had withdrawn the remarks against the Congress leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-blames-survivor-says-oppn-trying-to-rape-him-101630022770844.html
27-08-2021||NA||News highlights: PM Modi speaks with Italian counterpart Mario Draghi||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:PM Modi speaks with Italy PM Mario DraghiSpoke with Prime Minister Mario Draghi of Italy and discussed the need for a coordinated international response to recent developments in Afghanistan. We also discussed other important issues such as climate change, and our cooperation in G20: PM Modi'Crossing 1 crore momentous feet': PM ModiRecord vaccination numbers today! Crossing 1 crore is a momentous feat. Kudos to those getting vaccinated and those making the vaccination drive a success."Record vaccination numbers today. Kudos to those getting vaccinated and those making the vaccination drive a success," tweets PM Modi.Over 1 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered todayसबका साथ सबका विकास सबका विश्वास सबका प्रयास यह वही प्रयास है जिससे देश ने 1 दिन में 1 करोड़ से अधिक टीके लगाने का आँकड़ा पार कर लिया है। स्वास्थ्यकर्मियों का अथक परिश्रम व PM @NarendraModi जी का #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine का दृढ़ संकल्प रंग ला रहा है। pic.twitter.com/hHlUU4q3fvIndia crosses milestone of administering more than 1 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses in a single-day, tweets Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.Delhi reports 46 new Covid-19 cases and zero deaths🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 27th August 2021🏥 #DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/IqwXXxnwPyDelhi reports 46 new Covid-19 cases, 62 recoveries and zero deaths. Total cases rise to 1,437,656 including 1,412,164 recoveries, 25,080 deaths and 412 active cases.Navodaya Vidyalayas to reopen: Education ministryNavodaya Vidyalaya Samiti has decided to re-open the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas at 50% capacity, in a phased manner for classes 9-12, as per notification of states/UTs which have permitted re-opening of schools by following approved SOP for opening schools: Education ministry2 British nationals among victims of Kabul airport attack, says UKTwo British nationals among those killed in Thursday's suicide bombing at the Kabul airport, says UK government.Kabul airlift still faces 'specific, credible' threats: PentagonDay after Kabul airport attack, US ministry of defence says airlift from the city still faces 'specific, credible, threats."Union health secretary writes to Kerala, Maharashtra over Covid-19 surgeUnion Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan writes to Chief Secretaries of Kerala and Maharashtra on adopting 5-fold strategy for controling #COVID19 cases. pic.twitter.com/wsX3uavjQmUnion health secretary Rajesh Bhushan writes to Kerala and Maharashtra chief secretaries on adopting five-fold strategy for controlling rising Covid-19 states in the two states.Record 93 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses administered today: CentreOver 93 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses administered today, highest-ever in a single day. Total 620,943,580 doses administered thus far since beginning of vaccine drive on January 16: Union health ministryRahul Gandhi to visit Chhattisgarh next week: Bhupesh BaghelI told Rahul Gandhi everything. There were political as well state administrative discussions. In the end, I requested him to visit Chhattisgarh. He gladly accepted the invitation, he will be there next week: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel after meeting with Rahul Gandhi in DelhiIndia registers record 90 lakh Covid-19 vaccinations todayCongratulations to the citizens as India today administers historic 90 lakh #COVID19 vaccines until now - and still counting!🤞ऐतिहासिक! देशभर में आज 90 लाख से अधिक टीके अब तक लगाए जा चुके है। pic.twitter.com/p5b91MuIMW"Congratulations to the citizens as India today administers historic 90 lakh Covid-19 vaccines until now - and still counting." tweets Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.Tamil Nadu logs 1542 new Covid-19 cases and 21 deathsTamil Nadu reports 1542 new Covid-19 cases, 1793 recoveries and 21 deaths. Total cases climb to 2,608,748, including 34,835 deaths.West Bengal BJP leader Dilip Ghosh says state govt wants lockdown, by-electionsOn one hand, the state govt is saying that a lockdown should remain in effect with limited gatherings. Yet they're also insisting on by-elections. Is the COVID pandemic everywhere except the locations for by-polls? Normalcy must be restored in West Bengal: WB BJP Dilip Ghosh pic.twitter.com/B39S4En2jLWest Bengal BJP leader Dilip Ghosh had questioned the state government's insistence on by-elections, saying that the government wants both Covid-19 lockdown and elections, reports ANI.Kerala reports over 30,000 cases for third straight day, positivity rate at 19.22%Kerala reports 32,801 new #COVID19 cases, 18,573 recoveries and 179 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total recoveries 37,30,198Death toll 20,313 Active cases 1,95,254The test positivity rate is 19.22%. A total of 1,70,703 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.Kerala reported 32,801 new Covid-19 cases, the third consecutive day when the state witnessed over 30,000 new cases. Further, 179 more people lost their lives to the disease, reports ANI.Samyukt Kisan Morcha calls for Bharat Bandh on September 25Ongoing farmers' agitation | Samyukt Kisan Morcha calls for a one-day 'Bharat Bandh' on September 25th.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has called for a one-day 'Bharat Bandh' on September 25, reports ANI.Up to 500,000 more Afghan refugees could flee by year end, says UN#BREAKING UN warns up to half a million more Afghans could flee as refugees by year end pic.twitter.com/hyTI8J2aeKThe United Nations has warned that more than 500,000 refugees could flee Afghanistan by year end, reports AFP.'No clarity about any entity forming govt in Kabul': MEASituation on the ground is uncertain (in Afghanistan). Primary concern is security & safety of people. Currently, there is no clarity about any entity forming a govt in Kabul. I think we are jumping the gun regarding recognition: MEA Spokesperson on recognition of Taliban govt pic.twitter.com/qvU0JowJ70The ministry of external affairs said that there is no clarity currently on any entity forming the government in Afghanistan. "I think we are jumping the gun regarding recognition," MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said, reports ANI.550 people, including over 260 Indians, evacuated from Afghanistan: MEAWe've evacuated over 550 people in 6 separate flights, either from Kabul or Dushanbe. Of these, over 260 were Indians. GoI also facilitated evacuation of Indian nationals through other agencies. We were in touch with various countries, like US,Tajikistan: MEA spox Arindam Bagchi pic.twitter.com/OmpM47p6obThe ministry of external affairs said that 550 people including over 260 Indian nationals have been evacuated from Afghanistan through six flights, reports ANI.'Parents' consent essential, no student would be forced to come': Manish Sisodia on schools reopening in DelhiSocial distancing should be strictly followed and no student will be forced to come to the school. Consent of parents will be essential for students to come. If parents don't permit then students will not be forced to come, they'll not be considered absent either: Manish SisodiaDelhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that the consent of parents would be essential for students to return to school after Delhi government's announcement to reopen schools in phased manner, reports ANI.Ashok Gehlot 'recovering well' following angioplasty, says SMS Medical College in JaipurRajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot was found to have 90% blockade in one of the main arteries i.e. LAD. He was subjected to coronary angiography, angioplasty & stenting. The procedure was uneventful & post-procedure he is recovering well: SMS Medical College, Jaipur pic.twitter.com/aZUdmGpnWxThe SMS Medical College in Jaipur, where Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot has undergone angioplasty earlier today, said that the CM is recovering well following the procedure, reports ANI.Kremlin condemns Kabul attacks in 'strongest possible terms' reports AFP#BREAKING Kremlin condemns deadly Kabul attacks 'in strongest possible terms' pic.twitter.com/800keDmEtXKremlin has condemned the Kabul attacks in strongest possible terms, reports AFP.Delhi schools to reopen in phased manner, classes 9-12 to begin from Sep 1Schools in Delhi to re-open in a phased manner. Classes for std 9th to 12th will begin from September 1st. Classes for std 6th to 8th will begin from September 8th. pic.twitter.com/BqlL0PQ0MfDelhi schools would be reopened in a phased manner with classes 9 to 12 opening on September 1 and classes 6 to 8 would begin from September 8, reports ANI.International flight with 126 passengers makes emergency landing at Nagpur after pilot's health deterioratesMaharashtra: An international flight of Biman Bangladesh, carrying 126 passengers, made a medical emergency landing at Nagpur airport after a sudden deterioration in the health of the pilot of the aircraft.A Biman Bangladesh flight carrying 126 passengers made an emergency landing at Nagpur airport after the sudden deterioration of the pilot's health, reports ANI.9 killed in blasts at Kazakhstan arms depot, reports AFP#BREAKING Nine dead after blasts at Kazakhstan arms depot: ministry pic.twitter.com/908zqQBUMeAs many as nine people were killed in blasts at Kazakhstan arms depot, reports AFP.Over 200 ministers to submit report on boosting tourism, local business in J&K, Ladakh: Om BirlaMore than 200 MPs of over 13 standing committees of Lok Sabha & Rajya Sabha have visited Jammu & Kashmir & Ladakh. They held discussions with all the stakeholders & locals. They will give their reports on how to boost tourism & local businesses: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla in Leh pic.twitter.com/P6Sx6ERxe2Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla said that over 200 minister will submit their report on boosting tourism and local industries in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, reports ANI.UN asks North Korea to clarify alleged shoot-on-sight ordersUN human rights investigators have asked North Korea to clarify whether it has ordered troops to shoot on sight any trespassers who cross its northern border in violation of the country's pandemic closure.Bodies of at least 95 Afghans taken from the Kabul airport attack siteBodies of at least 95 Afghans taken from the Kabul airport attack site, reports AP citing an official.Taliban urge preachers to focus on importance of obedience to rulers in Friday sermonsTaliban urge preachers to focus on importance of obedience to rulers in Friday sermons, reports Reuters.Turkey holds first talks with Taliban in Kabul, reports AFP citing President ErdoganTurkey holds first talks with the Taliban in Kabul: Erdogan.Delhi HC asks LG, Centre to respond to plea challenging move to let lawyers chosen by Delhi Police as special public prosecutors in riots caseDelhi High Court seeks response from the LG and Central Govt on Delhi Govt's plea challenging the decision of the LG allowing the lawyers chosen by Delhi Police as Special Public Prosecutors for cases related to North East Delhi violence and farmers' protest.Evacuation flights resume in Kabul after deadly bombingsEvacuation flights from Afghanistan resumed with new urgency on Friday, a day after two suicide bombings targeted the thousands of desperate people fleeing the Taliban takeover.Navjot Singh Sidhu’s advisor Malwinder Singh Mali resigns"I withdraw my consent given for tendering suggestions to Punjab Congress President Navjot Singh Sidhu," writes Malwinder Singh Mali, Advisor to Sidhu.Britain to end evacuations from Afghanistan 'in a matter of hours': Defence ministerBritain to end evacuations from Afghanistan 'in a matter of hours': Defence minister, reports AFP.Bar Council of India informs SC it will frame rules for curtailing its members from going on strikeBar Council of India informs Supreme Cou it will frame rules for curtailing its members from going on strike.NCB conducts raids at 4 locations in Mumbai, Navi MumbaiNarcotics Control Bureau conducts raids at four locations in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai in a drugs case; 15 drug peddlers including three Nigerian nationals detained, reports ANI.Anurag Thakur, GK Reddy inaugurate Virtual Photo Exhibition on “Making of the Constitution”Union I&B Minister Anurag Thakur and Union Culture Minister GK Reddy inaugurate Virtual Photo Exhibition on “Making of the Constitution” and Virtual Film Poster Exhibition “Chitranjali @ 75”.Sonu Sood to become brand ambassador for Delhi government's 'Desh Ke Mentor' initiative for school kidsBollywood actor Sonu Sood to become brand ambassador for Delhi government's 'Desh Ke Mentor' initiative for school kids.Sonu Sood ji has agreed to become the brand ambassador of our 'Desh Ke Mentors' program which will be launched soon: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.Rupee rises 5 paise to 74.17 against US dollarRupee rises 5 paise to 74.17 against US dollar in early trade.4 dead, several injured in road accident in Haryana's BhiwaniFour people were killed and dozens injured after a bus collided with a tractor-trolley near Jatu Lohari village in Bhiwani district of Haryana on Thursday.Uddhav Thackeray calls all-party meeting today to discuss the issue of OBC quota in local bodiesMaharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray has called an all-party meeting today to discuss the issue of OBC quota in local bodies.India reports 44,658 new Covid-19 cases, current recovery rate at 97.60%India reports 44,658 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours.Sensex opens flat to begin day's trading at 55,960Sensex opens flat to begin day's trading at 55,960; Nifty at 16,642.18,24,931 samples tested yesterday: ICMRTotal number of samples tested up to 26th August is 51,49,54,309 including 18,24,931 samples tested yesterday: ICMR.US braces for more ISIS attacks after carnage at Kabul airportUS forces helping to evacuate Afghans desperate to flee Taliban rule braced for more attacks on Friday after an Islamic State suicide bomber killed scores of civilians and 13 US soldiers outside the gates of Kabul airport.At least 28 Taliban members among dead in Kabul airport blasts-Taliban officialAt least 28 members of the Taliban were among the people killed in explosions overnight outside the airport in Kabul, Afghanistan, a Taliban official told Reuters on Friday.Sydney cases dip as Australia debates Covid-19 reopening plansSydney's Covid-19 cases slightly eased on Friday but still hovered near record levels as the Australian federal government looks to press states to stick to a national reopening plan once the country reaches a 70%-80% vaccination rate.Mexican researchers say they created facemask that neutralizes Covid-19Researchers at the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) have created a facemask using silver and copper nanolayers that neutralizes SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, the university's official gazette said on Thursday.Mizoram reported 905 new Covid-19 cases and 4 deathsMizoram reported 905 new Covid-19 cases and 4 deaths yesterday. Active cases 7470, total death toll 206, and 48,080 recoveries.Nirmala Sitharaman on 2-day Tripura visit from today, set to launch slew of projectsUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is set to visit Tripura on Friday as part of a two-day tour to the state to inaugurate a number of developmental projects.Supreme Court lifts Joe Biden’s Covid-19 moratorium on evictionsA divided US Supreme Court lifted the Biden administration’s moratorium on evictions, ending protections for millions of people who have fallen behind on rent payments during the Covid-19 pandemic.Covid-19 cases in Brazil rise by 31,024, tally reaches over 20.67 millionThe number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Brazil has increased by 31,024 to 20,676,561 within the past 24 hours, the national Ministry of Health said on late Thursday.Joe Biden vows to finish Kabul evacuation, avenge US deathsPresident Joe Biden vowed Thursday to complete the evacuation of American citizens and others from Afghanistan despite the day's deadly suicide bomb attack at the Kabul airport. He promised to avenge the deaths of 13 U.S. service members killed in the attack, declaring to the extremists responsible: “We will hunt you down and make you pay.”Tropical Storm Ida on track to hit Gulf Coast as hurricaneTropical Storm Ida formed in the Caribbean on Thursday and forecasters said its track was aimed at the U.S. Gulf Coast, prompting Louisiana's governor to declare a state of emergency.US flag to fly at half-mast until August 30 in honour of Kabul attack victimsThe US flag will be flown at half-mast until the evening of August 30 to honour the victims killed in the terrorist attacks in Afghanistan's Kabul, White House spokesperson Jen Psaki said.US military's toll in Kabul bombing rises to 13: PentagonThe US Defense Department said Thursday that the number of American troops killed in the suicide bombings at Kabul airport rose by one to 13, and the number of wounded was 18.Over 100,000 people evacuated from Afghanistan since August 14: White HouseThe United States has evacuated more than 100,000 people from Afghanistan since August 14, the eve of the Taliban's return to power, the White House said Thursday.3 security personnel killed in landmine blast in PakistanThree security personnel were killed and three others injured in a landmine blast in Pakistan's southwest Balochistan province on Thursday, Pakistani media reported citing a government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-27-2021-101630020653059.html
27-08-2021||India||Centre clears names of nine judges for SC||The decks have been cleared for India to get its first woman Chief Justice of India (CJI) in 2027. The Union government on Thursday notified the appointment of nine new judges to the Supreme Court, including justice BV Nagarathna, who will be in line to take over as the first women CJI in September 2027 for a tenure of a little over a month.Apart from justice Nagarathna, two more women judges are among the nine appointed to the top court. This is the largest number of judges appointed in the Supreme Court at one go.On August 18, HT reported that collegium cleared nine names for appointments in the apex court. HT first reported on February 21 that justice Nagarathna was among those in contention to be elevated, and that she could go on to become the country’s first woman CJI.The Supreme Court, which has a sanctioned strength of 34 judges, currently has only one woman judge, justice Indira Banerjee, who is set to retire in September 2022. The Supreme Court collegium’s latest push for appointment of three women judges can be seen as an important step in bridging the gender gap in an institution which has seen only eight women judges in the last 71 years.Justice Nagarathna, elevated from the Karnataka high court, is the daughter of former CJI Engalaguppe Seetharamiah Venkataramiah, who was in the top office for six months in 1989. This will be only the second instance of two generations of a family heading the judiciary. Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud is in the line to become the CJI in November 2022, while his father, justice YV Chandrachud, was the CJI between 1978 and 1985.The other names cleared by the government are justices Abhay Shreeniwas Oka (chief justice of Karnataka HC), Vikram Nath (chief justice of Gujarat HC), Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari (chief justice of Sikkim HC), Hima Kohli (chief justice of Telangana HC), CT Ravikumar (judge in Kerala HC), MM Sundresh (judge in Madras HC) and PS Narasimha (senior advocate and former additional solicitor general).According to people familiar with the development, the new judges will take the oath of office on August 31.Of the nine judges, justices Nath and Narasimha will also be in line to become the CJI. As per the top court’s seniority norms, justice Nath will succeed justice Surya Kant as the CJI for seven months between February and September 2027; justice Narasimha will have a tenure of more than a year after justice Nagarathna demits office in October 2027.Narasimha is the ninth lawyer ever to be appointed directly from the bar. The recommendation for the senior lawyer came less than a week after the retirement of justice Rohinton F Nariman, who was only the fifth lawyer to be directly appointed from the bar. Narasimha will also be only the third lawyer to become the CJI.After the new judges are sworn in, the top court will be short of only one judge out of its total strength. Justice Navin Sinha retired on August 18, a day after the collegium finalised nine names for as many vacancies existing at the point of time.The collegium in the Supreme Court comprises CJI NV Ramana, and justices Uday U Lalit, AM Khanwilkar, Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao.It was the first collegium meeting in the last 21 months in which the five most senior judges could arrive at a consensus in forwarding names to the Union government for appointments in the top court.Since the retirement of justice Ranjan Gogoi as the CJI in November 2019, the collegium had not sent a single recommendation for appointments in the top court.As reported by HT on February 21, the impasse in the collegium, according to the people familiar with the development, persisted due to justice Nariman’s insistence on recommending justice Akil A Kureshi, currently chief justice of the Tripura high court, as a judge in the apex court.Justice Nariman had asserted that any recommendation to be made by the collegium of the five most senior judges must include justice Kureshi, who stood at number 2 in all-India seniority list of high court judges. A lack of consensus within the collegium stalled appointment of judges in the top court starting November 2019.The previous CJI SA Bobde’s 17-month tenure turned out to be the only one in Indian judicial history when a CJI demitted office without making any recommendation for the Supreme Court after the advent of the collegium system in 1990s.Both justices Bobde and Nariman, however, said at different platforms that it is time for the country to have its first woman CJI – an aspiration which will is likely to turn into reality in six years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-clears-names-of-nine-judges-for-sc-101630016773219.html
27-08-2021||India||The southern factor in India’s Covid numbers||India faced a brutal second wave of Covid-19 infections starting February that ran through the country till May. When this wave peaked on May 9, daily new cases fell sharply almost throughout India. However, in recent weeks, a growing outbreak in Kerala -- apparently sparked by Onam festivities -- has again started dominating headlines.On Wednesday, the state reported 31,445 new infections, making it responsible for more than two-thirds of all new cases reported across India on the day. The state’s tally on Wednesday was also the most infections lodged in any state in India in a single day since May 27, when Tamil Nadu recorded 33,361 new cases.It is a given that Kerala, of course, is the region reporting the highest number of new cases. But if we look at big states seeing high number of cases with respect to their population, we see others on the list are largely located in southern India. After Kerala (561 cases per million in the past week) on the list lie Maharashtra (37 cases per million), followed by Andhra Pradesh (25), Tamil Nadu (22), Odisha (20), Karnataka (20), and Telangana (9).Here are five charts that try to how the post-second wave battle against the disease has weighed heavily on southern India and Maharashtra.A minor rise in new cases and deaths visible across India againThe seven-day average of daily new cases in India has risen from a 156-day low of 24 infections per million for the week ending Sunday to 25.3 for the week ending Wednesday. While this may only be a 5% increase, and is heavily influenced by numbers from Kerala, it remains a cause of concern. In the same period, the seven-day average of reported deaths across the country (per million population) has seen an increase of 10%.And while the death trajectory has seen sudden spurts since June due to states such as Maharashtra and Bihar adding deaths to their tallies that had earlier gone unreported (see chart), the recent spurt is not due to any major death toll reconciliation.All figures used in this analysis have been normalised using the region’s population as it provides a common comparison point for areas vastly different in size and population.Kerala contributing 58% of all new cases in IndiaMore than 58% of all new infections reported across the country in the past week can be traced back to just Kerala – a statistic that underscores how large an outlier the state is to the overall trend.With population factored in, Kerala has reported 561 new cases per million in the past week against a national average of around 25. But when Kerala’s numbers are removed from the national tally, the latter sees a massive drop – there have been an average of around 11 new infections per million every day in the past week in the rest of India. Another way to look at these numbers is that, per capita, Kerala is currently reporting 52 times as many new cases in the past week as the rest of the country.But Kerala’s share of Covid-19 deaths is still not as badWhen the same calculations are applied to the number of deaths reported due to Covid-19 in the past week, Kerala’s numbers (though still high) see a marginal improvement. The state has been responsible for 35% of all deaths reported across India in the past week – a much lower share than its caseload.With population factored in, the state has seen 3.8 deaths per million residents against a national average of around 0.4 fatalities per million. Even removing Kerala’s numbers from the national tally to derive the “Rest of India” number doesn’t improve the national figure by much – it only drops to 0.3 deaths per million. To be sure, it still implies that Kerala is currently reporting 14 times as many deaths due to Covid as the rest of the country.This is not surprising as Kerala, despite its recent surge in infections, remains the region with one of the best case fatality rate (CFR) in the country – 0.5% against a national average of 1.3%.Six regions seeing 16 times as many cases than the restWhen the numbers from Maharashtra and five states from south India – Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Kerala and Karnataka – are taken together, we see that average new cases per million residents in these regions have grown 7% (from 76.8 to 81.9) in the past four days (against a national average of a 5% increase, as stated above).Together, these six states have reported 16 times as many cases as the rest of India (excluding these regions), where there have been just 5 new cases per million residents every day in the past week. Importantly, numbers in the rest of the country have not been rising as drastically in the past few days as much as they have been in the rest of the country (as can be seen in the chart here)....with a slightly better performance in saving livesThe death trend in these six regions again presents a slightly better grasp of how they have managed to keep fatalities relatively low. Despite having reported 16 times as many cases as the rest of India in the past week, these states have seen 9 times as many fatalities as the rest of the country – on average, these six states have seen 1 death per million residents, against 0.1 fatalities per million in the rest of the country.A fact worthy of note here is that these regions are only getting better. On June 1, these regions were seeing an average of 5.9 fatalities every day for every million residents – 4.6 more than the rest of the country at the time (where there were 1.3 deaths per million). This gap has almost steadily improved and has now been reduced to 0.9 deaths per million in the past week.ht||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-southern-factor-in-india-s-covid-numbers-101630014756264.html
27-08-2021||India||Army’s lightning takeover gave India heft in LAC talks||The Indian Army’s lightning takeover of strategic heights on the southern side of Pangong Tso a year ago stunned the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA), gave it (the Indian Army) heft in subsequent military negotiations, and eventually paved the way for the first and crucial round of disengagement of rival soldiers and weaponry from the Pangong Tso sector in eastern Ladakh, officials and experts tracking the developments said on Thursday.The bold moves on the Kailash range and other heights on the southern bank at midnight on August 29 were “a game changer and tilted the balance in favour of the Indian Army” for the first time almost four months after the border row erupted in early May 2020, a senior army officer -- one of the people cited above -- said on condition of anonymity.The PLA wasn’t expecting the Indian Army to take control of the southern heights when the entire focus was on developments on the northern bank where the Chinese had intruded into Indian territory and grabbed positions on Finger 4 overlooking Indian deployments, said a second official, who asked not to be named.“The five rounds of talks held before the August 29 action last year were focused on the Finger Area and other friction points where the PLA had unilaterally changed status quo. And then suddenly, the heights on the southern side of Pangong Tso were also on the negotiating table. It boosted our bargaining power,” this person added.The Indian Army occupied a series of strategic heights to prevent the PLA from grabbing Indian territory on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in a stealthy midnight move on August 29, 2020. In swift follow-up action that threw the PLA off balance, the Indian Army rushed its front-line tanks and infantry combat vehicles (ICVs) to the new heights held by its soldiers.The aggressive move sent a clear message to China that India had the military capability and resolve to change the status quo on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in its favour, said former director general of military operations Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd).“In the ensuing military talks, the Indian Army was negotiating the restoration of status quo ante (of April 2020) on the LAC from a position of relative strength.”The Indian Army ‘s control of ridgeline positions on the southern bank allowed it to completely dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity, with the previously-held Indian positions scattered across Rezang La, Reqin pass, Gurung Hill and Magar heights.The Indian Army put further pressure on the PLA in early September 2020 with its soldiers taking control of key heights overlooking the PLA’s deployments on the Finger 4 ridgeline on the northern bank. Rival soldiers were then holding ground barely a few hundred metres from each other on the Finger 4 heights.Disengagement of rival troops and weaponry from the Pangong Tso sector took place more than five months later after the ninth round of military talks. “The developments on the southern bank last August hastened the disengagement process. Things were stuck before that,” said a third official.India and China wrapped up the disengagement process in Pangong Tso area in mid-February, with their armies pulling back forward-deployed troops, tanks, ICVs and artillery guns from strategic heights where rival soldiers last year fired shots for the first time at the LAC after 45 years. (The last recorded incident when bullets were fired at the LAC was in October 1975, when the PLA ambushed an Indian patrol in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tulung La sector and shot four soldiers dead.)The situation on both banks of Pangong Tso was extremely tense before the disengagement took place, with Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi admitting in February 2021 that India and China were on the brink of war after the actions on the southern bank.Apart from the demolition of military structures erected by both sides after April 2020, the disengagement also saw both armies pull back troops deployed eyeball-to-eyeball on the Finger 4 ridgeline at heights of almost 18,000 feet.The second round of disengagement took place in early August when the two armies pulled back their forward deployed troops from Gogra or Patrol Point-17A, which was one of the friction points on the LAC, with the breakthrough coming after the 12th round of military talks.The disengagement was carried out on August 4-5, almost six months after the two armies pulled back their troops and weaponry from the Pangong Tso sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armys-lightning-takeover-gave-india-heft-in-lac-talks-101630009386008.html
27-08-2021||India||Restoration work of 2 prominent Mughal Gardens begins in Kashmir||The restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s two most prominent Mughal Gardens – Nishat Bagh and Shalimar Bagh – has started a month after the government signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the JSW Foundation for conservation of the UT’s heritage places.Conservation architect, Abha Narain Lambah, who is working with JSW Foundation, gave a detailed briefing to Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Wednesday on the work being undertaken by the team for preservation and restoration of Shalimar and Nishat gardens.“The Lt Governor impressed upon the conservation architect to conduct the work of conservation, restoration, and preservation meticulously for restoring the original beauty and grandeur of the famous heritage gardens,” a spokesperson of the government said.Shalimar Bagh is the largest Mughal garden in Kashmir built by Emperor Jahangir for his wife Noor Jahan in 1619, on the banks of Dal Lake in northeast Srinagar. Built in 1633 by Asif Khan, the picturesquely terraced Nishat Bagh is also a Mughal garden situated close to the Shalimar on the eastern side of the Dal Lake. The Zabarwan Mountains form the background of the garden. In March 2020, Lambah, who runs an architectural conservation firm, was also appointed by J&K government to prepare a dossier to enlist prominent tourists’ spots of Kashmir like Mughal Gardens on the UNESCO World Heritage sites. Lambah’s firm has won 9 UNESCO Asia Pacific Awards for conservation projects.On July 28, the J&K Government inked a MoU with JSW Foundation, which is a social arm of multinational conglomerate JSW Group, for restoration & conservation of the gardens to restore the glory of these heritage places.The JSW Foundation is supporting the government of J&K, both financially and technically in preserving the two heritage gardens under corporate social responsibility (CSR), the government spokesperson had said.After the MoU, the J&K LG had said that was giving much-needed impetus to integrate the promotion of cultural heritage in UT’s development plan in order to connect the people from across the world with the glorious history of J&K.With its technical expertise, the support of the JSW foundation is expected to provide a “determined push” to the conservation work of the heritage gardens.The project for restoration and conservation of Shalimar and Nishat gardens is being monitored by the project monitoring committee, headed by the Commissioner Secretary to Government, Department of Floriculture Gardens and Parks.The project is being taken up in two phases. The estimated cost of the conservation and restoration project of Nishat Bagh is ₹7 crore while a similar project is envisaged for Shalimar Bagh also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/restoration-work-of-2-prominent-mughal-gardens-begins-in-kashmir-101630008984140.html
27-08-2021||India||India condemns Kabul airport attack||India on Thursday condemned the terrorist attack near a gate of the Kabul airport that targeted crowds of people hoping to get on flights out of Afghanistan, saying the world needs to stand united against terror. Russian officials said at least 13 people were killed and 15 more injured, though reports coming in from Kabul indicated the death toll could be as high as 60. US media reports said up to 10 American military personnel were among the dead. Videos and images that emerged after the attack showed dozens of people lying prone outside the perimeter wall of the airport, currently the only way out of Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover on August 15. “India strongly condemns the bomb blasts in Kabul today. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims of this terrorist attack. Our thoughts and prayers also go out to the injured,” the external affairs ministry said in a brief statement. The “attacks reinforce the need for the world to stand unitedly against terrorism and all those who provide sanctuaries to terrorists”, the statement added in an apparent reference to the safe havens enjoyed by the Taliban and other terror groups in Pakistan. A group of suicide attackers targeted the eastern gate of Kabul airport amid a massive and chaotic evacuation effort from Afghanistan, raising serious questions about the security of flights by countries such as the US and India. The attackers, including two suicide bombers, launched their assault at a gate where crowds of Afghans had gathered to get into the airport. There was no claim of responsibility for the attack. Reuters cited a source familiar with US congressional briefings as saying that American officials strongly believe the Afghan affiliate of Islamic State, known as Islamic State-Khorasan, was responsible. Pentagon spokesman John Kirby tweeted that an explosion at Abbey gate of Kabul airport was the “result of a complex attack that resulted in a number of US & civilian casualties”. He also confirmed another explosion “at or near the Baron Hotel”, located a short distance from Abbey gate. Abbey gate was the entrance used by American citizens for evacuation flights. Baron Hotel, located about 300 meters from the site of the first explosion, was being used by British troops as a base for evacuating UK citizens. Taliban spokesman Suhail Shaheen said in a tweet in Pashto that the attack occurred in an area where US forces were responsible for security. “The [Taliban] strongly condemns the bombing of civilians at Kabul airport, which took place in an area where US forces are responsible for security. The [Taliban] is paying close attention to the security and protection of its people, and evil circles will be strictly stopped,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-condemns-kabul-airport-attack-101630004783854.html
27-08-2021||India||TN to set up control room to receive complaints of sexual abuse in schools||Chennai: In a bid to bolster safety of school students, Tamil Nadu on Thursday announced setting up of a control room with a toll-free number and a private email facility to receive complaints on sexual abuse. An orientation module will also be prepared to raise awareness about Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act among all stakeholders. The announcements were part of the policy note tabled by school education minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi in the ongoing assembly session. The development comes in the wake of several teachers from prestigious schools being investigated on charges of sexually abusing children during online classes as well as in classrooms and sports fields. A few weeks after the DMK government took over, alumni and students of top schools in Chennai began sharing their bitter experiences with teachers and coaches on social media that snowballed into several complaints across the state. Police have also made a few swift arrests in the cases. Subsequently, the government issued guidelines on online classes as well as institutions to protect students from sexual abuse. Poyyamozhi on Thursday said that Child Abuse Prevention Week should be observed in all the schools every year from November 15-22 and a Student Safety Advisory Committee will also be set up in each school to monitor their safety. The control room will be set up at the Directorate of Public Instructions (DPI) campus in Chennai to receive complaints, specifically pertaining to sexual abuse and violence at schools from students, parents and others. “An orientation module will be also prepared for use by schools to raise awareness about the POCSO Act among all stakeholders and to boost safety in schools,” the minister said in the policy note. Among other measures are installation of safety boxes in school premises to enable students to lodge their complaints and feedback. Another helpline is functioning round-the clock- in the DPI campus to provide information, guidance to students and offer counselling. “This is a single point of contact for students, teachers and parents across the state to get their grievances redressed. So far, around 3.5 lakh calls have been received on this helpline,” said Poyyamozhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-to-set-up-control-room-to-receive-complaints-of-sexual-abuse-in-schools-101630004304204.html
27-08-2021||India||Follow Covid norms strictly: Civic body to business establishments||Bengaluru The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Thursday issued a circular in which it stated that the marshals who enforce Covid appropriate behaviour in India’s IT capital will be able to inspect any commercial establishment to check compliance.“BBMP marshals & health officials are hereby authorised to enter such premises during working hours to check the compliance with effect from September 1. Any violation in this regard shall be liable for penalty and also punishable under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), as defined in the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897,” according to the circular, issued by Gaurav Gupta, BBMP chief commissioner. The BBMP has justified its action by stating that the government has allowed commercial establishments to operate with a condition that all Covid appropriate protocols will be followed.The circular comes at a time when the Basavaraj Bommai government has turned a blind eye on political events, gatherings of its own party and administration but threatened strict measures against the public for any violations of Covid-19 norms.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Jana Ashirwad Yatra continues to be undertaken with hundreds of people attending them with no semblance of Covid appropriate behaviour like wearing masks, maintaining physical distancing or any other precautions to prevent another outbreak.“As a measure to contain the transmission of virus and prevent any further surge of Covid-19 cases in the city, it is essential to ensure that staff of commercial establishments/industries/hotels & restaurants/offices do not get infected and thereafter spread the infection to customers & public visiting such places,” the BBMP circular stated. The BBMP also said that it was the duty of the employers of such establishments to ensure regular testing of their staff and ensure 100% vaccination. “At least one dose of vaccination shall be complied with for employers by August 31,” the circular added.Karnataka has so far administered 3,84,67,795 doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the state, according to data from CoWin portal as on 9.40 pm on Thursday.This includes 2,93,06,361 first doses and 91,61,434 second doses.Bommai, who is on a two-day visit to Delhi, on Thursday said that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led union government has agreed to increase the quota of doses that will be distributed to the state in the coming months.“They (union government) have said that they will give us more vaccines in September and October,” Bommai said in Delhi on Thursday.The Karnataka government is hoping to administer at least the first dose of the vaccine to all eligible population by the end of the year and has planned to take its daily count up to 500,000 per day to achieve this goal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/follow-covid-norms-strictly-civic-body-to-business-establishments-101630004124622.html
27-08-2021||India||Karnataka minister BC Nagesh interview: Resuming schools right move, attendance improving||Karnataka was one of the first states to resume classes for Classes 9 and 10 during the pandemic. While the attendance in schools during the initial days has been low, newly appointed primary and secondary education minister BC Nagesh said that the numbers are increasing, and the government will take a call on reopening other classes on August 30. In an interview with Arun Dev, he also elaborated on the state’s plans to implement the national education policy. Schools in Karnataka reopened on Monday, but 21.08% attendance was reported for Class 10 and 19.5% for Class 9. Do you think parents don’t agree with the government on the decision to reopen schools? These numbers are good and in fact, they are increasing. Some districts have reported more than 50%. Even before the pandemic, the number of students returning after holidays is often low. This time, we think it will take about a week or two for the attendance to normalise since people have gone out of the cities and towns during the pandemic. We expect the numbers to pick up soon. The decision to reopen schools was the right thing to do because online education had several issues like lack of connectivity or access to devices. Even the surveys said around 40% of students were not getting access to education, so it was important to restart schools. What is the status of vaccinating the teaching and non-teaching staff at the schools? In all the districts we have achieved over 85% vaccination and 100% in some. This will be completed at the earliest. When will the schools reopen in the five districts where they are shut, considering that at least three have reported less than 2% positivity rate, which was the criteria for reopening schools? A review was held on the matter. The decision to reopen schools has been left to the deputy commissioners, who will decide based on the situation in those districts. When will the other classes resume? We will take a call on that on (August) 30. As said earlier, close to 40% of the students had difficulties in accessing online education. What steps are being taken to address this? To address this issue, we have asked all schools to conduct bridge courses, which would be a revision of the lessons imparted in online classes. Karnataka is one of the first states to implement the National Education Policy. How will it change the education system and how does the government plan to roll out this policy? We have seen reforms in the education policy in 1968 and 1986. The challenges, such as not having enough schools or not enough people getting education, of that time were addressed by then governments in those policies. Now, we have reached a point where many educationists are of the opinion that the current system of education is putting a lot of burden on the students. So, in the new system we are implementing, we don’t want to have examinations and ensure that children learn while playing. We want to develop that scientific temperament in them. Instead of teaching them in classrooms, we want them to learn from experiments. On the implementation aspect, we want to induct the first batch of students under the new NEP by 2022. There have been demands in the past, especially from the BJP, to change the history lessons in the syllabus regarding the rulers like Tipu Sultan and Mughals. Do you have any such plans? The history we are learning now is written by the British. For generations, we have been taught about the British conquests and our failures. Our history books said British united India, but if you look at it not politically, we were united culturally, maybe through the family system or other practices. That being said, there is no plan at present to change the syllabus. The previous education minister had tried to bring a solution to a tussle between schools and parents over the fees. What is your approach to the problem? We are attending to every complaint (on fee issues) that’s coming to us. The previous minister had proposed a fee formula, which was challenged in the court and the decision has been stayed. At present, we can’t do much since it is sub judice. But, whenever a complaint comes to us, we try to address the issue in the best way we can. But, we are very clear that no one should have to discontinue education because they couldn’t afford the fees. There has been a debate over whether Kannada or English should be the medium of education, with many arguing that education in English is important for a student’s future. What is your position on the issue? I believe a child would be able to grasp better in the language he or she is comfortable, which is their mother tongue. Learning in Kannada doesn’t mean that they would not have knowledge of English. That’s not correct.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-minister-bc-nagesh-interview-resuming-schools-right-move-attendance-improving-101630004004851.html
27-08-2021||India||After 22 residents test positive for Covid-19, BMC seals St Joseph’s boarding school||After 16 children and six adults from St Joseph’s boarding school and orphanage in Agripada in Mumbai Central tested positive for Covid-19, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday sealed the residential school. A total of 95 people from this boarding school and orphanage were tested for the viral infection as part of a fever camp organised by the BMC. Among the 22 people who tested positive for the infection, four children are below 12 years of age, and have been shifted to the paediatrics unit at Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central for treatment. Twelve other children among the 22 who tested positive for Covid-19, are between the age group of 12 years and 18 years, and have been shifted to the Richardson and Cruddas Jumbo Covid-19 facility at Byculla. There are six adults (above 18 years of age), who have also been shifted to the Richardson and Cruddas facility. BMC had organised a fever camp at St Joseph’s boarding school and orphanage on Tuesday between 10 am and 2 pm. It was organised under the Souter Street health post near Meghraj Sethi Road in Agripada after two people tested positive at Souter Street dispensary on Monday. As per policy, BMC organises fever camps in areas where they suspect high risk contacts of positive patients are likely to be affected by Covid-19, or in localities where a series of cases have been found in clusters in a short period of time. Earlier this month, Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal directed the BMC administration in all the wards to increase contact tracing by 1:20 from 1:15 (trace upto 20 high risk contacts from one positive case), and also increase the number of Covid-19 tests conducted in the city daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-22-residents-test-positive-for-covid-19-bmc-seals-st-joseph-s-boarding-school-101630003703657.html
27-08-2021||India||Home secretary takes stock of Kerala, Maharashtra Covid situation||New Delhi: Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Thursday reviewed the Covid-19 situation in Kerala and Maharashtra, which have seen a spike in the infections in the last couple of days.During the meeting, the overall management of Covid-19 situation in the two states was discussed. Of the 46,164 cases reported in the country in last 24 hours, 31,445 were reported from Kerala while 5,031 cases were reported from Maharashtra.Bhalla, while reviewing the efforts being made by the state governments to contain the spread of infections, said more efforts would be required to arrest the increase in infections, according to a statement by ministry of home affairs.“This would require adequate intervention in geographical areas having higher infection, through measures such as contact tracing, vaccination drives and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” the MHA said.Bhalla also suggested the state governments to explore the possibility of placing night curfew in areas with high test positivity rate.“The state governments were advised that they should continue with their vaccination programmes and incase they required more vaccines, the same would be provided to the extent possible… Efforts must be made to consume the vaccine doses received,” the statement added.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, member health Niti Aayog Dr VK Paul, chief secretaries and police chiefs of both the states also attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-secretary-takes-stock-of-kerala-maharashtra-covid-situation-101630003223097.html
27-08-2021||India||Jab gap related to efficacy, not availability: Govt to Kerala HC||The Union government on Thursday informed the Kerala high court that the 84-day gap between two doses of Covishield vaccine is related to efficacy and has nothing to do with shortage of doses.On Tuesday, while hearing a petition filed by Kitex Group (a Kochi-based apparel making giant) to expedite the vaccine drive, Justice P B Suresh Kumar sought a clarification from the Union government whether the gap was necessary and if it was related to the efficacy or due to shortage of doses. The Centre’s counsel sought two days’ time to respond to the query.On Thursday, the counsel for the Union government Daya Sindhu Sreehari informed the court that the gap between the two Covishield jabs was based on a scientific study and the gap was necessary for effectiveness of vaccine.The central government, during the hearing, told the court that all the decisions regarding the vaccination programme are taken by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) and technical inputs are given by the National Immunization Technical Advisory Group (NITAG).It further said that “based on the recommendation of NEGVAC, the schedule of COVISHIELD vaccination, under the national COVID-19 programme, was to administer the second dose after 12 to 16 weeks. i.e. after 84 days from the first dose”.“This provides the best protection against Covid-19,” the Centre claimed and added that the decision was taken based on efficacy and not availability of the vaccine.kitex in its plea contended that it had vaccinated around 5000 of its work force with the first dose but unable to administer the second dose due to the prevailing restrictions. It sought judicial intervention to speed up the process in view of mounting cases in the state.The UK started off with a gap of 12 weeks between two doses of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine which is made in India as Covishield by Serum Institute of India, but has progressively shortened this for vulnerable populations after it emerged that only two doses provided adequate protection against variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid.The case is being heard against the backdrop of a flare-up of infections in the southern state, likely caused by Onam celebrations last week.Kerala reported 31,455 cases on Wednesday with a test positivity rate of 19.03%, both highest in three months.The cases reported accounted for 70% of the national total on Wednesday.“We expected a hike after Onam. A special drive is on to increase testing and vaccination. Since sero prevalence is very low in Kerala we have to find the infected and quarantine them at the earliest,” Kerala health minister Veena George said on Wednesday.Meanwhile, responding to another plea,the Union government informed the court that it has no plans for a third dose or a booster dose as of now. A resident of Kannur in north Kerala moved the court saying that he took two doses of Covaxin but since this vaccine was not recognised abroad he was unable to join work in Saudi Arabia. He sought the court’s help for a third dose of Covishield.The Centre also said studies on mixing of vaccine doses were progressing and there was no plan for a third dose as of now.Earlier this month, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) accepted a proposal that a research be conducted to analyse mixing a dose each of Covaxin and Covishield. “Permission has been granted for research study at CMC Vellore on mixing of vaccine doses,” Dr VK Paul, Niti Aayog said at a press briefing on August 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jab-gap-related-to-efficacy-not-availability-govt-to-kerala-hc-101630003163808.html
27-08-2021||India||Zydus vaccine for kids likely to be available by Oct, says Centre||Zydus Cadila’s anti Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, ZyCov-D, the first approved for use on people as young as 12 in the country , is likely to be available by the first week of October, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said during a briefing by the health ministry on Thursday.It still isn’t clear whether the vaccine will form part of the country’s ongoing drive to vaccinate all adults by the end of the year, or be reserved for the use of children. Currently, only those over the age of 18 years are eligible for vaccines in India. Responding to reports that the children with co-morbidities that made them more vulnerable to serious illness and death from Covid, Bhushan said this was an issue on which “the standing committee on Covid of NTAGI (National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation) makes a recommendation to the full NTAGI”.With a 10-million a month capacity by October (CHECK), the Zydus vaccine will add to overall supply of the jabs in India , albeit to a small extent. In an analysis published on Wednesday, HT pointed out that the country needs to deliver 10 million shots a day between now and the end of the year to meet its target of vaccinating all adults.On August 20, India’s drugs regulator approved the Zydus Cadila vaccine for emergency use. ZyCoV-D, the world’s first plasmid DNA vaccine for Covid-19, is a three-dose vaccine which will be administered on Day zero, Day 28, and Day 56.Bhushan, however, said it was too early to comment on whether the vaccine will be allowed for all children in one go or for those children that suffer from comorbidities.Vaccinating children could help the re-opening of schools. Although research has shown that a high level of coverage among adults also reduces infections among children, India is nowhere close to that. Till Thursday, around 50% of the eligible adults in the country had received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.Experts said that , however, say, if supplies are short then it makes sense to first vaccine children with comorbidities.“Eventually we will have to vaccine all children and not just those at risk because children can bring the infection home and expose those members who are at high risk, especially the elderly and sick in the family,” said Dr JS Bhasin, director and head, department of paediatrics, BLK Hospital.The vaccine was approved by the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) after its experts assessed results from the company’s phase III clinical trials that showed the vaccine to have an efficacy of 66.6%.The vaccine is delivered via a “painless” intradermal applicator, making it essentially a needle-free vaccine.DNA vaccines stimulate both the humoral and cellular arms of the adaptive immune system according to experts.The vaccine was developed in partnership with the government’s Department of Biotechnology under the ‘Mission COVID Suraksha’, which involved the pooling of resources by several Indian research institutions for development and clinical trials.After receiving the approval, the company announced that it is already stockpiling vaccine doses, and is likely to produce 10 million vaccine doses a month by October.The company also plans to seek approval for a two-dose regimen of the vaccine separately, it announced.The Zydus vaccine is the sixth approved in India for emergency use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-vaccine-for-kids-likely-to-be-available-by-oct-says-centre-101630002687041.html
27-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh HC order: ‘Sexual act with wife is not rape, even if forced’||The Chhattisgarh high court has discharged a 37-year-old man from the charge of marital rape, saying that sex with a legally wedded wife is not rape under the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The court, however, retained the charges against him under section 377 of the IPC for “unnatural sex”.The order by Justice NK Chandravanshi was issued on August 23 in a revision petition filed by the husband and his family on the charges framed against the man in the trial court, and was made public on Wednesday.The woman -- the two were married in 2017 -- lodged a complaint of dowry harassment and rape against the man. She also accused her parents-in-law of dowry harassment.The police, after a primary investigation submitted a charge sheet under section 498-A (dowry harassment), 377 (unnatural sex), 376 (rape), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the three accused.After hearing counsel for both parties, a trial court framed charges against the applicants under the sections, the order said.Subsequently, the three accused filed a petition with the high court seeking that the order of the trial court be set aside.The HC in its order on August 23 discharged the husband from rape charges.“Counsel for the applicants submits that the complainant and the applicant No. 1 are legally wedded wife and husband, therefore, none of the ingredients to constitute the offence punishable under Sections 376 and 377 of the IPC are spelt out against him, because, in India, marital rape is not recognized and the same is not an offence in view of Exception II of Section 375 of the IPC,” the judge said in his order.The court said that the IPC makes it clear that sex between a man and his wife, as long as the latter is not under 18, is not rape.“In this case, complainant is legally weeded wife of applicant No. 1, therefore, sexual intercourse or any sexual act with her by the husband would not constitute an offence of rape, even if it was by force or against her wish. Therefore, charge under Section 376 of the IPC framed against the applicant husband is erroneous and illegal. Hence, he is entitled to be discharged from the charge under Section 376 of the IPC”, the order stated.A 2013 report submitted by the Justice JS Verma Committee, which was set up after the December 2012 Delhi gang rape, recommended the removal of the marital rape immunity from the IPC but the statute is yet to be amended.In the past, Indian courts have takendivergent and contradictory views in such cases.In July 2019, the Delhi high court dismissed a petition urging it to direct the Centre to declare marital rape a ground for divorce.But earlier this month, the Kerala high court backed marital rape as a valid ground for divorce. A few days later, a sessions court in Maharashtra gave pre-arrest bail to a man while concluding that forcible sex with his wife was not an “illegal thing” though she said it left her paralysed.In 2017, the Supreme Court declared that “sexual intercourse with a girl below 18 years of age is rape regardless of whether she is married or not”. However, the top court refused to delve into the question of marital rape in this judgment.On the woman’s allegation of her husband forced her into an unnatural sex act, the court upheld imposition of section 377 of IPC.The court also upheld the dowry harassment charge framed under section 498-A of the IPC saying the cruelty of the accused has been affirmed through several witnesses.“The entire order is baffling. On one hand it says that ‘intercourse or any sexual act’ is not punishable with legally wedded wife and on another hand, it upholds the charge of unnatural sex. The legal reasoning of both are contradictory...” said lawyer-activist Sudiep Shrivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-order-sexual-act-with-wife-is-not-rape-even-if-forced-101630001543023.html
27-08-2021||India||Kafeel Khan gets interim relief from Allahabad HC over AMU speech||The Allahabad high court on Thursday set aside a chargesheet and cognizance order against activist Kafeel Khan by chief judicial magistrate (CJM), Aligarh in a criminal case that alleged he delivered an incendiary speech during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) at Aligarh Muslim University in 2019.The court said the requisite sanction under section 196 (a) of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) for such cases was not taken from the central or state government by the district magistrate or police authorities before filing the charge-sheet.But justice Gautam Chaudhari made it clear that the chargesheet and its cognizance may be taken by the court after mandatory sanction granted under section 196 (a) of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) by the central as well as state government.Earlier, an FIR was lodged against Khan under section 153A (promoting enmity between different groups), 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration), 505 (2) (statement creating or promoting, enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) and 109 (abetment of offence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).In January 2020, he was arrested and sent to jail. On March 16, 2020, the police submitted a chargesheet before the Aligarh court and the chief judicial magistrate took cognizance of it.According to section 196(a) of the CrPC, no court shall take cognizance of any offence under section 153A of the IPC except with the previous sanction of the central or the state government or the district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kafeel-khan-gets-interim-relief-from-allahabad-hc-for-amuspeech-101630001366212.html
27-08-2021||India||PM to unveil renovated Jallianwala Bagh Smarak||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Saturday, will inaugurate via video-conferencing the renovated complex of Amritsar’s Jallianwala Bagh Smarak, a memorial to those who were martyred in the infamous incident on April 13, 1919, the Prime Minister’s Office informed in a statement on Thursday. He will also inaugurate new museum galleries constructed at the site.“Four museum galleries have been created through adaptive reuse of redundant and underutilised buildings. The galleries showcase the historical value of events that unfolded in Punjab during that period, with the fusion of audio-visual technology, including projection mapping and 3D representation, as well as art and sculptural installations,” a government statement read.The monument of Jallianwala Bagh serves as a remembrance of the indiscriminate killing of unarmed people who had gathered at the garden 102 years ago to protest the arrest of nationalist leaders Dr Satyapal and Saifuddin Kichlew over their agitation against the Rowlatt Act. The colonial administration had imposed martial law in Punjab and banned gatherings. On April 13, 1919, which was Baisakhi, Brigadier-General Reginald Dyer had marched his troops into the garden and ordered them to fire into the unarmed crowd at the garden. To escape the hail of bullets, many people had jumped into a large well in the garden, only to be drowned. It is now called the Shaheedi Well.All this would be brought alive at the renovated memorial through a sound and light show. The government statement also added that the restoration works were carried out in sync with the local architectural style of Punjab.Also Read | Chronicling the conspiracy behind Jallianwala Bagh, 1919“The Shaheedi well has been repaired and restored with a redefined superstructure. The heart of the Bagh, the flame monument, has been repaired and restored, water body rejuvenated as a lily pond, and the pathways made broader for better navigability,” the statement read.It added that key spots at the complex have also been illuminated while newer areas have been developed for housing the ‘Salvation Ground’ and the Amar Jyoti (immortal flame).The British Raj had later released the official casualty count as 350 killed, but the Indian National Congress had disputed it and claimed over 1,000 people were killed.The Union ministers of culture and housing and urban affairs, ministers of state for culture, the governor and chief minister of Punjab will be attending the e-launch along with the chief ministers of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha members from Punjab and members of the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust will also be present on the occasion.Earlier this month, to pay a “fitting tribute” to those killed in India’s struggle for Independence, the Modi government notified August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-unveil-renovated-jallianwala-bagh-smarak-101630001302874.html
27-08-2021||India||LeT planned successive drone attacks in J&K: Intel||“Ek kaam to ho gaya, doosra baad me dekh lenge (One job is done, second will be taken care of later),” terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba’s handlers from across the border told their counterparts in India after two separate drone-based missions to Jammu and Kashmir on June 27, according to central intelligence agencies who intercepted the conversation.While the first mission referred to was successful, with two sophisticated improvised explosive devices (IEDs) exploding within a gap of six minutes inside Air Force Station, Satwari, Jammu, on June 27, the second mission failed after the Jammu and Kashmir police apprehended Nadeem-ul-Haq, a resident of Ramban, when he was returning after picking up a 5.5kg IED dropped by another drone in Jammu. Two more people — Nadeem Ayoub Rather of Shopian and Talib-ur-Rehman of Banihal were arrested on the same day.The central intelligence agencies have established a link between the two incidents through the audio intercept of LeT handlers in which they can be heard bragging about the success of the first mission (IAF base attack) while vowing to take care of the second mission at a later stage.A counter-terrorism official familiar with the development said, “LeT planned to carry out back-to-back drone attacks on June 27, sending drones probably from the same location in Pakistan. Powered by long-range batteries and flying at the height of 1 to 1.2km, the drones travelled at night. Technical help, including the know-how of global positioning system (GPS) for such operations is provided by the Pakistan Army or the ISI (Inter-Services Intelligence).”In the Jammu IAF base attack, the bombs exploded at a distance of 50 yards from each other, and officials believe that the air traffic control (ATC), parked helicopters or radars were the targets.The target of the second IED, picked up by Nadeem-ul-Haq in Bathindi area (Jammu), is not known yet but it was to be used on the same day (June 27) somewhere in Jammu, a second counter-terrorism officer said on condition of anonymity. LeT and Jaish-e-Mohammad are known to share information only on a need-to-know-basis with their overground workers, couriers and operational teams.In both instances, central agencies suspect the drones flew in from a village in Pakistan about 14.5km from Jammu airport. The exact route could not be established as the drones returned after the drops, said the second officer.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is currently investigating both the incidents and has questioned several villagers to trace the possible route of the drones.Counter-terrorism officials cited above explained that LeT/JeM and ISI are increasingly using commercially available drones to avoid capture of their men and for deniability.According to an assessment by security agencies, since August 2019, when the Indian government abrogated Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir and ended its special status, there have been close to 300 sightings of drones from across the border.Apart from LeT and Jaish, Khalistani terror organisations operating from Pakistani soil, too, are using drones to drop weapons, explosives and drugs in Punjab. On August 9, an improvised bomb in a tiffin box was dropped in Amritsar, allegedly by a Khalistan terror group.The government has already fast-tracked the process to procure anti-drone technologies in the last couple of months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-planned-successive-drone-attacks-in-j-k-intel-101630001006088.html
27-08-2021||India||Buzz over Chhattisgarh change of guard grows||Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo on Thursday said that anyone who plays in a team “thinks of being captain”, and chief minister Bhupesh Baghel is set to hold another set of meetings with the Congress leadership in Delhi on Friday, as signs of a possible change in guard in the state become stronger.However, in a show of strength, at least 20 legislators backing Baghel also flew to the Capital late on Thursday night.On Tuesday, Baghel and Singh Deo met senior Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, general secretary in charge of Chhattisgarh PL Punia and general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal to thrash out a solution to the impasse in the state, caused by a power sharing agreement put in place when the government was formed in December 2018.Singh Deo, who has remained in Delhi since the meetings on Tuesday, said, “If a person plays in a team, then doesn’t he think of becoming the captain? Everyone thinks about that but the question is not about thoughts, it’s about capabilities. The high command takes a decision.”The health minister stopped short of referring to any power-sharing deal, saying that the party has never “publicly” spoken about this. He added that there is rivalry even among siblings, and that he would “carry out the responsibility that is given by the “high command.” “He (Bhupesh Baghel) might be the CM for fifty years or ten years or two years. This is not fixed. Healthy competition takes place,” Singh Deo said.Senior leaders close to Baghel said that the CM would hold another set of meetings with the party leadership on Friday, with “many things still not discussed.” “There is a separate meeting of the CM with Rahul Gandhi on Friday.,” a leader close to CM said on condition of anonymity.The Baghel camp said that at least 20 MLAs and three ministers were travelling to Delhi to show their support of the sitting CM. “They are going on their own. They know that if the CM changes, the entire political hierarchy of the state will change,” said a functionary close to the chief minister who asked not to be named.Bhilai MLA Devendra Yadav, one of the lawmakers who left Raipur on Thursday night, said, “In Chhattisgarh, we have been serving the people under the leadership of Bhupesh Baghel. We are going to speak to the Delhi high command on the situation in the state. We are all together.”In December 2018, in the aftermath of a dominant Congress performance where they won 68 of 90 seats, even as the party’s Delhi leadership sought to put out leadership fires in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh emerged as a problem too.Four state leaders, Baghel, current home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, current speaker Charan Das Mahant and Singh Deo flew to Delhi, all eyeing the CM’s post. As Mahant settled for speaker, friction between Baghel and Singhdeo meant that Sahu first emerged the frontrunner, but pushed by the idea that a third leader would take the top position, Baghel and Singh Deo, along with Punia and Gandhi reportedly came to a power sharing arrangement.Since Tuesday night, when Baghel was welcomed at Raipur airport with a show of strength, the CM has met with at least a dozen legislators and other functionaries close to him at the Raipur circuit house. At the airport, a combative Baghel said that it made him happy that a farmer like him had been given the responsibility of being CM and that “those propagating the two-and-a-half year formula were trying to bring political instability and would never succeed.”Still, among some sections in the state, the sense is growing that a major change could be in the offing. One senior MLA, who spoke to HT said, “I got a hint from people close to CM that change of guard could happen in next few weeks.Most however continued to hedge their bets, waiting for a “final decision” to arrive from Delhi, but urging that one be made quickly. “There is a total chaos because there is no communication from the party high command. We are afraid in taking sides in our party as a small mistake will ruin our political career,” said a legislator who asked not to be named.Leaders close to Singh Deo said that they were staying in Delhi to avoid a situation of competing shows of strength in Raipur, and hoped for a quick declaration. “The stance from the beginning is that we have lived up to what we had promised, and have stayed calm and patient. This is what will continue, and there is no point going to Raipur to cause confrontation without clear directions,” one of them said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/buzz-over-chhattisgarh-change-of-guard-grows-101630000943746.html
27-08-2021||India||CBI registers 9 cases as part of Bengal poll violence investigation||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday registered nine cases related to the post-poll violence in West Bengal, officials familiar with the developments said.Four special teams of the central agency, which were in the state between Monday and Thursday following directions from the Calcutta high court to probe cases of murder, attempt to murder and rape, also visited the affected families in Kolkata and North 24 Parganas to record their statements, they added. Cases were registered in Purulia, Bankura and Nadia districts as well, officials added.While one team visited the kin of Abhijit Sarkar, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker who was allegedly killed by Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers in Kolkata’s Narkeldanga area on May 2, another met the family of Jaiprakash Yadav, a BJP worker who died in a bomb attack by motorcycle-borne assailants at Bhatpara in North 24 Parganas district on June 6.The officials recorded the statement of Biswajit Sarkar, Abhijit’s brother, who was among several petitioners to move the Supreme Court for a probe into the alleged violence. The apex court allowed the Calcutta high court to look into the matter.Abhijit was the only BJP worker to have been killed in the state capital. At least seven persons have been arrested so far.BJP Lok Sabha MP from Barrackpore seat, Arjun Singh, alleged that Yadav was murdered as he worked to ensure the victory of Singh’s son, Pawan, from the Bhatpara assembly seat in the elections.“The attack was carried out by goons backed by Trinamool Congress. Yadav’s skull was blown apart,” said Arjun Singh.According to officials cited above, the first information reports (FIRs) were registered under various sections of the IPC in Purulia, Nadia and Bankura districts as well by the visiting teams.The Central Reserve Police Force has been asked to provide security to the members of the CBI visiting Bengal, a CBI official said on condition of anonymity.Each of these seven-member teams — which comprise deputy inspector generals and superintendents from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Karnataka and other states – is being headed by a joint director and accompanied by forensic experts and officers of inspector rank.Soon after the TMC swept the assembly elections on May 2, the BJP made allegations of widespread post-poll violence from across the state.Following directions from the high court on June 18, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) carried out an investigation and submitted its final report on July 13, recommending a CBI probe and trials outside the state.After studying the NHRC’s final report, the high court last week ordered separate probes by the CBI and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the state police into the alleged violence.A five-judge bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal said the CBI will probe the serious allegations of rape and murder and a three-member SIT those of arson and loot under the court’s supervision.The state government has maintained that the NHRC report was biased and prepared with a political motive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-registers-9-cases-as-part-of-bengal-poll-violence-investigation-101630000766503.html
27-08-2021||India||Oppn parties express concern over India’s external security||The Congress and other opposition parties flagged India’s external security situation, particularly a possible “rise in terrorism” and “the challenges emerging from the re-emergence of the Taliban and its terror links” as “immediate concerns” at the all-parties meeting where external affairs minister S Jaishankar briefed them on the situation in Afghanistan.Even though the Opposition was united in its support to the National Democratic Alliance government on its stand on the Afghanistan crisis, leaders such as Mallikarjun Kharge (Congress), Saugata Ray (Trinamool Congress), NK Premachandran (Revolutionary Socialist Party) and Binoy Viswam (Communist Party of India) raised several key questions to the government on the evacuation of refugees, support to the Afghan people, impact on terrorism, India’s possible alienation in the region, and the tricky subject of engagement with the Taliban. Later, some opposition leaders alleged that they did not get satisfactory answers to some questions.After foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla made a powerpoint presentation on the evacuation of refugees by India, several opposition leaders posed questions. They asked if after August 31, which is the deadline for the American troops to leave Afghanistan, some Indians remain stranded in that country, “what would be the government of India’s evacuation strategy”.While a Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader talked about the possibility of Indians being stranded in other cities such as Herat and Mazar-i-Sharif, a Congress leader wanted to know if the government had an estimate on the number of Indians still stuck in Afghanistan. “The government admitted there are no estimates but assured that all Indians would be evacuated,” the Congress leader said. TMC’s Saugata Ray handed over a list of 125 people from West Bengal stuck in Afghanistan.The Congress expressed concern that there might be a rise in terrorism that would impact the regional security situation and suggested the adoption of “the strongest possible counter-terrorism measures” and the shoring up of India’s defences in Jammu and Kashmir. A non-Congress member asked about China’s possible nexus with the Taliban regime and Pakistan but claimed the government avoided giving any answers.Also Read | India’s only investment in Afghanistan is on its people, will get full-value in return: JaishankarA Congress leader also wanted to know if India is talking to the Taliban and argued that there was news of secret talks being held in Doha with them. He asked “whether such conversations were held”, and if they were, “what was the outcome of those deliberations”.The Congress and some other parties also pointed out the “perception” that India appears to be “isolated from our traditional allies in the region”. “What diplomatic or other strategic steps are being planned to strengthen our position both in the short term and in the long term?” questioned one of the leaders.Some parties suggested that India should not abandon the Afghan people as they like India and hate Pakistan. “It is very essential that India provides a sense of assurance and strongly expresses our solidarity with the people of Afghanistan and upholds the principles of fundamental rights and freedoms. What steps for humanitarian assistance are being taken by the government of India?” a leader asked.They also pointed out that Rangina Kargar, a woman member of the Afghan parliament was deported from New Delhi when she came in from Istanbul on August 20. According to the opposition, the government admitted its mistake and assured that such incidents will not happen in future.Viswam later tweeted, “Jayasankarji conducted the meeting in a democratic manner. congrats to him. Alas, his govt. had no answers for crucial questions: 1How many Indians stranded in Afghanistan? 2As our embassy is shut down, who will take care for their lives? 3Why US preponedtroop withdrawl to 15 Aug? (sic)”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-parties-express-concern-over-india-s-external-security-101630000588125.html
27-08-2021||India||Evacuation ops, helping Afghans priority: Centre at all-party meet||India’s priorities in Afghanistan are evacuating all its nationals and helping Afghans in distress, even as New Delhi waits to see whether the Taliban forms a new set-up on its own or shares power with others, the government told leaders of political parties on Thursday.External affairs minister S Jaishankar and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla briefed parliamentary leaders of 31 parties on the latest developments in Afghanistan after the capital Kabul was captured by the Taliban on August 15 following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government.The situation in Afghanistan is fluid and India is keeping a close watch on developments as it continues consultations with important stakeholders and regional countries. The Indian side is also continuing its engagement with the Afghan people and closely monitoring political and security developments, the MPs were told.Jaishankar told the lawmakers that India’s immediate priorities in the current circumstances included evacuating all Indian nationals and providing assistance to Afghan nationals in distress, according to people familiar with the briefing.In a detailed presentation for the MPs, the foreign secretary said the Indian side is watching whether the new set-up in Kabul will be solely a government of the Taliban or there will be power-sharing with other Afghan leaders, the people said on condition of anonymity.Union minister and leader of the house in the Rajya Sabha, Piyush Goyal, and parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi were present during the briefing held at the Parliament annexe. The briefing was attended by 37 leaders from 31 parties, including NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, leader of the Congress party in Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, former Union minister Anand Sharma, TR Baalu of the DMK, and former prime minister HD Deve Gowda.Jaishankar said in a string of tweets: “Our immediate concern and task is evacuation and long term interest is the friendship for the Afghan people.” He said evacuation operations were conducted in “extremely difficult conditions especially at the airport”.The foreign minister noted in his tweets that there is “longstanding national sentiment on Afghanistan”, as well as “national concern now at developments”. India’s strong friendship with the Afghan people is reflected in more than 500 development projects, and this friendship “will continue to guide us”, he said. He added “India’s footprint and activities” in Afghanistan will be shaped by “ongoing changes”.The people cited above said the MPs were informed that India, which holds the rotating presidency of the UN Security Council for August, convened a special session on Afghanistan on August 16 and also made a statement at a session of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva.The broad message conveyed by most Security Council members was that the world community should use all tools to suppress the global terrorist threat in Afghanistan and guarantee that basic human rights are respected.India also currently chairs the UN 1988 sanctions committee, which oversees the designation and delisting of Taliban leaders. The sanctions committee is expected to play a key role in the issue of extending a travel exemption for sanctioned top Taliban leaders such as Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar in September.Shringla informed the MPs about pre-emptive measures taken by India since last year, when the Taliban launched a campaign of attacks and violence following the signing of a peace deal with the US in February 2020. He noted the security situation was closely tracked as there was a history of attacks on Indian diplomatic premises in Afghanistan, including attacks on the embassy in 2008, 2009 and 2010.The pre-emptive measures included withdrawing India-based personnel from the consulates in Herat and Jalalabad in April 2020, scaling down personnel at the embassy in Kabul and closing the old chancery building in June this year, and evacuating personnel from the consulate in Kandahar during July 10-11, and from the consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif during August 10-11 in special military flights.The Indian embassy issued a series of security advisories for Indian nationals on June 29, July 24, and August 10 and 12. The final advisories asked Indians to leave immediately and warned them about the discontinuation of commercial flights.The external affairs ministry also set up a 24x7 special cell on Afghanistan and launched an e-visa system for Afghan nationals in distress.The government has so far evacuated a total of 565 people, including 175 embassy personnel, 263 other Indian nationals, 112 Afghan nationals, including Hindus and Sikhs, and 15 nationals of third countries. The government also facilitated the evacuation of Indians by other agencies.Among the challenges faced during the evacuation were frequent incidents of firing near Kabul airport and inside the city, multiple checkpoints set up by different groups, logistics and other issues at the airport, uncertainty in obtaining landing permissions for aircraft, and obtaining overflight clearances from regional countries since Indian military aircraft can’t use Pakistani airspace.A multi-agency team of Indian personnel deployed at Kabul airport has coordinated with NATO and US for landing permissions and access to the airport for evacuees. India also hired a local security agency to escort evacuees to the airport.The external affairs ministry’s special cell on Afghanistan, set up on August 16 to coordinate repatriation and other requests, attended 3,014 calls, responded to nearly 8,000 messages on WhatsApp and answered more than 3,101 emails.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evacuation-ops-helping-afghans-priority-centre-at-all-party-meet-101630000286479.html
27-08-2021||India||Kerala officer who exposed illegal tree felling seeks security citing threats||Forest officer P Dhanesh Kumar, who played a key role in bringing rampant felling of protected rosewood and teak trees in Kerala’s ecologically fragile Wayanad to light in June, has sought protection for himself and his family citing threats. In a letter to the Special Investigation Team (SIT), probing the case, and the chief conservator of forest Arun RS, Kumar said people close to the accused were tracking his movements. He added he suspected a threat to him and his family. Kumar said when he questioned some of the accused last month, he was threatened in front of the jail officials. He alleged the main accused Roji Augustin threatened to implicate him in sedition and narcotic substances cases. Augustin is among the 12 people arrested in the case.Also Read | Shashi Tharoor checks on ‘patient Kerala’ at ‘roadside ICU’ during IYC protest“I regularly get threat calls. Even some of my family members were also threatened. Hence, it is humbly requested to give adequate protection to my life,” he said in the letter, which was leaked to the media. HT has seen a copy of the letter. Both Kumar and Arun R S refused to comment even as a police officer said Kumar will be given protection. The SIT has registered 300-odd cases in connection with the illegal felling. But conservationists and opposition leaders allege there is an attempt to protect the accused and forest officials who allegedly helped them. The forest department last month sought strict action against forest official N T Sajan for his alleged role in the illegal tree felling, but no action has been taken against him. Sajan allegedly helped the accused and tried to sabotage the case initially. He was transferred from Kozhikode to Kollam after the case surfaced.State forest minister A K Saseendran denied allegations of weakening the case. “The SIT is conducting a thorough investigation. If found guilty, nobody will be spared; let the final report come.” Opposition leader V D Satheesan questioned why the government was “scared” of acting against Sajan. “There is enough evidence against him. He even tried to implicate some of the upright officials,” he said. Satheesan accused the Chief Minister’s Office of protecting Sajan. In October 2020, the state revenue department issued an order allowing the felling of rosewood and teak grown by farmers on the revenue land allotted to them. Misusing the order, smugglers felled trees worth crores on private and forest land. As many as 101 rosewood trees were found to have been cut and smuggled. Kumar played a role in exposing the cutting of trees in Wayanad. Similar cases later surfaced in Idukki and a few other districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-officer-who-exposed-illegal-tree-felling-seeks-security-citing-threats-101629975922338.html
27-08-2021||India||Row in Kerala over 1921 Malabar rebellion||Reports about the removal of the people killed in the 1921 Malabar rebellion, including its leader Variyamkunnath Kunjahammed Haji, from the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR)’s “Dictionary of Martyrs of India Freedom Struggle” has kicked up a row in Kerala. Assembly speaker MB Rajesh on Wednesday compared Haji with freedom fighter Bhagat Singh, prompting an angry reaction from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The Hindu last week reported that a three-member panel, which reviewed the entries in the fifth volume of the dictionary, recommended the removal. The panel was of the opinion that the 1921 rebellion was never part of the independence struggle, the report added.Some historians and Left parties say the rebellion, also known as the Mappila uprising, was the first such against British colonialism in south India. Hindu groups and a section of historians contend it was a communal riot and Hindus suffered as a result. The rebellion was followed another massacre when 64 people arrested over it suffocated to death while they were being transported in a closed railway wagon to Coimbatore for trial. There is a memorial to them at Kerala’s Tirur railway station. The British captured and executed Haji in 1921.Also Read | Kerala alone accounts for over 68% of India’s new Covid-19 caseloadRajesh insisted that the attempt to delink the rebellion from the freedom struggle was aimed at dividing people. He added that the essence of rebellion was anti-British and anti-feudal but admitted there were some instances of what he termed “communal deviations”. “In an uprising, there can be some aberrations also. You cannot dismiss it as a communal riot. Terming it just a communal riot is a big injustice,” he said at an event in Kozhikode marking the year-long commemoration of 100 years of the rebellion.BJP leader and Union minister V Muraleedharan condemned the move to brand Haji a freedom fighter. “Ignorance is not an offence. But feigning ignorance for cheap political and communal gains is an offence. The sinister ploy to divide people on communal lines is unpardonable. Left parties are repeating their mistakes,” he said.BJP leader MT Ramesh said his party will oppose any attempt to glorify Haji while Hindu Aikya Vedi, a right-wing group, has decided to observe a black day at all venues where the rebellion is being commemorated.Haji’s family plans a sit-in in Malappuram to protest against attempts to sully his image. “ ICHR can delete his name from the dictionary but not from the minds of people,” said C P Ibrahim, one of his descendants.Hindu groups asked actor Prithviraj Sukumaran not to play Haji’s role two years ago when Malayalam filmmaker Aashiq Abu announced a movie on the Mappila rebellion. The film is scheduled to be screened by year-end. In 1988, a movie titled 1921 on the issue was a big hit.DID HE PLAY THE PART OR NOT? Historians are divided over the issue with KKN Kurup saying the rebellion was part of the freedom movement. Another historian MGS Narayanan said the move to omit Haji from the list of freedom fighters was “politically motivated.”Historian C I Issac said: “It was in fact a jihadi movement. Its main aim was to establish a religious province. It is quite unfair and illogical to give a nationalistic colour to a communal riot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-in-kerala-over-1921-malabar-rebellion-101629958460607.html
27-08-2021||India||Ensure studies of kids orphaned due to Covid are not hindered: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed all states and Union territories to ensure that the education of children orphaned on account of the Covid-19 pandemic continue without disruption -- including in private schools, at least during the ongoing academic year.A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose suggested that this objective can be achieved by asking schools to waive fees or the state bearing half the expenses to reduce the burden on the affected children. The Court asked the states to come out with a policy in this regard in four weeks after having discussion with the private schools.“State governments are directed to act in cohesion with Child Welfare Committees and District Education Officers in having dialogue with private schools in which children in need are studying and see that their education for this year is not disrupted. This can be done by asking the schools to waive fees or the state bearing burden of part of fees,” the bench said.While the court was initially dictating the order for Andhra Pradesh in a suo motu case taken up to deal with the issue of such children, it later made it applicable to all states and Union territories.The court’s observation came on a day when the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) said at least 100,000 children lost one or both parents during the first and second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.In an affidavit filed through advocate Swarupama Chaturvedi, the commission, which has been running a dedicated website called Bal Swaraj for collecting such data, said that 101,032 children were abandoned, became orphans or lost one of their parents due to Covid-19 or other reasons between April 1, 2020 and August 23, 2021.Of this, the commission added, there were 8,161 orphans, 396 children were abandoned and 92,475 lost one of their parents. The affidavit specified that the deaths were caused by a variety of reasons, including Covid-19.“The data of children uploaded on the Bal Swaraj portal by the states/UTs comprises both categories of children, wherein the child has lost both or either of the parent to Covid-19 disease or otherwise from April 2020 onwards,” the affidavit read.The affidavit was submitted in response to another suo motu petition being heard by the top court for identification and rehabilitation of children who lost either or both their parents during the pandemic. The court is being assisted by amicus curiae (friend of Court) advocate Gaurav Agrawal in this case.While going through the report of the amicus curiae for each state, the bench said, “Our main concern is children in distress are taken care of and their education in private schools continues unhindered at least for this academic year.”In respect of around 2600 children registered under the PM CARES for Children scheme launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in May this year, the court allowed the concerned states to request the Centre for releasing funds to meet the payment of fees of children studying in private schools for this academic year.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati appearing for Centre submitted that PM CARES for Children scheme has provision for providing fees of children orphaned due to COVID-19 at the private schools, besides supporting them with expenses for uniform and books. Bhati said that this benefit is extended only to orphans due to COVID-19 and will not include those abandoned or who still have a surviving parent. Further, the Centre pointed out that the benefit can accrue only when district magistrates approve the beneficiaries. Out of 2600 children, only 418 have been approved till date.This is the third affidavit filed by the NCPCR in the matter. In an earlier affidavit providing information received from states up to July 23, the commission presented a figure of 6,855 orphans, 68,218 children who lost one parent, and 247 abandoned children.In its last hearing on July 27, the court pulled up the West Bengal government over the state’s low figure on the number of children orphaned during the pandemic.The court said it was not prepared to believe that in a big state like West Bengal, only 27 children lost both parents due to Covid-19 since April 1, 2020, and called for a response by the secretary of the Women and Child Welfare department to give the correct particulars.The latest affidavit of NCPCR showed that the state had registered 308 orphans and 6,270 children who lost either of their parents, besides two children found abandoned from April 2020 till August 23.Maharashtra is the only state in the country which has recorded a five digit figure of children affected during the reporting period with 470 children orphaned and 14,925 children who lost either of their parents, taking the total number of affected children to 15,401 (including six abandoned children).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-100-000-kids-were-orphaned-or-lost-a-parent-since-april-2020-ncpcr-to-sc-101629957380536.html
