28-08-2021||India||Ex-PM Narasimha Rao’s home in Telangana to become museum. Here’s how it'll look||Former Indian Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao’s ancestral village Vangara in Telangana’s Karimnagar district is all set to transform into a tourism site. The latest development comes after the state tourism minister V Srinivas Goud took to Twitter on Thursday to share pictures of the proposed plan.The announcement to turn Rao’s native village into a tourism site came in September last year. At the time, Gouda had said that the village would be recognised globally to mark the centenary celebrations of late Rao. Besides, Rao’s home will be turned into a museum that will comprise a photo gallery, displaying his journey and a collection of his belongings, The New Indian Express reported.Have a glimpse of the proposed development plan of PV Vignana Vedika Park, PV Vignana Kendra Museum, Entrance Arch, PV Statue with fountain at Vanagara in memory of former Prime Minister late PV Narasimha Rao Garu.#HappeningTelangana #TelanganaTourism pic.twitter.com/g8RtwhOcVpTalking to the Hindu recently, Rao’s daughter Surabhi Vani Devi said that her father collected “over 15,000 books” and that some of them are housed in Hyderabad’s Ramananda Tirtha Memorial Trust. “Some of these books will be part of the museum being developed,” she was quoted as saying by Hindu.The personal computer that Rao’s son sent him in 1986 will also find a place in the museum, the report said. Among some of his other belongings that will be showcased at the venue will include his favourite chair, and a series of photographs exhibiting his journey.On Friday, Gouda laid the foundation stone for the museum that is aimed to draw tourists and showcase the life of the former Indian Prime Minister.“His personal typewriter, his big collection of books and many other objects the former Prime Minister used will be part of the museum,” B Manohar of Telangana State Tourism Development Corporation told the Hindu.He added that the state government is working with Rao’s family and other persons, who had contact with him, in order to share items to “recreate his life.”Devi, a member of the Legislative Council in Telangana, pointed out that their ancestral home that had suffered damage due to lack of maintenance but was later restored will allow visitors to take an “intimate glimpse” of the life of her father.According to the proposed plan of the tourist site that the Telangana government has laid down, the venue will comprise a Vignana Vedika Park, Memorial Museum and an entrance arch at a cost of ₹11 crore, of which ₹7 crore has already been sanctioned by the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expm-narasimha-rao-s-home-in-telangana-to-become-museum-here-s-how-it-ll-look-101630172666454.html
28-08-2021||India||Centre releases draft rules to end retrospective tax||The Union government on Saturday released a draft of rules, including pre-conditions for withdrawing controversial retrospective tax demands from aggrieved investors such as Cairn Energy Plc and Vodafone Plc, provided they “irrevocably” withdraw all existing cases against the government and furnish an “undertaking” that they would not initiate any legal action to claim for costs, damages or interests in future.The draft will be put up in public for suggestions and comments from all stakeholders by September 4. After the deadline, the rules will be finalised by incorporating relevant suggestions to operationalise the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 2021 that was enacted during the Monsoon Session of the Parliament earlier this month, a finance ministry official said requesting anonymity. The Act was passed to alter “a clarificatory amendment” that was brought in by the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government in 2012 and had become contentious because of its retrospective application. The retrospective amendment had resulted in 17 messy litigations, including two arbitrations evoked by Vodafone Plc and Cairn Energy Plc in foreign tribunals. India lost both last year.“To implement the amendment made by 2021 Act, draft rules have been prepared to amend the Income-tax Rules, 1962 which specify the conditions to be fulfilled and the process to be followed to give effect to the amendment made by the 2021 Act,” the finance ministry said in a statement. The Act was amended to “bring tax certainty and ensure that once specified conditions are fulfilled, the pending Income-tax proceedings shall be withdrawn, demand, if any, raised shall be nullified, and amount, if any, collected shall be refunded to the taxpayer without any interest”, it said.Vodafone and Cairn did not respond to an email query seeking their comments on this development.The controversial amendment was made about nine years ago. The amendment was made after the Supreme Court had in 2012 ruled that gains arising from indirect transfer of Indian assets were not taxable under the extant provisions of the Income-Tax Act.“The idea is, a sovereign government has the right to tax, but to apply it in retrospect has created a lot of discontentment,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told the Rajya Sabha on August 9 during a discussion on the Bill. The amendment bill was moved on August 5 in the Lok Sabha and passed the next day. The move is widely seen as investor-friendly and also brings to an end messy litigation and arbitration, especially with Cairn, which has seen the company staking claim to India’s overseas assets.The legislation proposes to amend the I-T Act, 1961, and the Finance Act, 2012, which were amended during the tenure of then finance minister Pranab Mukherjee to introduce the retrospective tax law, which has since come to stand for all that’s bad in India’s tax regime.Ritesh Kumar S, executive director of IndusLaw said: “The approach adopted by the government in drafting the undertaking under the rules seems to be drawn from the two arbitration awards that have been secured by Vodafone and Cairn (respectively). The release from attachment of assets to enforce the order particularly appears to be stemming from the Cairn experience.”In July this year, Cairn was successful in its application to the French court, Tribunal Judiciaire de Paris, to freeze (through judicial mortgages) residential real estate owned by the Government of India in central Paris.To date, London-listed Cairn is pursuing the Government of India in multiple jurisdictions, primarily focused on regions with high value assets, such as the US, UK, Canada, Singapore, Mauritius, and the Netherlands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-draft-rules-to-end-retrospective-tax-101630172016126.html
28-08-2021||India||TMC’s Abhishek Banerjee challenges Amit Shah after being summoned by ED||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee challenged Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday to try and stop the Trinamool Congress from expanding its base in Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states. Mamata too mounted an attack against the BJP led-Centre after the Enforcement Directorate summoned Abhishek Banerjee and his wife Rujira Banerjee for questioning in the multi-crore coal smuggling case, while alleging that the RJD chief was being kept in jail by BJP so that he could not take part in Bihar polls. The TMC chief also said that she would call a conference of chief ministers of all states to discuss the alleged blow on federal structure and interference of the Centre in state matters. “I challenge Amit Shah. If you have the guts, try and stop the TMC. Do whatever you can. We will expand to other states and snatch that state from you. The TMC under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee will fight till its last drop of blood in any state where the BJP has drawn blood of the citizens,” said Abhishek Banerjee, TMC’s national general secretary. Abhishek Banerjee, who is seen as the in-charge of the party’s expansion plans, announced in June this year that they plan to expand their base in other states ahead of the 2024 national polls to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The speeches of Mamata Banerjee and her nephew were aired live in a few states outside West Bengal including Tripura and Assam. “If BJP has the guts let them stop the TMC. If anyone thinks that they will use the ED and CBI to frighten and threaten the TMC, the more committed we will be in our aim,” he said while virtually addressing the party’s youth wing on its foundation day. The TMC after returning to power in West Bengal for the third consecutive term with a sweeping victory in the recently-held assembly elections is now eyeing Tripura where assembly polls are due in 2023. The north eastern state is being currently ruled by the BJP-- Indigenous Peoples Front of Tripura (BJP-IPFT) alliance. “The game has just started in Tripura. Such games will be played in many other states. Till the time we uproot the BJP the fight will be going on,” he added. “It is good to dream. Let them not make such emotional statements. We can talk on this once the TMC wins one seat in Tripura,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson. TMC chief Mamata Banerjee sharpened her attack against the Centre stating that her challenges have shot up after she came to power. “Whenever the BJP-led Centre fails to fight politically they utilise the central agencies. Why blame only the TMC in the coal smuggling scam? Coal comes under the Union government. What were the central ministers doing? I can name a dozen ministers who have looted Asansol,” she said. Asansol-Durgapur in West Burdwan district is the state’s biggest industrial and coal mining zone. Former Union minister and BJP leader Babul Supriyo had won from the Asansol Lok Sabha seat in 2014 and 2019. The region is home to the state’s biggest manufacturing industries including the Indian Iron and Steel Company, Eastern Coalfields Limited, Durgapur Fertilizer Project, Durgapur Thermal Power Station and Chittaranjan Locomotive Works among others along with a few hundred small and micro industries. “Getting hold of an accused and then forcing him to write down the name of another person is not done. Amit Shah, please remember that when Central ministers and BJP leaders had come to West Bengal for campaigning before the assembly elections, they had put up in hotels owned by coal mafias. Should I release the list?” she said while warning that she hasn’t been vindictive till date but if the BJP points one finger then ten fingers could be raised against it. “The BJP never made any indecent statements against the CM nor does the party want to launch personal attacks against her family members. Law will take its own course. BJP doesn’t believe in vindictive politics,” Bhattacharya said. Raising questions over the funds raised by the PM Cares Fund and electoral bonds, she also said that if the Centre tries to threaten her with ED, she will send a sack full of documents (against BJP leaders) to ED and drag the agency to court if it fails to probe. “Why is Lalu Prasad Yadav still in jail? You (BJP) have kept him in jail so that he cannot take part in Bihar elections. We know your strategy. We know who dictates and how the draft is prepared. Don’t think we are donkeys. Injustice is being done to Uddhav Thackeray in Maharashtra and Arvind Kejriwal in Delhi,” she added. The Calcutta high court has recently ordered a CBI probe into the allegations of post-poll violence after an enquiry committee set up by the NHRC slammed the state government. “While five BJP workers were killed, 16 TMC workers were killed in violence says the NHRC report. I have no problem with a CBI probe because the Bengal government has taken action in each and every case,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmcs-abhishek-banerjee-challenges-amit-shah-after-being-summoned-by-ed-101630169855830.html
28-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Raut's 'mental health' and 'yoga' jibe on Rane and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘His mental health not well; must do yoga’: Raut takes fresh jibe on RaneA day after Union minister Narayan Rane threatened to expose Shiv Sena following his arrest and subsequent bail over the ‘slap CM’ remark, Sena MP Sanjay Raut said that the former’s “egotist and revengeful attitude” has forced the BJP on backfoot. Read more...Heavy losses to Taliban in Kapisa as Afghan resistance counterattacksTaliban suffered heavy casualties in Afghanistan's Kapisa province, as the resistance force under former vice president Amrullah Saleh gave a fitting reply to the insurgent group. The clashes are taking place in Sanjan in Kapisa province and Khost Wa Fereng district in Baghlan. Read more...India will always stand by its own people: PM Modi on Afghanistan crisisDespite several challenges, India is evacuating its people from war-torn Afghanistan and will continue to do so, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday as he unveiled renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial through video conferencing. Read more...CBI makes first arrest in Bengal’s post-poll violence caseThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday made its first arrests in connection with the post-poll violence in West Bengal. Two people, including a woman, identified as Bijoy Ghosh and Ashima Ghosh were arrested from Chapra in Nadia district in connection with the murder of a BJP worker Dharma Mondol on May 14, CBI officials have confirmed. Read more...Foreign Direct Investment inflow jumped by 90% in Q1Commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday said India has the potential to become the “manufacturing hub” of the world as it attracted $22.53 billion foreign direct investment (FDI) in the first three months of the current financial year, a 90% year-on-year jump because of several policy reforms to facilitate trade and investments. Read more...NCB raids former Bigg Boss contestant Armaan Kohli’s Mumbai homeThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is conducting a raid at the Mumbai residence of actor and former Bigg Boss contestant Armaan Kohli in connection with an alleged drugs case. The raid is underway and is led by NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede. Read more...England ‘made better decisions’: Kohli on India’s defeatJoe Root’s England bounced back in the ongoing 5-match Test series against India by winning the third match by an innings and 76 runs at Headingley on Saturday. Speaking about the loss at the post-match presentation, skipper Kohli said his teammates couldn’t withstand the scoreboard pressure. Read more...This Harry Potter-themed Lego set is straight out of a Potterhead’s dream. WatchThe magical world of Hogwarts and its mysterious hallways and staircases are something that intrigues people of all ages. If you are someone who has dreamt of walking along the corridors of this fictional school of witchcraft and wizardry then this video is just for you. Watch here...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-raut-s-mental-health-and-yoga-jibe-on-rane-and-all-the-latest-news-101630162416381.html
28-08-2021||India||‘His mental health not well; must do yoga’: Raut takes fresh jibe on Rane||A day after Union minister Narayan Rane threatened to expose Shiv Sena following his arrest and subsequent bail over the ‘slap CM’ remark, Sena MP Sanjay Raut said that the former’s “egotist and revengeful attitude” has forced the BJP on backfoot.He also suggested that Rane should practise yoga and said that his mental health is not well. “Even Shiv Sainiks will pray for his good health,” he noted, adding that the Union minister’s arrest was “legal and justified” as everyone is “equal before the law.”Raut claimed that his former party colleague was not following the directives of Prime Minister Narendra Modi when it came to the ‘Jan Ashirvad Yatra’.He said that Rane, unlike other new inductees of the Union cabinet from Maharashtra such as Kapil Patil, Bhagwat Karad, and Bharti Pawar, who are also touring the state to spread the word on works of the central government, has been “targetting the Sena, Uddhav Thackeray and the MVA (Maha Vikas Aghadi) government.”Referring to the Union minister’s statement on exposing the Sena “step-by-step”, Raut asked, “Don’t we have his ‘Kundli’? Be prepared when we open our ‘sandook’ (box).”The Sena MP further pointed out that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will soon “realise its mistake” of inducting Rane in the Union cabinet.Also Read | 'Slap CM' row: Fresh notice to Rane; court says arrest justified, not custodyRaut also spoke about a one-on-one meeting between Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis and Thackeray, saying the latter told Fadvanis what he needed to do. “We have political differences with BJP. If BJP wants to shoot us over Rane's shoulders, we are ready. We had differences with (NCP chief) Sharad Pawar also but today we are together,” Raut added.Rane, who was apprehended and subsequently released on Tuesday, flew to Ratnagiri on Friday morning to resume his Jan Ashirwad Yatra. On Friday, he took fresh jibes at the Maharashtra government and Shiv Sena by saying that he didn’t do anything “wrong” and that the party only held him as it enjoys power in the state.“What has Shiv Sena given to [the] Konkan region in [the] last two years? They thought I would be scared if they took action against me. But our journey has been successful,” he added.The union minister asked – without naming anyone, who had conspired to throw acid on his brother’s wife a few years before. “Are these sanskars (tradition)?” he also asked.Also Read | Rane resumes yatra, says will expose Shiv SenaRane made the controversial ‘slap CM’ remark after Thackeray allegedly forgot the year of India’s Independence and enquired about the same from someone. He was given bail on Tuesday after his counsel appealed for the same on several grounds, including his health.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/his-mental-health-not-well-must-do-yoga-raut-takes-fresh-jibe-on-rane-101630162182086.html
28-08-2021||India||CBI makes first arrest in Bengal’s post-poll violence case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday made its first arrests in connection with the post-poll violence in West Bengal. Two people, including a woman, identified as Bijoy Ghosh and Ashima Ghosh were arrested from Chapra in Nadia district in connection with the murder of a BJP worker Dharma Mondol on May 14, CBI officials have confirmed. The CBI conducted search operations in at least 15 locations on Saturday and registered 10 more FIRs. The total number of FIRs now stands at 21. A CBI team also faced some resistance in Nadia during its search operations with some TMC workers blocking the vehicle and shouting anti-CBI and anti-BJP slogans. The Calcutta high court had on August 19 ordered a court-monitored CBI probe into the allegations of murder and crime against women - rape and attempt to rape – that were reported after the assembly polls. A team also went to meet the family members of Shobha Rani Mondal, mother of a BJP booth president, also allegedly killed by TMC workers, while trying to defend her son. She died on May 3. At least four special teams of the central agency, each headed by a joint director, are camping in the state and visiting the affected families to record their statements. The CBI has been ordered to probe the allegations of murder and crime against women, while the court has set up a Special Investigation Team, comprising three senior IPS officers from the state to probe the other cases of loot and arson. A seven-member committee set up by the NGRC on the orders of the high court had submitted its final report on July 13 slamming the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government for post-poll violence while recommending a CBI probe. The NHRC committee in its report had said at least 1,934 police complaints were lodged with the state police between May 2 and June 20. They included 29 complaints related to murder, 12 to rape and sexual assault, and 940 of loot and arson. The TMC had alleged that the enquiry committee was politically motivated as some of its members had connections with the BJP. The court, however, had rejected such allegations. “While five BJP workers were killed, 16 TMC workers were killed in violence says the NHRC report. I have no problem with a CBI probe because the Bengal government has taken action in each and every case. But why would they visit the villages with BJP leaders and workers. They should work impartially,” said Mamata Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal. The BJP, however, countered that the law is taking its own course and that the party has nothing to do with this as it was ordered by the high court. “The NHRC committee was set up on the orders of the court. The CBI is conducting its probe on the orders of the court. It will be monitored by the court. Where is the BJP in this? We have nothing to do with this,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-makes-first-arrest-in-bengal-s-post-poll-violence-case-101630162177160.html
28-08-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: August 29, 1967 — Jumna menaces city power station; two women drowned in well, child in nullah||New Delhi- Swollen by the heavy discharge from Tajewala and drains in Delhi, the Jumna rose four feet above the danger mark of 672 feet, and posed serious threat to the Rajghat power house tonight. Small bunds were being constructed outside the power station to save the turbines from the flood waters. Chief Engineer R. Seth said the power station was “so far” safe. The floods claimed three lives today. Two old women were drowned in flooded wells near Nangloi and a two year old girl in a nullah in Gulabi Bagh. Almost all drains flowing into the river have been closed because they have started flowing back. Hundreds of huts in Jumna Bazar were flooded in the backwash of a nullah. Long stretches of the GT Road have been submerged by the Jumna. Water one foot deep stood over several points near Badli. Some light vehicles were marooned in the submerged areas. According to Mr Madan Mohan Singh Director, Public Relations, Delhi more than 1,500 houses have collapsed in 130 water-logged villages. Large areas with standing crops have been submerged. The total loss is estimated at over ₹1 crore. He said the Jumna would rise further tomorrow. The discharge from the Tajewala headworks was today almost half of yesterdays. But the improvement will be seen only from Wednesday. High level The heavy discharge in the Najafgarh lake in West Delhi worsened the situation there today (August 28). The discharge from the Dhassa bund into the lake is about 1,800 cusecs against an outflow of 800 cusecs through the Najafgath nullah. This has brought many villages around the lake under water. According to engineers, the Najafgarh nullah will rise further because of the reduced discharge of the nullah into the river at Wazirabad. In addition to the 300 cusecs from the Najafgarh lake a large quantity of water from the flooded villages is being drained out into the nullah. Because the river level is almost as high as the nullah level, only a small quantity of water flows into the river. The engineers said there was no danger of the nullah bursting its banks unless it rained heavily. The Jumna has started eroding part of the refuse dump at Badli. But the civic authorities said they had recently constructed a protective wall around the dump and the flood waters would not carry sullage into the river. Engineers at the high power transmission centres of All India Radio in Khampur and Nangli said their installations were safe. These centres are across the GT Road near Alipur, which has been seriously affected by the floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-august-29-1967-jumna-menaces-city-power-station-two-women-drowned-in-well-child-in-nullah-101630158936081.html
28-08-2021||India||India will always stand by its own people: PM Modi says on Afghanistan crisis||Despite several challenges, India is evacuating its people from war-torn Afghanistan and will continue to do so, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday as he unveiled renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial through video conferencing. "If any Indian is in crisis anywhere in India, the country stands with all its might. Be it the challenges of Corona or the Afghanistan crisis. Operation Devi Shakti brought back several people from Afghanistan. There are many challenges and the situation is difficult," PM Modi said."India has also made a new law for its own people. The present global situation shows us the importance of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat. It reminds us why it's time for India to be self-reliant after 75 years of Independence," PM Modi said, without taking the name of the Citizenship Amendment Act.Repatriation of stranded most urgent priority in Afghanistan, say Modi, MerkelThe controversial law has again come into discourse as BJP leaders and union ministers referred to the usefulness of the law to give citizenship to Sikhs and Hindus fleeing Afghanistan. The law, rules of which are yet to be notified, aims to grant Indian citizenship to persecuted Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, who arrived in India before the end of December 2014.Akali Dal MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal recently urged for a review of the CAA saying that India should not only rescue Sikhs and Hindus from Afghanistan.Separate from this law, India is offering the provision of e-visa which will allow Afghan Hindus and Sikhs to apply for a six-month visa in India.As PM Modi inaugurated the renovated complex of Jallianwala Bagh Smarak along with the museum galleries developed at the Smarak on Saturday, he said no country should forget their history."Those 10 minutes of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre was a turning point in our freedom movement. For that, we are here today and celebrating Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav. I am fortunate to have visited the holy soil of Jallianwalabagh several times," PM Modi said.According to the PMO statement, four Museum galleries have been created through adaptive reuse of redundant and underutilised buildings, which showcase the historical value of events that unfolded in Punjab during that period. A Sound & Light show has been set up to display the events that happened on April 13, 1919.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/many-challenges-but-india-evacuating-people-from-afghanistan-pm-modi-101630155649594.html
28-08-2021||India||Foreign Direct Investment inflow jumped by 90% in Q1||Commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday said India has the potential to become the “manufacturing hub” of the world as it attracted $22.53 billion foreign direct investment (FDI) in the first three months of the current financial year, a 90% year-on-year jump because of several policy reforms to facilitate trade and investments.The surge in FDI is “an endorsement of its status as a preferred investment destination” amongst global investors, an official statement said. FDI inflow in the first quarter of the previous financial year was $11.84 billion.Addressing businessmen at the Jain International Trade Organisation (JITO), Goyal said every growth parameter is showing extremely exciting future. “Whether it is FDI, forex reserves, foodgrain reserves, agriculture production, manufacturing, all sectors are on a growth path. We now need to sprint ahead,” another statement quoting the minister said. JITO is a global organisation of businessmen, industrialists, knowledge workers and professionals.According to the commerce and industry ministry, FDI equity inflow grew by 168% in April-June 2021 at $17.57 billion compared to $6.56 billion in the same period a year ago. Automobile industry emerged as the top sector during the first three months of FY 22 with 27% share of the total FDI equity inflow, followed by computer software and hardware (17%) and services sector (11%), it said.In the automobile category, majority of FDI equity inflow (about 88%) was reported in the state of Karnataka, it said. Karnataka is the top FDI recipient in Q1 of 2021-22 with 48% share of the total FDI equity inflows, followed by Maharashtra (23%) and Delhi (11%), it said.Addressing JITO, Goyal said, “Traders and exporters are the twin pistons powering the economic growth engine” of India. He lauded the role of all wealth creators of the country. “You are the people who help the government take several social welfare initiatives to the poorest of the poor,” the commerce ministry statement said quoting him.“Through a series of programmes, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has transformed the lives of underprivileged, women and children of this country. The business community has helped realise the PM’s vision,” he said.Under the decisive leadership of PM Modi, India is transforming in every field. Be it ‘ease of doing business’ or ‘ease of living’. “Today, a robust foundation laid in last seven years, inspires us to dream big and write our own destiny,” he said.The minister said India is fast progressing on its discussions on free trade agreements (FTAs) with several countries such as UK, UAE and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries, Australia and European Union (EU).He said India and US have agreed to aspire for $500 billion trade in the near future. The world is looking for a trusted partner and that partner is India’s business community, he added.“It may be noted that recently, India emerged as the world’s second most desirable manufacturing destination overtaking US. This shows the potential & promise of India to become the ‘manufacturing hub’ of the world,” the statement quoting Goyal said.Along with that, we should also become a “Trading hub”, i.e., the place where the world comes to shop, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-direct-investment-inflow-jumped-by-90-in-q1-101630158455216.html
28-08-2021||India||Bhupesh Baghel returns to Raipur from Delhi, gets rousing reception at airport||Thousands of Congress workers and office bearers gathered at the Raipur airport, on Saturday, to give a rousing reception to Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, who returned from Delhi after a meeting with the high command over the two-and-a-half-year power-sharing agreement with state health minister TS Singh Deo. Baghel, along with 53 MLAs including six ministers, six mayors and other senior leaders of the party reached Raipur airport at 3.10 pm. Supporters had started gathering at the airport since 1 pm from nearby districts. The CM, responding to questions from the media about the Delhi meeting, said, “Spoke to Rahul ji (Rahul Gandhi) in detail about Chhattisgarh. Apart from political discussions, we discussed on government schemes and the people of the state and finally I invited him to the state for which he has given his consent. Rahul Gandhi will be visiting Chhattisgarh next week.” Baghel further said that Gandhi will be on a two-day visit and will also visit Bastar. “He will stay for two days and will also visit central and north Chhattisgarh to see the ‘Chhattisgarh model’ of development and show it to the country. Gandhi will review the work done by the Chhattisgarh government for the welfare of farmers, tribal, women, youth and poor… Rahul ji will meet everyone,” Baghel said. Earlier, on Saturday morning, Congress president of Raipur, Girish Dubey sent a message on social media appealing to the party workers to reach the airport by 1.30 pm to ‘welcome’ Baghel. Around 3,000 supporters from Raipur, Durg, Kabirdham, Balod and nearby districts were present in and outside the airport carrying party flags and placards. The workers holding placards of “Bhupesh Hai toh Bharosa Hai” ( With Bhupesh there is trust ) raised slogans like “ Dilli Se Ayee Avaaz , Bhupesh Baghel Zindabad” and Chhattisgarh Ada hai , Bhupesh Baghel ke Sang khada hai” in support of Baghel. On Friday, Baghel met Gandhi for the second time in four days and said that he had told “everything” to his leader. Asked if he would still be chief minister when Gandhi arrived in Chhattisgarh, Baghel said he had invited him “as chief minister”. Singh Deo on Thursday fuelled speculation about the change saying anyone who plays in a team “wants to be the captain”. In December 2018, in the aftermath of the dominant Congress performance where they won 68 of 90 seats, even as the party’s Delhi leadership sought to put out leadership fires in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh emerged as a problem too. Four state leaders, Baghel, now Home Minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, now speaker Charan Das Mahant and Singh Deo flew to Delhi; all eyeing the Chief Minister’s post. As Mahant settled for speaker, friction between Baghel and Singh Deo meant that Sahu first emerged the frontrunner, but pushed by the idea that a third leader would take the top position, Baghel and Singh Deo along with Punia and Gandhi reportedly came to a power sharing arrangement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupesh-baghel-returns-to-raipur-from-delhi-gets-rousing-reception-at-airport-101630156414968.html
28-08-2021||India||ODOP scheme: UP artisans sell goods worth ₹35 lakh in 10 days at Dilli Haat||The Uttar Pradesh government's One District One Product (ODOP) scheme has popularised traditional handicrafts of the state at Dilli Haat. The state government has organised a month-long exhibition of the handicraft products, which will conclude on September 15.Some of the items on display are chikankari of Lucknow, sarees of Banaras and Azamgarh, and the sculptures made of shazar stone of Banda.Additional Chief Secretary Information and MSME, Navneet Sehgal, inspected the exhibition in New Delhi on Saturday. He also interacted with the artisans and shopkeepers and learned about their sales and facilities provided.The exhibition organised by the ODOP features 118 stalls showcasing various products. According to UP government, more than 10,000 people have visited the exhibition during the last 10 days whereas goods worth more than ₹35 lakh have been sold.ODOP is an initiative of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, aimed at finding national and international markets for one specific item of each of the 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh. It will also help artisans pursue their traditional craft and earn a decent income from it.Adityanath had earlier announced that the UP government is constructing a handicraft park in Sector 29 of Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) to give further push to the state's traditional handicrafts.A total of 76 industrialists have acquired land at the park spread over an area of 50 acres to set up their factories at the cost of ₹403 crore, according to state government. The factories being set up at the park will provide permanent employment to 22,144 people.The park will be similar to the Hunar Haat organised in Delhi, which is attended by over 600 artisans and craftsmen from across states and union territories displaying indigenous products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odop-scheme-up-artisans-sell-goods-worth-rs-35-lakh-in-10-days-at-dilli-haat-101630155638743.html
28-08-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: 1 dead as under-construction flyover collapses in Madurai||A portion of an under-construction flyover collapsed in Tamil Nadu's Madurai on Saturday, killing one person. Fire and rescue personnel were on the spot, reported news agency ANI. Dr A Rathinavel, dean of Government Rajaji Hospital, said that a person died in the collapse.Tamil Nadu: A portion of an under-construction flyover collapses in Madurai; fire and rescue personnel on the spot pic.twitter.com/QNzXXgDNhbAccording to the regional news portal of oneindia, two workers got injured in the accident and were taken to a nearby hospital for treatment. One of the workers, identified as Akash Singh from Uttar Pradesh, succumbed to his injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-1-dead-as-under-construction-flyover-collapses-in-madurai-101630155099232.html
28-08-2021||India||Sri Lanka starts regular flights from nine Indian cities. Details here||Sri Lanka has reopened its border to India, the country's high commission in New Delhi announced on Saturday, adding that fully vaccinated travellers will only require a negative PCR test report for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The test should be conducted 72 hours prior to arrival while an on-arrival PCR test at a certified hotel, the Sri Lanka High Commission further said.“We look forward to welcoming our closest neighbours yet again, so they may experience the variety that Sri Lanka has to offer. Our country’s heritage, culture, wildlife, nature, beaches and more have always proven to be popular among Indian travellers, and they will be able to visit destinations across the country, while following the relevant health guidelines,” Kimarli Fernando, chairperson at Sri Lanka Tourism said in a statement.Flights from Sri LankaSri Lankan Airlines, the flag carrier of the island nation, will operate four weekly flights to Chennai, three to Mumbai, and one to Bengaluru airport as per the latest schedule announced by the Sri Lanka high commission. The carrier will also resume services between Colombo and Indian cities of Madurai, Tiruchirappalli, Trivandrum and Cochin with weekly flights. Two flights will be operated by the Sri Lanka airlines between Colombo-New Delhi, Colombo Hyderabad.Sri Lankan Airlines will operate four weekly flights to Chennai, three to Mumbai, and one to Bengaluru under its new schedule, and is expected to introduce significant frequency enhancements. Under the new schedules, the airline will be resuming services between Colombo and the Indian points; Madurai, Tiruchirappalli, Trivandrum and Cochin with flights once a week, whilst Hyderabad and New Delhi will be connected to Colombo with twice-weekly flights.The frequency of Sri Lanka Airlines flights from Chennai and Mumbai will later be increased up to five times a week while the Bengaluru-Colombo flight frequency will be increased to three times a week. To attract more travellers, Sri Lanka’s flagship carrier has also started a buy one get one free campaign.“The relaxed guidelines are extremely clear, and we invite all travellers and travel agents to visit the portal to learn more about pre-arrival procedures, insurance and more,” Fernando added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sri-lanka-starts-regular-flights-from-nine-indian-cities-details-here-101630154309340.html
28-08-2021||India||'Shame': Rahul Gandhi on police action against protesting farmers in Haryana||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi denounced the police lathicharge on a farmers' protest in Haryana and said that another incident where a farmer's blood is shed brings shame for India. He also tweeted a photo of a protester with blood on his face and Kurta.The farmers took out a protest rally on Saturday and were moving towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting attended by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar etc. As the rally disrupted the traffic movement on the highway, police allegedly lathicharged a group of farmers in which 10 have been injured.Haryana highways blocked after farmers lathicharged in Karnalफिर ख़ून बहाया है किसान का,शर्म से सर झुकाया हिंदुस्तान का!#FarmersProtest #किसान_विरोधी_भाजपा pic.twitter.com/stVlnVFcgQProtesters present near the Bastara toll plaza around 15 km from Karnal claimed to have witnessed 8-10 people sustain injuries in the police action. The police, however, said only mild force was used as the protesters were blocking the highway, affecting traffic movement."We slam the BJP government for using of police on farmers once again, I request all farmers to come out and block all highways in the state against", said BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni.The protest call was given by Bharatiya Kisan Union opposing public functions of the BJP-JJP combine in Haryana. Police said the gathering was unlawful as Section 144 of CrPC was imposed in the area. Several announcements regarding this were made, but the farmers continued blocking the traffic.करनाल में किसानों पर हुआ लाठीचार्ज न सिर्फ अलोकतांत्रिक है बल्कि अमानवीय भी है। हम इसकी निंदा करते हैं। लोकतंत्र में सभी को अपना विरोध दर्ज करने का संवैधानिक हक है।लाठी-गोली से सरकार नहीं चला करती, लोगों का दिल जीतकर सरकार चलती है। pic.twitter.com/80uhCKPZF3Congress leader and former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda condemned the police action on farmers and said everyone has a constitutional right to register their protest. "A government is not run by sticks and bullets. A government is run by winning people's hearts," Hooda tweeted.Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted, "Khattar Sahab, today you have rained lathis on Haryanvis' soul… coming generations will remember the blood of farmers which has been spilled on the roads." Swaraj India president and key leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha Yogendra Yadav said the lathicharge exposed the true face of the Haryana Police."They (farmers) were protesting against the visit of CM Khattar and other BJP leaders to Karnal. This is the true face of Haryana police," Yadav tweeted.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shame-rahul-gandhi-on-police-action-against-protesting-farmers-in-haryana-101630153920144.html
28-08-2021||India||PMJDY completes 7 years. Here's how to avail ₹10,000 overdraft facility||The Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) completed seven years on Saturday and the Union ministry of finance said that over 430 million accounts have been opened under the scheme as of August 18, 2021. The scheme is touted as "one of the biggest financial inclusion initiatives in the world", it added.The scheme ensures access to financial services, namely savings and deposit accounts, remittance, credit, insurance and pension in an affordable manner to the country's poor and marginalised section of the society.PMJDY also provides an overdraft facility.What is the overdraft facility?It is a financial facility or instrument that enables an account holder to withdraw money from his/her bank account (savings or current), even if they do not have any account balance.Like any other credit facility, the bank levies an interest rate when an account holder avails the overdraft facility. Overdraft facility is usually offered for the withdrawal of a limited amount of money.Overdraft in PMJDYThe Centre's scheme allows the Jan Dhan account holders to withdraw money upto ₹10,000 in the form of a short-term loan. This limit was earlier ₹5,000 but the government doubled the amount last year.How does the overdraft facility work for PMJDY account holders?The government is allowing the PMJDY account holders to borrow more money than that is available in their accounts, it has laid down certain criteria to avail the facility.The owner of a PMJDY account who wants to avail the overdraft facility, must have been satisfactorily operating it for at least six months. Also, only one member of a particular family can avail the overdraft facility. Usually female members are favoured for this.The account holder should also have a good credit history. For overdraft of upto ₹2,000, no guarantee is needed under PMJDY.The government has also increased the upper age limit for overdraft from 60 to 65 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmjdy-completes-7-years-here-s-how-to-avail-rs-10-000-overdraft-facility-101630153703183.html
28-08-2021||India||Record ₹26,530 crore investment in Greater Noida in 4.5 years: UP govt||Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh has received a record investment of ₹26,530 crore ($3.56 billion) in the last four and a half years, the state government said in a release on Saturday. The huge investment will lead to generation of jobs for the youth of the state, it added.The UP government said that a total of 391 big investors from across the country and abroad have bought land in Greater Noida to set up their factories, which will provide employment to 71,500 people, including more than 40 per cent local youths.In order to meet the growing demand of investors, the Greater Noida Authority is setting up eight new industrial sectors and buying about 900 hectares of land, the government added.The policies put in place by the Yogi Adityanath government include promotion of IT and manufacturing, and food processing industries. Popular Chinese electronics and mobile phone companies Oppo and Vivo, Hiranadani Group, Dreamtouch Electronics, Inox Air, Lami Plastic Manufacturing are some of the big names that have shown interest in Greater Noida.In the last one year alone, when the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) wreaked havoc, plots ranging from 40 to 1,000 square metres were allotted to 46 investors in Greater Noida to set up their units, the Uttar Pradesh government said.The announcement of a Jewar international airport further attracted companies towards Greater Noida. In view of these developments, an integrated industrial township is being built on 750 acres by Integrated Industrial Township Greater Noida Limited (IITGNL), a joint venture between Greater Noida Authority and Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-rs-26-530-crore-investment-in-greater-noida-in-4-5-years-up-govt-101630151736509.html
28-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: AIIMS doctor says need to weigh in on schools reopening in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'We have to save our children': AIIMS doctor weighs in on Delhi schools reopeningAfter the Delhi government announced the reopening of schools in a phased manner, medical experts have highlighted the need to treat children as unvaccinated individuals once they start attending schools. Read moreHave you got one dose of Covaxin? ICMR study reveals how protected you are from CovidIf you have got one dose of Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine produced by Bharat Biotech, are you protected from further infection? A recent study by the Indian Council of Medical Research says that the protection level depends on whether you have contracted the infection before or not. Read moreMumbai's Nariman Point will be under water by 2050, says civic body chief; explains whyWithin 25 to 30 years, South Mumbai's Nariman Point, the state secretariat will go be engulfed by the rising seawater level, Mumbai municipal corporation Iqbal Singh Chahal has recently said. Read more6,800 new beds to be set up in govt hospitals, will be helpful if Delhi sees another Covid wave: CM KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday that his government will add 6,800 more beds in government hospitals, adding these will be ready in six months. Kejriwal said there are nearly 10,000 beds in total in government hospitals in the national capital. Read more'Why was Rishabh Pant told to change his stance': Sunil Gavaskar bemused at umpires' decision during 3rd TestSunil Gavaskar never shies away from making his point loud and clear. After expressing his disagreements with Nasser Hussain’s comments about India’s previous generation cricketers getting ‘bullied,’ the legendary cricketer this time expressed his dismay at the umpires asking India keeper-batsman Rishabh Pant not to bat out of his crease. Read moreShraddha Kapoor, Rohan Shrestha to tie the knot? Padmini Kolhapure, Priyaank Sharma react to reportsActor Shraddha Kapoor's aunt Padmini Kolhapure and cousin Priyaank Sharma have commented on her wedding rumours. Read moreNew Aprilia RS660 starts arriving at Indian dealerships, launch imminentAprilia is gearing up to introduce the new RS660 sports bike in the Indian market soon. The middleweight superbike has already started to arrive in the company dealerships in Bengaluru hinting that the price announcement is likely to take place anytime soon now. Read moreSwara Bhasker channels her ‘social media generated rage’ into kickboxingWhether you want to shape and sharpen your style as a fighter or simply want to provide a healthy outlet for releasing stress and tension while improving upon your physical fitness like Bollywood diva Swara Bhasker, kickboxing knocks both out in a single move. Read moreMan walks between hot air balloons on a beam at an altitude of 21,400 feet. Watch nail-biting videoIn today’s edition of world records that may make your jaw drop in wonder, here is a throwback video showcasing a man creating a record by walking between two hot air balloons. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-aiims-doctor-says-weighs-in-on-schools-reopening-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news-101630149144578.html
28-08-2021||India||India unveils 2200 ‘life-saving’ water-testing labs||An app-based digitised platform for testing water quality for standard safety parameters, launched under the flagship Jal Jeevan Mission, is now functional in 2,200 water labs across the country, an official said, requesting anonymity. Public health officials say the new facilities will help improve health outcomes, especially in children, and also help private individuals, public health engineering authorities and panchayats where piped drinking water has been provided, to monitor water quality. “Anyone can submit a sample and source coordinates of piped water supply will also be captured. The water-quality testing reports thus generated will be delivered online to the person giving the water sample and also feed a central database for continuous monitoring. This can prove to be life-saving in areas with high contamination,” the official said. The digitised platform has been developed with health inputs and safe-water parameters from the Indian Council of Medical Research, the official said. The samples are tested for a range of chemical, bacterial and other pathogenic contamination. According to estimates from the Indian Council of Medical Research, water-borne rotaviruses cause 8,72,000 hospitalisations of mostly children annually and an estimated 78,000 die from it in India. The software platform, Drinking Water Quality Monitoring and Surveillance, has been developed by the state-run National Informatics Centre. Unsafe water is a major drag on the country’s public health. “Our healthcare focus has been tilted towards child and maternal health, which also is by no means adequate. Unsafe water is a major cause of child disease burden,” said health economist Arup Mitra of the Institute of Economic Growth. The country’s flagship programme to provide rural households with piped drinking water by 2024, the Jal Jeevan Mission, has expanded to cover more than 10 million homes in 61 districts notorious for Japanese Encephalitis-Acute Encephalitis Syndrome, a brain fever in children that needs a multi-pronged approach to tackle, according to health experts. The Jal Jeevan Mission prioritises the provisioning of tap water supply to water quality-affected habitations. Thus far, of the 27,544 arsenic and fluoride-affected habitations, states have made provisions of potable water supply in 26,492. Under the mission, local communities are also trained to lead water-quality surveillance. “Locals are being trained on water quality testing using field test kits too,” the official cited in the first instance said. Nearly 820 million people in 12 major river basins of the country face “high to extreme” water stress. Getting to a water source is a long haul in rural India. According to a National Sample Survey Organisation survey, in Jharkhand, it takes women 40 minutes one way, without taking into account the waiting time. In Bihar, it’s 33 minutes. Rural Maharashtra clocks an average of 24 minutes. The piped water mission, launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019, aims to change this. The programme has entered a critical stage, as officials race to meet the deadline amid a disrupting Covid second wave. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-unveils-2200-life-saving-water-testing-labs-101630147775710.html
28-08-2021||India||Have you got one dose of Covaxin? ICMR study reveals how protected you are from Covid||If you have got one dose of Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine produced by Bharat Biotech, are you protected from further infection? A recent study by the Indian Council of Medical Research says that the protection level depends on whether you have contracted the infection before or not. In a pilot study conducted on 114 healthcare professionals, it has been found that previous infection plus the first dose of Covaxin is equivalent to two doses of the vaccine in individuals who have not been infected by the virus."In the results, it was observed that participants with previous SARS-CoV-2 infection after a single vaccine dose elicited IgG (N) and IgG (S) antibody levels along with NAb binding inhibition responses levels similar to infection-naive vaccinated participants who had taken two doses of the vaccine," the study said.Congratulations, says WHO chief scientist Swaminathan as India gives 10 million vaccine doses in a daySo what the study reveals is that antibodies from previous infection plus the first dose of Covaxin is equal to two doses of Covaxin in a person who has never been infected. Taking both doses of any vaccine -- Covaxin, Covishield, Sputnik V-- is mandatory for the maximum protection against Covid-19. However, several studies on the efficacy of one dose, two doses are being done for the purpose of scientific research -- for a better understanding of how these vaccines are working.Two doses of either Covaxin or Covishield provide over 90 per cent protection from Covid death, reports have revealed. Several cases of reinfection or breakthrough infections have been reported in the country of late. ICMR director general Balram Bhargava recently said that these vaccines are disease-modifying and not disease-preventing, Hence, the need to maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour is maximum.India has achieved the landmark of one crore vaccination on Friday, for which it received global acclaim. Apart from accelerating the pace of vaccination, India is also steady on the track of vaccine research as a trial of the mix of Covishield and Covaxin has recently got the nod.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-you-got-one-dose-of-covaxin-icmr-study-reveals-how-protected-you-are-from-covid-101630145606368.html
28-08-2021||India||'We have to save our children': AIIMS doctor weighs in on Delhi schools reopening||After the Delhi government announced the reopening of schools in a phased manner, medical experts have highlighted the need to treat children as unvaccinated individuals once they start attending schools. Dr Navneet Wig, AIIMS, said that though children are fed up at home, it is important to look at the risks of attending schools as well, reported news agency ANI.“We have to weigh the pros and cons. We know that children are fed up at home. But we have to look at risks as well. These children are not vaccinated. Once they go to school, we have to treat them as unvaccinated individuals,” ANI quoted Wig as saying.In the wake of a decline in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the national capital, the Delhi government on Friday said schools, colleges, and other educational institutes can resume physical classes in a phased manner, starting September 1. Addressing a press conference at the Delhi secretariat, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia assured that no student will be forced to attend physical classes."Social distancing should be strictly followed and no student will be forced to come to the school. Consent of parents will be essential for students to come. If parents do not permit, then students will not be forced to come, they will not be considered absent either," said Sisodia.On Friday, the Delhi government said in a health bulletin that 46 fresh infections and no additional deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, with a positivity rate of 0.06%. As the test positivity rate remained less than 1% for 89 days, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) decided to allow schools to reopen from September 1 in a phased manner.Dr Wig said stressed the need to keep balance and ensure the test positivity rate remains less than 0.5% while allowing children to attend schools for their physical and mental health, reported ANI.“We have to save our children. Respiratory hygiene, cleanliness, masks should be ensured in schools,” the doctor added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-have-to-save-our-children-aiims-doctor-weighs-in-on-delhi-schools-reopening-101630142997794.html
28-08-2021||India||Jaish-e-Mohammad leaders met Taliban in Kandahar, discussed J&K: Report||Leaders of Pakistan-based Jihadist group Jaish-e-Mohammad have reportedly met Taliban leaders in Kandahar in the third week of August in which the JeM has sought the Taliban's support in their "India-centric operations", news agency ANI reported, quoting senior officials of the intelligence agencies. Following the input, Jammu and Kashmir has been put on an alert as the intelligence agencies are now anticipating the movement of terrorists from across the border. In the meeting, the present political situation of Pakistan was also discussed, ANI said."We have ordered intelligence agencies to keep watch on social media. On August 24, we received input regarding the movement of two terrorists from Pakistan who are planning a grenade attack in Srinagar. All agencies concerned have been alerted for coordination," the official told ANI. "All states have been alerted to conduct security drills and keep anti-terror units on high alert," the official added.Also Read: Rise of Taliban is internal security challenge for IndiaThe Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan would provide a boost for terrorists across the world, analysts have said. While the blasts in the vicinity of Kabul airport on August 26, perpetrated by ISIS-K, indicate that terror activities have already started in Afghanistan, India is on alert. Jaish, in fact, had cheered the victory of the Taliban and, in its publication, said that the Taliban victory in Afghanistan will inspire mujahideen or holy warriors to continue "their struggle for Islam".Commenting on the impact of the Taliban's takeover in Afghanistan on India's security, Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat expressed concern that terror activities may overflow into India. "Everything that has happened (in Afghanistan) was anticipated. Only the timelines changed and certainly surprised us because we were anticipating this (takeover) happening a couple of months down the line," the General said adding that contingency plans are in place to deal with the situation in India.Taliban's stance on J&KSoon after sweeping Afghanistan, the Taliban said that J&K is an internal matter of India. Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid, who recently said Pakistan is like a second home for the Taliban, commented that India and Pakistan should sit together to resolve all their outstanding issues as "both are neighbours and their interests are linked to each other".Taliban-Jaish-J&KMasood Azhar was released by the Indian authorities in 1999 in exchange for the release of the IC814 which was hijacked to Kandahar, then controlled by the Taliban. The Taliban and the Jaish are considered ideological comrades. Reports said that after the Taliban takeover, several Jaish members were released from Afghanistan prisons who are now planning to carry out a fresh strike in India.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishemohammad-leaders-met-taliban-in-kandahar-discussed-j-k-report-101630141494850.html
28-08-2021||India||Govt introduces new BH number series for vehicles: How will it help people?||The Centre has introduced new vehicle registration series to ensure seamless transfer across states. Called BH (Bharat series), it will free vehicle owners from re-registration process when they shift from one state/union territory to another.The series has been introduced by the road transport ministry, and notified by central government. The government has said that the new series will be available on voluntary basis to defense personnel, employees of central government/ state government/ central/ state public sector undertakings and private sector companies/organisations, which have their offices in four or more states/union territories.How long can a person keep vehicle in a state other than the parent state?The existing rules, which have been in place since past few years, allow a person to keep the vehicle in a state where it has not been registered for a certain period of time.The current rules say that a person is allowed to keep vehicle for a maximum of 12 months in any state other than the state where it is registered. The owners has to get such vehicles re-registered before the expiry of 12 months.What will be the format in BH-series?The format of BH-series registration mark will be YY BH #### XX. YY denotes the year of first registration, BH is code for Bharat Series, #### is the randomised four digit number and XX are two alphabets, according to road transport ministry.A vehicle bearing this registration mark shall not require assignment of a new registration mark when the owner of the vehicle shifts from one state to another, according to a statement from the ministry.The financial implicationsAccording to government notification, the motor vehicle tax levied by the state and union territories at the time of registration in respect to BH-series non-transport vehicle will be 8 per cent in case of vehicles costing up to ₹10 lakh, 10 per cent in case of vehicles costing between ₹10-20 lakh and 12 per cent in case of vehicles costing above 20 lakh.It further said that 2 per cent extra charge will be levied for diesel vehicles, while electric vehicles will be charged 2 per cent less tax.In case, where the vehicle bears BH-series registration mark, the motor vehicle tax shall be levied electronically. After the completion of 14th year, the motor vehicle tax shall be levied annually, which shall be half of the amount which was charged earlier for that vehicle, the notification said.When are the new rules coming into effect?The Central Motor Vehicles (Twentieth Amendment) Rules, 2021, will come into force with effect from September 15, 2021, the government notification said. The registration mark for BH-series vehicle will be generated randomly through the portal.What is the process to re-register a vehicle in other state?At present, a passenger vehicle owner for re-registration of vehicle has to take no objection certificate from the parent state for assignment of a new registration mark in another state.Also, the assignment of new registration mark is done after the road tax on prorata basis is paid in the new state. The owners had to claim the already paid amount from the state where the vehicle was registered. The government says that the new rules will put an end to this "cumbersome process".Other changes introduced by the road transport ministryThe BH-series is the latest reform introduced by the central ministry. Last year, it had mandated all vehicles sold in India before April 2019 to have high security registration plates (HSRP).It also said that vehicle documents found validated through electronic means shall not be demanded in physical forms for inspection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-introduces-new-bh-number-series-for-vehicles-how-will-it-help-people-101630138918803.html
28-08-2021||India||Kerala man’s FB page is a huge hit, provides all Covid-related info in a click||Any information on Covid-19, whether about the country or any state, is available in a click, thanks to NC Krishnaprasad’s ‘One Stop Destination’.Krishnaprasad is among one of the sought after social media activists. His webpage is subscribed by several experts and medical professionals. The Indian Book of Records honoured him earlier this month for his effort.“I started collecting statistics about the pandemic as a hobby in April 2020. Later, I found many people interested in it so I began posting all details without fail on Facebook. I have posted more than 10,800 updates since then,” Krishnaprasad, who works with the state health department as a junior clerk, said.From vaccination slots, bed availability or total cases and the number of recovered patients, ‘One Stop Destination’ carries all details of the pandemic in the state. His site also carries details of positive cases and deaths around the country and the world. The webpage is subscribed by more than one lakh people now.Krishnaprasad meticulously scans important medical journals and available scientific papers on the pandemic and shares the updates with his followers.“Since my regular job takes away a lot of time, I often post my updates at night. I have spent many sleepless nights. Many medical professionals and data experts from the country and abroad encouraged me well. I am not earning any monetary benefit from this, I just see it as my duty toward society,” said the 40-year-old. Initially, his wife, who is a teacher, helped him and he said she inspired him a lot.“Data analysis is my hobby and I worked with the Tata Mutual Fund for more than 10 years after my MBA. But later, due to domestic reasons, I had to move to Kerala and later joined the government service after clearing the state public service commission,” he said. Krishnaprasad said data collection is a painstaking effort and checking its veracity and accuracy is time-consuming and cumbersome.“I regularly scan official websites of all medical bodies, medical journals, experts, Twitter handles and research papers. My interest in analysing data, social commitment and hobby, all blend well. Many experts also share their data with me,” he said, adding that when he stopped posting due to some urgent preoccupation a couple of months ago he was flooded with inquiries.“He is a committed social worker. His data is well-researched and analysed. He’s doing a good service to society and it is no mean task to post several updates a day,” said public health expert Dr Pamanabha Shenoy.“A one-man army, his contribution is really amazing and inspiring,” said another medical expert Dr N M Arun. On August 3, the India Book of Records honoured him for his contribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-man-s-fb-page-is-a-huge-hit-provides-all-covid-related-info-in-a-click-101630138654114.html
28-08-2021||India||MHA extends Covid guidelines till Sept 30, directs localised measures ahead of festive season||The Centre on Saturday extended all existing coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related protocol in India up to September 30. Noting that the overall pandemic situation in India now appears to be "largely stable, except for the localised spread of the virus in few states”, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) directed the concerned state governments to take pro-active containment measures ahead of the upcoming festival season in the country.An official order in this regard was issued by home secretary Ajay Bhalla and sent to the chief secretaries of all states. In it, the government said that the earlier order regarding the implementation of Covid-19 protocols, which was issued on June 29, will now be enforced up to September 30. The Centre expressed concern over the fact that the total number of active cases and the case positivity rate in some districts across the country continue to remain on the higher side.Also Read | Covid-19 this week: Surge in daily tally of cases, driven by Kerala casesIndia on Saturday recorded 46,759 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the highest single-day increase in nearly two months. Saturday’s numbers indicated a trend that has been visible over the past week to anyone studying these numbers—a nationwide surge in cases driven primarily by a recent spike in Covid-19 cases in Kerala. According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the southern state now accounts for more than half of all the active Covid-19 cases in the country, followed closely by Maharashtra."The state governments/UT administrations concerned, having high positivity in their districts, should take pro-active containment measures so as to effectively arrest the spike in cases and to contain the spread of transmission," the MHA letter read. "It is important to identify the warning signs of potential surges early on and to take appropriate measures to curb the spread. This would require a localised approach, as has been mentioned in the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) advisories dated 25.04.2021 and 28.06.2021."Pointing out the upcoming festive season across several states in India, the government further advised the state governments and UT administrations to ensure that there are no large gatherings. If required, necessary local restrictions should be imposed in potentially crowded places, where people must follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. "We need to continue focus on the five-fold strategy, that is, Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination and adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour for effective management of Covid-19," the government letter read.Also Read | Explained: Why Kerala's Covid-19 peak is a concern for the rest of IndiaThe Centre noted that weekly enforcement data, received from the state governments regarding the enforcement of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, suggests that there is a "downward trend" in the enforcement of face masks in public, the maintaining of social distancing norms, imposition of fines, and the likes. The MHA advised the state governments to augment their respective efforts in this regard."Further, it must be ensured that areas having no virus or low virus transmission are adequately protected by progressively ramping up testing and other measures like the ILI/SARI surveillance, market surveillance, etc," the home secretary said. Warning no laxity in the enforcement of these measures, the MHA official said that the officers concerned will be made "personally responsible" for any leniency in meeting these instructions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-extends-covid-guidelines-till-sept-30-directs-localised-measures-ahead-of-festive-season-101630135762866.html
28-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Jan Dhan Yojana helped further transparency, says PM Modi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.On 7th anniversary of Jan Dhan Yojana, PM Modi says scheme ensured life of dignity for countless IndiansAs the Centre is observing the seventh anniversary of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted saying that the scheme has transformed India’s development trajectory and ensured financial inclusion and a life of dignity as well as empowerment for countless citizens. Read moreEfforts begin to save children from trafficking in five flood-affected districts of BiharApprehending high violations of child rights and the vulnerability of children to human trafficking in flood-affected areas in Bihar, the National Institution for Transforming India (NITI) Aayog, has started preparing to stop such incidents in five flood-affected districts of the state with the support of local administration and the NGOs like Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA) and Kailash Satyarthi Foundation (KSF) which have been working for child rights, officials said. Read moreTMC student leader allegedly assaulted in Tripura by ABVP activists, case filedTripura police on Friday lodged a complaint against a few Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) activists on the charge of allegedly assaulting and confining a Trinamool Congress Students Parishad activist, officials said. No arrest has been made so far. Read moreTamil Nadu CM Stalin moves resolution in assembly against 3 farm lawsTamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Saturday moved a resolution opposing the three contentious farm laws of the central government in the state assembly, which was adopted through a voice vote. Read moreVikas Khanna shares video of his dog Plum’s first beach visit. WatchCelebrity chef Vikas Khanna often takes to Instagram to share videos of his pet dog Plum. Capturing the different antics of the pooch, the posts involving the dog often leave people with a smile. Case in point, this share by the chef about his fur baby’s first beach visit. Read moreNora Fatehi teams all-black top and leather pants with boots and bag worth more than ₹3 lakhBe it Deepika Padukone, Malaika Arora or Bollywood's rising fashionista Nora Fatehi, leather pants have become a sartorial favourite of all the biggest names in the film industry. This chic ensemble can easily elevate an off-duty look, and dancer-turned-actor Nora Fatehi served an example for same for her airport look last night. Read more'Mental fortitude at its best': Cricket fraternity lauds Cheteshwar Pujara's innings on Day 3 at HeadingleyIndia batsman Cheteshwar Pujara showcased his class with the bat as he went on to score an unbeaten 91 runs on Day 3 of the third Test against England at Headingley. Pujara, who was dismissed for 1 in the first innings, and has been on the receiving end of criticism from fans, came on to bat after opener KL Rahul was dismissed for just 8. Read moreUnrealised film with Sushant Singh Rajput will be seen to completion, says Rumy JafryChehre writer-director Rumy Jafry has spoken about the script that he was working on with the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput and said that he will 'surely' make the movie. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-jan-dhan-yojana-helped-further-transparency-says-pm-modi-101630134814072.html
28-08-2021||India||Kerala reports surge in Covid-19 cases. These districts have the most infections||As Covid-19 cases surged for the third straight day on Friday in Kerala, the state government said it will continue with lockdowns on Sundays with only limited permissible activities. The government had given an exemption in the Sunday lockdowns in the last two weeks due to Independence Day and Onam. The decision of the Kerala government, which has been under fire from opposition parties and experts for its alleged poor management of the coronavirus pandemic, came after as the state recorded 32,801 cases on Friday, up from 30,007 on Thursday, and as the test positivity rate went up to 19.22 per cent from 18.03 per cent on August 26.There has been an upward spiral of infections for the past three days and Kerala has been consistently logging over 30,000 cases of Covid-19. Active cases of Covid-19 in the state now stand at 1,95,254, which is the highest in India. Kerala is one of the top contributors in terms of daily Covid-19 cases and accounts for more than half of the active infections in the country at present, the Centre has said.Also read | Explained: Why Kerala's Covid-19 peak is a concern for the rest of IndiaKerala’s health department data shows Malappuram recorded the highest Covid-19 cases at 4032, followed by Thrissur at 3953 and Ernakulam at 3627. Kozhikode reported 3362 cases, Kollam saw 2828, Palakkad 2727, Thiruvananthapuram 2255, Alappuzha 2188, Kannur 1984, Kottayam 1877, Pathanamthitta 1288, Idukki 1125, Wayanad 961 and Kasaragod 594, according to data.The death toll in the state due to Covid-19 has crossed the 20,000 mark and now stands at 20,313 with 179 deaths on Friday.Also read | With over 32,000 fresh Covid infections, Kerala brings back Sunday lockdownKerala health minister Veena George has assured that there is no need for panic and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has rejected the "unwanted" criticism regarding the alleged mishandling of the pandemic in the state. In an article published in the Communist Party of India (Marxist)'s magazine 'Chintha’, he said Kerala has reported "no death due to lack of oxygen" and that "no one has been deprived of medical aid or bed."The Centre has suggested Kerala must take a slew of measures, including targeted testing in containment zones and genomic surveillance, to stem the surge of Covid-19 cases. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the state has witnessed a sustained and significant transmission of Covid-19 since July as he wrote to Kerala chief secretary on Friday. "Despite efforts by the state government on increasing testing, the test confirmation percentage still remains very high (more than 15 per cent), signalling high and widespread transmission. All 14 districts in Kerala have been identified as districts of concern due to high test positivity rates and high cases per million reported in the past four weeks," Bhalla said.Also read | Health secy asks Kerala to step up measures to contain spreadBhushan said containment zones in the state need to be defined with a special focus on the high-transmission clusters. "Such zones need to be re-defined if the proportion of cases being reported outside of containment zones is showing an increase. The buffer zone around the containment zone needs to be identified clearly and passive surveillance needs to be enhanced to detect any spillover of cases from the containment zone," he said.He said the contact-tracing efforts should further be scaled up to ensure that at least 20-25 contacts per positive case are identified and all contacts thus identified are put under quarantine.Bhalla’s letter on Friday came a day after he virtually met officials to review the steps taken by the Kerala and Maharashtra governments to check the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-surge-in-covid-19-cases-these-districts-have-the-most-infections-101630131666981.html
28-08-2021||India||Explained: Why Kerala's Covid-19 peak is a concern for the rest of India||India on Saturday reported 46,759 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the most in nearly two months, as cases surged in Kerala after the festival of Onam.The worrying trend continued in the southern state, which accounted for 70 per cent of the new cases on Saturday. On Friday, it logged 32,801 cases, up from 30,007 on Thursday. On Wednesday, Kerala had recorded 31,445 cases of the infection.The test positivity rate in Kerala stands at 19.22 per cent, an increase from 18.03 per cent on August 26. On an average, Kerala reported 13,500 cases per day in July and almost 19,500 daily cases in August, as per an analysis of the health bulletin data.Why the cases are spreading in Kerala?The main reason for the spread of Covid-19 in Kerala has been attributed to Onam festivities, when the people of the state defied social distancing norms and gathered in huge numbers to celebrate the occasion.One more reason pointed out by Kerala health minister Veena George is the violation of quarantine rules by people who are recovering at home. The minister said that a study has recently revealed that 35 per cent of people in the state were found to have been infected with the disease from home.When people are asked by health authorities to quarantine at home, they are expected to isolate themselves from family members as well but that is not happening, she added.According to the Union health ministry, this trend of spike in Covid-19 cases is likely to continue for a few more days in Kerala.The worst affected districts in KeralaKerala remains one of the top contributors in terms of daily cases and is accounting for more than half of the active Covid cases in the country at present.The districts of Thrissur, Kozhikode and Ernakulam are severely hit by the resurgent Sars-CoV-2 virus, reporting more than 4,000 cases per million population in the week ending August 25, according to Union health ministry. Malappuram and Kollam are the other worst affected districts.What the statistics show?According to the statistical analysis of data done by Hindustan Times, Kerala has reported 561 new cases per million in the past week against a national average of around 25.When the same calculations are applied to the number of deaths reported due to Covid-19 in the past week, Kerala's numbers see a marginal improvement. The state has been responsible for 35 per cent of all deaths reported across India in the past week - a much lower share than its caseload.Why the situation is a cause of concern for rest of the country?The surge in Covid-19 cases in Kerala have been attributed to the laxity shown by people during Onam. With the festival season just around the corner, there is a need for people to keep following Covid appropriate behaviour.The Union health ministry has been issuing warnings to the people to not let their guards down; it has even added a 30-second pre-call messages on phone advising people to step put of their homes onyl if it's absolutely necessary.Experts too have cautioned against showing laxity in view of the threat of a third wave of Covid-19.What the state government in doing?The Pinarayi Vijayan government has defended its Covid-19 strategy, countering the criticism it received from opposition parties. Apart from bringing back Sunday lockdown, the state government has stepped up the vaccination drive. George said that 70.24 per cent of the eligible population in the state (above 18 years) was vaccinated and out of this 25.3% had got both vaccines.It has also tightened containment measures, especially in areas with high number of people infected with Covid-19.The Centre has asked Kerala to impose night curfew to restrict movement of people. The state is expected to take a call on this on Saturday in a review meeting being chaired by the CM.Centre pitches inThe central government has suggested targeted testing in containment zones and genomic surveillance as the measures to check the spread of the infection in Kerala.In a letter to the Kerala chief secretary on Friday, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the state has witnessed a sustained and significant transmission of Covid-19 since July.Bhushan said the Covid containment zones in the state need to be defined with a special focus on the high-transmission clusters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-why-kerala-s-covid-19-peak-is-a-concern-for-the-rest-of-india-101630130407708.html
28-08-2021||India||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin moves resolution in assembly against 3 farm laws||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Saturday moved a resolution opposing the three contentious farm laws of the central government in the state assembly, which was adopted through a voice vote. With this, Tamil Nadu becomes the seventh state to oppose the farm laws after Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Kerala and West Bengal.Stalin also said that all cases filed against the farmers who staged protests against the three farmer-related legislations of the Central government, during the past one year, will be withdrawn.Ever since the three farm laws were enacted by the Centre, Stalin's Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) has been demanding that the Centre withdraw the laws, which the chief minister has said are “against the interests of farmers,” reported news agency PTI. "The government has made a clear decision to pass a resolution seeking the withdrawal of these three farm laws reflecting the feelings of farmers across the country," Stalin said in June, adding there is no change on that decision.In May, Stalin said that the government will bring a resolution in the assembly asking the Centre to withdraw the three farm laws. He recalled that one of the promises made in the DMK’s assembly election manifesto which promised efforts to insist the Union government revoke the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act.“The Union government must accept the demands of protesting farmers and revoke these three farm laws. I assure you that the promises made by the DMK on (revoking) farm laws would be fulfilled,” Stalin said.He said that neither did the Union government respect the sentiments of the farmers and revoke the three farm laws nor did it take steps to hold talks with them to find a solution to the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-moves-resolution-in-assembly-against-3-farm-laws-101630126595936.html
28-08-2021||India||‘No one is above law’, Delhi court seeks Honey Singh’s medical report, ITR in domestic violence case||A local court in Delhi said that "no one is above the law” after the singer Yo Yo Honey Singh failed to appear before it in connection with the domestic abuse case filed against him by his wife Shalini Talwar. The court also directed Yo Yo Honey Singh to appear before it on the next date of hearing on September 3, news agency ANI reported. "No one is above the law. Surprised to see how this case is being taken so lightly," metropolitan magistrate Tania Singh said, according to news agency PTI. "Honey Singh has not appeared. You have not filed his income affidavit and are not prepared with the arguments,” the court told the singer’s lawyer.The court has also sought Yo Yo Honey Singh’s medical report and details of his income tax returns. Singh's counsel said that they will file his medical records and income tax returns at the earliest even as he sought an exemption from personal appearance saying that the singer is unwell. Later, the lawyer assured the court that he will appear on the next date of hearing.Earlier this month, Yo Yo Honey Singh’s wife Shalini Talwar claimed she was subjected to physical, verbal, mental and emotional abuse by him. Shalini Talwar, the wife of rapper and music composer Hirdesh Singh, popularly known as Yo Yo Honey Singh, filed a case of domestic violence against him at the Tis Hazari court on August 3. Talwar also sought ₹10 crore compensation under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, saying she felt like a "farm animal...being treated cruelly".Also read | Beat her for leaking pics, hid wedding ring, Honey Singh's wife allegesShalini Talwar, who appeared before the court in person on Saturday, also claimed that Singh beat her many times in the last few years and she has been constantly living under fear as he and his family have threatened her with physical harm. “Due to mental harassment and cruelty imposed upon her over a period of time, she also suffered from symptoms of depression and sought medical help,” she said in her plea.Also read | Honey Singh breaks silence on wife's 'odious' allegations of domestic violenceIshan Mukherjee, who appeared in the court on behalf of Yo Yo Honey Singh on Saturday, apprised the court that she has already taken all the valuables, including jewellery, with her and said she can live at her in-laws' house in Noida in 15 days. "We are ready to accommodate her. We will build a wall. It can be provided to her in 15 days," Mukherjee said, adding that Singh has two properties worth around ₹4 crore, of which one worth ₹1 crore belongs to Shalini Talwar.On his part, Yo Yo Honey Singh has said that Talwar’s allegations are “false and malicious” and “severely odious". "I have never issued a public statement or press note in the past despite being subjected to harsh criticism for my lyrics, speculation on my health and negative media coverage in general. However, I see no merit in maintaining a studied silence this time because some of the allegations have been directed at my family - my old parents and younger sister - who have stood by me during some very difficult and trying times and comprise my world. The allegations are cynical and defaming in nature," he said in a statement on Instagram.Singh said in the statement that everyone is aware of his relationship with Talwar, who he said has been an “integral part of my crew for more than a decade now and always accompanied me to my shoots, events, and meetings.” "I strongly refute all the allegations but will not comment any further because the matter is sub-judice before the Court of Law. I have full faith in the judicial system of this country, and I am confident that the truth will be out soon," he said.Yo Yo Honey Singh and Talwar married on January 23, 2011.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-seeks-honey-singh-s-medical-report-itr-in-domestic-violence-case-101630128084277.html
28-08-2021||India||'Tremendous milestone': Bill Gates hails India for administering over 10 million vaccines in one day||American billionaire and philanthropist Bill Gates on Saturday congratulated India for reaching a "tremendous milestone" of administering 10 million vaccine doses against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday, thus recording the highest single-day vaccine coverage so far. This, Gates said, was the result of the collective efforts of the government, the research and development (R&D) community, vaccine manufacturers, and all the health workers who made this feat possible."Congratulations, India, on reaching this tremendous milestone," Gates wrote in a tweet as he shared a news article on vaccine coverage. "The collective efforts of the government, R&D community, vaccine manufacturers, and millions of health workers have made this feat possible." Gates also tagged the Twitter handles of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Union ministry of health and family welfare which, in turn, retweeted his post.Also Read | Covid-19 this week: Surge in daily tally of cases, driven by Kerala casesA total of 10,064,376 doses were administered in India on Friday, bettering the previous high of 8.82 million doses set on August 16. About 6.9 million vaccine doses were administered on average across the country every day for the past week, the highest pace of the inoculation drive ever recorded in the country since the start of the mass programme on January 16.Soumya Swaminathan, the chief scientist of the World Health Organization (WHO), was also among those who praised India for administering more than 10 million Covid-19 vaccines a day, amid fears of another surge in infections. "Congratulations to the thousands of personnel involved," she said in a tweet. "Vaccination, along with public health & individual preventive measures will protect everyone!"PM Modi called the record vaccination milestone a "momentous feat" for the country. Applauding those getting vaccinated as well as those making the nationwide vaccination drive a success, the Prime Minister said crossed 10 million vaccine doses is a new record for the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tremendous-milestone-bill-gates-hails-india-for-administering-over-10-million-vaccines-in-one-day-101630121267652.html
28-08-2021||India||With 46,759 Covid-19 cases, India sees highest single-day rise in 2 months||India on Saturday reported 46,759 new cases of coronavirus disease—the highest in nearly two months—pushed mainly by the surge in Kerala, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The fresh infections have now taken the nationwide tally to 32,649,947, while the death toll climbed to 437,370 with 509 daily fatalities, the health ministry data showed. This is the third consecutive day that India is seeing more than 40,000 daily Covid-19 cases.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has asked Kerala and Maharashtra to consider night curfews in areas with high infection numbers. The southern state logged 32,801 cases on Friday, up from 30,007 on Thursday and the test positivity rate stood at 19.22 per cent, an increase from 18.03 per cent on August 26. Kerala has accounted for more than half of the total active cases, followed by 16 per cent in Maharashtra.Active cases rose by 14,876 to stand at 359,775 in the same period, according to data released by the health ministry at 8am. Active cases constitute 1.06 per cent of total cases, the lowest since March 2020, and the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands 97.6 per cent, the Union health ministry said.As many as 17,61,110 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far to 51,68,87,602. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 31,852,802 while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it said.Meanwhile, India on Friday administered more than 10 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine in a single day across the nation for the first time since the start of the mass inoculation programme on January 16, according to data on the Union health ministry’s Co-WIN dashboard. “Record vaccination numbers today! Crossing 1 crore is a momentous feat. Kudos to those getting vaccinated and those making the vaccination drive a success,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Friday night.More than 40.5 million Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and Union territories for inoculation, the Union health ministry said on Friday. Over 588.6 million vaccine doses have been provided to the states and Union Territories so far, the ministry said in a statement.The Covid-19 vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advanced visibility of vaccine availability to states and Union Territories for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. The new phase of universalisation of vaccination commenced on June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-over-40-000-covid-19-cases-for-3rd-consecutive-day-101630123029785.html
28-08-2021||India||News Updates from HT: Rajnath Singh to commission ICG's offshore patrol vessel today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Defence minister Rajnath Singh to commission Vigraha, indigenous patrol vessel, todayUnion defence minister Rajnath Singh is set to commission the Indian Coast Guard (ICG)'s offshore patrol vessel (OPV) Vigraha, seventh in the series, on Saturday, his office has said. According to the defence ministry, the 98-meter vessel will be based in Andhra Pradesh's Visakhapatnam (Vizag) and will be operated by a company of 11 officers and 110 sailors. Read moreNavi Mumbai Metro may soon be on track, oscillation trials begin todayThe Indian Railways' Research Design and Standard Organisation (RDSO) will begin conducting oscillation trials from Saturday for a section of the Metro rail system in Navi Mumbai to ensure the safety and quality of the rides ahead of its planned commencement later this year. Read moreAs Delhi schools set to reopen, medical experts urge cautionMedical experts on Friday welcomed the Delhi government's decision to reopen schools, colleges and coaching institutes in the national capital but advised parents to tread with caution by teaching Covid protocols to children. Read morePentagon holds talks with Chinese military for first time under Biden: OfficialA senior Pentagon official held talks with the Chinese military for the first time since President Joe Biden took office in January to focus on managing risk between the two countries, a US official told Reuters on Friday. Read moreTokyo Paralympics: Paddler Bhavinaben Patel reaches final, will compete for gold medalBhavinaben Patel created history by reaching the final of the women's singles class 4 table tennis event at the Tokyo Paralympics after defeating world no. 3 China's Miao Zhang on Saturday. Bhavaniben will now compete for the gold medal on Sunday. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan shares details of water issues at home, apologises to fansAmitabh Bachchan took to his blog to share that he is facing water issues at home. He said that he woke up at 6 in the morning, as he had an early shoot for Kaun Banega Crorepati 13, ‘only to find the water has stopped in the home system’. Read moreShradhha Kapoor is a modern bride in Falguni Shane Peacock's dreamy couture red lehengaWedding season maybe a few months away, but there is plenty of inspiration out there for you to take cues from and nail that bridal look. Shraddha Kapoor's red lehenga from Falguni Shane Peacock's latest collection, showcased on day 5 of India Couture Week 2021, should be on that list too. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rajnath-to-commission-icg-s-offshore-patrol-vessel-today-101630120199971.html
28-08-2021||India||Congratulations, says WHO chief scientist Swaminathan as India gives 10 million vaccine doses in a day||World Health Organization (WHO) chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan congratulated India after the country administered more than 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses ahead of fears of another surge in infections. "India achieves 50% coverage (at least one dose) of adult populn - > 620 million doses administered, 10 million in the past day! Congratulations to the thousands of personnel involved. Vaccination, along with public health & individual preventive measures will protect everyone!" Swaminathan said in her tweet.India achieves 50% coverage (at least one dose) of adult populn - > 620 million doses administered, 10 million in the past day! Congratulations to the thousands of personnel involved. Vaccination, along with public health & individual preventive measures will protect everyone!Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed it as a "momentous feat" for the country. “Record vaccination numbers today! Crossing 1 crore is a momentous feat. Kudos to those getting vaccinated and those making the vaccination drive a success,” PM Modi tweeted on Friday night.A total of 10,064,376 doses had been administered on Friday, bettering the previous high of 8.82 million doses set on August 16, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s Co-WIN dashboard. An average of 6.9 million vaccine doses has been administered across the country every day in the past week in the highest pace of the inoculation drive ever recorded in the country since the start of the mass programme on January 16.Also read | Create awareness about Covid vaccination especially among villagers: PresidentIndia has now administered about 621 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, giving at least one dose to more than half of its 940 million adults and the required two doses to 15 per cent. This means that 51 per cent of people above the age of 18 years have received vaccine shots with 35.9 per cent partially vaccinated and 15.1 per cent has received both doses. The government wants the entire adult population covered by December.The chief of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation in India (NTAGI), Dr NK Arora, said it is a matter of pride for the Indian health system. Dr Arora also said that the country hopes to vaccinate 12.5 million people in a single day soon. In order to achieve complete vaccination by the end of this year, the country has to give jabs to 10 million every day until December 31.Also read | Covid-19 bigger blood clot threat than vaccines: UK studyThe sharp rise in vaccinations came as India reported more than 40,000 new Covid-19 cases for a second consecutive day on Friday. The infections, which fell to a five-month low of 25,166 in the middle of the month, have gone up in the last three days, mainly in Kerala.India reported 44,658 new Covid-19 infections on Friday, taking the total to 32.6 million, the most in the world after the United States. The country’s death toll rose by 496 to 436,861. Kerala has accounted for nearly 60 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases in the past week and more than half of the total active cases, followed by 16 per cent in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whos-swaminathan-praises-india-after-10-mn-vaccine-doses-given-in-a-day-101630118282261.html
28-08-2021||India||2 Vistadome special trains to start from today. Check timings, ticket prices here||The Indian Railways' Vistadome tourist special trains will run on two popular routes—Guwahati-New Haflong in Assam and New Jalpaiguri-Alipurduar Junction in north Bengal—from Saturday. According to the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR), the introduction of the Vistadome trains are meant to help tourists experience the scenic beauty and to display the cultural heritage of the region during the unique journey.The Guwahati-New Haflong train with special Vistadome coaches will travel through the scenic Dima Hasao district. The train between New Jalpaiguri (NJP) and Alipurduar Junction will pass through the foot of the Darjeeling Himalayas at Sivok, crossing the Teesta river, the tea gardens of Bagrakot, Oodlabari and Dalgaon and the dense forests at Chalsa, Madarihat and Raja Bhat Khawa, the NFR said on Thursday."Introduction of Vistadome trains is meant to help tourists experience the scenic beauty and to display the cultural heritage of the region during the unique journey. The joint effort with the tourism department will help to boost the tourism sector and as well as the local economy," Anshul Gupta, general manager of NFR in Guwahati was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Here are the key features of the two special trains:. The Vistadome coaches are equipped with state of the art glass windows and all-glass roofs and provide a 360-degree view.. The coaches also have observation lounges for the purpose of site seeing. The rotational seats of the coach are designed to provide added comfort to passengers.. The coaches are also provided with a digital entertainment system and Wi-Fi facilities. For the safety of passengers, CCTV cameras and a fire alarm system have also been installed.. A railway official said that the New Jalpaiguri-Alipurduar train will have a Vistadome coach, two air-conditioned chair cars and two non-airconditioned chair cars, apart from a luggage car and a power coach.. The price of the ticket for the Guwahati-New Haflong train is ₹1,150, while the Vistadome coach in the New Jalpaiguri-Alipurduar train with a 44-seating capacity will have a fare of ₹770, the air-conditioned chair cars will cost between ₹300 and ₹400 per seat and a non-airconditioned seat will cost only ₹85, railway officials said, according to PTI.. The Guwahati-New Haflong train will travel twice a week—Wednesday and Saturday—from Guwahati at 6.35am and reach New Haflong at 11.55am, covering a distance of 269km. It will have only two stoppages at Manderdisa and Maibong stations. While coming back, the train will leave New Haflong at 5pm and reach Guwahati at 10.45pm.. In Bengal, the train will leave New Jalpaiguri at 7:20am and will reach Alipurduar Junction at 1pm covering a distance of 169 km through the Dooars Hill region. During the return journey, the train will leave Alipurduar Junction at 2pm to reach New Jalpaiguri at 7pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-vistadome-special-trains-to-start-from-today-check-timings-ticket-prices-here-101630108496655.html
28-08-2021||India||President Kovind to visit Gorakhpur, lay foundation of UP's first AYUSH university today||President Ram Nath Kovind, who is currently in Uttar Pradesh as part of his four-day visit to the state, will travel to Gorakhpur on Saturday, the third day of his tour. President Kovind is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the AYUSH University and inaugurate the Mahayogi Gorakhnath Vishwavidyalaya in the city on the same day. President Kovind, who was in Lucknow on the first two days of his visit, will move on to the temple town of Ayodhya on Sunday, the last day of his visit to the state, according to an official release issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan.Also Read | Ayodhya visit is highlight of President Ram Nath Kovind ’s 4-day trip to UPThis will be President Kovind's second visit to Gorakhpur in four years, and preparations have already been completed to mark his arrival. According to officials familiar with the development, the President will land at Gorakhpur around 10:40am; thereafter, he will travel to the Bhathat area of the district for inaugurating the first AYUSH University of Uttar Pradesh.The state government plans to spend ₹815 crore on the construction of AYUSH University, for which it had acquired 52-acre land for the university near Pipri and Tarkulhi villages. The AYUSH University will be run according to the guidelines of the Central Council of Indian Medicine, regarding the establishment of Ayurveda, Unani, homeopathy, yoga, and naturopathy educational institutions in the university, a state government official said.Also Read | Prez to visit Ayodhya by special train, lay foundation of Ayush univ in GorakhpurAfter addressing a public meeting at the site, the President will leave for the Mahayogi Gorakhnath Vishwavidyalaya campus to dedicate the university to the state. He will leave for state capital Lucknow later in the day, according to those aware of the President's itinerary.Ahead of the President’s visit, Uttar chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited Gorakhpur on Tuesday to review preparations for the events. Adityanath inspected the spots and directed officers to maintain sanitation, security, adequate seating arrangements for the invitees besides ensuring that common people did not face any problems during the programme. He also directed the state government officials in charge of the events to prepare a list of all the invitees.Mahayogi Guru Gorakhnath University, a private institution, has been established by Gorakhnath Temple Trust. It has been named after Guru Gorakhnath—the founder of the Nath Panth. With two new universities, Gorakhpur will now have four. Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Gorakhpur University and Madan Mohan Malviya Technological University are enrolling the students inspiring for higher education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-to-visit-gorakhpur-lay-foundation-of-up-s-first-ayush-university-today-101630107458785.html
28-08-2021||India||PM Modi to unveil renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial today: Check key features||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the renovated complex of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial in Punjab’s Amritsar on Saturday at 6:25pm via video conferencing. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) has said in a statement that PM Modi will also inaugurate museum galleries developed at the memorial in Amritsar. The virtual event will display multiple development initiatives taken by the government to upgrade the complex, it added.At 6:25 PM this evening, a programme will be held that will interest the people. The renovated complex of Jallianwala Bagh Smarak will be dedicated to the nation. India will never forget the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh. https://t.co/Gjy0D03QYZThe PMO said that Union minister of culture G Kishan Reddy, Union minister of housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri, ministers of state for culture, governors and chief ministers of Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, all Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs from Punjab, and members of Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust among others will be present on the occasion.The revamped memorial was to be inaugurated on April 13 this year to mark 102 years of the massacre, but it had to be postponed owing to Covid-19 related restrictions.Key features of the renovated complex of Jallianwala Bagh memorial:. Four museum galleries have been created through adaptive reuse of redundant and underutilised buildings. The galleries display the historical value of events that took place in Punjab during that period, with the fusion of audio-visual technology, including projection mapping and 3D representation, as well as art and sculptural installations.. A sound and light show has been set up to display the events that took place on April 13, 1919, when the British forces fired on a large and peaceful gathering of protesters, killing over 1,000 people and injuring hundreds of them.. The Shaheedi well has been repaired and restored with a redefined superstructure. The heart of the Bagh—the flame monument—has been repaired and restored, the water body rejuvenated as a lily pond and the pathways have been made broader for better navigability, the PMO said.. Several new and modern amenities have been added including redefined paths of movement with appropriate signages, illumination of strategic spots, landscaping and hardscaping with native plantation and installation of audio nodes throughout the garden. Newer areas have been developed for housing the Salvation Ground, Amar Jyoti and Flag Mast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-unveil-renovated-jallianwala-bagh-memorial-today-check-key-features-101630107562302.html
28-08-2021||NA||News highlights: Pentagon says drone strike killed two ‘high profile’ ISIS targets in Afghanistan, reports AFP||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Jaishankar, Blinken discuss Afghanistan, other shared goals, says US Dept of StateSecy of State Antony Blinken spoke with EAM Dr S Jaishankar. They discussed broad range of shared priorities, incl continued coordination on Afghanistan & in UN. Both agreed to remain closely coordinated on shared goals & priorities to deepen US-India partnership:US Dept of State pic.twitter.com/HpnE6FXVe3The US Department of State said that Secrertary of State Antony Blinken and external affairs minister S Jaishankar discussed a range of shared priorities, including cooperation in Afghanistan, reports ANI.Kerala govt to impose stringent lockdown in areas with critical spreadKerala Govt issues additional COVID guidelines; says special intensified stringent lockdowns will be enforced in the urban wards/panchayats with critical spread where WIPR (weekly infection population ratio) is above 7 pic.twitter.com/vi1ho2VEvpKerala government to impose stringent lockdown in urban wards and panchayats with a critical spread where the weekly infection population ratio is above 7, reports ANI.Sikha Mitra to join TMC tomorrow, says need political platform to work for people's welfareI will join TMC tomorrow. I decided to join the party again because my experience says that you can't do big things for the welfare of the people without a political platform: Sikha Mitra, former MLA & wife of late West Bengal Congress president Somen Mitra pic.twitter.com/fMXEpmRcJAFormer MLA Sikha Mitra said that she would join the TMC tomorrow. "I decided to join the party again because my experience says that you can't do big things for the welfare of the people without a political platform," she said, reports ANI.France in talks with Taliban on humanitarian operations, says President Macron#BREAKING France is in talks with the Taliban on humanitarian ops: Macron pic.twitter.com/ZIhHOMLvB6French President Emmanuel Macron said that his country is in talks with the Taliban on humanitarian ops, reports AFP.US says drone strike killed 2 'high profile' ISIS targets in Afghanistan#BREAKING Pentagon says drone strike killed two 'high profile' ISIS targets in Afghanistan pic.twitter.com/elg570fl8zThe Pentagon has said that the drone strike in Afghanistan has killed two high profile ISIS targets, reports AFP.Last British flight for evacuating civilians from Afghanistan leaves KabulLast British flight evacuating civilians from Afghanistan has left Kabul, bringing to an end an operation that has airlifted almost 15,000 Afghan and British citizens in the two weeks since the Taliban took control: ReutersThe last British flight for evacuating civilians from Afghanistan has left Kabul, reports ANI.West Bengal extends Covid-19 curfew until September 15 with some relaxationsWest Bengal Govt extends COVID restrictions till September 15 with some additional relaxations; allows coaching centres to reopen with 50% capacity pic.twitter.com/ljkcwIVSvvThe West Bengal government extended the Covid-19 restrictions in the state until September 15, with some additional relaxations. Coaching centres have been allowed to function at 50% capacity, reports ANI.Nearly 6,800 people evacuated from Kabul in last 24 hours: USApproximately 6,800 people were evacuated from Kabul in the last 24 hours. Since August 14, the US has evacuated and facilitated the evacuation of approximately 111,900 people. Since the end of July, we have re-located approximately 117,500 people: White HouseThe US White House said that approximately 6,800 people were evacuated from Kabul in the last 24 hours while the country has facilitated the evacuation of approximately 111,900 people so far, reports ANI.PM Modi says govt remodeling every historical monument associated with independenceModi said that like the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial, every historical monument associated with Independence to be remodeled.PM Modi says every nation should preserve its historyPrime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address during the dedication of the renovated Jallianwala Bagh Memorial to the nation, said that it was the responsibility of every nations to preserve its history. "Our history teach us a lot and show us the way forward. We've seen scenes similar to the Jallianwala Bagh incident during the Partition," he said.Watch | PM Modi dedicates renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial to nation2 held as CBI makes first arrests in West Bengal post-poll violenceCBI arrested two persons, Bijoy Ghosh and Ashima Ghosh, the first arrests in connection to the post poll violence in West Bengal. Also, the agency has registered 10 more FIRs as the total FIRs filed now stands at 21.Kerala reimposes night curfews following 4th straight day of over 30,000 new Covid-19 casesKerala government has imposed night curfews beginning next week as the state reported over 30,000 single-day Covid-19 infections (31,265 cases) for the fourth straight day. Also, 153 more people succumbed to the illness. The active caseload crossed the 200,000-mark and stood at 204,086.2 dead, 2 injured after truck overturns in Shimla's Grawag areaTwo persons died & two others were injured after the truck they were travelling in overturned in Grawag area of Shimla, Himachal Pradesh today morning. The injured have been referred to IGMC Shimla from CHC- Kotkhai: Shimla Police pic.twitter.com/daj5vLuTmBTwo people died and two others were injured after their truck overturned in Grawag area of Shimla, Himachal Pradesh, reports ANI.Sri Lanka reopens borders to Indian travellersSri Lanka has reopened its borders to India. Fully vaccinated travellers will only require a negative PCR test report conducted 72 hours prior to arrival & an on-arrival PCR test at a certified hotel: High Commission of Sri Lanka in New DelhiSri Lanka reopened its borders to Indian travellers, the country's high commission in Delhi said. A negative RT PCR report not older than 72 hours is required and passengers to undergo on-arrival testing at a certified hotel, reports ANI.Farmers block Panchkula-Shimla highway near Chandimandir Toll PlazaHaryana: Farmers block Panchkula-Shimla Highway near Chandimandir Toll Plaza in Panchkula to protest the lathi charge in Karnal pic.twitter.com/ZmcPXU93xpFarmers blocked the Panchkula-Shimla highway near the Chandimandir Toll Plaza in protest against the police baton charge in Karnal, Haryana, reports ANI.Rakesh Tikait all roads in Haryana will be blocked until 5pm to protest police's baton charge"To protest the baton-charge in Haryana's Karnal, all the roads will be blocked till 5 pm in the state," says BKU leader Rakesh TikaitSurajpur Toll Plaza (Kalka-Zirakpur Highway) has been blocked by protesting farmers, tweets Commissionerate of PanchkulaFarmer leader Rakesh Tikait said that all roads in Haryana will be blocked till 5pm to protest the police's baton charge on farmers in Karnal, reports ANI.3 doctors shortlisted out of 9,427 suggestions for Padma awards: KejriwalWe received 9,427 suggestions for Padma Awards. Our committee led by Deputy CM Manish Sisodia has shortlisted the names of three doctors- Dr SK Sarin from ILBS, Dr Suresh Kumar from LNJP, and Dr Sandeep Budhiraja from Max Hospital for Padma Awards: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal pic.twitter.com/ieDJieb3i3Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal said that three doctors, Dr SK Sarin from ILBS, Dr Suresh Kumar from LNJP, and Dr Sandeep Budhiraja from Max Hospital, have been shortlisted for Padma awards, reports PTI.Delhi reports no new Covid-19 related deaths for third straight dayDelhi reports 29 new #COVID19 cases and 48 recoveries in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 393Total recoveries: 14,12,212Death toll: 25,080 pic.twitter.com/2pLhDI3OQiDelhi reported no new Covid-19 related deaths in the last 24 hours while 29 more people tested positive for the disease, reports ANI.'We will emerge stronger': says TMC's Abhishek Banerjee after ED's summonBJP thinks it can put pressure on us by using ED (Enforcement Directorate) against us but we will emerger stronger: TMC General Secretary Abhishek Banerjee after ED summoned him and his wife in coal scam pic.twitter.com/isGVmfqpZKTMC leader Abhishek Banerjee said "BJP thinks it can put pressure on us by usig ED (Enforcement Directorate) against us but we will emerge stronger" after the ED summoned him and his wife in coal scam, reports ANI.94,893 MT food grains distributed in Tripura under PMGKAY last year: Nirmala SitharamanUnder third phase of PMGKAY, 12,107 MT of foodgrain was provided to 24.21 lakh beneficiaries in May 2021, 12,134 MT to 24.26 lakh beneficiaries in June, 12,126 MT to 24.25 lakh beneficiaries in July and 6,493 MT to 12.98 lakh beneficiaries in August (as on Aug 12) in Tripura.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman shared details of the quantity of food grains distributed under Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) in Tripura during the various phases of the scheme.Number of beds in Delhi govt hospitals increased by 70%: CM Kejriwalसरकारी अस्पतालों के अंदर 6,800 नए बेड तैयार किए जा रहे हैं, ये बेड छह महीने में बनकर तैयार हो जाएंगे। आज दिल्ली के सरकारी अस्पतालों में 10,000 बेड हैं, ये 70% का इज़ाफ़ा है: दिल्ली के मुख्यमंत्री अरविंद केजरीवाल pic.twitter.com/p3NPm0sYmWDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the number of beds in government hospitals increased by 70%, reports ANI.SC lauds Bombay HC practice of appointing young lawyers as arbitratorsThe Supreme Court has lauded the Bombay High Court’s practice of appointing young lawyers as arbitrators, saying it helps in training them in alternate dispute redressal mechanisms.Delhi govt to strengthen doorstep delivery of services, set up 6,800 new beds in hospitals: Arvind KejriwalThe Delhi government will strengthen doorstep delivery of services and set up 6,800 new beds in its hospitals, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday.6 drug peddlers held in GuwahatiAssam Police have arrested six suspected drug traffickers and seized a large quantity of illegal IMFL in the city in separate operations, a police spokesperson said on Saturday.Delhi CM Kejriwal launches Mayur Vihar-I cloverleaf, says commuters will benefit a lotDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday inaugurated the cloverleaf of the Mayur Vihar-I flyover on the Delhi-Noida link road and also launched cycle tracks, ramp, loop and service road on the flyover.ED summons TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, wife Rujira for questioning in money laundering and coal scam casesED summons TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, wife Rujira for questioning in money laundering and coal scam cases, report agencies.Over 60.25 crore Covid-19 doses provided to states, UTs: CentreThe Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Saturday said that 60,25,95,250 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and union territories so far through the direct state procurement category.ED attaches assets worth over ₹363 cr of jewellery firm in MMTC fraud caseThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday said it has attached assets worth over ₹363 crore of a jewellery firm in a money laundering case linked to an alleged fraud against public sector enterprise MMTC.MHA extends existing Covid-19 guidelines till September 30MHA extends existing Covid-19 guidelines till September 30. Asks states to take suitable measures to avoid large gatherings during upcoming festive season and if required, impose local restrictions.Fire breaks out at Delhi factory, no casualtyA fire broke out at a plastic manufacturing factory here Saturday morning, officials said.No casualty was reported in the incident that took place in Friends Colony Industrial area, they said.Cardiac trouble due to post-Covid complications: GehlotA day after undergoing angioplasty, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said he was unable to go among the people during the past several days as he was suffering from post-Covid health issues.Two die in Japan after shots from suspended Moderna vaccines - Japan govtTwo people died after receiving Moderna Covid-19 vaccine shots that were among lots later suspended following the discovery of contaminants, Japan's health ministry said on Saturday.India has great scope to become indigenous ship-building hub: Defence ministerDefence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said the country has "great scope" to become an indigenous ship-building hub, while pointing out that the Centre has introduced policies to help the domestic industry become world class.46 child labourers rescued in UP's SultanpurAs many as 46 child labourers were rescued during a two-day campaign conducted in the district by a cross-department team, officials said Saturday.Delhi govt directs private, unaided schools to vaccinate staff ahead of reopeningThe Delhi government has directed private aided and unaided schools to vaccinate their teachers and staff ahead of the reopening for classes 9-12 from September 1.Delhi court seeks medical report, ITR of singer Honey Singh in domestic violence caseDelhi court seeks medical report, ITR of singer Honey Singh in domestic violence case, reports ANI.Chinese embassy slams US 'political manipulation' in Covid-19 origins reportChinese embassy slams US 'political manipulation' in Covid origins report, reports AFP.Is Twitter down? Outages reported on Saturday morningTwitter appeared to be down on Saturday morning as users reported issues with the social media platform.Kerala recorded 32,801 Covid-19 positive cases and 179 deaths yesterdayOf the 46,759 new Covid-19 cases and 509 deaths reported in India in the last 24 hours, Kerala recorded 32,801 Covid-19 positive cases and 179 deaths yesterday.India logs 46,759 fresh Covid-19 cases, 509 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 46,759 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 3,26,49,947, while the death toll climbed to 4,37,370 with 509 daily fatalities, according to Union health ministry update on Saturday.Evacuation operation from Kabul is finished, says FranceFrance says its evacuation operation from Kabul is finished, reports Reuters.Congratulations, says WHO chief scientist Swaminathan as India gives 10 million vaccine doses in a dayWorld Health Organization (WHO) chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan congratulated India after the country administered more than 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses ahead of fears of another surge in infections.Tropical Storm Nora a hurricane threat to Mexico's coastA rapidly strengthening Tropical Storm Nora is rolling toward a brush at possible hurricane strength along Mexico’s Pacific Coast and the Baja California Peninsula over the weekend.Meat shops to remain closed on Monday on the occasion of Krishna JanmashtamiMeat shops will remain closed on Monday, 30th August on the occasion of Krishna Janmashtami: Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP).Joe Biden criticizes China for not aiding report on virus originPresident Joe Biden rebuked China for stonewalling a U.S. investigation into the origins of the coronavirus, as his administration reported it was unable to reach firm conclusions because of Beijing’s unwillingness to cooperate. China denied that it had hindered the probe.US kills ISIS-K planner in drone strikeThe US said it conducted a drone strike against an ISIS-K planner in Afghanistan’s Nangahar province and initial indications showed the target was killed.US airstrike targets Islamic State in AfghanistanUS airstrike targets Islamic State in Afghanistan in retaliation for deadly Kabul airport attack: Pentagon.Mahabodhi Temple reopens for general public after 5 monthsThe world heritage Mahabodhi Temple in Bihar's Gaya reopened for the general public after nearly five months on Friday. The shrine had been closed since April this year due to the Covid-induced lockdown in the state.Origins of Covid may never be definitively identified: US Intelligence Community assessmentThe US Intelligence Community (IC) assesses that the origins of the novel coronavirus disease may never be definitively identified without additional information, the declassified summary of a report commissioned by US President Joe Biden revealed on Friday.Single-use plastic plates, cutlery, cups may face ban in England, government saysSingle-use plastic plates, cutlery and cups are among a raft of items that could be banned in England as part of a new public consultation being launched in the autumn, the British government said on Saturday.2 Vistadome special trains to start from todayThe Indian Railways' Vistadome tourist special trains will run on two popular routes - Guwahati-New Haflong in Assam and New Jalpaiguri-Alipurduar Junction in North Bengal from Saturday.President Ram Nath Kovind to visit GorakhpurPresident Kovind is scheduled to lay the foundation stone for the Mahayogi Guru Gorakhnath AYUSH Vishwavidyalaya on Saturday and inaugurate the Mahayogi Gorakhnath Vishwavidyalaya in the city on the same day.PM Modi to virtually unveil renovated Jallianwala BaghPrime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually inaugurate the renovated Jallianwala Bagh complex in Amritsar on Saturday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-28-2021-101630107097193.html
28-08-2021||India||2024 LS polls: Oppn grouping faces internal challenges||The 19 Opposition parties, which hope to collectively take on Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the next national election, have to settle thorny internal issues before looking at the larger political goals.To start with, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s demand to set up a core committee, a smaller panel of Opposition leaders, has not found support from all quarters. A section, particularly those in the Left, has argued that it would be difficult to pick and choose 4-5 leaders from a group of 19 parties.Banerjee’s logic was that this working group can interact frequently and prepare the groundwork before the top leadership of these 19 parties meets to take decisions. But at least three other leaders saw this proposal of an executive panel as “very difficult” to implement. “Who would be included and who would be kept out? This might create a further divide,” said a senior leader who is an active member of the Opposition group.With leadership issues still a potential sore point between the parties, some leaders have already told Sonia Gandhi to continue to chair this group. “I have requested Sonia ji to continue holding such opposition meetings,” Sitaram Yechury said.Yechury’s appeal assumes significance as it is widely anticipated that Gandhi, who played a lead role after the 2004 general elections to bring non-NDA parties under the umbrella of the United Progressive Alliance, is set to step down as Congress president in the next organizational election. “Sonia Gandhi is the only leader who commands the respect of each and every opposition party. She has the stature and ability to bring so many divergent political outfits under one umbrella,” said a leader from another regional party, who agreed to Yechury’s proposal. The next meeting of the opposition group is due in October after their 10 day-long protest programme ends on September 30.In the first meeting on August 20, Congress president Sonia Gandhi asked India’s top opposition leaders to rise above individual compulsions “in the interest of the nation” and start planning “systematically” for the “ultimate goal is the 2024 Lok Sabha elections”.Sonia acknowledged that it would be a “challenge” to keep the group together. She said, “together we can and must rise to it because there is simply no alternative to working cohesively together.”“We all have our compulsions, but clearly, a time has come when the interests of our nation demand that we rise above them,” said Gandhi, ahead of a daunting task of bringing various regional outfits with conflicting interests to form a grand coalition to take on a formidable Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the next polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-grouping-faces-internal-challenges-101630104415406.html
28-08-2021||India||Over 1,000 hectare of our land encroached by Mizos, claims Assam forest officer||SILCHAR: Mizoram civilians backed by state police officials have encroached more than 1,000 hectare of land in Assam’s Cachar district, a senior Assam forest officer alleged on Friday. Divisional forest officer of Cachar district, Tejas Mariswamy said, “Armed civilians from Mizoram backed by police officials have encroached more than 1000 hectares of Assam’s land. It didn’t happen overnight but slowly and strategically people from Mizoram did it”.Mariswamy was among the senior officials who rushed to the Assam-Mizoram border after a group of Mizo civilians are alleged to have forcibly stopped road construction labourers who were building a road between Khulicherra and Bagewala village in Cachar district on Thursday.The construction workers alleged they were attacked with stones and threatened with guns and other weapons. “The masked attackers were carrying guns but they didn’t shoot,” said the construction workers. Senior police officials including SP Cachar, Ramandeep Kaur, DIG South Assam Range, Debojyoti Mukherjee, additional SP of Cachar, Partha Pratim Saikia and DSP (Border), Gaurav Agarwal along with divisional forest officer of Cachar district, Tejas Mariswamy rushed to the spot to control the situation.Mariswamy later said: “What happened at Khulichera yesterday and today was just a glimpse of the entire scenario. They stopped our works in front of senior officials and threatened us also. They have now constructed camps on our land. I tried to talk to the forest officials of Mizoram but they did not respond.”Assam’s forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya, who is also the legislator from the Dholai seat where the land is located, however, refused to confirm the claim.“If the DFO has claimed that 1000 acres have been encroached, I am sure he has some information. I am yet to visit the area where some incident have reportedly happened yesterday. Before that I cannot make a comment on this,” the minister said, according to reports.Hindustan Times reached out to forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya, who is also the local legislator but he refused to comment.Work was temporarily stopped on Thursday but Assam police officials attempted to resume the work under strict security arrangements on Friday morning. But they failed again as hundreds of civilians from Mizoram’s side stopped Assam officials.Government officials, who have been told by Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma to adopt a resist and retreat strategy, backed down, keen not to escalate the situation and left the spot.Superintendent of police of Mizoram Kolashib district, Vanlalfaka Ralte, rejected the allegations levelled by Assam officials. Ralte said Assam was constructing road on Mizoram’s land which angered the Mizo civilians. “We cannot force our civilians to protest because Assam government is making road on Mizoram’s land. Even the Assam police officials were supporting this illegal act.”Cachar SP Ramandeep Kaur disputed this version. “The work was going on under Pradhanmantri Gramin Sadak Yojana which is located 3 kilometres from the Mizoram border according to the Survey of India map. This is a Assam government’s sanctioned work which cannot be in Mizoram’s territory,” the Assam police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-000-hectare-of-our-land-encroached-by-mizos-claims-assam-forest-officer-101630096892088.html
28-08-2021||India||Kerala reports another surge with 32,801 fresh Covid-19 cases||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday justified the state’s containment strategy and asked critics which model should the state follow if the present one is ineffective. On Friday, the state reported another hike with 32,801 cases with a high test positivity rate (TPR) of 19.22 per cent after 1,70,703 samples were tested. It also reported 179 fatalities taking the death toll to 20, 313. The active cases also increased to 1,95,254, said the state health ministry. Four districts reported more than 3000 new cases-- Malappuram 4032, Thrissur 3953, Ernakulam 3627 and Kozhikode 3362. In last three days the state has been reporting over 30,000 cases and it has been attributed to the recently-concluded Onam festivities. In the wake of the high caseload, opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party have criticised the state’s virus containment strategy and held the CM responsible for the health crisis worsening in the state. Earlier the CM used to hold a regular briefing at 6 pm but for the last two weeks it has not been happening and the opposition said he was ignoring reality. But the CM in a hard-hitting article in ‘Chintha,’ a party-sponsored weekly, said there was a concerted plan to discredit the state and its model of development and exhorted party workers to expose such elements. “There is a discussion that the current strategy is inappropriate. Some people neglect facts and try to create confusion. They are flagging unnecessary controversies to create a smoke screen,” he said in his write-up asking critics to tell him which model the state should adopt. He said in the state no bodies floated in rivers and none died on roads and nobody has gone to bed with an empty stomach in trying times. But opposition leader V D Satheesan reiterated his charge that the CM was scared to face the media and people. “He can’t justify his doings in a party mouthpiece like this when the state is in a grave situation,” he said. The Congress said the whole state was pushed to the ICU due to the poor handling of the situation. 70% population vaccinated State health minister Veena George said 70.24 per cent of the eligible population in the state (above 18 years) was vaccinated and out of this 25.3% had got both vaccines. She said though cases are showing an upward trend, the situation is under control. “There is no unusual rush in hospitals. Almost 50 per cent ventilators and ICU beds are vacant,” she said adding the mortality rate still remained lowest in the country at .5 per cent while the national average was 1.25 per cent. “On May 13, 43,000 cases were reported with a TPR of 29%. Two months later it came down to 10,000 and TPR was in 10-12 per cent range. But now again cases are going up and it will stabilise soon,” she said. “According to the Indian Council of Medical Research Kerala’s virus undercounting factor is 6% while it is 33% in some other states. In vaccination and testing, it continues its good track record. By September 20, we are planning to give at least one dose of vaccine to all eligible people,” she said adding the Centre has agreed to supply enough doses. The Kerala government meanwhile has decided to tighten containment measures and decided to impose complete lockdown on Sunday. The Union Government had asked the two worst affected states, Kerala and Maharashtra, to impose night curfew to restrict movement of people. The state is expected to take a call on this on Saturday in a review meeting being chaired by the CM. The state had lifted lockdown in the last two weeks in view of Independence Day and Onam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-another-surge-with-32-801-fresh-covid-19-cases-101630095211637.html
28-08-2021||India||Centre forms committee to streamline revenue litigation in Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: The Centre has formed a committee to streamline revenue litigation pending before the Supreme Court, solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the top court on Friday after the judges sought reduction in long delays in filing tax appeals.The committee comprising representatives of the National Informatics Centre, law ministry, Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), Central Board of Indirect Taxes (CBIT, and the department of revenue will work on an electronic case management system by which revenue litigation from tribunals and high courts can be monitored to provide for a time-bound mechanism for filing appeals in the top court.The bench of justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah earlier directed the Centre to come out with a mechanism to reduce delays since appeals for direct and indirect taxes were being filed much beyond the stipulated period of 60 days for regular appeals and 90 days for filing special leave petition (SLP).In February this year, the Supreme Court spotlighted this problem after an appeal against the order of the Customs Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal was filed after a delay of 536 days. The delayed move upset the bench. “Repeatedly, it has come to the notice of this Court that appeals in revenue matters involving indirect taxation are being filed with a gross delay,” the bench said.On Friday, the top court gave the government three more months to come up with a solution in view of the constitution of a committee. “A committee has been constituted of various stakeholders to ensure due adoption of technology to streamline, monitor, and seamlessly integrate all phases of government litigation,” the bench noted as it posed the case after three months.The bench also directed the revenue secretary to personally monitor and provide assistance to the committee, both with regard to domain knowledge and technical assistance.The order to set up the committee came after the bench at the last hearing on August 6 expressed displeasure at the government’s inaction.“We find the recalcitrance on the part of the Ministry of Finance in the Department of Revenue unacceptable. However, before we take the next step of issuing a contempt notice, we give a last and final opportunity to the Union government to sort out the issue and come before this Court with a concrete plan of action, beyond circulars,” the court said on August 6.The court further stated, “The Union government, in the Department of Revenue must find an answer to this state of affairs by ensuring that matters which are required to be litigated are litigated with all necessary dispatch and matters not worthy of being pursued are set to rest”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-forms-committee-to-streamline-revenue-litigation-in-supreme-court-101630094491150.html
28-08-2021||India||SC stays Gujarat order allowing private hospitals to run without clearance||Noting that “in an effort to save people from the pandemic, we are killing them by fire”, the Supreme Court on Friday stayed a Gujarat government order allowing private hospitals and nursing homes in the state to comply with the ‘building use certificate’ requirement by March2022.Refusing to tolerate violations of such nature in view of several cases of hospital fires in the state, a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah said: “The building use permission is meant to ensure that a structure meets the norms under the law for the desired purpose. You cannot have a nursing home operating from the fifth floor of a building without any lift.”At least 16 Covid patients and two nurses were killed in a hospital fire in Bharuch in May this year. A fire in the ICU of a hospital in Surat also took place in the same month wherein no casualties were reported. Prior to that, eight persons were killed in a fire at a Covid hospital in Ahmedabad while another five were killed at another Covid hospital in Rajkot last year. Taking into account the cases, the top court had ordered for mandatory fire safety audits of all hospitals across the country and the appointment of a nodal officer for every Covid hospital. This issue is still pending consideration of the court.Despite the cases, on July 8, the state government ordered that no action would be initiated against private hospitals and nursing homes without ‘building use certificate’ till next year.The bench had found the order “prima facie in breach of the Supreme Court direction”. Sensing an attempt by the state government to protect the illegalities committed by developers and hospital owners, the bench said: “There is a mafia link between developers, planning authority and law enforcement agencies and in the process, common citizens suffer. We have seen the consequence of fire at Bharuch, Ahmedabad and Surat and we see the government is constantly exempting the developers from complying with law. We are not conniving in it by passing orders. As judges, we cannot cure all ills in society but we need to ensure compliance with law.”In Gujarat, it is mandatory for all commercial establishments to obtain building use (BU) permission under Regulation No. 3.9 of the Comprehensive General Development Control Regulations, framed under the Gujarat Town Planning and Urban Development Act, 1976. Fire safety certificate is a necessary prerequisite for obtaining BU permission.The court ordered the July 8 notification to be put in abeyance as it was found to be contrary to section 122 of the 1976 Act that provides for BU permission.The state government argued the order was passed keeping in view an expected third wave of the pandemic. Appearing for the Gujarat government, advocate Manisha Luvkumar said the state was strictly enforcing requirement of fire no objection certificate from hospitals and that 4,569 out of 5,850 hospitals had already acquired one. However, on the compliance of BU permission, a short breather was provided to the hospitals. “The power vested in the state is to facilitate efficient administration of the Town Planning legislation.. An exemption from complying with development control regulations under the 1976 Act has no nexus with availability of facilities during pandemic. Is this in furtherance of the law?” the bench said. While factoring the medical care facilities ahead of a possible third wave, the judges told the state to adjust their affairs in such a manner that premises having no BU permission are not put to use.The bench also said that for the past two decades, the Gujarat high court had passed several orders, asking building establishments in the state to comply with the BU permission. Several hospital owners had approached the top court, claiming that sealing action had been initiated against those without BU permission. Senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, representing Ahmedabad Hospitals Association, said at least 30,000 beds were at stake as the state had never insisted upon BU permission for close to four decades.The bench said, “At present what this notification does is to suspend any development control regulations for eight months. If a building comes up in total violation of the rules in the name of pandemic, can any action be taken against it. There has to be some nexus with the pandemic. This notification offers a windfall to the developers.” Meanwhile, the court received a report on the fire incidents at the Ahmedabad and Rajkot hospitals from the Commission of Inquiry headed by retired Gujarat high court judge, justice DA Mehta. The judges, however, were wary of sharing the content before it was tabled in the Gujarat assembly.Appearing for the Centre and Gujarat government, solicitor general (SG) Tushar Mehta said the report will be tabled in the next session, expected to begin on September 28. The court directed the SG to prepare a compilation of reports received from all states on the fire safety audit compliance ordered by the court in December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-stays-gujarat-order-allowing-private-hospitals-to-run-without-clearance-101630092632317.html
28-08-2021||India||Health secretary writes to Kerala govt over Covid surge||As Covid-19 cases continue to surge in Kerala, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Friday sent another letter to the state government, expressing serious concern over the situation and listed immediate measures to contain the surge.In the letter addressed to Kerala chief secretary VP Joy, Bhushan said the state will have to ramp up its containment measures on priority basis and increase tests considerably to check high transmission. All 14 districts have reported high test positivity rate in the past four weeks and the state continues to report more than half of the total cases of the country, he pointed out in the letter.The health secretary also asked the state to strictly go by the norms of the Union government on high transmission clusters and strengthen contact tracing measures. All district administrations will have to comply with the accepted norms of home quarantine and there should be an intensive follow up on such cases. Covid-19 appropriate behaviour should be enforced at any cost and mass gathering should be avoided, Bhushan said in the letter.The state has also been asked to enhance genomic surveillance in areas of high transmission and samples of all breakthrough infections (those getting infected after taking both doses) should be sent for detailed genome sequencing tests. He also asked the state to streamline vaccine policy and devise an action plan for each district. “I would like to reiterate that any laxity in ensuring the five-fold strategy of ‘test, track, treat, vaccinate and ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour’ may result in further surge in the state,” Bhushan said in the letter.Kerala, for the third consecutive day, reported more than 30,000 cases on Friday, about 65% of total cases reported in the country. On Friday, the state reported 32,801 cases with a high test positivity rate (TPR) of 19.22% after 170,703 samples were tested. It also reported 179 fatalities, taking death toll to 20,313 in the state. Active cases also increased to 195,254, said the state health ministry. More than 3,000 new cases were reported in four districts, including Malappuram 4,032, Thrissur 3,953, Ernakulam 3,627 and Kozhikode 3,362.Kerala health minister Veena Geroge was not available for comments. But a senior health department official said the state has been following these norms after the visit of the central team in the first week of August. Union health minister M Mandaviya also visited the state on August 16 and held detailed talks with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party have criticised the state’s virus containment strategy and held the CM responsible for the sorry state of affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-secretary-writes-to-kerala-govt-over-covid-surge-101630092451158.html
28-08-2021||India||Yet to establish if J’khand judge’s death due to conspiracy: CBI to HC||RANCHI: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing the death of Dhanbad additional judge Uttam Anand, informed the Jharkhand high court on Friday that it is still investigating if the accident that caused the death of the judge was a case of routine accident or part of a conspiracy.The central agency on Friday submitted its weekly report before the high court’s division bench of chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujit Narayan Prasad.People aware of the matter said that CBI informed the court that based on its investigation, while accident caused the judge’s death, it is yet to establish whether it was done as part of some conspiracy.CBI also informed the court that it was going to conduct Narco test of the two arrested accused---Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma---to get behind the truth. The court directed the central agency to ensure proper security of the two accused, and if required use air travel for their transport, the people said.Both the Supreme Court and the Jharkhand high court have taken suo motu cognisance of the incident that took place on July 28, when the judge, who was out on his morning walk, was hit by a vehicle near Randhir Verma square in Dhanbad.The apex court directed CBI, which took over the case from the SIT formed by the Jharkhand police, to file a status report every week with the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yet-to-establish-if-j-khand-judge-s-death-due-to-conspiracy-cbi-to-hc-101630092211050.html
28-08-2021||India||ED accuses TMC leader Kunal Ghosh, senior scribe of money laundering||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday filed a supplementary chargesheet in the Saradha chit fund scam, accusing Trinamool Congress (TMC) general secretary Kunal Ghosh and senior journalist Suman Chattopadhyay of money laundering through their companies, reported news agency PTI. Ghosh was the CEO of the Saradha group’s media division. He was suspended from the TMC in 2013 for alleged anti-party activities. The group shut down its operations the same year. Ghosh was in judicial custody for 34 months after being arrested by the West Bengal police in the Saradha case. He was released on bail in October 2016. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which started probing the Saradha case in 2014 following orders of the Supreme Court, named Ghosh in its first chargesheet filed in October 2014. Chattopadhyay, on the other hand, was arrested by the CBI in 2018 and remanded in judicial custody for more than a year in connection with the I-Core chit fund case. He was granted bail on health grounds by the Supreme Court last year. For the first time, sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) were added in the supplementary chargesheet the ED filed before a special court in Kolkata on Friday. Sudipta Sen, the owner of the Saradha Group, is now in jail. The company raised around ₹2500 crore, primarily from lower income group people, by promising high returns. In October 2014, Ghosh, Sen and Saradha Group director Debjani Mukherjee were named in the CBI’s first chargesheet. They were accused under several sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978. The ED on Friday filed a supplementary chargesheet against Ghosh, his company Strategy Media Plus Communications, and Suman Chattopadhyay and his companies Disha Production and Media and Ekdin Media with the prayer for punishment for money laundering and confiscation of attached assets worth ₹96.55 crore, including ₹2.67 crore owned by Ghosh and ₹1.72 crore owned by Chattopadhyay, PTI reported. ED officials did not comment before the media. “I provided all records in 2013. Why did the ED take eight years to file the chargesheet? This is a tactic by the central government to keep me under pressure,” Ghosh said from Tripura where the TMC is trying to build its organisation and take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the next assembly polls. Chattopadhyay earlier served as the editor of Ananda Bazaar Patrika and Ei Shomoy, a Bengali daily. He launched his own newspaper, Ek Din, and allegedly raised money from I-Core. The I-Core group came under the scanner after a police complaint was lodged in Bhubaneswar. Many heavyweights have been accused in the Saradha ponzi scam in the past. In January 2019, the CBI filed a chargesheet against Nalini Chidambaram, wife of former Union finance minister P Chidambaram, alleging that she received ₹1.4 crore from the Saradha Group between 2010 and 2012 for handling investigations started by various probe agencies. The CBI alleged that Manoranjana Sinh, the estranged wife of former Union Minister Matang Sinh, introduced Sudipta Sen to Nalini Chidambaram. Retired IPS officer Rajat Majumdar, who allegedly had links with the Saradha Group, was accused in the CBI’s second chargesheet filed in November 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-accuses-tmc-leader-kunal-ghosh-senior-scribe-of-money-laundering-101630092030956.html
28-08-2021||India||Expedite matters related to aviation infrastructure: Scindia to five CMs||Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia has sought the personal intervention of chief ministers of five states -- Kerala, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Nagaland and Odisha -- in matters related to land allocation and funding to boost aviation infrastructure in the regions, the Union government said on Friday.The aviation minister has already written to the chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Himachal Pradesh in this regard.In a letter to Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Scindia said the Airport Authority of India (AAI) needed 152.5 acres of land for airport expansion work but the same was yet to be handed over by the state government.Scindia also told Vijayan that an amount of ₹5.29 crore is outstanding on the part of the state government as viability gap funding (VGF) share against the Regional Air Connectivity Fund Trust (RACFT).In his letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Scindia highlighted that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) had projected land requirements of 234.21 acres at Akola airport for development of basic strip and additional infrastructure but only 149.95 acres was handed over so far.Scindia also urged the state government to consider removal of a chimney at Solapur to allow the Centre to connect the airport under the regional connectivity scheme. Similarly, he sought the intervention of Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan for the acquisition of 20 acres of land at Khajuraho airport for a basic runway strip and operational requirements.In his letter to Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio, the minister said a land area of 107 acres is required for extension of runway at the Dimapur airport by 310m for operations of A320 aircraft.Scindia wrote to Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik that the AAI has projected a land requirement of 178 acres at the Jharsuguda airport for its phase-two expansion. “The land is yet to be handed over,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expedite-matters-related-to-aviation-infrastructure-scindia-to-five-cms-101630091730854.html
28-08-2021||India||India administers record 10 million vaccine doses in a day||India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive broke a new record on Friday. More than 10 million doses of the vaccine were administered in a single day across the country for the first time since the start of the mass inoculation programme on January 16, according to data on the Union health ministry’s Co-WIN dashboard.According to the Union health ministry’s Co-WIN dashboard, a total of 10,064,376 doses had been administered on Friday, bettering the previous high of 8.82 million doses set on August 16.“Record vaccination numbers today! Crossing 1 crore is a momentous feat. Kudos to those getting vaccinated and those making the vaccination drive a success,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Friday night.Buoyed by Friday’s record numbers, the country’s pace of vaccination, which has been patchy so far, has settled into high gear. In the past week, an average of 6.9 million doses has been administered across the country every day – the highest pace ever recorded in the country, according to HT’s dashboard.Friday’s single-day inoculation record comes just a day after India touched another crucial milestone – the country covered half of its adult population with at least one shot of the vaccine on Thursday.Till Friday night, India has administered nearly 621 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine to nearly 480 million people with 337.4 million people vaccinated and 141.8 million people having received both doses of the vaccine. When seen alongside the country’s projected adult population of 940 million (according to the Census of India’s National Commission on Population), this means that 51% of people above the age of 18 years have received vaccine shots – 35.9% have been partially vaccinated and 15.1% having received both doses.“The daily average has been going up steadily because of several factors that include improved vaccine supplies from the manufacturing side, better logistical arrangements and advance information on availability of vaccine supplies. All this has made a difference and it will further improve in coming weeks, which is why states that are lagging behind, or are seeing upsurge in cases, have been asked to improve their vaccination rate,” a health ministry official, who did not wish to be identified, said.Also on Friday, the health ministry advised all states and Union territories to prioritise those beneficiaries who are due for their second vaccine dose, people familiar with the matter said. If required, the states and UTs should earmark certain days and centres for the exercise so that no one misses their second vaccine dose, the states were told.“Second dose obviously is the priority as that should not be missed. States have been asked to make arrangements accordingly like special drives for that,” said a central government official, on condition of anonymity.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan also chaired a high-level meeting on Wednesday with all states and Union territories to review the progress of Covid-19 vaccination and advised states to focus on enhancing second dose coverage as well as immunisation of school teachers and staff (both government and private).States were asked for prompt utilisation of Emergency Covid Response Package (ECRP) funds that centre has allocated. On July 8, this year, the Union Cabinet approved a new scheme ECRP-II package, amounting to ₹23,123 crore, and released its first instalment of ₹1,827.80 crore on July 22. The Centre, earlier this month, released ₹14,744.99 crore to effectively fight Covid-19.India’s drugs regulator has approved six Covid-19 vaccines for emergency use in India, of which three are being currently administered in the country. The six approved vaccines are Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, Russian-made SputnikV, Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D, and the American vaccines manufactured by Moderna and Johnson and Johnson (J&J).Government experts have been reiterating that the third wave of the viral disease may not happen if preventive measures are strictly taken, and that includes fast vaccinating people at risk.“We know that these vaccines are disease modifying vaccines; these are not disease preventive vaccines, and therefore, it is very important to continue wearing a mask even after getting vaccinated. Mask usage has to continue. We know that vaccines reduce the disease severity; they reduce the possibility of hospitalization, and also avert death to the tune of nearly 98-99%,”said Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research and secretary, Department of Health Research, during Thursday’s press briefing on Covid-19.He also said that mass gatherings will have to be discouraged to curtail the spread of infection.“Full vaccination offers protection against severe disease and death, and should be a pre-requisite if attending a gathering is critical,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-administers-record-10-million-vaccine-doses-in-a-day-101630091551169.html
28-08-2021||India||Dhanbad judge death: CBI yet to zero in on reason behind accident||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) informed the Jharkhand high court on Friday that the Dhanbad additional judge had died due to an auto accident but they are still probing if it was a routine accident or part of a larger conspiracy.The central investigating agency on Friday submitted its weekly report before the division bench of Chief Justice Dr. Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad of the Jharkhand HC.People aware of the development said the investigating agency informed the court that as per their probe while the accident was behind the judge’s death, they are yet to establish whether it was done as part of some conspiracy..The CBI also informed the court that they are conducting a Narco test on the two accused---Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma---to get at the truth. The court then directed the probe agency to ensure proper security of the two accused, and if required use air travel for their transport.Both the Supreme Court and the Jharkhand High Court had taken suo motu cognisance of the incident that occurred on July 28, with CCTV camera footage showing a vehicle seemingly swerving deliberately to hit the judge, who was out on his morning walk, and speeding away.The apex court directed the central agency to file a status report every week with the high court.Additional district judge Uttam Anand was brought dead to the hospital, about an hour after he was hit by a vehicle near Randhir Verma Square in Dhanbad.The CBI took over the investigation from the SIT headed by an ADG rank officer of Jharkhand Police at the state government’s insistence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dhanbad-judge-death-cbi-yet-to-zero-in-on-reason-behind-accident-101630091251980.html
28-08-2021||India||In 11 states, less than 25% of oxygen plants operational: Govt||The Union health ministry has put 11 states under the “red” category for making less than 25% of the total sanctioned medical oxygen plants in these states operational, according to a health ministry presentation to the state governments.The ministry also said that 35%, or 425, of the total 1,222 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants sanctioned by the Centre since October 2020 have become operational so far. And about 50% of the remaining are likely to be operational by September 15, officials said.A comparison of the ministry’s presentation with the reply submitted to Parliament on July 20 shows that 190 new plants have been made ready in the last 37 days. Till July 20, 245 plants were up and running.The Centre announced that new oxygen plants will be set up across the country after the April-May peak of Covid-19 triggered an unprecedented shortage of medical oxygen, with reports suggesting there may have been hundreds of deaths nationwide during this period because the gas was in short supply.In October 2020, during the first wave of Covid-19 cases, the central government invited tenders for 162 PSA oxygen plants -- by April 2021, only 33 of these were operational, according to a tweet by the Union health ministry on April 18.“We are regularly holding review meetings with the state health departments on oxygen plants to speed up the commissioning work,” said a senior health ministry official, at a meeting with state health departments.The official said that most of the states have assured the Centre that they will cross the 50% mark by September 15, and all the plants would be commissioned latest by December end this year. “We have been asking them to ensure most plants are running as early as possible,” the official said.To motivate the states, the ministry had put all states and Union territories under three categories depending on the number of oxygen plants that have been made operational.Red states are the states where up to 25% of the sanctioned plants are functioning, orange states have 25-50% of the sanctioned plants operational, and green, the best, such as Haryana and Gujarat, have over 50% plants running.According to the ministry presentation, Andaman and Nicobar Island has not been able to start even a single of the three plants sanctioned, while Mizoram could make only 1 of the 14 operational.An official of Andaman & Nicobar administration said there was delay in getting the equipment and the plant would be operational by September end. “The slow progress has been due to variety of reasons. Some hospitals where the plants are to be installed are at restoration stage. Once those issues are sorted, we should be able to commission all the plants,” said R Lalramnghaka, Mizoram’s special secretary, health and family welfare.Rajasthan, which has been able to make only 10 of the 51 plants sanctioned functional, has informed the health ministry that all the plants will be running by September 15. A Rajasthan health department official, on condition of anonymity, said, “There was delay on account of manpower issues. We have 12 plants installed and another 15 are under process. Only at four places, the civil work by the state government is pending,” the official said.The other states in the red zone are Chhattisgarh (16%), Madhya Pradesh (20%), West Bengal (20%), Himachal (21%), Bihar (23%), Jharkhand (24%), Tripura, and Meghalaya. A West Bengal official there is some delay in the supply but every day one or two plants are being commissioned. “There would be substantial progress by the mid of September. Work is going on,” the official said.With inputs from bureaus in Jaipur, Kolkata, Guwahati and Chandigarh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-11-states-less-than-25-of-oxygen-plants-operational-govt-101630091070750.html
28-08-2021||India||Health secretary writes to Kerala govt, asks it to ramp up Covid-19 containment||With Covid-19 cases steadily rising in Kerala, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Friday sent another letter to the Kerala government expressing serious concern over the situation and listed immediate measures to contain the surge. In the letter addressed to the state chief secretary VP Joy he said the state will have to ramp up its containment measures on priority basis and increase tests considerably to check the high rate of transmission. All 14 districts have reported high test positivity rate in the past four weeks and the state continues to report more than half of the total cases of the country, he pointed out in the letter. The Union health secretary asked the state to strictly follow the norms of the Union government on high transmission clusters and strengthen contact tracing measures. All district administrations will have to comply with the accepted norms of home quarantine and there should be an intensive follow up on such cases. Covid-19 appropriate behaviour should be enforced at any cost and mass gathering should be avoided, he said in the letter. The state has also been asked to enhance genomic surveillance in areas of high transmission and samples of all breakthrough infections (those getting infected after taking both doses) should be sent for detailed genome sequencing tests. He also urged the state to streamline vaccine policy and an action plan for each district will have to be devised. “I would like to reiterate that any laxity in ensuring the five-fold strategy of ‘test, track, treat, vaccinate and ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour’ may result in further surge in the state,” he said in the letter. State health minister Veena George was not available for comment. But a senior official of the health ministry said the state has been following these norms after the visit of the central team in the first week of August. Union Health Minister M Mandaviya had also visited the state and held detailed talks with CM Pinarayi Vijayan. Opposition Congress and BJP have criticised the state’s virus containment strategy and held the CM responsible for the sorry state of affairs For the third consecutive day the state reported over 30,000 cases which is about 65 per cent of the total cases in the country. On Friday it reported another hike with 32,801 cases with a high test positivity rate (TPR) of 19.22 per cent after 1,70,703 samples were tested. It also reported 179 fatalities taking the death toll to 20, 313. The active cases also increased to 1,95,254, said the state health ministry. Four districts reported more than 3000 new cases-- Malappuram 4032, Thrissur 3953, Ernakulam 3627 and Kozhikode 3362.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-secretary-writes-to-kerala-govt-asks-it-to-ramp-up-covid-19-containment-101630090470777.html
28-08-2021||India||Disparity in vaccine coverage in Karnataka worries experts||Despite a considerable reduction in the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in Karnataka, experts are worried about the disparity in the distribution of vaccines, pointing out that in 20 of the 30 districts, the vaccination is below the state average while six districts reported less than 50% vaccination (single or double). According to the government, so far 3.95 crore people have been vaccinated in the state so far. Out of this, around 3 crore people have received the first dose, while 95 lakh people received the second dose of the vaccination. “In a recent policy change, the Karnataka government had decentralised Covid management, with district government getting more powers. But, in areas where the state government should be active, such as distribution of vaccine, there is a problem,” said a member of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), who didn’t want to be named. The expert added that the districts with the lowest vaccination coverage are in the underdeveloped northern part of the state. “Bengaluru city (BBMP and Bengaluru urban) has the highest number. Naturally, the capital with the highest population will get preference, but the state of North Karnataka is concerning, especially many districts share the border with Maharashtra,” he added. Responding to the concern, health commissioner Trilok Chandra said that measures provide additional vaccine allocations to districts with a lower vaccination rate. Meanwhile, according to data from the state health and family welfare department, Karnataka has recorded 14,421 Covid-19 infections and 126 deaths among people who have had taken the vaccine, out of which, 11,881 infections and 109 deaths were reported among those who took the first dose, and 2,540 infections and 17 deaths were reported among the fully vaccinated. Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said since the number of cases is only a small percentage of the total number of vaccinated, the cases are not alarming. “As per the information, we have less than 100 of these patients required hospitalization. So, vaccination is effective,” he said. For the number of the death reported due to reinfection after vaccination, a senior health department officials said that the co-morbidities of the patients are being investigated. “Most of the deaths have taken place in Mysuru and Hassan. Genome sequencing is being conducted in these districts,” the official added. Meanwhile, in Bengaluru city, which has reported the highest vaccination rate in the state, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has announced that it would allow most commercial establishments in the city to operate, conditional to compliance with Covid appropriate protocols. Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the BBMP, said that the commercial establishments must ensure the 100% vaccination of their staff at their own cost. He also said that the first dose of the vaccine must be administered to all employees by August 31. To ensure the compliance of all shops, industries, hotels, and offices, the state government has also asked the employees in these places to keep the proof of their vaccination at the workplace and produce them “as and when required.” It has also warned of legal actions under the Epidemic Disease Act in case of any violations of compliance. BBMP’s decision to resume shops in the city came a day after state health minister K Sudhakar said that more than 10 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine were administered so far in Bengaluru. “Bengaluru crossed one crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine on Wednesday. Big applause to all those involved in this Largest Vaccination Drive,” he tweeted on Thursday. Karnataka reported 1,614 fresh Covid cases on Friday and 17 more deaths, taking the tally of total infections to 2,944,764 and death toll to 37,248 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disparity-in-vaccine-coverage-in-karnataka-worries-experts-101630090053777.html
28-08-2021||India||Registration drive on as unorganised workers await relief in Karnataka||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday flagged off a registration drive in the state for e-Shram, a union government-led initiative to set up a national database of unorganised sector workers hit hard by Covid-induced lockdowns.The Centre rolled out the scheme on Thursday with an aim to register around 380 million workers from this sector and provide them an e-Shram card, which will help them in availing of benefits of social security schemes being implemented by the central and state governments. Karnataka targets to account for around 10.80 million unorganised workers.Bommai said the state was identifying unorganised workers in the state. “For unorganised workers there was no security of employment, life insurance, health, educational or any other facilities. Along with security of livelihood, they should be paid equally for the same amount of work,” according to a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO) in Kannada, attributed to Bommai.The registration comes at a time when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in the state has been accused of not providing adequate financial relief to sections worst hit the pandemic-induced lockdowns.“Be it daily wage earners or agricultural workers, they should be paid adequately for their work,” Bommai said.The statements come at a time when several workers from this sector are yet to receive any financial relief announced by former chief minister BS Yediyurappa, totalling around ₹2,100 crore, for those worst hit by the lockdowns.“In the first package we have issued relief only to washermen and barbers. Now we have verified beneficiaries, collected Aadhaar data, de-duplicated names and have sent for the approval to release ₹215 crore from the finance department,” Akram Pasha, Karnataka’s commissioner for labour department, cane development and sugar, told Hindustan Times. “Around ₹60 crore was already paid to some of these sections so far.”Pasha said there were 3 million construction workers and another 1.4 million workers in 11 categories that include washermen, barbers, mechanics and domestic help, among others.However, there were doubts raised if the financial package, ranging between ₹2,000 and ₹5,000 for various sections, was adequate to compensate for loss of livelihood for months, Hindustan Times reported on May 20.The taxi and auto drivers’ association, domestic workers’ association and several others have pointed out that most of their members are yet to receive any compensation.In May last year, Yediyurappa announced a similar financial package of ₹1,610 crore which, among others, was aimed at providing ₹5,000 each to about 60,000 washermen, 230,000 barbers, 775,000 auto and taxi drivers, among others.However, this time around there has been a sharp decline in the number of beneficiaries too, according to the statement by the chief minister’s office.In the case of auto, taxi and maxi cab drivers, a one-time relief of ₹3,000 has been announced for 210,000 beneficiaries from an estimated 775,000 last time around.Senior government officials said that in the first package, authorities could not trace all the beneficiaries accounted for, resulting in reduced delivery of benefits. One of the flaws, people aware of the complexities of the matter said, was that the government failed to recognise that there were more than one driver per auto or car, and more than one from the same profession in the same family.A total of 210,000 auto drivers were given relief across Karnataka last time around when, in fact, there are around the same number of auto-rickshaws in Bengaluru alone.There are no exact statistics on the unorganised workforce in most urban centres in the country mostly due to the lack of any unions, recognition from the government or issue of identification cards, activists and union members said. Among the most vulnerable are domestic workers, who have been forced to remain at home without pay, activists said.The tedious paperwork for just ₹2000-5000 was another hurdle as these beneficiaries have to register on Seva Sindhu, provide a cache of documents including a certificate from the employer (residence of where the domestic worker is employed) or get a signed letter from a gazetted officer.There were reports of touts seeking as high as ₹300-500 commission from unorganised workers to give out relief, raising more questions on the mechanism for relief disbursal.According to government data, out of the total 1,823, 445 applications it received on Seva Sindhu (apart from those already registered) for relief, there were 35,839 from the same family and 1,38,754 rejected applicants.Other eligibility criteria led to a disqualification of 4,17,667 applications, data shows.And of this, only 2,14,731 applicants have received the relief, totalling ₹42.95 crore as another 1,191,047 await their turn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/registration-drive-on-as-unorganised-workers-await-relief-in-karnataka-101630090050763.html
28-08-2021||India||Rane resumes yatra, says will expose Shiv Sena||Stepping up his fight against the ruling party in Maharashtra, Union minister Narayan Rane on Friday said that he knew a lot of things about the Shiv Sena and its leaders and warned to bring out all cases “step by step”.Without naming anyone, Rane said he knew who had conspired to throw acid on his brother’s wife a few years ago. “Who ordered the acid attack on my sister-in-law? Are these sanskars (tradition)? I will expose them step by step,” the minister said as he resumed his Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Ratnagiri district.In a veiled attack on Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is also the Sena chief, Rane said: “What did one achieve by arresting a Union minister? I will bring out cases step by step.”Earlier this week, the minister was arrested over his remarks that he wanted to slap the chief minister for allegedly confusing the number of years since India got independence during the latter’s August 15 address. He was granted bail by a Mahad court, on a surety of ₹15,000, on the following day.A bitter critic of Thackeray ever since he was expelled from the Sena in 2005, Rane also raised questions over the murders of two Sena workers, Jayant Jadhav and Ramesh More. He also threatened to “expose” the Sena if the latter continued to target him.“The (suicide) cases of Disha Salian and (actor) Sushant Singh Rajput are still under investigation. The law is equal for all and will not tolerate hooliganism. I will start giving back in two days after recovering from a bad throat,” the former chief minister said.Reacting to Rane’s allegations, Shiv Sena MP Vinayak Raut said he would request the state government to reopen criminal cases related to the Union minister.“While levelling allegations against others, Rane should first speak on the murder of his cousin Ankush Rane, and firing on Chintu Shaikh (office bearer of an outfit headed by Rane’s son Nitesh) in Mumbai. A few years ago, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis had read out a list of criminal cases against Rane in the legislative council. We will request the state to investigate them,” he said.After visiting Ratnagiri, Rane proceeded to his home district Sindhudurg to conclude the yatra on August 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rane-resumes-yatra-says-will-expose-shiv-sena-101630089870741.html
28-08-2021||India||AIADMK leader seeks Stalin’s help to restart probe into amma’s death||Amid the ongoing slugfest over the Kodanad heist and murder case, a senior leader of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) has brought up another sensitive case – the probe into J Jayalalithaa’s hospitalisation and death. In a social media post on Friday, AIADMK’s three-time MP V Maitreyan asked chief minister M K Stalin to vacate a Supreme Court stay on investigating Jayalalithaa’s death. He cited DMK’s election promise to fast track the investigations. “Every cadre will be relieved if a decision (from the investigation) comes that there was no mystery surrounding her death.” In August 2017, a one-man Justice Arumugasamy commission was set up to probe Jayalalithaa’s death. The commission examined more than 100 witnesses, including bureaucrats, politicians, doctors and nurses from Chennai’s Apollo hospital, where the late AIADMK supremo was admitted for two and a half months. Jayalalithaa died in December 2016. Following her death, factions emerged in the AIADMK and close confidante V K Sasikala, meant to take over the reins, was imprisoned in February 2017, with the Supreme Court convicting her in the disproportionate assets case. O Panneerselvam had rebelled against Sasikala, so she picked Edappadi Palaniswami to be a chief minister while she was going to be away in jail for four years. But Palaniswami and Panneerselvam merged their factions, and one of the conditions laid down by Panneersevam to do so was to conduct a probe into Jayalalithaa’s death. But so far, Panneerselvam hasn’t deposed before the commission. The commission has been embroiled in controversies and has had several extensions to its tenure. Apollo Hospitals, accusing the commission of being biased, went to the Supreme Court challenging the constitution of the commission. In April 2019, the top court stayed further inquiry. The commission has been idle since then.Maiteryan added that he was aware that the DMK government was taking steps to resume the commission’s probe since 90% of the work was complete and sought the chief minister’s help to get the stay vacated and finish the commission’s probe at the earliest. However, this isn’t the first time that Maitreyan, who was propped by Jayalalithaa and has a sourced relationship with AIADMK’s present dual leader of Palaniswami and Panneerselvam, is making such a demand. In 2017, he demanded that the Union government order a probe either by the CBI or by an SIT, or a judicial inquiry into her death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-leader-seeks-stalin-s-help-to-restart-probe-into-amma-s-death-101630089636284.html
28-08-2021||India||Health secy asks Kerala to step up measures to contain spread||As virus cases gallop in Kerala, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Friday sent another letter to the government expressing serious concerns over the situation and listed immediate measures to contain the surge. In the letter, addressed to the state chief secretary V P Joy, Bhushan said the state will have to ramp up its containment measures on a priority basis and increase tests considerably to check the high transmission. All 14 districts have reported a high test positivity rate in the past four weeks and the state continues to report more than half of the total cases of the country, he pointed out in the letter. He asked the state to strictly go by the norms of the Union government on high transmission clusters and strengthen contact tracing measures. All district administrations will have to comply with the accepted norms of home quarantine and there should be an intensive follow up on such cases. Covid-19 appropriate behaviour should be enforced at any cost and mass gathering should be avoided, he said in the letter. The state has also been asked to enhance genomic surveillance in areas of high transmission and samples of all breakthrough infections (those getting infected after taking both doses) should be sent to detailed genome sequencing tests. He also urged the state to streamline vaccine policy and an action plan for each district will have to be devised. “I would like to reiterate that any laxity in ensuring the five-fold strategy of ‘test, track, treat, vaccinate and ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour’ may result in a further surge in the state,” he said in the letter. State health minister Veena Geroge was not available for a comment. But a senior official of the health ministry said the state has been following these norms after the visit of the central team in the first week of August. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya had also visited the state and held detailed talks with CM Pinarayi Vijayan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-secy-asks-kerala-to-step-up-measures-to-contain-spread-101630089635104.html
28-08-2021||India||China claims to have given 2 billion jabs to citizens||China has administered 2 billion doses of the coronavirus vaccine, fully inoculating 889.4 million people in the world’s most populous country, the National Health Commission said on Friday amidst concerns over the efficacy of their domestic shots against the Delta variant.Of the total 2 billion doses, half of them have been given in just 10 weeks, according to official figures that are sporadically released by the Chinese government. Beijing said it breached the 1 billion-mark on June 19.In absolute figures and scale, China is far ahead of any other nation in the world. So far, China has fully vaccinated 62% of its total population, more than even countries such as Germany and the United States, that have completely inoculated over 59% and 51% of their populations respectively.More than 889.4 million people have been fully vaccinated in China till Thursday, NHC spokesperson Mi Feng said. Continuous efforts will be made to advance the mass vaccination campaign, Mi told a press conference on Friday, warning against any laxity among people of the country.URGENCY TO VACCINATEAfter a peak in June that was followed by a slight slump in daily vaccinations, China pushed to boost inoculation rates from July, when the highly contagious Delta variant triggered its worst country-wide outbreak since last year.On average, Beijing is currently administering 12.3 million shots per day, according to figures by Our World in Data.At this pace, China is well on its way to fully vaccinate its 1.4 billion-population by end of the year, Beijing’s top respiratory expert Zhong Nanshan said at a press conference earlier this month. He previously said China was targeting to complete vaccinations of 80% of its population by the end of 2021.The outbreak triggered in July is now under control, but authorities have kept up the inoculation campaign.CONCERNSOver the months, there have been questions about the China-made vaccines by -- state-run Sinopharm and privately owned Sinovac -- especially against the Delta variant, which drove the country’s July outbreak.Several officials said many of those infected during China’s July outbreak were already vaccinated, but more details are needed.Both of the vaccines have been approved by WHO, but there have been calls to provide data proving the jabs work against Delta.Phase 3 trials of Sinovac-CoronaVac around the world have reported the effectiveness of vaccine between 50% and 84%. The Sinopharm shot had shown a 78.1% efficacy rate against symptomatic Covid-19 cases in Phase III clinical trials, World Health Organization data showed. However, its efficacy fell to just over 50% against preventing infections, a study conducted in Peru earlier this year. Still, officials from the South American country said the shot is acceptable by WHO standards.WHO recommends efficacy of at least 50% against symptomatic disease before approving a vaccine.Anecdotally, officials in countries that received Chinese doses have also hinted that the vaccines may be less effective against the Delta variant.Indonesian officials said in June that cases of breakthrough infections were seen among doctors and medical workers who were hospitalised despite being vaccinated with Sinovac. Malaysia too announced in mid-July that it would stop using the Sinovac’s vaccine amid concerns about its efficacy.To be sure, most vaccines developed across the world have seen their efficacy decline against the variant, but the lack of data has eroded confidence.Zhong said in July that the vaccines are 100% effective against the Delta variant in preventing severe disease, but did not provide any data.BOOSTER SHOTSChinese President Xi Jinping has also said the country will strive to provide 2 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses to the world throughout this year and offer $100 million to COVAX, the global vaccine sharing programme.Speaking at the NHC press conference in Beijing on Friday, Zheng Zhongwei, an NHC official, said that experts in China have recommended making booster Covid-19 doses available to some groups such as employees at higher risk of exposure to the virus and those who have weak immunity or are aged above 60.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-claims-to-have-given-2-billion-jabs-to-citizens-101630089633476.html
28-08-2021||India||State model is intact: Kerala CM hits back at Oppn||Amid a big surge in virus cases, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday justified the state’s containment strategy and asked critics which model should the state follow if the present one is ineffective. On Friday, the state reported another hike with 32,801 cases and a test positivity rate (TPR) of 19.22 per cent after 170,703 samples were tested. It also reported 179 fatalities, taking the death toll to 20, 313. Active cases also increased to 195,254, said the state health ministry. Four districts reported more than 3000 new cases – Malappuram 4032, Thrissur 3953, Ernakulam 3627 and Kozhikode 3362. In the last three days, the state has been reporting over 30,000 cases and it is attributed to the just-concluded Onam festivities. In the wake of high caseload, opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have criticised the state’s virus containment strategy and held the CM responsible for the sorry state of affairs. Earlier, the CM used to hold a regular briefing at 6 pm, but for the last two weeks it was not happening, and the opposition said he was running away from reality. The CM, in an article in ‘Chintha,’ a party-sponsored weekly, said there was a concerted plan to discredit the state and its model of development and exhorted party workers to expose such elements. “There is a discussion that the current strategy is inappropriate. Some people neglect facts and try to create confusion. They are flagging unnecessary controversies to create a smokescreen,” he said in his write-up. He said in the state no bodies floated in rivers, and none died on roads, and nobody has gone to bed with an empty stomach in trying times. But opposition leader V D Satheesan reiterated his charge that the CM was scared to face the press and people. “He can’t justify his doings in a party mouthpiece like this when the state is reeling under the grave situation,” he said. Congress said the whole state was pushed to the ICU due to poor handling of the situation. Meanwhile, state health minister Veena George said 70. 24 per cent of the eligible population in the state (above 18 years) was vaccinated, and out of this, 25.3% received both vaccines. She said though cases show an upward trend situation is under control. “There is no unusual rush in hospitals. Almost 50 per cent of ventilators and ICU beds are vacant,” she said, adding mortality rate remained lowest in the country at 0.5 per cent while the national average was 1.25 per cent. “On May 13, 43,000 cases were reported with a TPR of 29%. Two months later, it came down to 10,000, and TPR was in the 10-12 per cent range. But now, cases are going up again, and it will stabilise soon,” she said. “According to Indian Council of Medical Research, Kerala’s virus undercounting factor is 6% while it is 33% in some other states. In vaccination and testing, it continues its good track record. By Sept 20 we are planning to give at least one dose of vaccine to all eligible people,” she said, adding the Centre has agreed to supply enough doses. Meanwhile, the government has decided to tighten containment measures and decided to impose a complete lockdown on Sunday. The Union Government had asked the two worst-affected states, Kerala and Maharashtra, to impose night curfew to restrict the movement of people. The state is expected to take a call this Saturday in the Covid review meeting being chaired by the CM. The state had lifted lockdown in the last two weeks because of Independence Day and Onam festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-model-is-intact-kerala-cm-hits-back-at-oppn-101630089632983.html
28-08-2021||India||IIT prof alleges irregularity in caste bias probe||An assistant professor at the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras, who alleged caste discrimination at the institution, claimed irregularities in the investigation process in an open letter to Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Friday.In the letter, Vipin P Veetil, a 36-year-old assistant professor of economics who resigned citing caste bias in July, said that the head of the department – who was named in his complaint -- was allegedly liaising with members of the investigation committee looking into his claims of caste-based discrimination at the institution. Veetil said that he sent two letters to the institute asking Jyotirmaya Tripathy, the head of the department of humanities and social sciences, to temporarily step down from his position while the investigation is on but didn’t receive a response. Veetil said the situation sent a “wrong signal” to members of the department and might inhibit other faculty members from speaking out. “These features are merely the superficial manifestations of a far deeper rot: the subjugation of truth, justice, and scholarship by caste. A subjugation which is maintained with administrative structures that reproduce themselves,” Veetil wrote, calling for affirmative action within the board of governors and heads of department. Veetil joined the department of humanities and social sciences in March 2019 but resigned on July 1, saying in his resignation letter that he was moving to another institution due to caste bias at IIT-Madras.On August 13, he approached the National Commission for Backward Classes in Delhi and complained that he was denied opportunities due to his caste. Veetil belongs to the other backward class community.“I wrote the open letter because I wanted the minister to know what was going on. The basic principles of natural justice demand that a person accused in the complaint should step down from positions of power during the length of the probe,” he said. In response, IIT-Madras said it did not permit discrimination of any kind, including religion or caste and that there are grievance redressal mechanisms in place for students as well as employees, and the process is initiated promptly when a complaint is received. “Students are familiarised with this during their orientation programme. Faculty join in ones and twos, they meet the dean, director and head of department and are provided documentation on the processes followed in the institute,” the institute said in a statement.“In this instant case too, as soon as a complaint was received, a committee has been constituted to look into it. The committee members, as always, do not include anyone connected with the complainant or the department/individuals against whom the grievance is lodged. The committee is enquiring into the matter and is expected to submit its report shortly,” the statement added. Tripathy couldn’t be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iitprof-alleges-irregularity-in-caste-bias-probe-101630089630747.html
28-08-2021||India||Round One to CM Baghel in Chhattisgarh tussle||Bhupesh Baghel appeared to gain the advantage in the tussle for the chief minister’s chair in Chhattisgarh after a marathon meeting with the Congress top brass on Friday, saying that he invited former party chief Rahul Gandhi to visit the state next week and that the latter had accepted.Baghel, who met Gandhi for the second time in three days,said that he had said “everything” to his leader.“There was political conversation, talk about policies, about the state of Chhattisgarh. In the end I requested Rahul ji to come to Chhattisgarh and he accepted. He will come next week.”Asked if he would still be chief minister when Gandhi arrived in Chhattisgarh, Baghel said he had invited him “as chief minister”.The developments came three days after Baghel and his rival for the CM’s chair, state health minister TS Singh Deo, held long meetings with Gandhi, after which Baghel flew back to Raipur, organised a show of strength, and met loyalists. Ahead of Friday’s crucial meeting, at least 45 of the party’s 70 lawmakers also flew to the Capital.Congress leaders involved in the deliberations said during the meeting with Gandhi, Baghel spoke about the achievements of his government and listed some schemes to emphasise his success story before inviting the former party president to Chhattisgarh next week. Also present at the meeting were the party’s party general secretary incharge, PL Punia, and party general secretaries Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and KC Venugopal.Asked about the reported two-and-a-half-year power-sharing agreement, Baghel pointed to a public denial by Punia. “Previously, Punia ji had made this clear. Once the general secretary says this, is anything left?”Two Congress leaders pointed out that the show of strength of MLAs by the CM went in Baghel’s favour. “With the BJP aggressively playing the OBC (other backward class) card, the leadership also didn’t want to do anything against the wishes of the MLAs that would help the BJP,” said a senior leader on condition of anonymity.Baghel is an OBC leader.Another leader said that even if Baghel managed to save his seat for now, it would be “necessary to accommodate” Singh Deo suitably.The second leader added, “Singh Deo might be offered a better portfolio and may even be elevated to the deputy chief minister’s position. The other way out is to give Singh Deo a key assignment in the central leadership, but that is unlikely to accepted by a man who wants to be the CM of Chhattisgarh.”The conflict between Baghel adn Singh Deo stems from a reported power-sharing agreement between Baghel and Singh Deo reached in December 2018 when the Congress swept Chhattisgarh with 68 of 90 seats.At the time, four state leaders, Baghel, current state home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, current speaker Charan Das Mahant and Singh Deo flew to Delhi, all eyeing the top post.As Mahant settled for speaker, friction between Baghel and Singh Deo meant that Sahu first emerged the front-runner, but fuelled by the idea that a third leader would take the top position, Baghel and Singh Deo along with Punia and Gandhi reportedly came to a power sharing arrangement.On Thursday, Singh Deo had indicated to the friction between the two leaders when he said that anybody that played on a team, “dreamt of being captain”.His aides said that Singh Deo wanted the Congress to live up to the conditions of the reported power sharing agreement. Singh Deo has been in Delhi for at least a week.Even as Baghel travelled to Raipur on Tuesday night, people close to Singh Deo argued that they did not want to cause a “conflict” between supporters by flying to Raipur.Beginning Thursday night, and then again on Friday morning, more than 45 MLAs, including four ministers and six mayors, left for Delhi. Some MLAs told HT on Thursday that they were going after phone calls from the CM’s aides. A few, however, also said that they had gone independently.On Friday morning, the MLAs met Punia, and later in the evening went to the Congress headquarters where they met general secretary KC Venugopal.Punia and Chhattisgarh Congress chief Mohan Markam issued statements on Thursday night that the “Delhi leadership” had not summoned the MLAs.Talking to the media at Raipur airport before leaving for Delhi, Baghel said Venugopal sent him a message on Thursday confirming a meeting with Gandhi. “As per his direction, I am going there and I do not have more information,” he said.Asked why MLAs were flying to Delhi, Baghel added, “Why can’t they go to meet their leaders? I got a call therefore I am going. Due to the pandemic, nobody could have visited Delhi for a long time and now they have gone to meet leaders,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/round-one-to-cm-baghel-in-chhattisgarh-tussle-101630089575634.html
28-08-2021||India||Telangana govt opposes Centre’s funding of Veligonda project in Andhra||The Telangana government on Friday wrote to the Union water resources ministry opposing the Centre’s funding for Andhra Pradesh’s Veligonda project as it supposedly diverts water from the Krishna river outside its basin, according to state government officials.The Veligonda project in Andhra will be undertaken in the Prakasam district with the hope to irrigate drought-affected areas in the districts of Prakasam, Nellore, and Kadapa by diverting floodwater from the Krishna river to the Srisailam reservoir.In a letter dated August 26 to the commissioner, State Projects Wing (ministry of Jal Shakti), Telangana state irrigation department engineer-in-chief C. Muralidhar requested the Centre to verify if the Veligonda project is eligible for funding under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sanchayi Yojna- Accelerated Irrigation Benefit Program (PMKSY-AIBP). “It is learnt that the Veligonda project of Andhra Pradesh is being considered in the list of projects for funding under PMKSY-AIBP during the period 2021-26. … In this connection, it is stated that this project was taken up by erstwhile Andhra Pradesh based on surplus waters of river Krishna and does not have any clearance of CWC,” said Muralidhar’s letter. The letter added that the Veligonda project (taken up in the erstwhile undivided Andhra Pradesh state) is shown as “unapproved project at item 1.10 of Schedule-2, Pg No. 29 Of Gazette notification dated 15.07.2021.” It argued that Telangana has also “vehemently opposed” the same (project).Officials from Andhra Pradesh and the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) refused to comment on the matter. Post bifurcation of Telangana from Andhra in 2014, the state was allotted 299 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) out of the total capacity of 811 TMC from the Krishna basin, while the rest was allocated to the latter. Since then, issues between both states about water sharing have been cropping up from time to time, concerning irrigation and drinking water projects at the Krishna and Godavari rivers.The letter from Telangana’s irrigation department comes just days before a crucial meeting between officials from the KRMB and Godavari River Management board (GRMB), along with officials from both states in to be held in Hyderabad on September 1 to discuss modalities and issues concerning the Centre taking over all of the projects under the Krishna and Godavari rivers, which run across both states. The meeting, according to an official from Telangana who requested anonymity, was earlier scheduled for August 27 with an agenda comprising 14 issues but was postponed to September 1. The meeting will essentially discuss the implementation of both the river managements taking over all the projects from both river basins. Earlier on July 15, a gazette notification for the same was passed by the Centre, which stated that the KRMB and GRMB will take control fully from October 14.Moreover, as per the agreement between both states, the KRMB also has to shift to Andhra, while the GRMB will permanently be in Telangana. As of now, the KRMB is in Hyderabad given that it is still the joint capital of both states till 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-govt-opposes-centre-s-funding-of-veligonda-project-in-andhra-101630089575042.html
28-08-2021||India||Delhi schools to reopen in 2 phases from Sept 1||Schools, colleges and other educational institutes in the Capital can resume physical classes in a phased manner from September 1, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Friday after a decision taken by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on account of a marked improvement in the Covid-19 situation in the city.Delhi added 46 fresh Covid-19 cases and no additional deaths on Friday, according to data from the state government’s daily health bulletin, recording a positivity rate of 0.06%. This number has been below 1% for 89 days, and below 5% for 99 days. The city has added a daily average of 32 cases over the past seven days, and has only 412active cases as of Friday.“The kind of education that can be imparted through physical classes can never be substituted by online classes. So we have decided to allow schools to open,” Sisodia, also the state education minister, said at a news briefing at the Delhi secretariat.“From September 1, all government schools will open for classes 9 to 12, all private schools can also resume classes for 9 to 12 standards. Coaching centres can also start classes for students of 9 to 12 standards,” he said, adding that colleges can also resume physical classes from September 1.While Sisodia said the government will observe the situation for a week before resuming junior classes, a senior DDMA official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the authority has approved classes 6 to 8 to restart from September 8. No decision has been taken on reopening junior classes yet, he added.Soon after the announcement, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, “In view of decreasing Covid cases, schools are being slowly reopened in Delhi with complete precautions, so that the learning loss for students can be reduced. We have to bring back life on track and take care of studies as well as health of students.”The government, however, stressed that parents will be forced to send children to school, and online classes will continue for those who opt for them. “No child will be forced to attend physical classes and there will be no compulsory attendance. Consent of the parents will be must for students to attend physical classes,” Sisodia said.Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for schools will be issued in the next few days, he said.Schools in Delhi have been shut since March last year when Covid-19 cases first started rising in the country. Classes resumed for a brief period in January and February this year, but were suspended in April as a brutal second wave (fourth for Capital) of Covid-19 stretched the health care infrastructure to its limits.A statement from the LG office said, “After detailed discussions with experts the need to maintain continued vigil , strict enforcement of COVID appropriate behaviour along with adherence to the strategy of Test, Track & Treat was emphasized... As regards opening of schools it was agreed to by all the members that in the first instance classes 9-12 may be opened (from September 1) subject to strict adherence of the SOPs prepared for the schools by the Education Department. It was emphasized that adequate school preparedness, strict enforcement of SOPs and daily monitoring should be undertaken to avoid any instance of spread of infection in schools.”At present, India’s vaccination drive only covers adults, with just one vaccine – Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D -- getting an approval for administration in children above 12 years of age. Once the vaccination drive opens for children, likely in October, those with comorbidities will be given priority, the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) said earlier this week.“We need to ensure that the teachers and the staff are vaccinated. Among children, only the co-morbid and the obese will need vaccination. The infection is airborne, so masking is important. The precautions can include reducing the number of hours, calling students in at staggered timings, and having two shifts of teachers,” said Dr Suneela Garg, professor in the department of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College.Dr Anupam Sibal, group medical director at Apollo hospitals, said, “Children have already missed out on 18 months of schooling, how long can it continue? The situation has to be dynamic, if cases start going up it has to be switched back to online classes. Schools have to enforce social distancing, masking, and hand washing.”In Delhi, 98% of school staff – both teaching and non-teaching – have received at least one dose of the vaccine. “In the last month, we organised special drives to vaccinate teachers and school staff. Around 98% teacher and other staff in government schools have taken at least one dose of vaccine. Private schools also told the government that the majority of staff is vaccinated,” Sisodia said.There is no official data on the number of teachers who have been fully vaccinated.The decision to reopen schools drew mixed reactions from parents and teachers.The Delhi Parent Association criticised the government’s decision. “We feel that the government is taking the decision to open schools under the pressure of private schools, so that they can collect fees for all items from the parents. The government and schools should take full responsibility for the safety of the children by giving an affidavit in the court. A Covid safety committee should be constituted in schools with parents, who can inspect the school regularly to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour and protocols,” the association said in a statement.Welcoming the decision, Gargi Vidyarthi, whose daughter is a Class 12 student, said, “I am happy that the Delhi government has issued this order. When children are going for holidays and outing, schools are at least safer because they follow Covid-19 safety protocols.”The National Progressive Schools Conference, which has over 120 Delhi schools at its members, said that the staggered classes and smaller groups of students will allow teachers to give more attention to children.“We had only been focusing on practicals till now as per government orders and will now focus on theory classes. Once classes begin, we will conduct tests to assess learning levels of students who will be returning to schools after a long gap. Teaching plans will be developed accordingly,” the organisation’s chairperson Malini Narayanan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-schools-to-reopen-in-2-phases-from-sept-1-101630089572367.html
28-08-2021||India||CM Stalin announces ₹317.4cr package for SL Tamilian refugees||Chief minister M K Stalin on Friday made a slew of announcements in the Tamil Nadu assembly amounting to 317.4 crores for the welfare of Sri Lankan Tamil refugees living in the state, including house rebuilding, basic amenities and educational schemes.The government took the decisions after inspecting refugee camps, Stalin said. As many as 304,269 Sri Lankan Tamils have entered southern Tamil Nadu as refugees since 1983 during the civil war between the Lankan army and the militant group Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), that fought for separate statehood for Tamils. Around 58,822 are living in 108 refugee camps spread out in 29 districts of Tamil Nadu while 34,087 live outside of these camps, Stalin remarked. “I assure you that this government will give them a protected and dignified life,” he told the assembly later on.Stalin also said his government will soon set up a high-level advisory committee, under the minister for minorities and non-resident Tamils’ welfare K S Masthan, to enhance the living conditions of the refugees, and grant them dual citizenship. It was also an election promise of the DMK to urge the Union government to grant citizenship for Sri Lankan Tamils living in India. “Not just Tamils who live here, our government is concerned about the lives of Tamils who live across the world, and we will take care of them,” Stalin said on Friday.To improve living conditions, the state has allocated ₹231.5 crores to reconstruct the 7,469 houses, which were in dilapidated condition in the refugee camps. In the first phase, ₹108.8 crores would be utilised for 3,510 houses. Basic amenities such as electricity, toilets and drinking water will be provided with ₹30 crores. On the education front, Stalin said that the government would offer free education and hostel expenses for 50 Sri Lankan Tamil students living in refugee camps who have been selected for engineering courses. Similarly, the government will also bear expenses for the top five students studying agriculture and engineering courses. The government will also meet the expenses for those who want to pursue higher education. The chief minister also increased the existing scholarships to students pursuing other courses and introduced an employment skill development program for about 5000 youngsters living in camps. A measure to provide ₹25,000 for each of the 300 self-help groups (SHGs) was also initiated. He also announced providing free gas stoves and connections for each family with a subsidy of ₹400 each for five cylinders. The chief minister announced Rule 110 (of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Rules), which was introduced by the late former chief minister J Jayalalithaa to pass suo motu resolutions without holding discussions.Political analysts say that Stalin is addressing the issue of Sri Lankan Tamils given the fact that the Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) founded by Tamil nationalist S Seeman soon after the war with LTTE chief V Prabhakaran as their idol has garnered 6.7% votes in the results of assembly elections announced on May 2. NTK is now the third largest party in Tamil Nadu which is a huge leap from the 1% vote share it received in the 2016 assembly elections. “Based on only the Eelam cause, NTK has scored so much so Stalin is also focussing on it,” says political commentator Raveendran Duraisamy. “Regarding dual citizenship, it is in the hands of the NDA government, but they will not look into it now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cmstalin-announces-317-4cr-package-for-sl-tamilian-refugees-101630089570654.html
28-08-2021||India||Amid power tussle, Rawat seeks to be relieved of Punjab duties||Congress general secretary Harish Rawat said on Friday that he wanted to be relieved of the responsibility of handling Punjab, where a bitter fight between the chief minister and the state unit chief continues to roil the party.Rawat, a former chief minister of Uttarakhand, said he wanted to focus on his home state that goes to the polls simultaneously with Punjab early next year. He is the chief of the party’s election campaign committee in Uttarakhand.“I have discussed the issue with the party national leadership to find a solution to it as I would be majorly focussing on Uttarakhand elections. That solution may include replacing me from the responsibility of Punjab state in-charge if the leadership thinks so,” he told reporters in Dehradun on Friday.The Congress is aiming to displace the Bharatiya Janata Party in Uttarakhand in assembly polls next year.Rawat said that striking a balance between his roles in Punjab and Uttarakhand wasn’t a problem in the digital era. “Sitting in Uttarakhand, I am able to speak to a block president in Punjab through phone which has made the life easier. Also, the distance between Uttarakhand to Punjab is only about 300km which is not to far,” he said. He also met party chief Sonia Gandhi in Delhi. When reporters asked Rawat if he has sought to be relieved as the in-charge of Congress’ Punjab affairs so that he can concentrate on the upcoming polls in his state, the former Uttarakhand CM replied in the affirmative.The senior leader has been at the centre of the infighting that engulfed the Punjab Congress unit since May. He was part of a three-member panel that brokered an interim solution between Navjot Singh Sidhu and Amarinder Singh in June and later emerged as the party’s chief troubleshooter in the state.Rawat earlier dropped hints about his wish to be relieved of the Punjab responsibilities during an interview to HT on August 19. “Having the roots of my political life in Uttarakhand, I would be emphasising on the upcoming assembly elections in the state by putting all my efforts to ensure party’s win. I have spoken to the party national leadership to find a solution between my responsibilities of Punjab and my home state for the same,” Rawat had said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-power-tussle-rawat-seeks-to-be-relieved-of-punjab-duties-101630089510678.html
28-08-2021||India||Sidhu warns against power being curtailed; aide quits||A combative Navjot Singh Sidhu issued a veiled threat to the Congress as one of his key advisers was forced to quit over controversial remarks on Kashmir on Friday, deepening the party’s factional crisis in poll-bound Punjab.Sidhu’s comments came on Thursday night, hours after his rival, chief minister Amarinder Singh, held a show of strength with 55 of the party’s 80 lawmakers in the state. It appeared to be in response to party general secretary Harish Rawat asking the Punjab Congress chief to remove two of his advisers after their comments kicked up a row.“I’ve conveyed to the high command that if I meet public expectations through the Punjab model, I’ll not let the Congress lose ground in politics for 20 years. But if you don’t allow me to take decisions, I’ll hit back hard,” Sidhu told a gathering of traders and businessmen in Amritsar.“Without having the right to decide, being a mere showpiece is useless,” he added.At the event, Sidhu also indirectly attacked Singh and his policies. “I neither take an oath nor do I promise, but I commit,” he said.Rawat, who is also the Punjab affairs in-charge, downplayed Sidhu’s remarks.“I will see the context in which Sidhu made these remarks. Mr Sidhu is the respected chief of the Punjab unit. Who else has the power to take decisions if not the state presidents?” he said.Singh and Sidhu have been locked in a bitter war for control of the party in Punjab since May.In June, the central leadership brokered a truce and elevated Sidhu to state unit chief overriding the CM’s objections. But the fragile peace was shattered earlier this week when leaders close to Singh and Sidhu publicly attacked each other, throwing the party in turmoil.Since then, both leaders have moved to consolidate support with Sidhu loyalists even saying that they had lost faith in Singh. But on Wednesday, Rawat signalled his support for Singh, telling ministers close to Sidhu that the party will fight the 2022 elections under the sitting CM’s leadership.At the heart of the controversy are the statements made by two of Sidhu’s newly appointed advisers, Malvinder Singh Mali and Pyare Lal Garg.In a Facebook post last week, Mali said Kashmir was a “country of Kashmiri people” and called both India and Pakistan its illegal occupiers. In a separate post, he put a sketch of late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi standing near a heap of human skulls with a gun in her hand. Garg criticised Amarinder for attacking Pakistan over Kashmir.Singh immediately condemned the remarks and called them “atrocious” and “anti-national”. Mali later clarified that these were his “personal views” but Rawat told reporters on Thursday that the remarks were totally unacceptable and that he asked Sidhu to remove them. Singh immediately criticised the comments and called them “atrocious” and “anti-national” but Sidhu remained quiet.On Friday, facing increasing criticism both within the party and outside, Mali quit. “I humbly submit that I withdraw my consent given for tendering suggestions to Navjot Sidhu,” he said in a statement on Facebook.Mali did not term it as his resignation and claimed, in another post in Punjabi, that the question of his resignation did not arise as he had never accepted the post.He alleged that Singh and other leaders ran a hate campaign against him.A former government teacher, Mali was a student union leader who turned to journalism before serving as a public relations officer in the chief minister’s office under two different governments. Garg, a former registrar of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, is a known social and health activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-warns-against-power-being-curtailed-aide-quits-101630089210537.html
28-08-2021||India||Delhi HC notice to Centre over WhatsApp, FB petitions against the new IT rules||The Delhi high court on Friday sought the Centre’s response to pleas by WhatsApp and Facebook challenging the new Information Technology Rules, 2021, specifically the “traceability” provision.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued a notice asking the Centre, through the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY), to file a reply on the petition for a stay on the implementation of the rules.Appearing for the Centre, its counsel sought an adjournment saying that the main counsel in the matter was not available. This, however, was opposed by senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for WhatsApp and Facebook, respectively. They said that the Centre should at least file their replies to the petition.The court, while issuing notice, posted the matter for hearing on October 22.In May, WhatsApp moved the high court challenging the IT rules saying that the provision of “traceability” is a violation of the right to privacy according to Indian law. The Facebook-owned messaging service has said that the concept is contrary to the end-to-end encryption policy designed to ensure that messages were strictly private. It said that “traceability” would reveal to whom the message was sent.WhatsApp has urged the high court to declare Rule 4(2) of the Intermediary Rules as unconstitutional, ultra vires to the IT Act and illegal, and sought that no criminal liability be imposed on it for any alleged non-compliance with Rule 4(2) which requires enabling the identification of the first originator of information.Also Read | India notifies Drone Rules 2021, license regulations eased: 10 pointsThe Union government had, however, defended the rules.The government had also stated that while it respects the right to privacy, no fundamental right, including the right to privacy, is absolute.WhatsApp has also contended that “traceability would not be effective in finding the originator of a particular message because people commonly see content on websites or social media platforms and then copy and paste them into chats”. It said that it would also be impossible to understand the context of how it was originally shared.WhatsApp has said that it does not believe traceability can be imposed in a way that cannot be spoofed or modified, leading to new ways for people to be framed for things they did not say or do. It added that such massive data collection also makes messaging platforms inherently less secure by opening up more avenues for hacking.The plea said the traceability requirement forces the company to break end-to-end encryption on its messaging service, as well as the privacy principles underlying it, and infringes upon the fundamental rights to privacy and free speech of the hundreds of millions of citizens using WhatsApp to communicate privately and securely.It said WhatsApp enables government officials, law enforcement, journalists, members of ethnic or religious groups, scholars, teachers, students, and the like to exercise their right to freedom of speech and expression without fear of retaliation.It said the rule violates the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression as it chills even lawful speech and citizens will not speak freely for fear that their private communications will be traced and used against them, which is antithetical to the very purpose of end-to-end encryption.Facebook has also filed the plea seeking similar relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-notice-to-centre-over-whatsapp-fb-petitions-against-the-new-it-rules-101630088431371.html
28-08-2021||India||Dip in demand, steep fall in prices hit tomato farmers of Maharashtra, Haryana||Wholesale prices of tomato have fallen steeply to a nearly three-year low, as loss-making farmers in Maharashtra and Haryana dumped produce or fed them to cattle, a repeat of a familiar pattern of price volatility.Sliding rates of some vegetables amid record horticulture production point toward a vegetable deflation that could crimp farm incomes, analysts say.In Haryana’s Toshan on Friday, fresh harvests sold ₹50 per crate of 25 kg, or about ₹2 per kg. On the other hand, the price crash had not moved rates much in cities. In Delhi’s retail markets, the vegetable sold between Rs20-30 per kg.India’s headline wholesale price index inflation slowed to 12.1% in June 2021, down 1.8% in June 2020. Vegetable prices stood -8.73% (repeat minus 8.73%), against a -0.78 (repeat minus 0.78%) decline in June, official data show.The current glut, economists say, has to do with the cobweb pattern of agriculture, which means that farmers decide what to grow depending on the previous year’s price realization.India is set to reap its highest ever horticulture crop production at 329 million tonne in 2020-21, a nearly 3% rise in output, according to latest official estimates.Farmers in Nashik, a major trade centre, said they were incurring heavy losses and abandoning their produce because selling rates were not enough to cover even transportation costs. Farmers in Haryana too said they weren’t able to recover costs.According to the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, a federal body, a farmer incurs a minimum of ₹4 to grow a kg of tomato on own land. With leased land and hired labour, the cost of growing one kg of tomato can go up to ₹8-10.“Forwarding agents are telling us that Delhi, Kolkata and Mumbai wholesale markets have lowered their demand for the past two days between 6-8%. This is the immediate reason for the fall in prices,” said Prakash Kumawat, an official at the agricultural produce marketing committee in Nashik.Nyay Singh, a grower in Chakri Dadri in Haryana, said he had abandoned his entire produce harvested 10 days ago, of about four crates of 25 kg each.Three commonly consumed vegetables – tomato, potato and onion – are prone to frequent seasonal price fluctuations. When prices crash, small growers who can’t afford to hold on to their produce are affected the most. On the other hand, sudden price spirals tend to hit household budgets of consumers.Potato output is set to surge 10.5% over last year’s, while tomato and onion production during the 2020-21 cycle is set to be marginally higher. Official data show onion output will likely be 26.9 million tonne in 2020-21, up from 26.09 million tonne last year. Tomato output is estimated to be 21 million tonne in 2020-21 compared to 20.55 million tonne in 2019-20.“If the production estimates contained in the agriculture ministry’s advance estimates of horticulture are accurate, such a fall in tomato prices are not to be expected, but this year isn’t likely to be good for vegetable growers,” said Ashok Agrawal, an analyst with Comtrade, a commodities trading firm.Experts say lack of growers can get consistent prices, while consumers can be shielded from price shocks if there’s adequate food processing facilities to make tomato puree. Wholesale prices of tomato have fallen steeply to a nearly three-year low leading loss-making farmers in Maharashtra and Haryana to dump the produce or feed them to cattle, a repeat of a familiar pattern of price volatility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dip-in-demand-steep-fall-in-prices-hit-tomato-farmers-of-maha-hry-101630088254497.html
28-08-2021||India||Mysuru gang-rape: Now, another minister puts blame on survivor||Another Karnataka minister on Friday made a controversial remark while reacting to the Mysuru gang-rape incident, saying the survivor should not have gone to the deserted place, a day after his colleague made a similar statement.“Whether they are a young couple or newly married couples, they should not go to such places at all. We can’t tell everyone not to go there. We can’t keep the police in every single spot and be vigilant. Only when it comes to light can the police take action,” Anand Singh, minister for tourism, environment and ecology, said on Friday.A 22-year-old college student was allegedly raped by five men near Chamundi Hill on the outskirts of Mysuru on Tuesday. The woman and her male friend, who was assaulted by the gang, are undergoing treatment in a private hospital, police said.Reacting to Singh’s remarks, Dr Yathindra Siddaramiah, Congress legislator from Varuna in Mysuru district, said: “We are no one to dictate what time women should go out. It is the government’s job to give everyone protection. Its not their job to see who went where at what time. Instead of making such statements, the ministers should perform their responsibilities.”Singh’s comments came a day after state home minister Araga Jnanendra questioned the timing of the survivor’s visit to the deserted spot where she was gangraped. As the home minister’s comments sparked a war of words between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress, he said the opposition party was politicising the issue. “The rape has happened there in Mysuru, but the Congress is trying to rape me. They are trying to gain political mileage in that incident,” he said on Thursday.Jnanendra withdrew his comments on Friday after facing a barrage of criticism, saying he had “no intention to hurt anybody”. “I had withdrawn the statement made earlier on the Congress party leaders. We are committed to ensuring the safety of all sections in the society,” Jnanendra said while addressing a press conference.Shivaram Hebbar, Karnataka’s minister for labour, on Friday, defended the home minister and said: “This is an unfortunate and heinous (crime). It could happen to anyone under any government. It has not happened only when our government is there. Such incidents have happened for years, under the Congress and all governments . This (oppostion balming the BJP) is a political ploy.” .He also said that security measures will be tightened to ensure the protection of all, especially women, in the state. “A police investigation is underway to nab the culprits. The girl is under medical care at a hospital. Security will be tightened further to ensure the protection of all, especially women,” he added.Reacting on the incident, Manjula Manasa, an advocate and former chairperson of the Karnataka State Women’s Commission, said on Friday: “I feel disgusted that despite being an MBA student I don’t know why she came here at that time. That is a mistake too.”Meanwhile, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said that the state director general of police, Praveen Sood, will supervise the investigation into the gang-rape case. “The DGP is going to Mysuru. I have directed him to supervise the investigation and crack the case at the earliest,” the CM told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mysuru-gang-rape-now-another-minister-puts-blame-on-survivor-101630088189979.html
28-08-2021||India||BCI proposes to frame laws to restrain lawyers’ strikes||The Bar Council of India, the apex regulator for Indian lawyers, has proposed to frame rules to restrain lawyers from going on strike and take disciplinary action against individuals and associations who defy the rule, BCI chairman Manan Kumar Mishra told the Supreme Court on Friday.The top court sought Mishra’s assistance in July this year to formulate concrete steps to prevent lawyers from going on strike, which it has ruled, was an “illegal act” to obstruct access to justice.Mishra said the proposed rule to curtail strikes by lawyers will be discussed at a meeting of state bar councils on September 4. In addition, he said action is also proposed against advocates who instigate others on social media to go on strike.The bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah welcomed the proposal.“We appreciate the proactive steps taken by the BCI in this regard. BCI shall file an affidavit in this Court before the next date of hearing,” the bench said before posting the case in the third week of September.The case before the court pertained to an appeal by the District Bar Association, Dehradun which approached the Supreme Court against a Uttarakhand high court judgment that restrained lawyers in the district courts from going on strike.The high court verdict of September 25, 2019, relied on data for the period between 2012 and 2016 to show that lawyers in Dehradun district were on strike for 455 days (on an average 91 days per year) and in Haridwar district for 515 days (about 103 days per year), which seriously affected the functioning of courts and contributed to the pendency of cases.The Supreme Court upheld the high court judgment on February 28, 2020, and took suo moto cognizance of the tendency among lawyers to go on strike despite a clear bar imposed by the Supreme Court. The top court also recalled that BCI also passed a resolution on September 29, 2002, asking lawyers not to go on strike.Since lawyers nevertheless continued to go on strike, the Supreme Court did not close the Uttarakhand case.“Taking a serious note of the fact that despite the aforesaid decisions of this Court, still, the lawyers/Bar Associations go on strikes, we take suo moto cognizance and issue notices to the Bar Council of India and all the State Bar Councils to suggest the further course of action and to give concrete suggestions to deal with the problem of strikes/abstaining of work by the lawyers,” the bench said in its February 2020 order.Section 48 of the Advocates Act empowers BCI to give directions to the State Bar Councils. The 2020 verdict ruled that bar associations of advocates, and not just the advocates, were under the disciplinary jurisdiction of the bar councils.When the court did not get a response from the bar council to its initial notice, the judges sought the BCI chairman’s assistance. Mishra told the court on Friday that state bar councils were unable to meet due to the Covid-19 pandemic and a meeting had been scheduled to discuss the proposed rules next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bci-proposes-to-frame-laws-to-restrain-lawyers-strikes-101630088011122.html
28-08-2021||India||Plan to mount evacuation ops in Afghanistan: MEA||India is considering the possibility of mounting more evacuation flights to bring back nationals still in Afghanistan even as the government has adopted a cautious approach to recognising any new set-up in Kabul in view of the fluid situation there.At least 20 Indian nationals and some 140 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus were unable to access Kabul airport to board a military evacuation flight on Wednesday, reportedly due to impediments created by the Taliban. The security situation at the airport has taken a turn for the worse after Thursday’s devastating suicide attack by the Islamic State-Khorasan that killed nearly 100 people, including 13 US military personnel.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi declined to give an exact number for Indian citizens who are still in Afghanistan, saying the figure changes as requests come in from people to be evacuated, though he acknowledged that at least 20 Indians had missed the flight from Kabul on Wednesday.“Our overall assessment is that the vast majority of Indians who wished to return have been evacuated, but of course, some more are likely to be in Afghanistan. I don’t have an exact number for that,” he told a regular weekly news briefing on Friday.Describing the situation on the ground as “very difficult”, he said India is in touch with “various parties regarding when we can mount evacuation flights”.The last evacuation flight had about 40 people, and there were reports that Afghan nationals were facing difficulties in reaching the airport. “Some Indians, say around 20...were also trying to reach [the airport] and as you’ve seen the kind of chaos at the airport, they could not reach. And so our flight had to come without these Indian nationals,” he said.Indian evacuation flights have so far brought back more than 550 people, including more than 260 Indians, from Kabul or Dushanbe. The government has also facilitated the evacuation of Indians through other countries.These evacuation efforts have involved coordination with several countries, particularly the US, which controls Kabul airport, and Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Iran.While the current focus is on the safe evacuation of people, India, like other countries, has adopted a wait and watch attitude on the issue of recognising any Taliban regime in Kabul.“The situation on the ground is uncertain...Currently, there is a lack of clarity or no clarity about any entity forming a government in Kabul. I think we are jumping the gun here regarding recognition,” Bagchi said.“We continue to monitor the situation very carefully,” he said, adding there various reports about whether the next set-up in Kabul will be inclusive and whether other elements of Afghan polity will find representation in it.“There is a peace process, and discussions are ongoing now. Let’s wait and see how it develops,” he said.Bagchi reiterated that India will “stand by Afghans who stood by us”, and said a recent incident of an Afghan MP being sent back to Turkey after she travelled to New Delhi on her diplomatic passport was the outcome of “confusion”.After the security situation deteriorated following the Taliban takeover on August 15, groups of people raided one of India’s outsourcing agencies handling Afghan passports with Indian visas.“In the light of the loss of Afghan passports containing Indian visas, our authorities were in a state of high alert,” he said, adding that the resultant confusion led to the “unfortunate incident of denial of entry” to the Afghan MP.Responding to a question on the status of Afghans who enter India through a new emergency e-visa regime, Bagchi said they would be allowed to stay in the country for six months.“We will take it from there...that’s the current plan for six months. This is an evolving situation, I think making long-term plans has not been the best of ideas considering the changes of the last few days,” he said.“India has always been a place where people have come in times of distress, people have come here before this problem started. Discussions are going on to see what can be the modalities, how to deal with Afghans already here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plan-to-mount-evacuation-ops-in-afghanistan-mea-101630087712485.html
