29-08-2021||India||Bengal post-poll violence: CBI meets affected families, files 7 more cases||Kolkata: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Sunday recorded the complaints of several families in five districts of West Bengal while carrying out probe into post-poll violence and registered seven more cases, said officials aware of the development. With this, the agency has registered 28 cases so far.On Sunday, the CBI officers visited South 24 Parganas, East Burdwan, Howrah and Birbhum districts in south Bengal, and Cooch Behar in north Bengal. The Calcutta high court had on August 19 ordered a court-monitored CBI probe into the allegations of murder and crime against women – rape and attempt to rape – that were reported after the assembly poll results were announced on May 2.In Cooch Behar, the probe agency recorded the statement of Trinamool Congress (TMC) worker Shahinur Rehman’s family. Rehman was kidnapped and murdered, allegedly by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supporters, on May 5 and his body was found in a corn field. In South 24 Parganas, a CBI team headed by joint director Anurag Singh visited the home of BJP worker Raju Samanta who was allegedly lynched at Ramnagar on May 29. The CBI team met the family of Nirmal Mondal who was killed on May 3. Mondal, a driver by profession, was lynched inside his home, said an officer who did not want to be named. Mondal was a TMC worker but joined the BJP before the March-April polls. His wife left the house after the killing. In Birbhum, the CBI spoke to the family of Manoj Jaiswal, a construction material trader who was killed in the Nalhati area on May 14. He joined the BJP a month before the polls. “Jaiswal was murdered by TMC workers,” said Dhruba Saha, the BJP’s Birbhum unit president.Neither the TMC nor the state government have so far made any statement on the CBI probe. In Howrah district, CBI officers recorded the statement of Debalina Ghosh,wife of BJP worker, Suvadip Ghosh, whose left eye was permanently damaged in an assault on May 2. “I told the CBI that TMC workers attacked me when they could not find my husband, Suvadip Ghosh, inside the house. I hope justice will be delivered,” said Ghosh .The CBI team also visited Rajiv Palli in Howrah’s Domjor , where several houses were ransacked. In East Burdwan, the officers spoke to Anil Khetrapal, the husband of CPI(M) worker Kakali Khetrapal who was hacked to death on May 3 at Jamalpur. “TMC workers attacked me and my wife because our son Ashish had joined the BJP,” said Khetrapal. The central agency which began the probe on Monday made its first arrest in connection with the post-poll violence on Saturday. Bijoy Ghosh and Ashima Ghosh were arrested from Chapra in Nadia district in connection with the murder of a BJP worker Dharma Mondol on May 14, the officials confirmed.. The accused were produced in court on Sunday and remanded in police custody. Each of the four CBI teams - which comprise deputy inspector generals and superintendents from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Karnataka and other states – is being headed by a joint director. The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) is providing security to the visiting teams. On June 18, the Calcutta high court asked the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to probe the incidents of post-poll violence. After studying the NHRC’s final report filed on July 13, the high court last week ordered separate probes by the CBI and a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the state police into the alleged violence.The NHRC recommended a CBI probe and said the court cases should be heard outside Bengal. The state government told the court that the NHRC report was biased and prepared with a political motive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-post-poll-violence-cbi-meets-affected-families-files-7-more-cases-101630261675633.html
29-08-2021||India||Rajasthan runs out of funds to pay for coal, four thermal power units shut down||Four thermal power units in Rajasthan are shut and the rest have 3-4 days of stock left of coal as the Rajasthan Vidhyut Utpadan Nigam Limited (power generation firm) has run out of money to pay for coal. Two thermal units of Kalisindh (Jhalawar) of 600x2 MW, 250MW of Giral (Barmer) and 1500MW of Suratgarh Thermal Power Station in Sriganganagar are shut for the last 10 days. One unit of Kalisindh was expected to start on Sunday. A department official on condition of anonymity said most of the power plants of the state have coal for 2-4 days. With dues of coal firms pending, the supply was stopped resulting in the shutting down of some thermal plants. Rajasthan has six thermal units in district Suratgarh with 2160 MW capacity, Kota (1240MW), Chhabra (1320MW), Kalisindh (1200MW), Giral 250MW (Barmer), 270.50MW plant in Jaisalmer. As of August 1, 2021, Rajasthan has to clear an outstanding of ₹409 crore to Parsa Kanta Collieries Limited (PKCL), ₹68 crore is to be cleared to Northern Coalfields Limited, ₹325 crore is released; and ₹444.6 crore is pending to South Eastern Coalfields, ₹530 crore is released, said the official. The state government needs to clear a pending amount of over ₹900 crore to coal companies. Facing a crisis, the CM has released ₹900 crore, and is sanctioning another ₹1000 crore to clear the dues. With the thermal units shutting down, the discoms are also buying power from the power exchange to meet the need. “Due to a weak monsoon, which resulted in high temperatures, the demand for electricity has increased from 20 crore units per day to 30 crore units per day,” he said. Energy Minister, BD Kalla said the coal shortage issue will be resolved in a week. “Under the agreement, Coal India was supposed to give four and a half rakes but instead sent three. We have urged them to meet the gap by sending nine racks (one rake contains 4000 tonne).” He added that efforts are made to provide coal through rail and road transport to meet the requirement in coming 7 days. Kalla said Union minister Prahlad Joshi had assured that the shortage will be met. The shortage is due to the coal mines flooding with water – the water is being pumped out and soon supply will start. Former CM Vasundhara Raje targeted the government over the power crisis saying that it is due to mismanagement. In a statement, Raje said due to the mismanagement of the government, there are unannounced power cuts in the state. Not only in the villages, people are also troubled in the cities too due to power cuts. The biggest Suratgarh Super Thermal Power Plant has come to a standstill. Apart from this, many power houses are shut and many are on the verge of closure. She said the state government was not paying for coal, hence the supply had been stopped, which has affected power generation. During her government, the payment was on time, and hence there was no shortage of coal, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-runs-out-of-funds-to-pay-for-coal-four-thermal-power-units-shut-down-101630261002614.html
29-08-2021||India||SC issues SOPs for resumption of physical hearing from Wednesday||The Supreme Court issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for resuming physical hearing only for the final hearing of cases beginning September 1 for three days in a week, 17 months after the courts shut down in March 2020 and took up cases through a videoconferencing due to Covid-19 pandemic. The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to be followed in this regard was made public on Sunday by the Supreme Court. The circular issued by Supreme Court Secretary-General on Friday said, “With a view to gradually facilitate resumption of physical hearing, the final hearing/regular matters listed on non-miscellaneous days may be heard in the physical mode (with hybrid option), as may be decided by the Hon’ble Bench, considering the number of parties in a matter as well as the limited capacity of the Court rooms. Further, any other matter may be heard in physical mode on such days, if Hon’ble Bench directs likewise.”The option of physical hearing is being provided only for final hearing or regular matters on non-miscellaneous days (Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday) while the matters listed on miscellaneous days (Mondays and Fridays) will strictly be through the videoconferencing app Vidyo.In keeping with the Covid-19 protocol, the lawyers who intend to appear for physical hearing have to intimate the Registry of the Supreme Court in advance. “Wearing of mask, frequent use of hand sanitiser and maintaining physical distancing norms are mandatory for all entrants into the Supreme Court premises, including into the Courtrooms,” the SOP said.Entry to lawyers/litigants will be through Special Entry passes issued by the Court after thermal check and other scanning devices to check infection status.The physical hearing, at present, has been restricted to 20 persons at a given time and in the event, there are more than 20 persons opting for physical hearing in a case, the same shall invariably be listed for hearing through videoconferencing mode. The discretion of taking up the matter through physical or offline mode has been left to the choice of the lawyer and discretion of the bench hearing the matter, the circular specified.The SOP stated, “Once hearing through physical mode is opted by the advocate-on-record/litigant appearing in person, hearing through video/tele-conferencing mode to the party concerned will not be facilitated.”With the vaccination of lawyers progressing at a steady pace and both Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) and the Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association (SCAORA), the two main associations of lawyers practising at the Supreme Court coming forward with demands to resume physical hearing of cases, the Chief Justice of India, NV Ramana agreed to consider the issue and held discussions with the two bar associations this month.SCBA has not taken a formal decision yet on the SOP. An SCBA official confirmed that the association is yet to examine the SOP. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-issues-sops-for-resumption-of-physical-hearing-from-wednesday-101630260942748.html
29-08-2021||India||Chautala promises action against officer for telling cops to ‘break’ farmers heads||Haryana Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Sunday disapproved of the remarks of a duty magistrate who asked police to “break” farmers’ heads during their protest in Karnal and promised action against him.A 2018-batch IAS officer, deputed as duty magistrate during the farmers’ protest in Karnal, was caught on camera asking police to “break farmers’ heads”.Deputy CM-cum-JJP leader Chautala promised the action against the magistrate amid mounting opposition’s attack against the M L Khattar government over the Saturday lathicharge on farmers and their demand of strict action against the magistrate.“The 2018-batch IAS officer’s video has gone viral. Using such a language by an IAS officer is condemnable,” said Chautala.“I think during their training, officers are taught how to face such situations and how to maintain balance in their actions. But what he said clearly does not meet the ethical standards which are expected from such officers,” said Chautala, censuring the officer’s remark.“Definitely, whatever action is deemed fit, the government will take it,” he said.The deputy chief minister, however, also condemned the farmers’ violence, including stone-pelting at police, during their protest in Karnal. “Do you support the kind of action which was seen from the other side?”Referring to the Karnal incident, he said he was “saddened by the events” but questioned the ultimate motive of farmer leaders. “I am saddened by the events, but I want to ask through the media where are those 40 leaders. After all, what is their ultimate motive?” he asked.He also questioned why Haryana has been made the epicentre of protests.Chautala asserted that there was “no insecurity or fear among farmers” over the farm laws but “some farm leaders and middlemen are fuelling the agitation using their shoulder”.“They want to weaken Haryana’s agrarian economy, they want to break its system. They want to put Haryana under turmoil. Why this movement is not going to Punjab, Rajasthan or Uttar Pradesh, why are the people of Haryana being provoked?” he asked.“Their aim is to destabilise the Haryana economy,” Chautala said.He said “new mandis are being built in Haryana, crops are being procured at Minimum Support Price, what, after all, is the issue left here?”The JJP leader said the Centre is even open to amendments in farm laws, but despite that, the unions are not coming forward for talks. “Unless the talks are held, no solution can be found,” Chautala said.He also insinuated that the farmers’ agitation in Haryana will last till the Punjab polls.“It will become clear in five months if this prolonged agitation is not because of the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chautala-promises-action-against-officer-for-telling-cops-to-break-farmers-heads-101630260881870.html
29-08-2021||India||Mansukh Mandaviya rolls out Gujarat facility’s first Covaxin batch||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Sunday rolled out the first commercial batch of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, manufactured at a facility in Gujarat’s Ankleshwar, paving the way to augment the supply of the indigenously developed vaccine against Covid-19.The Chiron Behring Vaccines plant, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bharat Biotech at Ankleshwar, has a production capacity of at least 10 million doses per month and its doses will be out for use from next month onwards. According to the Centre’s recent statement in Parliament, the production of Covaxin is projected to increase from the current 25 million doses per month to at least 58 million doses around the last quarter of this year.“Vaccination is crucial to strengthen India’s fight against Covid-19. Today, I released the first commercial batch of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech’s manufacturing plant situated in Ankleshwar, Gujarat,” Mandaviya said in a Twitter post in Hindi.On Sunday, Bharat Biotech said that it was looking at the annual production target of one billion doses in all its facilities put together.“A new filing facility constructed during 2020 is now being utilized for the production of Covaxin. The Covaxin production had begun in early June, before which the team had executed engineering batches to study the equipment functionality at the facility. Chiron Behring Vaccines is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bharat Biotech,” said Bharat Biotech in a statement.Bharat Biotech has already deployed multiple production lines at its Hyderabad, Malur, Bengaluru, and Pune campuses, and the addition of Chiron Behring, Ankleshwar will further augment the production capacity of Covaxin.“We want to ensure that Bharat Biotech can ably meet the demand for Covaxin such that individuals across the country, and the globe, have access to the vaccine and can secure their health and safety. Our goal to develop a vaccine with global safety and efficacy standards has now been achieved, we are now marching towards the goal of the annualized capacity of ~ 1.0 billion doses,” said Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director, Bharat Biotech.According to Bharat Biotech, each batch of Covaxin undergoes over 200 quality control tests before being submitted to the Central Drugs Laboratory for final testing.The company is also exploring manufacturing partnerships in other countries, with its partners who have prior expertise with commercial-scale manufacturing of inactivated viral vaccines under biosafety containment for further augmentation.Bharat Biotech co-developed Covaxin along with the Indian Council of Medical Research. It is one of the six vaccines being used in India’s Covid-19 immunisation programme, the others being Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, Russian-made Sputnik V, Zydus Cadila’s ZyCov-D, and the American vaccines— Moderna and Johnson and Johnson (J&J).Till Sunday night, India has administered nearly 850,298 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, with 341,139,477 people vaccinated with one dose and 144,889, 225 people having received both doses of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandaviya-rolls-out-gujarat-facility-s-first-covaxin-batch-101630260711402.html
29-08-2021||India||Isro tests propulsion system of Gaganyaan||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) on Saturday successfully conducted the first hot test to check the propulsion system of Gaganyaan’s service module – the service module located below the crew module in which the astronauts will travel constitutes the spacecraft. The two modules remain connected till the re-entry into earth’s atmosphere. As per previous descriptions by Isro chairperson Dr K Sivan, the whole configuration – crew module and service module -- is turned in the opposite direction during re-entry and the thrust of the engine is used to reduce the velocity. The propulsion system demonstration model was fired for 450 seconds at the Isro Propulsion Complex in Mahendergiri, Tamil Nadu. The performance met the pre-test predictions. “A series of hot tests are planned to simulate various mission conditions as well as off-nominal conditions,” the space agency said in a statement. The service module propulsion system consists of five main 440 N engines and sixteen 100 N thrusters to create a reaction control system (engines capable of giving small amounts of thrust to adjust the direction of a spacecraft). The system demonstration model used for the test, however, had five 440 N engines and eight 100 N thrusters to qualify the propulsion system on ground. Isro in July conducted the final hot test of its L110 liquid engine to be used in the GSLV-MK III launch vehicle that will carry the Gaganyaan mission to space. This, experts said, was a pretty big milestone signalling that two of the three stages of the rocket was ready for launch, with testing of the upper cryogenic stage remaining. Ajay Lele, senior fellow working on space security and strategic technologies at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, said, “ISRO is currently testing various modules of the mission, however, we need two clean tests of the complete system before we send astronauts to space. And, that is going to take probably another two years.” He added, with the mission missing the deadline of the 75th Independence Day due to the pandemic, the mission has lost steam. “ISRO will also need to launch two satellites for communication before the final mission. Also, the recent failure of the GSLV is definitely a problem (although the launch vehicle is different from the GSLV Mk III to be used in Gaganyaan mission). There is a need to evaluate what went wrong and ensure it doesn’t happen in this mission,” said Lele.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-tests-propulsion-system-of-gaganyaan-101630260701660.html
29-08-2021||India||JD-U national council reiterates demand for caste census, says law not enough for population control||The national council meeting of the JD-U on Sunday endorsed all the decisions taken at the party’s national executive meeting held in New Delhi on July 31, when Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh was made the party president.JD-U general secretary KC Tyagi later said while talking to the media that Lalan Singh was now formally made the national president of the party. The council also passed a resolution that the party chief would head the party’s parliamentary board in keeping with the party’s Constitution.“It has also been decided that the party will contest the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Manipur. The party would like honourable seat-sharing in UP and other states. In 2017, the party did not contest despite a demand and that affected our expansion. The council also reiterated its demand for caste census, for which Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had led an all-party delegation to the PM earlier this month,” he added, emphasising that JD-U had remained the most reliable partner of the BJP.The council also passed a resolution demanding that the Rohini Commission recommendations be made public. In 2017, the Centre had set up Justice Rohini Commission, which favoured sub-categorisation of reservation for other backward castes (OBCs) in the government sector by splitting 27% quota into different categories of OBC for equitable distribution of benefits among different sub-castes. After several extensions, it could submit its report, dividing 2633 OBC sub-castes in the central list into four sub-categories with 2%, 6%, 9% and 10% quota to add up to 27%. However, its report has not yet come out.The council, while favouring the need for population control, reiterated Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s stand that the objective of could be best achieved by creating awareness and boosting education among girls, as Bihar had experienced over the last one and half decades. Kumar also presented facts as to how the total fertility rate (TFR) had come down from over four to three and it could reach two with the expansion of girls’ education and self-reliance due to a range of initiatives for them.“Merely making a law will not serve the purpose. It requires overall approach as it requires a change in mind-set, which can come only through education and empowerment,” he added.In his address, Kumar also batted for caste census and its importance to frame policies and programmes for those left out. Parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said that he was also part of the delegation to the PM and there has been no opposition to the demand for caste census from any quarter, which speaks about its need.The council discussed a range of issues, including organisational strengthening, upcoming election in Uttar Pradesh and other states and party’s expansion plans in its quest for national status.The council also tried to dispel speculations about the internal rift in the party by presenting a united front. Lalan Singh was effusive in his praise of Union minister RCP Singh, from whom he took charge as party’s national chief, in the presence of Nitish Kumar and all the senior party leaders. RCP Singh said that Lalan Singh was an old associate and the party would grow further under his leadership.During discussion, Nitish Kumar’s potential for being a PM candidate also surfaced, though it was stated that he was not a candidate for the post, but had all the qualities.RCP Singh said that there was no substitute to Kumar and his work spoke for him not only as the reformist Bihar CM, but also as a capable union minister in important ministries like Railways and agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jdu-national-council-reiterates-demand-for-caste-census-says-law-not-enough-for-population-control-101630259621161.html
29-08-2021||India||Supreme Court issues SOP for physical hearing of cases from Sept 1||The Supreme Court will be resuming physical hearing of cases on three days in a week beginning September 1; nearly 17 months after the Courts shut down in March 2020 and took up cases through a videoconferencing platform. This facility is optional and can be availed by lawyers/litigants in addition to the choice of online hearing already existing.The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to be followed in this regard was released by the Supreme Court on Sunday. The circular released by Supreme Court Secretary-General said, “With a view to gradually facilitate resumption of physical hearing, the final hearing/regular matters listed on non-miscellaneous days may be heard in the physical mode (with hybrid option), as may be decided by the Hon’ble Bench, considering the number of parties in a matter as well as the limited capacity of the Court rooms. Further, any other matter may be heard in physical mode on such days, if Hon’ble Bench directs likewise.”The option of physical hearing is being provided only for final hearing or regular matters on non-miscellaneous days (Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday) while the matters listed on miscellaneous days (Mondays and Fridays) will strictly be through the videoconferencing app Vidyo.It was on March 6 this year; the top court issued a circular introducing hybrid hearing as a pilot scheme to introduce physical hearing of regular cases or old matters on an experimental basis. Later, the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) took objection to the SOP issued by the Court then and complained of lack of adequate consultation. The pilot scheme was even challenged by the SCBA before the top court where the judges tried ironing out the differences but failed. With the onset of the second wave of the pandemic, the circular was put to rest.Now with the vaccination of lawyers progressing at a steady pace and both SCBA and the Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association (SCAORA), the two main associations of lawyers practicing at the Supreme Court coming forward with demands to resume physical hearing of cases, the Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana agreed to consider the issue and held discussions with the two bar associations this month.The physical hearing, at present, has been restricted to 20 persons at a given time and in the event, in a case, there are more than 20 persons opting for physical hearing, the same shall invariably be listed for hearing through videoconferencing mode. The discretion of taking up the matter through physical or offline mode has been left to the choice of the lawyer and discretion of the bench hearing the matter, the circular specified.In keeping with the COVID-19 protocol, the lawyers who intend to appear for physical hearing have to intimate the Registry of the Supreme Court in advance and follow all safeguards of wearing masks, frequent use of hand sanitizers, and maintain physical distancing once they enter the high security zone of the Supreme Court. Entry to lawyers/litigants will be through Special Entry passes issued by the Court after thermal check and other scanning devices to check infection status.The SOP stated, “Once hearing through physical mode is opted by the advocate-on-record/litigant appearing in person, hearing through video/tele-conferencing mode to the party concerned will not be facilitated.”In August last year, a committee of seven senior most judges of the Supreme Court had deliberated on the issue of resuming physical courts and had recommended to start limited physical hearing of cases. The Committee held wide-ranging consultations with the lawyer bodies who consented for such an arrangement. Following this, the Supreme Court installed glass partitions for judges and placed multiple sets of chairs spaced at a distance to facilitate physical appearance of lawyers. However, when the Court approached lawyers for consent, only a handful agreed following which the plan was dropped. It was only revived in March this year with the issuance of the hybrid hearing notification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-issues-sop-for-physical-hearing-of-cases-from-sept-1-101630257041789.html
29-08-2021||India||Himachal administers first dose of Covid vaccine to 100% of its population||Himachal Pradesh became the first state in the country to administer the first dose of the vaccine against coronavirus to cent per cent of its population, said health minister Rajiv Saizal on Sunday. The health department is looking at completing the second of dose of vaccine for all its residents by November end.“The state's performance in vaccinations has been very good. We will administer the second dose to 100 per cent population by November 30,” Saizal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI."Prime Minister Narendra Modi has appreciated the efforts of the Chief Minister of Himachal Pradesh for Covid-19 management and also in the field of vaccination, the state has been doing well right from the beginning," he said.He said the state would organise a special virtual event where Prime Minister Narendra Modi would interact with beneficiaries and health care workers of the state government."According to the 2011 census, 47,00,681 people of the 18-plus age group have been vaccinated. According to the state’s projection, the same age group is 5,37,70,820, but 54,43,113 people have been vaccinated with the first dose," he added.The minister said those found to have been left out of the inoculation drive would be given the dose soon, adding 13 lakh people had been vaccinated in the state.The hill state reported 123 news cases of the virus and one related death on Sunday. At present, there are 1,750 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-administers-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-to-100-of-its-population-101630253831064.html
29-08-2021||India||Kerala Covid crisis: Over 190,000 cases in a week; expert meet on Sept 1||Kerala on Sunday reported 29,836 new Covid-19 cases and 75 related fatalities as the state’s total confirmed cases reached 4,007,408 while the death toll touched 20,541, a bulletin from the state government showed.The daily test positivity rate (TPR) was recorded at 19.67 per cent. At present, the active caseload stood at 2,12,566, an increase of 7,670 cases from the 2,04,896 reported on Saturday. According to data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, Kerala contributed to more than half of the national tally of active cases. Also, cumulative recoveries reached 37,73,754 after 22,088 people recovered in the last 24 hours.Also read | The southern factor in India’s Covid numbersOver 190,000 cases, 1,000 deaths in a weekIn the week ending Sunday, more than 190,000 cases and over 1,000 deaths were reported from the state. Also, the Covid-19 caseload crossed the four-million mark and the death toll went past 20,000.More than 30,000 daily infections were reported on four days in the week and it remained above 24,000 cases on six days. On Monday, 13,383 new cases were logged, which was the least single-day count this week.Worst-affected districtsKozhikode and Malappuram with 31,591 and 30,839 active cases, respectively, remained the worst hit districts by the pandemic, followed by Ernakulam (27,131 active cases) and Thrissur (16,335 active cases). The state capital of Thiruvananthapuram has 13,408 active cases at the moment.What went wrong?Experts have pointed at relaxations ahead of Onam celebrations for the latest surge in the state. The Pinarayi Vijayan-led government had relaxed the Sunday lockdown in the previous week.Health minister Veena George recently said the violation of home quarantine norms also contributed to the spike. She said 35 per cent people in the state were infected with the disease from home, citing a recent study by the health department.VaccinationOn the vaccination front, at least 71 per cent of the eligible population has been inoculated with at least one dose of the vaccine, the health minister said. In previous meetings between the state and the central governments, the Centre had assured of help with adequate vaccine supplies.Crucial assessment meetingWhile the government has imposed a night curfew and a weekend lockdown to contain a further spread of the disease, a meeting of experts has been convened on September 1 to formulate the strategy forward, Vijayan said.Further, the state will have a new Covid-19 testing strategy, George said on Sunday. “More people will be screened to know the exact extent of the spread of the disease in the community. The COVID spread will be assessed in all the districts based on sentinel and random samples. All the districts would take random samples to find out any new clusters of COVID outbreaks,” news agency ANI quoted her as saying.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-covid-crisis-over-190-000-cases-in-a-week-expert-meet-on-sept-1-101630253004350.html
29-08-2021||India||PM Modi lauds Sukhet Model to check pollution in Madhubani villages||An initiative called ‘Sukhet Model” adopted by Dr Rajendra Prasad Agriculture University, Madhubani and local agricultural research centres to check pollution in villages was praised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Maan Ki Baat address on Sunday. The PM said the initiative was giving an impetus to the Swatch Bharat campaign and also providing benefits to farmers. In his address, Modi talked about the major highlights of the Sukhet Model stating how cow dung and waste from houses of villagers are collected and in return the villagers are given money for gas cylinders. He said the waste collected from the villages is used to manufacture Vermi compost, which is made available to farmers. The PM said the model had a four-fold benefit like pollution free environment in villages, disposal of waste in villages, monetary assistance to villagers for gas cylinders and availability of organic fertilisers to farmers. “Just think how such initiatives can increase the strength of our villages. This is the subject of Atma Nirbharta. I will urge all panchayats to think about doing something like this,” the PM said. The Sukhet Model was launched by the agricultural department as part of the climate resilient agricultural programme in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lauds-sukhet-model-to-check-pollution-in-madhubani-villages-101630253680923.html
29-08-2021||India||Amid uproar over MP tribal man's brutal assault, Chouhan vows exemplary action||In the wake of an uproar over the killing of a tribal man in Neemuch by locals over suspicions of theft, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said investigation would be conducted in such a way that people would think several times before committing a similar act. The chief minister further said the perpetrators of the crime would be dealt with strictly.“We'll conduct such probes that people will think several times before repeating these acts,” Chouhan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.शर्मनाक धटना है। मैं शुरू से कहता रहा हूँ। हिंसा को बढ़ावा देने का यही परिणाम होता है। मध्यप्रदेश को भारत की अपराधों की राजधानी बना दिया है। https://t.co/lCvoebwilLVideos of the 40-year-old tribal man, Kanhaiyalal Bheel, being beaten up and dragged after being tied to a vehicle by a group of people led by a man, identified as Chhitar Mal Gurjar, on Neemuch-Singoli road, has created an uproar in the state and political circles. Bheel died a day later at the hospital while undergoing treatment, police said. In the clipping, Bheel could be seen begging for forgiveness while being assaulted and dragged by the vehicle.According to reports, Gurjar's motorcycle had knocked down Bheel and the former was angry that his milk stock had fallen on the road on impact.Police said homes of four accused were demolished during the day, besides arrest of five of the eight men charged with murder under provisions of the IPC and SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Superintendent of Police Suraj Kumar Verma said the illegal homes of Chhitar Mal Gurjar, Mahendra Gurjar and two others have been demolished, and the dossiers of all the accused were being prepared to ensure they got the strictest punishment. He said efforts were on to nab the three accused at large, adding that the case would be tried in a fast-track court to ensure speedy justice.Sharing a tweet of the video, Congress leader Digvijaya Singh said giving to violence resulted in such shameful acts, adding Madhya Pradesh was becoming the crime capital of the country.Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati said the victim was killed over a trivial issue and sought action against those involved in mob lynching.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-uproar-over-mp-tribal-man-s-brutal-assault-chouhan-vows-exemplary-action-101630251695103.html
29-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Karnal SP denies farmer died due to lathicharge and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Karnal SP denies reports of farmer's death due to lathicharge at protestKarnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said had the reports been true, the farmer’s family members would have met them. Read more here.Tokyo Paralympics: Nishad Kumar wins silver medal in T47 high jump event, creates Asian RecordNishad came up with the best attempt of 2.06m to win the medal and also created the Asian record with his best jump in the final. Read more here.Varun Sood reacts as fan says he can never be ‘gentleman like Raqesh Bapat’, explains why he deleted tweet slamming himVarun Sood found himself being slammed by fans of Raqesh Bapat after he tweeted about him but later deleted it. Read more here. Covid-19: Supreme Court to resume hybrid model physical hearing from Sept 1According to an SOP, issued by the secretary general on August 28, courts would keep hearing miscellaneous cases through virtual mode on Mondays and Fridays. Read more here. Recipe: Delicious and super-healthy Corn Chaat to satiate your evening hunger pangsYou don't need to feel guilty about your evening hunger pangs anymore. Celebrity fitness trainer Yasmin Karachiwala has the perfect snack recipe for you. Read more here. Sports minister jumps rope: Anurag Thakur shows off skipping skills||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-karnal-sp-denies-farmer-died-due-to-lathicharge-101630249952176.html
29-08-2021||India||The Week Ahead: Afghanistan turmoil worsens; India gets closer to kids’ inoculation||Will the entire world’s diplomatic might be able to save Afghan lives or the country’s slide into Taliban-enforced authoritarianism? Not an easy question to answer, but this week we will get a glimpse into what India and the rest of the world could possibly do to prevent a complete breakdown of a fragile society.Afghanistan remains the primary foreign policy issue for India, with the focus on pulling out Indian nationals still in Kabul before the August 31 (Tuesday) deadline for the drawdown of US troops. To be sure, India has taken a cautious approach on the issue of any recognition of the new set-up in Kabul, especially at a time when there are indications that Russia and China are willing to work with the Taliban. On the other hand, the Taliban have been indicating that they want good relations with India, but these feelers are being seen in the context of the group’s efforts to gain legitimacy with the international community.Back in India, the focus continues to be Covid and the world’s second largest vaccination drive. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) is likely to meet this week to discuss whether to allow Covid vaccination in children or not; and whether to prioritise children with comorbidities. The meeting is being conducted because the national drugs regulator (Drugs Controller General of India or DCGI) recently granted emergency use approval to Zydus Cadila’s anti Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D that has been tested in participants who were as young as 12 years.GDP estimates will be released on Tuesday, providing a window to what the economy has been going through. India’s GDP contracted by an unprecedented 24.4% in the April-June 2020 quarter, thanks largely to the 68-day national lockdown. This year, though, the story will be different. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has projected a 21.4% GDP growth for this quarter.In two of India’s largest, most important metros, the question that continues to be on everyone’s mind is, “What do we do about school and college education?” In Mumbai, the clamour for the first year junior college (Class XI) admissions is not likely to end anytime soon, and another merit list is expected this week. In Delhi, public and private schools will start reopening for classes 9 to 12 from September 1 after the government’s green signal last Friday. This is the first time they will reopen since March this year. Central and state universities are also expected to take a call on the phased reopening of campuses based on Delhi Disaster Management Authority orders. Delhi University’s Executive Council will hold a meeting on August 31 and pass the National Education Policy provisions implementing the four-year undergraduate programme course structure from the next academic year, along with allowing students to enter-exit the course at any point and use academic credits to switch between universities to finish their degree. The move is significant as it will change the undergraduate course structure. Registrations for undergraduate admissions for this academic session in DU will also close on August 31.In other states, the political activity will continue to remain red hot. In poll-bound Uttarakhand, the state government will organise camps from September 1 to provide 1 lakh self-employment opportunities to the youth of the state by providing them loans. In response to BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra, the Congress will start Parivartan Yatra from chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami’s home turf -- Khatima, in Kumaon -- from September 3. Char Dham priests and people also associated with shrines have warned of intensifying their agitation and resigning from the membership of BJP from September 1 if a decision on dissolution of the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board is not taken by then. In West Bengal, Abhishek Banerjee’s wife Rujira Banerjee had been summoned by Enforcement Directorate for questioning in a multi-crore coal smuggling case on September 1. Meanwhile, the CBI will continue with its probe in post poll violence case. Two persons have alrady been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-week-ahead-afghanistan-turmoil-worsens-india-gets-closer-to-kids-inoculation-101630250024166.html
29-08-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: August 30, 2010 — UK sting reveals Pak pacers bowled no-balls for cash||London –Cricket was mired in a betting scandal once again on Sunday after a British tabloid carried out a sting that allegedly showed two of Pakistan’s finest fast bowlers deliberately bowling no-balls against English batsmen in return for cash. Mohammad Amir and Mohammad Asif, who have tormented the English team with their torrid pace and swing bowling through the summer, delivered three no-balls on Thursday and Friday at the precise moment when an alleged middle man said they would, News of the World reported. The newspaper paid Mazhar Majeed, the alleged Pakistani- origin middleman who has now been arrested, a sum of £150,000 (R 1.05 crore) in used notes and filmed him counting the money before making his accurate pre-dictions. The 35-year-old Surrey property developer is reported to have named seven Pakistani players as being involved in the betting scandal, including captain Salman Butt as the ring- leader and wicketkeeper Kamran Akmal. “I’m going to give you three no-balls to prove to you firstly that this is what’s happening.They’ve all been organised, okay? “ he told reporters posing as front men for a Far Eastern gambling syndicate on Wednesday. Over the next two days, Asif and Amir delivered the no-balls exactly as predicted, the other- wise-flawless quickies over- stepping by such huge margins that commentators were surprised. “I have been doing it with them, the team, for about two and a half years. And we’ve made masses and masses of money, “Majeed said before taking the reporters out for dinner with Butt and teammates Umar Amin and Wahab Riaz. Among other revelations, Majeed declared he was in touch with a bookie in India. “I deal with an Indian party,“ he was quoted by the tabloid. “They pay me for information.“ On Saturday night, British police questioned several Pakistani players and the team manager at the hotel the team was staying in. The mobile phones of Asif, Amir and Butt were confiscated. Skipper Salman Butt, asked if he would resign, replied: “Why? We won a Test against England after 15 years.“ He later denied any wrong-doing. Former Indian wicketkeeper Farokh Engineer told HT he was “shocked, disgusted and disap- pointed“. “Young Amir had made such a terrific impression. Strict action has to be taken but, unfortunately, the ICC is a feeble and toothless body,“ he said. The ICC in a statement confirmed it had been informed by the London Metropolitan Police of the arrest of Majeed. “We are full assisting the enquiries,” it said. “No players or team officials have been arrested in relation to this incident.”...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-august-30-2010-uk-sting-reveals-pak-pacers-bowled-no-balls-for-cash-101630249600903.html
29-08-2021||India||Amid lockdown Kerala logs 29,836 new Covid-19 cases||As Kerala observed a complete lockdown on Sunday, the state reported another spike clocking 29,836 fresh Covid-19 cases with a high test positivity rate (TPR) of 19.67 per cent, the state health ministry said. The Covid-19 graph seems to be hitting another plateau with no sign of abating and the number of patients requiring ventilator support has risen from 883 to 915 and many hospitals have said there is a considerable hike in daily hospital admission. Total hospitalisation with moderate or severe Covid-19 symptoms crossed 31,000 on Sunday, on Saturday it was 29,523. The number of active cases also rose to 2,12, 566 on Sunday from 2,04,086. Kerala reported 75 deaths in the last 24 hours taking the toll to 20,541, statistics released by the health ministry show. At least four districts reported more than 3000 cases-- Thrissur 3965, Kozhikode 3548, Malappuram 3195 and Ernakulam 3178. With Covid-19 cases shooting up, the state government has arranged a meeting of experts on Wednesday and another meeting with local body heads next Friday. In the last five days the state has reported more 1.50 lakh new cases while in the last 24 hours the country reported 45,083 total cases with a TPR of 3%. The state’s daily contribution is more than 65 per cent to the total caseload of the country. Despite spiralling cases, CM Pinarayi Vijayan painted a rosy picture on Saturday citing a high vaccination rate (74 per cent got vaccinated) and low mortality rate, it is .5 against the national average of 1.34 per cent. The Centre had given a strong warning to Kerala to ramp up its containment measures and increase its tests. Despite wide criticism it is yet to increase its RT-PCR tests while neighbouring Tamil Nadu conducted 1,63,230 tests with Karnataka 1,49, 393 while Kerala’s share was 73,138 on Friday. Many health experts have asked the state to shed its soft corner for antigen tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-kerala-logs-29-836-new-covid-19-cases-101630248100543.html
29-08-2021||India||Karnal SP denies reports of farmer's death due to lathicharge at protest||The Karnal Police on Sunday refuted reports that a farmer who participated in the protest on Saturday passed away due to injuries suffered during the agitation. Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said had the reports been true, the farmer’s family members would have met them.“He did not visit any hospital. He went home in a stable condition and died in sleep. Some are saying he died due to a heart attack. Reports of him dying due to injuries received during force used by police (in Karnal) are false,” Punia was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.If it were true, family members would have come to the police. We haven't received such information. These two incidents have no link: Ganga Ram Punia, SP, Karnal#Haryana“If it were true, family members would have come to the police. We have not received such information. These two incidents have no link,” the senior officer said.Also read | On Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha's video, Dushyant Chautala says use of such language by IAS officer 'condemnable'Earlier in the day, a functionary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said the farmer, named Sushil Kajal had been injured in baton charge by police on Saturday only to pass away hours later in a heart attack.Taking to Twitter, BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni wrote, “Sushil Kajal, who owned one and a half acres of land, had been participating in the farmers’ agitation for the past nine months. He had suffered serious injuries in the police lathi charge at Karnal Toll Plaza yesterday and at night he succumbed to a heart attack… The farming community will always remember his sacrifice.”Also read | Karnal lathi charge: Opposition slams Khattar govtAbout 10 people were injured on Saturday after police allegedly lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a highway while heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting. Besides Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar and other senior leaders of the party were present at the meeting.A major row has erupted over the issue with farmer groups, which have been leading the moths-long protest along the borders of Delhi and elsewhere against three central farm laws, and Opposition leaders hitting out at the administration over the handling of the situation. The state police drew severe criticism for the action and several roads and protests, by way of blocking highways, including toll plazas, continued on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnal-sp-denies-reports-of-farmer-s-death-due-to-lathicharge-at-protest-101630246865644.html
29-08-2021||India||Two alleged dacoits killed in police shootout in Assam’s Goalpara, 1 hurt||The police in Assam’s Goalpara district gunned down two alleged dacoits and injured another after a high-speed car chase on Saturday night, officials informed on Sunday. According to officials, the incident took place in Goalpara town around 10:30 pm during curfew hours imposed as part of Covid-19 restrictions. A search is on for two more persons who escaped. “Sometimes criminals think they can outgun, outrun and outsmart Assam Police. That happened at Goalpara yesterday. Goalpara police had to chase criminals across the area of four police stations, while being shot at. But, finally the police got the better of them,” Director General of Police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta tweeted. “Two of the dacoits, Rafajuddin and Basit Ali, died in the shootout while one Rashidul Islam has been injured. All of them have prior cases of dacoity against them. One gun and the car they were travelling in have been recovered,” he added. Giving details of the incident, Additional Superintendent of Police Goalpara district Mrinal Deka said that the police got information that a few people involved in cases of highway robberies and dacoities were moving about in a car during curfew hours. “Our team managed to intercept them at Dudhnoi, but they fled. They took the route towards Goalpara town via Matia and Monoi. After the chase, our team stopped them at Goalpara,” he said. “They kept on shooting at our team and our personnel responded. While one dacoit died on the spot, the body of another was recovered on Sunday morning. The third person who sustained a bullet injury on his right hand is admitted at Goalpara civil hospital. Search is on for two others who fled,” Deka added. There has been a steady rise in police encounters in Assam since May this year after the BJP-led government started a zero-tolerance policy against drugs, cattle smuggling and other heinous crimes. With Saturday’s incident, the number of those killed in such encounters rose to 22. At least 34 others have been injured in other such incidents across the state. While opposition parties have accused the police of being ‘trigger-happy’, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who handles the home portfolio, has urged police not to shy away from firing back at criminals while remaining within the ambit of law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-alleged-dacoits-killed-in-police-shootout-in-assam-s-goalpara-1-hurt-101630243180346.html
29-08-2021||India||Railways float tender for 58 new Vande Bharat trains, aims to deliver 102 trains by 2024||The Indian Railways has floated a tender for the production of 58 new Vande Bharat trains and aims to deliver 75 trains by August 23 next year, according to officials aware of the development.“With the tender for 44 Vande Bharat rakes earlier this year and the 58 new rakes we will have 102 Vande Bharat trains ready by 2024,” a ministry official said. HT has reviewed a copy of the tender.This comes in the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Independence Day announcement of rolling out 75 new Vande Bharat Express trains that will be launched to connect different parts of the country in 75 weeks to mark the ongoing “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”.These trains will be manufactured in Integral Coach Factory, Chennai, Modern Coach Factory, Rae Bareilly and Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala. The closing date for the tender is on October 20, 2021. A pre-bid meeting will be held on September 21 with the cut-off date for submission of pre-bid queries on September 14, 2021.The tender floated on August 28, invited bids for the design, development, manufacture, integration and testing of traction propulsion electrics for the manufacture of 58 rakes of Vande Bharat trains.The Indian Railways in September last year floated a revised tender for procuring 44 semi-high speed Vande Bharat trains mandating 75% domestic components, making it a domestic tender.HT on August 20 reported that the next lot of Vande Bharat rakes with upgraded amenities as well as better seating, security, and surveillance systems along with features designed for emergencies is expected to be commercially available from June 2022 onwards.“The first prototype rake is tentatively planned to be dispatched in March 2022, which will be put to commercial service tentatively by June 2022,” a senior official said.Some of the new amenities/safety features planned to be added include four emergency windows for easy evacuation of passengers in case of an emergency; disaster lights in all coaches, to be used in the event of failure of all other lights in a disaster situation; more emergency push buttons (four per coach).The coaches will also have a centralized coach monitoring system for all electrical, climate control, and other vital functions of the train set. An important upgrade in the new coaches will be a “pushback arrangement” for better reclining of seats. In the first two rakes of the Vande Bharat trains, issues regarding the seating comfort level were raised.PM Modi flagged off the maiden run of a Vande Bharat train on the New Delhi-Varanasi route on February 15, 2019. The second such train service between New Delhi and Shri Mata Vaishnodevi Katra was flagged off by home minister Amit Shah on October 3 that year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-float-tender-for-58-new-vande-bharat-trains-aims-to-deliver-102-trains-by-2024-101630241740354.html
29-08-2021||India||Unitech promoter brothers shifted from Tihar to Mumbai jails||Former Unitech promoters Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra have been shifted from Delhi's Tihar Jail to Arthur Road Jail and Taloja Central Jail in Mumbai on Saturday, as per a Supreme Court order, Tihar Jail director-general Sandeep Goel said on Sunday."Sanjay and Ajay Chandra both were taken under police escort to Mumbai by train on Saturday morning. They reached Mumbai and were lodged in the jails there in the early hours of Sunday," Goel said, according to news agency PTI.This comes close on the heels of the Supreme Court taking cognisance of Enforcement Directorate (ED) report that former Unitech promoter brothers, Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra, used the Tihar prison premises to run illegal activities, including influencing witnesses in an attempt to derail the investigation on money laundering charges against them.The ED had written to the Delhi Police commissioner earlier this month, seeking a probe into the alleged collusion of prison authorities with the Chandra brothers to use the jail premises to run illegal activities.The letter contains details of the manner in which the premises of Tihar Jail have been misused by the Chandras for engaging in illegal activities by flouting the jail manual, making transfers of assets and dissipating the proceeds of crime and influencing witnesses and attempting to derail the investigation.A bench of Supreme Court Justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah last week ordered the Delhi Police commissioner to probe into the conduct of the Tihar prison authorities on the basis of the ED allegations, and submit a report within four weeks.The apex court asked the Chandra brothers to be separated and shifted to Arthur Road and Taloja Central jails in Mumbai.The former promoters were arrested in 2017 on charges of duping over 500 homebuyers in at least 74 Unitech projects.The former Unitech promoters have been found to be flouting the jail norms and using luxurious facilities and items prohibited inside prisons during multiple inspections.The ED had told the Supreme Court earlier this month that assets worth ₹600 crore belonging to the Unitech group have been attached so far during the probe into the ₹5,000 crore money laundering case. During an earlier probe the authorities found that the money realised from homebuyers were siphoned off.The report of a forensic audit conducted by Grant Thornton and submitted before Supreme Court in December 2019 show that Unitech collected ₹14,270 crore from 29,800 homebuyers, of which ₹13,364 crores was traced to the bank statements, according to Hindustan Times. The forensic report revealed that approximately ₹5,063.05 crore, or 40% of ₹13,364 crore, was not utilised by the promoters towards the construction and execution of the 74 projects homebuyers had paid for.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unitech-brothers-supreme-court-tihar-arthur-road-taloja-central-jails-ed-report-101630236381345.html
29-08-2021||India||Former Bengal Congress president Somen Mitra’s wife returns to TMC after 7 years||Sikha Mitra, wife of former West Bengal Congress president Somen Mitra on Sunday returned to the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) after seven years. She used to be a TMC legislator while her husband was a Lok Sabha member of the party. The couple joined the TMC in 2009 and left in 2014. “I never really left the TMC. I had some differences with the leadership and stayed away from politics. I was touched when Mamata Banerjee called me up after my husband’s demise and wanted to meet me,” Mitra said at the TMC headquarters where senior women leaders of the party welcomed her. Somen Mitra died in July last year. Last month, his son, Rohan, resigned from the Pradesh Congress committee (PCC) holding state president Adhir Chowdhury responsible for the rout in the recent assembly polls in which the national party could not win a single seat. Rohan Mitra was a general secretary in the PCC but always had his differences with Chowdhury. “I never joined the Congress. Only Mamata Banerjee can work for the people. I will be happy to see her playing a leading role in national politics,” Sikha Mitra said on Sunday. Chowdhury, who was the PCC president before Somen Mitra held the post, became president for the second time after the latter died. “Your attitude towards me since the very beginning has been pathetic…” Rohan Mitra wrote to Chowdhury on July 14 and accused him of interfering in the state youth Congress elections in 2018 to stop Mitra from becoming the youth wing president. The young leader also accused Chowdhury of being surrounded by people who insulted him and his father. He also alleged that Chowdhury projected leaders who are partial towards the Bharatiya Janata Party. Reacting to Sikha Mitra’s return to the TMC, Chowdhury said, “She joined the ruling party in the past. This is her personal decision. What can I say? I have great regard for her husband.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bengal-congress-president-somen-mitra-s-wife-returns-to-tmc-after-7-years-101630237420690.html
29-08-2021||India||Touching a child's cheeks with no sexual intent not assault, says Bombay HC||In a recent order, the Bombay high court has said that touching the cheeks of a child without any sexual intent can not be considered as 'sexual assault' under the Pocso Act. The court made this observation as it granted bail to a 46-year-old man, who was booked under various offences under Pocso. The accused runs a chicken centre and was accused of molesting a minor inside his meat shop. The incident took place in 2020 and the accused was arrested by Thane's Rabodi police. Since then, the accused was in jail.Reports said that a woman had seen the accused taking the girl to his shop and touched her cheek. He reportedly opened his shirt and was about to open his pant. The court order, however, says that the child's mother lodged the complaint and it was she who saw the shopkeeper touching the cheeks of her daughters. The court order does not mention anything else apart from touching the cheeks. Hearing the case, the bench of Justice Sandeep K Shinde said that primary evaluation of the material on record does not suggest that he allegedly touched the cheeks of the child with any sexual intent."Whoever with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus, or breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus, or breast of such person or any other person, or does any other act with sexual intent which involves physical contact without penetration is said to commit sexual assault," section 7 of the Pocso Act reads, cited by the court in this case, reads. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/touching-a-child-s-cheeks-with-no-sexual-intent-not-assault-says-bombay-hc-101630236409694.html
29-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Supreme Court to resume hybrid model physical hearing from Sept 1||The Supreme Court will begin physically hearing some cases from September 1 and has issued a fresh standard operating procedure that would have to be followed besides strict observance of Covid appropriate norms. The apex court will employ a hybrid model of hearing cases physially from Tuesday to Thursday.The top court has been hearing cases through video-conferencing since the coronavirus pandemic hit the country in March last year. Several bar associations and lawyers have been pleading with the court for resumption of physical hearing.“Wearing of mask, frequent use of hand sanitiser and maintaining physical distancing norms are mandatory for all entrants into the Supreme Court premises, including into the Courtrooms,” the SOP read.The procedures mandate that once litigants and the lawyers opt for hearing through physical mode, “hearing through video/tele-conferencing mode to the party concerned will not be facilitated”.The SOP has been issued on the directions of Chief Justice NV Ramana who took note of the recommendations of the Judges' Committee set up earlier to consider representations and requests from the bar bodies that hearing through the physical mode be started keeping in mind the financial and technical difficulties being faced by many lawyers.“With a view to gradually facilitate resumption of physical hearing, the final hearing/regular matters listed on non-miscellaneous days may be heard in the physical mode (with hybrid option), as may be decided by the Bench, considering the number of parties in a matter as well as the limited capacity of the Court rooms; further, any other matter may be heard in physical mode on such days, if Bench directs likewise.“All other matters, including those listed on miscellaneous days shall continue to be heard through video/teleconferencing mode,” it said.The bench, hearing cases through physical mode, may decide taking a break during the hearings for about 15 minutes, so that the courtroom may be sanitised, it said.If the number of advocates for parties are more than 20, the average working capacity of the courtrooms as per Covid-19 norms, the bench “at any given time” can resort to virtual mode of hearing, the SOP said.“In a matter listed for physical hearing..., one AOR (or his nominee), one arguing counsel and one junior counsel per party will be allowed entry; one registered Clerk per party, as may be chosen by the AOR, shall be allowed entry to carry paper books/journals etc...,” it said.Lawyers will have to register on the apex court's portal and submit their preferences for appearing before the bench within 24 hours of listing of the case for hearing, it said.“The entry of the counsels/parties into the HSZ (high security zone) to appear for physical hearing will be through daily 'Special hearing passes' which will be issued by the Registry, on the basis of authorization by the concerned Advocate-on-Record on the portal...,” it said.Multiple chair along with tables are being placed inside courtrooms and it shall be incumbent upon lawyers and litigants to maintain “minimum prescribed physical distancing norms”, it said, adding every entrant will have to undergo “thermal and such other scanning devices as may be installed for detecting body temperature, infection status, etc.”The entry of parties in a matter will be permitted not earlier than ten minutes prior to the start of hearing, it said.Earlier in March this year the apex court had commenced hybrid proceedings, a combination of virtual and physical hearing, amid demands by lawyers for resumption of complete physical hearings but the system could not take off due to the onset of the second wave of COVID pandemic.On August 18, the top court had indicated that physical hearing in the apex court, which is conducting proceedings virtually amid the COVID-19 pandemic since March last year, may resume soon.A bench headed by the CJI had then said that physical hearing in the apex court may start within 10 days.In July this year, the SCBA had written a letter to the CJI urging that physical hearing in the apex court be resumed saying the COVID-19 situation in the national capital has become “almost normal".(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-supreme-court-to-resume-hybrid-model-physical-hearing-from-sept-1-101630236125320.html
29-08-2021||India||President Kovind worships Ram Lalla in makeshift temple in Ayodhya||President Ram Nath Kovind who is currently on a tour of Ayodhya on Sunday said that the town is nothing without Lord Ram as he worshipped Ram Lalla in the makeshift temple. The President also inaugurated the Ramayan Conclave in Ayodhya where the temple is being constructed.“Without Ram, Ayodhya is not Ayodhya. Ayodhya exists where there is Ram. Lord Ram resides permanently in this city, and hence in the true sense, this place is Ayodhya,” the President said. President Kovind will visit the Ram Janmabhoomi construction site later in the day as well. Kovind said that Lord Ram acted as a unifying force and brought together Kols, Bheels, Vaanars and other tribes to form his ‘army’. He said that he forged friendships with tribals and during his time in exile he did not call the armies of Ayodhya and Mithila to fight the war.The President also released a postal cover of the Ramayana conclave. He said Ayodhya will remain relevant because it was believed to be an ‘unconquerable’ capital due to ‘courage and power of Raghuvanshi kings Raghu, Dileep, Aj, Dashrath and Ram’.President Ram Nath Kovind along with First Lady Savita Kovind and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited the Hanuman Garhi temple in Ayodhya as well.Deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, and Union minister of state for railways and textiles Darshana Vikram Jardosh also accompanied them.President Kovind’s tour of Uttar PradeshThe President embarked on his trip to Uttar Pradesh on August 26 with his visit to Lucknow where he addressed the passing out students during the convocation of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University. He unveiled a 20-foot-high statue of the former UP chief minister Dr Sampurnanand on August 27 in Lucknow’s Sainik School and also attended the concluding ceremony of the Diamond Jubilee celebrations of the Captain Manoj Kumar Pandey Uttar Pradesh Sainik School. On the same day, the President attended the convocation of the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI).He visited Gorakhpur on Saturday where he laid the foundation for the Mahayogi Guru Gorakhnath AYUSH Vishwavidyalaya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-reaches-ayodhya-worships-ram-lalla-in-makeshift-temple-101630235558582.html
29-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Decline in routine vaccination for children highest in India during Covid and all the latest news||Decline in routine vaccination for children during Covid times highest in IndiaWhile the world is focusing on expanding and scaling up Covid-19 vaccination, routine vaccination among children has seen a universal decline, according to a joint reporting mechanism developed by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and United Nations Children’s Fund or UNICEF. Read more‘He doesn’t have technique to succeed...’: Butt names India batter whose defensive mechanism ‘isn’t strong' for TestsIndia wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant isn’t having a great time in the ongoing tour of England.His struggle against the moving ball has been clearly visible in the last three games and former Pakistan captain Salman Butt believes that Pant needs to show some patience. Read moreIs Shraddha Kapoor tying the knot with Rohan Shrestha? Dad Shakti is worried about divorce rateActor Shakti Kapoor said, in no uncertain terms, that contrary to popular opinion, his daughter Shraddha Kapoor isn't about to tie the knot with photographer Rohan Shrestha. Or at the very least, the topic isn't being discussed. Read moreOn-demand mobile electric vehicle charging stations to be launched soonBattery storage and charger development company Ez4EV has announced that it will launch on-demand mobile electric vehicle charging stations called - ‘EzUrja’ - in the next three months. Read moreTrying to get pregnant? Know how to track your menstrual cycleIf you are planning a natural pregnancy then it is imperative to know about the right time to get intimate to maximize your chances of conceiving. Read moreBiden govt's convenient lie, calls Taliban & Haqqani Network 'separate' entitiesThe United States of America (USA) has claimed that the Haqqani network is a separate entity which operates independently from the Taliban. However, contrary to claims of the Biden administration, the Haqqanis and Taliban have always maintained that they are not separate from each other. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-decline-in-routine-vaccination-for-children-during-covid-19-highest-in-india-and-all-the-latest-news-101630235137395.html
29-08-2021||India||New office-bearers’ list triggers revolt in Kerala Congress||The faction-ridden Congress unit in Kerala plunged into a crisis on Sunday after the release of the list of district Congress committee (DCC) presidents. Two senior leaders were suspended from the party for airing their grievances in public, HT has learnt.Party state president K Sudhakaran MP suspended former MLA K Sivadasan Nair and PCC general secretary K P Anil Kumar for criticising the reshuffle in channel discussion. Both leaders alleged the action was taken against them without a show-cause notice or explanation. Former CM Oommen and senior leader Ramesh Chennithala also came out against the new list and questioned action against two leaders. But Sudhakaran and opposition leader VD Satheesan said all leaders were consulted before naming the DCC chiefs and group equations were not applied this time. He said the list was a mix of the youth and the experienced leaders.“Both Chandy and Chennithala were consulted and some of their recommendations were included. It is not fair for both to criticise the list now. The party is supreme not factions,” said Sudhakaran in Delhi. He even showed a diary in which he noted down names recommended by Chandy to buttress his claim. He said it was sad to hear such a claim from a senior leader like Chandy. “Our only intention is to reinvigorate the party in the state. It is an attempt towards this,” he said. Chandy, however, reiterated his claim. “Proper consultations were not held. And disciplinary action against two leaders was not in good taste,” he said. Party MP Benny Behnan and former minister KC Joseph also criticised the list and action against leaders. The simmering dissension in the party with the elevation of the new party president and opposition leader came out in the open with the release of the DCC list. The party was in the grip of two senior leaders - Chandy and Chennithala - for a long time and they decided everything. The latest move is an attempt to come out of group equations and an opportunity to instil fresh blood but some of the selected, including Wayanad president ND Appachan, are old, critics point out. Struggling with Punjab and Chattisgarh infighting, the party high command has expressed serious concern over the latest revolt in the state unit. In Pathanamthitta, black flags were hoisted at the DCC office against the elevation of new DCC president Satheesh Kochuparambhil. Strong protests surfaced in Thiruvananthapuram and Malappuram also but the KPCC president said the ongoing protest was on small scale and will die down soon. But many political observers said the new list will trigger more fissures in the party. “Though it was stated a generational change, many veterans are back and the new list will create more fissures than solving any,” said political observer A Jayashankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-office-bearers-list-triggers-revolt-in-kerala-congress-101630235200430.html
29-08-2021||India||‘Challenge for us’, says defence minister Rajnath Singh on Taliban takeover in Afghanistan||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that the situation in Afghanistan has emerged as a challenge for India, with the Taliban set to take charge after the complete drawdown of the US troops. Singh also said that the changes have led to the rethinking of strategy.“The changing equation in Afghanistan is a challenge for us. These situations have forced our country to rethink its strategy. We are changing our strategy and the formation of QUAD underlines this strategy,” news agency ANI quoted him as saying. The minister made the remarks while delivering his keynote address at the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) in Wellington, Tamil Nadu. He also interacted with the officers of the armed forces there.Also read | Indian military to brain-storm over Taliban in AfghanistanFurther, Singh said that the ministry of defence is seriously considering the formation of Integrated Battle Groups. “These 'Integrated Battle Groups' will be new groups to fight against the enemies. Under this, extremely lethal, brigade-sized agile and self-reliant fighter formations will be made,” he said. “Quick decision-making is an important factor during wars. These groups will not only facilitate faster decision-making but also increase the number of integrated fighting units,” he added.Earlier on Saturday, Singh had made a similar comment, however, not in direct reference to the situation in Afghanistan. “Changes happening around the world often become a matter of concern for us,” he said, adding, “We, as a nation, must keep our guards high during these times of uncertainties and upheavals around the world,” without elaborating further.Meanwhile, the UK, one of the key allies of the US’ war in Afghanistan, has completed the evacuation of its troops from Afghanistan. Further, the US is also scheduled to completely withdraw its troops from the country by August 31 following its presence for over two decades. The Taliban had already taken control of some parts of the Kabul airports, according to news reports earlier on Saturday.Union minister of external affairs S Jaishankar on Saturday spoke with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken regarding the situation in Afghanistan. Also, Prime Minister Narendra Modi too had said that the country would stand by its citizens during times of crisis. So far, more than 550 people have been airlifted by India out of Kabul, according to the last update.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/challenge-for-us-says-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-on-taliban-takeover-in-afghanistan-101630232510978.html
29-08-2021||India||'Momentum' in sports must continue: Text of what Modi said on 80th Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation on Sunday through the his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat. During the 80th edition of the radio broadcast, Modi paid tribute to hockey legend Major Dhyan Chand on his birth anniversary and encouraged the the youth of the country to continue to momentum in sports. Modi also extended his greeting to the people of the country on the eve of Janmashtami festival on Monday. Modi also mentioned one US citizen Jadurani Dasoi and her knack for Bhakti Art, before sharing a conversation he had with her on spirituality and philosophy.The Prime Minister also lauded the youth for their propensity towards startups and the curiosity towards exploring the uncharted territories, and the praised the villages for their innovation that leads to be self-reliant.Here's the full text of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 80th Mann Ki Baat radio programme in Eng:My dear countrymen, Namaskar. All of us know that today is the birth anniversary of Major Dhyanchand ji. And our country celebrates it as National Sports Day, in commemoration. A thought struck me, that perhaps, wherever Major Dhyanchand ji’s soul must be at the moment, it must be feeling overjoyed…since it was Dhyanchand ji’s hockey that brought glory to Indian hockey in the whole world. And four decades later, almost after 41 years, the youth of India, her sons and daughters, once again infused vitality in our hockey. And irrespective of the number of medals won, no citizen of India enjoys victory until a medal is won in hockey. And this time, in the Olympics, the medal that was won for hockey came our way after four decades. You can imagine…wherever Major Dhyanchand ji might be…his heart, his soul must be overflowing with joy. And the entire life of Dhyanchand ji was dedicated to Sports…and that is why today, when the youth of the country, our sons and daughters are visibly drawn towards sports, with even parents experiencing happiness on children coming forward in sports; this eagerness that one can see all over…I feel that itself is a great tribute to Major Dhyanchand ji.Friends, whenever the subject of Sports and Games is touched upon, the entire young generation comes into view; naturally so. And when we cast a keen glance at the young generation, we notice a sweeping change there. The mind of the youth has undergone a transformation. And today’s young minds, shunning obsolete, age old methods and patterns, want to do something new altogether; something different. Today’s young mind does not want to tread readymade beaten paths; it wants to carve out newer paths. It wants to step on unknown territory. New destinations, new goals as well, new roads, new aspirations as well! And once a young person decides in the mind, no stone is left unturned in the pursuit…persevering day and night. We see how, some time ago, when India opened her Space Sector…within no time the young generation lapped up the opportunity. And to avail of its benefits, college students and young people working in Universities and the private sector enthusiastically came forward. And I firmly believe that in the coming days, a large number of satellites would be of those developed by our youth, our students, our colleges, our universities, students working in labs.Similarly, wherever you see…go to any family…however well to do, however educated the family might be…if you speak to a young person in the family, she or he, moving away from family traditions, express the wish to do a start up or join a start up…excitedly willing to take a risk. Today, the startup culture is expanding even to smaller cities and I am seeing it as an indication of a bright future. Just a few days ago, toys in our country were being discussed. Within no time, when this caught the attention of our youth, they too resolutely decided to work towards positioning Indian toys in the world with a distinct identity. And they are trying out ever new experiments. The world is a huge market for toys…a market of 6 to 7 lakh crores. Today India’s share is miniscule. But, how to craft toys, what diversity to be lent to toys, what technology to be used, how toys should be, compatible with child psychology…these are points where the youth of the country is applying minds to…wishing to contribute something. Friends, there’s one more thing that fills the heart with joy and further strengthens the belief. And what is that…have you ever marked? Generally, what had crept into our fabric was acceptance of mediocrity…”It happens”, “It’s okay – this will do”! But now I’m noticing my country’s young minds focusing themselves on excellence. They want to do the best, using the best methods. This too will emerge as a major force for the nation.Friends, this time, the Olympics have created a major impact. The events at the Olympics are over; the Paralympics are going on. Whatever our country earned in this world of Sports may be little in comparison with the world, but enough has happened to bolster our belief. Today, it is not that the youth is just watching sports…the youth is also looking at possibilities associated with Sports…observing the entire eco system minutely…comprehending its potential, wishing to connect with it in some way or the other. She or he now wants to surpass conventional ways and adopt new disciplines. And my dear countrymen, now that such a momentum has been built up…Sports has begun to be discussed in every family…do tell me…should this momentum be allowed to subside, to halt now? No…not at all. Even you must be thinking on the similar lines. In the country now, Sports and Games, sportsman spirit is not to stop. In family life, in social life, in the life of the Nation, this momentum has to be accorded permanence…infusing it with energy…replenishing it with relentless new energy. At home or elsewhere, in villages or cities, our playgrounds must be filled up. Let all play – let all bloom! And I’m sure you remember what I had said from Red Fort, “Sabka Prayas”…Yes…collective endeavour. It is only through collective endeavour of all that India will attain glorious heights in Sports that she rightfully deserves. On the course charted by people such as Major Dhyanchand ji we have to move forward…it’s our responsibility. After years has the country witnessed a period where, in families, in society, in States, in the Nation, all the people are single mindedly forging a bond with Sports.My dear young friends, taking advantage of this opportunity, we must garner expertise in a variety of sports. In villages as well, sports competitions should be held successively. It is only through competition that a sport evolves…progresses…giving rise to sportspersons as an outcome. Come, let all us countrymen strive to further this momentum as much as we can…contributing whatever we can…let us transform the mantra of ‘Sabka Prayas’ into reality.My dear countrymen, tomorrow also happens to be the grand festival of Janmashtmi. This festival of Janmashtami, that is the festival of birth of Bhagwan Shri Krishna. We are familiar with all the forms of Bhagwan, from naughty Kanhaiya to the one taking Colossal form Krishna, from the one well versed in scriptures to one skilled in weaponary. Be it art, beauty, charm, where all isn’t Krishna there! But I am saying all this because a few days before Jamashtami I had gone through an interesting experience. So I felt I should talk about this to you. You must be aware that on the 20th of this month the construction work related to Bhagwan Somnath temple has been dedicated to the people. 3-4 kilometers away from Somnath temple is the Bhalka Teerth, this Bhalka Teerth is the place where Bhagwan Shri Krishna spent his last moments on earth. In a way his Leelas, divine acts in this world culminated there. Many works for the development of that entire region are being done by the Somnath Trust. I was thinking of Bhalaka Teerth and the works going on there when I noticed a beautiful art-book. Someone had left this book for me outside my residence. In this there were many forms and many magnificent pictures of Bhagwan Shri Krishna. Pictures were very attractive and very meaningful. My curiosity grew all the more when I started turning the pages of the book. When I saw the book and all the pictures and the message for me written there, I felt l should meet the one who had left it for me. I should meet the one who has left the book outside my home. So my office contacted the person. Such was my curiosity on seeing the art-book, on seeing the different forms of Bhagwan Shri Krishna that I called the person to meet the very next day. With this curiosity I met Jaduarani Dasi ji. She is American, was born in America, brought up in America, Jadurani Dasi ji is connected to ISKCON, connected to Harey Krishna movement and one of her major specialities is that she is skilled in Bhakti Arts. You know that just after two days, on the 1st of September, we have the 125th birth anniversary of the founder of ISKCON Shri Prabhupaad Swami ji. Jadurani Dasi ji had come to India in this very connection. The question before me was that one who was born in America, who had been so far away from the Indian ethos; how could she make such attractive pictures of Bhagwan Shir Krishna! I had a long chat with her, but I want you to listen to some parts of it.PM sir : Jadurani Ji, Hare Krishna!I have read a little about Bhakti Art but tell our listeners more about it. Your passion and interest towards it is great.Jadurani Ji : So, bhakti art we have one article in the bhakti art illuminations which explains how this art is not coming from the mind or imagination but it is from the ancient Vedic scriptures like Bhram Sanhita. Ven Omkaraya Patitam skilatam Sikand (वें ओंकाराय पतितं स्क्लितं सिकंद), from The Goswami’s of Vrindavan, from the Lord Brahma himself. Eeshwarah paramah krishnah sachchidanand vigrahah ( ईश्वर: परम: कृष्ण: सच्चिदानन्द विग्रह: ) how He carries the flute, how all of his senses can act for any other sense and Srimad bhagwatam (TCR 9.09) (Barhapeend natwarvapuh karnayoh karnakaram ) बर्हापींड नटवरवपुः कर्णयो: कर्णिकारं everything, He wears a karnika flower on his ear, He makes the impression of His Lotus feet all over the land of Vrindavan, the cow herds voicing of his Glories, His flute attracts the hearts and minds of all fortunate beings. So everything is from ancient Vedic scriptures and the power of these scriptures which are coming from transcendental personalities and the pure devotees who are bringing it the art has their power and that’s why its transformational, it is not my power at all.PM Sir: Jadurani ji, I have different type of question for you. Since 1966 in a way and from 1976 physically you have been associated with India for long, will you please tell me what does India mean to you?Jadurani Ji: Prime minister ji, India means everything to me. I was mentioning I think to Hon’ble President a few days ago that India has come up so much in technical advancement and following the west very well with Twitter and Instagram and iPhones and Big buildings and so much facility but I know that, that’s not the real glory of India. What makes India glorious is the fact that Krishna himself the avatari appeared here and all the avatars appeared here, Lord Shiva appeared here, Lord Ram appeared here, all the holy rivers are here, all the holy places of Vaishnav culture are here and so India especially Vrindavan is the most important place in the universe, Vrindavan is the source of all the Vaikunth planets, the source of Dwarika, the source of the whole material creation, so I love India.PM Sir: Thank You Jadurani Ji. Hare Krishna!,Friends, when the people of the world pay heed to Indian spiritual systems and philosophy today, then we also have a responsibility to carry forward these great traditions. That which has perished has to be left behind, but that which is timeless has to be carried forward. Let us celebrate our festivals, understand its scientific meaning, and the connotation behind it. Not only this, there is an underlying message in every festival; there is a Sanskar as well. We not only have to know it, live it and pass it on as a legacy for generations to come. I once again wish all the countrymen a very Happy Janmashtami.My dear countrymen, during this Corona period, the myriad aspects of cleanliness that I should have touched upon; I feel, perhaps, that it saw a decrease. I also feel that we should not let the cleanliness campaign diminish even at the slightest. The examples of how efforts by everyone for nation building in turn lead to progress for all of us, also inspire us and infuse us with a new energy to do something, impart new confidence, give a meaning to our resolve. We know very well that whenever the topic Swachh Bharat Abhiyan comes up, the name of Indore also arises because Indore has created a special identity of its own in relation to cleanliness and the people of Indore are also entitled to felicitations. Our Indore has remained at number one in 'Swachh Bharat Ranking' for many years. Now the people of Indore do not want to sit satisfied with this ranking of Swachh Bharat, they want to move forward, want to do something new. And now they have decided to maintain a 'Water Plus City' and are striving for it with all their might.'Water Plus City' means a city where no sewage is dumped into any public water source without treatment. The citizens here themselves have come forward and connected their drains with the sewer line. A Cleanliness campaign has also been started and due to this the polluted water draining in the Saraswati and Kanh rivers has also reduced considerably and an improvement is visible. Today, when our country is celebrating the Amrit Mahotsav of Independence, we have to remember that we should never let the resolve of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan diminish. The greater the number of cities which are ‘Water Plus City' in our country, cleanliness will increase further, our rivers will also become clean and we will be fulfilling values associated with humane responsibility of conserving water.Friends, before me is an example that has come from Madhubani in Bihar. Dr. Rajendra Prasad Agricultural University in Madhubani and the local Krishi Vigyan Kendra have jointly made a worthy effort. Not only farmers are accruing benefit from this scheme but it has also imparted renewed vigour to the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. The name of this initiative of the university is - "Sukhet Model" The purpose of the Sukhet model is to reduce pollution in the villages. Under this model, dung and other household waste is collected from the farmers of the village and in return the villagers are given money for cooking gas cylinders. The work of making vermicompost from the disposed garbage collected from the village is also ongoing. Therefore, there are four benefits of the Sukhet model that are directly visible. One, the village is freed from pollution; the second is that the village is freed from filth, the third is that the money for the LPG cylinder goes to the villagers and the fourth is that the farmers of the village get bio- fertilizer. You must give it a thought as to how such efforts can increase the power of our villages. This is the basis of self-reliance. I appeal that every panchayat of the country should also think of doing something like this in their respective villages. And friends, when we set out with a goal, it is certain that we achieve the results. Now look at our Kanjirangal Panchayat of Sivaganga district in Tamil Nadu. See what this small panchayat has done, here you will get to see another model of wealth from the Waste. Here the Gram Panchayat along with the local people has started an indigenous project to generate electricity from waste in their village.The garbage is collected from the entire village, electricity is generated from it and the residual products are also sold as pesticides. The capacity of this village power plant is to dispose of two tonnes of waste per day. The electricity generated from this power plant is utilized for streetlights and other needs of the village. The money saved by the Panchayat through this scheme is being used for other developmental works. Now tell me, a small panchayat in Sivaganga district of Tamil Nadu inspires all of us countrymen to do something or not? They have achieved wonders, haven't they?My dear countrymen,'Mann Ki Baat' is no longer confined to the borders of India. There is a discussion on 'Mann Ki Baat' in different corners of the world too. And there are people from our Indian community living abroad, who keep providing me with much new information. And I also like to sometimes share with you the unique programs that are going on abroad in 'Mann Ki Baat'. Even today I will introduce you to some such people, but before that I want to play an audio for you. Listen carefully.##[रेडियो युनिटी नाईन्टी एफ्.एम्.-2]नमोनमः सर्वेभ्यः | मम नाम गङ्गा | भवन्तः शृण्वन्तु रेडियो-युनिटी-नवति-एफ्.एम् –‘एकभारतं श्रेष्ठ-भारतम्’ | अहम् एकतामूर्तेः मार्गदर्शिका एवं रेडियो-युनिटी-माध्यमे आर्.जे. अस्मि | अद्य संस्कृतदिनम् अस्ति | सर्वेभ्यः बहव्यःशुभकामनाः सन्ति| सरदार-वल्लभभाई-पटेलमहोदयः ‘लौहपुरुषः’ इत्युच्यते | २०१३-तमे वर्षे लौहसंग्रहस्य अभियानम् प्रारब्धम् | १३४-टन-परिमितस्य लौहस्य गलनंकृतम् | झारखण्डस्य एकः कृषकः मुद्गरस्य दानं कृतवान् | भवन्तःशृण्वन्तु रेडियो-युनिटी-नवति-एफ्.एम् –‘एकभारतं श्रेष्ठ-भारतम्’ |[रेडियो युनिटी नाईन्टी एफ्.एम्.-2]##Friends, you must have understood the language. This was Sanskrit being spoken on the radio and the one speaking was RJ Ganga. RJ Ganga is a member of a group of Radio Jockeys in Gujarat. Her other companions are RJ Neelam, RJ Guru and RJ Hetal. All of them together in Gujarat, in Kevadiya are currently engaged in enhancing respect for the Sanskrit language. And you also know that this is the same Kevadiya where the world's tallest statue, the pride of our country, the Statue of Unity is located, that is the very Kevadiya I am talking about. And the radio jockeys are such that they wear multiple hats simultaneously. They also serve as guides, and also run the Community Radio Initiative, Radio Unity 90 FM. These RJs talk to their listeners in Sanskrit language, providing them with information in Sanskrit.Friends, in these parts, it is said about Sanskritअमृतम् संस्कृतम् मित्र, सरसम् सरलम् वचः |एकता मूलकम् राष्ट्रे, ज्ञान विज्ञान पोषकम् |That is, our Sanskrit language is sweet and also simple.Through its thoughts and medium of literary texts, Sanskrit helps nurture knowledge and also national unity, strengthens it. Sanskrit literature comprises the divine philosophy of humanity and knowledge which can captivate anyone’s attention. Recently, I got to know about many such people who are engaged in the inspirational work of teaching Sanskrit in foreign lands. One such person is Mr. Rutger Kortenhorst, a well-known Sanskrit scholar and teacher in Ireland who teaches Sanskrit to the children there. Sanskrit language also plays an important role in the strengthening of cultural relations between India and Ireland and between India and Thailand here in the east. Dr. Chirapat Prapandavidya and Dr. Kusuma Rakshamani, both of them are playing a very important role in the promotion of Sanskrit language in Thailand. They have also carried out comparative studies in literature of Thai and Sanskrit languages. Another such professor is Shriman Boris Zakharin, who teaches Sanskrit at Moscow State University in Russia. He has published many research papers and books. He has also translated many books from Sanskrit to Russian. Likewise,Sydney Sanskrit School is one of Australia's premier institutions, where Sanskrit language is taught to the students. For children, these schools also organize programs like Sanskrit Grammar Camp, Sanskrit Plays and Sanskrit Day.Friends, the efforts which have been made in recent times have brought a new awareness about Sanskrit.Now is the time to increase our efforts in this direction. It is our collective duty to cherish our heritage, preserve it, pass it on to the new generation…. and future generations also have a right to it. Now is the time to increase everyone's efforts for these works as well. Friends, if you know of any such person engaged in this kind of effort, if you have any such information, then please share the information related to them on social media with the hashtag Celebrating Sanskrit.My dear countrymen, in the next few days 'Vishwakarma Jayanti' will also be celebrated. Here, Bhagwan Vishwakarma is considered as a symbol of the creative power behind the genesis of the world. Whoever through their skill, builds an object..innovates... whether it is sewing-embroidery, software or satellite, all this is a manifestation of Bhagwan Vishwakarma. Even though skill is being recognized in a new way in the world today, our sages and seers have emphasized on skill and scale for thousands of years. They have interlinked skill, talent, ability with faith, thereby making it a part of the philosophy of our lives. Our Vedas have also dedicated many sookta to Bhagwan Vishwakarma. Whichever great creations are there, whatever new and big works have been done, our scriptures ascribe them to Bhagwan Vishwakarma. It is in a way a symbol of the thought that whatever development and innovation is happening in the worldhappens only through skills.This is the very sentiment behind the birth anniversary of Bhagwan Vishwakarma and his worship. And this has been quoted in our scriptures too :‘विश्वम कृत्-सन्म कर्म व्यापारो यस्य सः विश्वकर्मा’Meaning, the one who takes all efforts in the process of creating and building is a Vishwakarma. In the view of our scriptures, all the skilled, talented people around us engaged in the process of creation and building are the legacy of Bhagwan Vishwakarma. Our lives without such individuals would be unfathomable.Think about it, if there is some problem with electricity in your house and you cannot find an electrician, how will it be? You will have to face a big hurdle! Our life goes on because of many such skilled people. Look around yourself; be it an ironsmith, a potter, a carpenter, an electrician, a house painter, a sanitation worker, or someone who repairs mobile-laptops. All of them are known only because of their skill. In modern form, all of them are also Vishwakarma. But friends, there is another aspect to it and it also sometimes causes concern. The situation in our country where culture, tradition, thinking, skill, manpower have been interlinked with Bhagwan Vishwakarma and how it has changed…. once upon a time, Kaushalya, our innate skills had a huge impact on our family life, social life and life of the natio. But during the long period of slavery and subjugation, the feeling that gave such respect to skill gradually faded into oblivion. The thinking became such that skill based tasks were considered inferior. And now see, today, the whole world is emphasizing the most on skill. The worship of Bhagwan Vishwakarma is also not to be completed only with formalities. We have to respect the talent, we have to work hard to be skilled. We should be proud to be skilled. When we do something new, innovate something, create something that will benefit the society, make people's life easier, then our Vishwakarma Puja will be meaningful. There is no dearth of opportunities for skilled people in the world today. Skills are forging multiple paths of progress. Come, this time let us take a pledge to follow the message of Bhagwan Vishwakarma along with faith in his worship. The spirit of our worship should be such that we understand the importance of skill, and also give full respect to skilled people, no matter what work they do.This is the time of the 75th year of our Independence. This year we have to make new resolutions every day, think new, and bolster our spirit to do something new. When India completes one hundred years of Independence, then only these resolutions of ours will be seen in the foundation of its successes. So, we should not let this opportunity pass. We have to contribute our maximum in this. And in the midst of all these efforts, we have one more thing to remember. दवाई भी, कड़ाई भी...vaccinate and take precautions. More than 62 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the country, but still we have to be careful, be vigilant. And yes, as always, whenever you do something new, think new, then definitely include me in that. I will be waiting for your letter and messages. With this wish, once again many felicitations to all of you for the upcoming festivals.Namaskar!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/momentum-in-sports-must-continue-text-of-what-modi-said-on-80th-mann-ki-baat-101630227415561.html
29-08-2021||India||ISRO successfully tests propulsion system of Gaganyaan service module||The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) has successfully conducted the first hot test to check the propulsion system of Gaganyaan’s service module – located below the crew module in which the astronauts will travel constitutes the spacecraft. The two modules remain connected till the re-entry into earth’s atmosphere.As per previous descriptions by Isro chairperson Dr K Sivan, the whole configuration – crew module and service module -- is turned in the opposite direction during re-entry and the thrust of the engine is used to reduce the velocity.The propulsion system demonstration model was fired for 450 seconds at the Isro Propulsion Complex in Mahendergiri, Tamil Nadu. The performance met the pre-test predictions. “A series of hot tests are planned to simulate various mission conditions as well as off-nominal conditions,” the space agency said in a statement.The service module propulsion system consists of five main 440 N engines and sixteen 100 N thrusters to create a reaction control system. The system demonstration model used for the test, however, had five 440 N engines and eight 100 N thrusters to qualify the propulsion system on ground.Isro in July conducted the final hot test of its L110 liquid engine to be used in the GSLV-MK III launch vehicle that will carry the Gaganyaan mission to space. This, experts said, was a pretty big milestone.Ajay Lele, senior fellow working on space security and strategic technologies at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, said, “ISRO is currently testing various modules of the mission, however, we need two clean tests of the complete system before we send astronauts to space. And, that is going to take probably another two years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-successfully-tests-propulsion-system-of-gaganyaan-service-module-101630226774141.html
29-08-2021||India||Waste can do wonders: Modi praises rural initiatives towards self-reliance||Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his address to the nation on the 80th edition of Mann Ki Baat, the monthly radio programme, on Sunday mentioned an initiative adopted by Dr. Rajendra Prasad Agricultural University in Bihar’s Madhubani.He said the Centre for Advanced Studies on Climate Change of the university has launched an initiative called, Sukhet Model, which is not only helping the farmers but also keeping the nearby villages free of pollution.Under this model, crop extracts, cow dung and kitchen waste materials are collected from the rural households in exchange for monetary allowances for the villagers to buy LPG cylinders for cooking purposes, while the university converts the organic waste into vermicompost for plants and crops.“We can see four direct benefits of the Sukhet Model. It keeps the villages free of pollution, and also helps maintain cleanliness by ridding the households of the garbage while the villagers get monetary benefit to procure cooking gases and the farmers organic fertilisers for improved cultivation,” Modi said.The Prime Minister highlighted that such simple innovations help fuel the growth of rural India and lead them towards the path of self-reliance.“I urge the panchayats across the country to think on the Sukhet Model and implement them in their villages,” Modi said.ALSO READ | Don't forget Swachh Bharat amid Covid-19, says PM Modi in Mann Ki BaatThe Prime Minister also gave the example of another initiative adopted by the Kanjirangal panchayat of Sivaganga district in Tamil Nadu.The village panchayat there generates decentralised renewable electricity from the waste collected from households. Not only that but they also turn the residual waste into fertilisers and compost.“The village generates clean energy from two tonnes of waste every day, and use the electricity to power streetlights and other amenities of the village,” Mod said.He added that the money that the village saves in the process is used for developmental work.The Prime Minister praised the panchayat of the southern state for its inspiration and urged the people to think out of the box.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-narendra-modi-waste-reuse-organic-farming-clean-energy-atmanirbhar-101630225707511.html
29-08-2021||India||'Are we in rush?': Dr Naresh Trehan questions as schools reopen across country||Medanta chairman Dr Naresh Trehan questioned on Sunday if states are in a "rush" to reopen schools, pointing towards the fact that the vaccination drive for children against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is yet to be announced.Also Read | Covid-19 vaccine drive to speed up further in September; 240 million to be inoculated"Is it that we should be patient for a few more months, then a vaccine arrives, and then kids can get vaccinated and go to schools? Or, is it that we are in a rush to open schools for what reason I don't know? Extreme caution should be taken while deciding under what circumstances we should reopen schools," the senior doctor said, according to ANI.He reminded that children in India are currently not being vaccinated. "If a large number of children fall sick, we don't have good facilities to take care of them. Given our population size, we should be cautious. The fact is that a vaccine is around the corner," Dr Trehan further said, referring apparently to Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila's three-dose ZyCoV-D vaccine.Is it that we should be patient for another few months, then a vaccine arrives&children get vaccinated&go to schools,or are we in a rush to open schools for what reason I don't know?Extreme caution should be used regarding in what circumstances we reopen schools: Dr Naresh Trehan pic.twitter.com/HKKPsRltUlAlso Read | 'We have to save our children': AIIMS doctor weighs in on schools reopeningZyCoV-D, which received Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on August 20, will be administered on beneficiaries aged 12 and above. It is the first vaccine to have been approved for an age group below 18, and among six jabs to be cleared by the DCGI till now.Also Read | Zydus Cadila's Covid vaccine for children over 12 approvedThe only other vaccine which was tested among kids is Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. It is likely to be approved for children in September. Incidentally, both Covaxin and ZyCoV-D are India's only two indigenously made anti-Covid shots thus far.With the devastating second wave of Covid-19 now receding, schools have already reopened in several states, at least for senior classes. Schools in most other states are scheduled to open from September 1.Recently, as many as 22 people, including 16 children and six adults from a Mumbai-based school tested positive for Covid-19, forcing the civic body to seal the school's premises. Among 16 children, four are below the age of 12, while the rest are aged between 12-18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-we-in-rush-dr-naresh-trehan-questions-as-schools-reopen-across-country-101630223108999.html
29-08-2021||India||NCB arrests actor Armaan Kohli, seizes small quantity of Cocaine from his home||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested Bollywood actor and former Bigg Boss contestant Armaan Kohli early on Sunday following recovery of a small quantity of cocaine during a raid at his Juhu residence on Saturday. Kohli will be produced in a holiday court later in the day. NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede led the raid at actor’s bungalow number 10, situated in Vikas Park society at Juhu house. The search started around 2pm and went on for six hours during which a small quantity of Cocaine was allegedly seized from his house. The raid was part of the agency’s ‘Rolling Thunder’ operation to bust the network of drug peddlers and suppliers in Mumbai, said Wankhede. NCB said on Sunday that in accordance with its zero tolerance policy against drug trafficking in Mumbai, one major drug peddler Ajay Raju Singh was intercepted near Haji Ali and 25 grams of MD (Mephedrone) was allegedly recovered from him Singh is a history sheeter and a huge quantity of Ephedrine was recovered from him in 2018, the NCB official said. The official said that the raid on Armaan Kohli was based on Raju’s statement. Kohli was questioned and arrested under several charges of The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Under Rolling Thunder, the agency has so far carried out 15 raids in the last two days and arrested eight people including TV actor Gaurav Dixit and two Nigerian nationals. Contrabands such as MD, Charas, MDMA (Methylenedioxymethamphetamine- a psychoactive drug) and Ecstasy tables were seized during these raids, the NCB officer quoted above said. Dixit was arrested after his name cropped up during Ajaz Khan’s interrogation. MD and Charas were allegedly seized from Dixit’s house during a raid by the agency in April this year and after that he was absconding. Dixit was produced in the court on Saturday and sent to NCB custody till August 30. Kohli was a contestant on Bigg Boss 7 and made headlines for his volatile temper as well as his relationship with co-contestant Tanishaa Mukerji. Kohli has starred in several films such as Dushman Zamana (1992), Anaam (1993), Qahar (1997) and Jaani Dushman: Ek Anokhi Kahani (2002). Last year, several celebrities including Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor, Sara Ali Khan and Rakul Preet Singh were questioned by NCB in connection with an investigation into alleged drug abuse in Bollywood following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.The investigation so far has also revealed international links and NCB Mumbai is probing the route and contacts used to bring cocaine to Mumbai and involvement of other traffickers, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-arrests-actor-armaan-kohli-seizes-small-quantity-of-cocaine-from-his-home-101630225120828.html
29-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi highlights importance of Swachh Bharat amid Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Don't forget Swachh Bharat amid Covid-19, says PM Modi in Mann Ki BaatPM Modi, while addressing the nation during the 80th edition of his Mann Ki Baat monthly radio programme, asked the people not to forget the Swachh Bharat initiative amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreOn Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi lauds Indore for becoming India's first 'Water Plus' cityPM Modi’s praise for the city came while he was talking about the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan on the 80th episode of his Mann Ki Baat radio address. Read moreVirat Kohli hints at possible changes in India's bowling line-up in 4th Test against England, gives reasonsCaptain Kohli stated that he would continue with five specialist bowlers, hinting at a change in the attack in order to maintain the workload of the team’s fast bowlers. Read moreNetflix is 'shocked' at how well this Priyanka Chopra-starrer is performing: 'Never seen any movie behave like that'Director Robert Rodriguez has said that Netflix is 'shocked' at how well his 2020 film We Can Be Heroes is doing on the platform. Read moreSuffering from bad posture? Take tips from Bhagyashree's Swiss Ball Knee Tuck workout videoBhagyashree took to Instagram recently to share a video of herself doing the Swiss ball knee tucks. Read moreTata Punch micro SUV: Key facts to knowDubbed as Tata Punch, the micro SUV will be positioned below the Nexon compact SUV in the OEM's portfolio. Read morePolitical opportunism? Betrayal? Why Sushmita Dev quit Congress to join TMCIn the latest edition of The Interview with Kumkum Chadha, Dev talks about how she sees her equation with the Gandhis panning out. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-highlights-importance-of-swachh-bharat-amid-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news-101630220703880.html
29-08-2021||India||PM Modi cites legend Major Dhyanchand’s example to inspire youth in Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat, cited Hockey legend Major Dhyanchand’s example on his 116th anniversary on August 29, also celebrated as national sports day, to urge youth to strive for excellence and leaving own mark in all walks of life including sports, space or start ups.“Major Dhyanchand established India in the sport of Hockey,” Modi said on Sunday. “We may win many laurels, but the nation has always craved for a win in Hockey. Major Dhyanchand showed us the way, now we must continue to progress on it.”The PM also said that while India’s best-ever haul of seven medals including the one in Hockey in the Tokyo Olympics may not appear to be extraordinary compared to other nations, it has opened up the youth of the country to the possibilities in sports.“We must not lose this momentum. This sportspersonship must be fostered,” he saidHe added that sporting tournaments should be held regularly across all villages and cities to promote the culture. “Our fields should be full of people competing,” Modi said. “It is only through everyone’s contribution that India can attain great heights.”PM also lauded young Indian entrepreneurs’ entry in the field of space. “There are so many college and university students, and those in the private sector who are laying the foundation for the new developments in space that will take place in the future,” he said.Drawing attention to India’s growing startup ecosystem, Modi said that the youngsters of today aren’t and should not be afraid to take risks. “Just a little while ago, we were talking about India’s stake in the toy market, now so many young entrepreneurs are working to innovate in the field.”He also urged the country to continuously maintain its commitment to the Swacchh Bharat, or Clean India campaign and appreciated Indore and Sivaganga’s (Tamil Nadu) contribution to the same.He also said that Sanskrit was the language of unity due to its universal appeal. “Sanskrit is a language of unity...it is taught across the world from Ireland to Thailand, from Russia to Sydney.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-cites-legend-dhyanchand-s-example-to-inspire-youth-in-mann-ki-baat-101630220800680.html
29-08-2021||India||Don't forget Swachh Bharat amid Covid-19, says PM Modi in Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while addressing the nation during the 80th edition of his Mann Ki Baat monthly radio programme, asked the people not to forget the Swachh Bharat initiative amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. "Over 62 crore people have been vaccinated in the country. We must continue to strictly follow Covid-19 protocols. My dear countrymen, during this Corona period, the myriad aspects of cleanliness that I should have touched upon; I feel, perhaps, that it saw a decrease. I also feel that we should not let the cleanliness campaign diminish even at the slightest," said PM Modi.The Prime Minister appreciated the initiatives towards creating a 'Swachh Bharat'. Reiterating the Centre’s commitment towards the Swachh Bharat initiative, the Prime Minister hailed Indore for retaining the top position in India’s ‘Swachhata’ ranking for the last few years. “Now, the people of Indore have resolved to make their city a ‘Water Plus City’. In our country, cleanliness will improve with the number of ‘Water Plus’ cities,” Modi added.In his 78th edition of ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio programme, PM Modi had urged the people to shun Covid-19 vaccine hesitancy and ensure jabs to them and their family members to protect themselves from the coronavirus. “Don’t believe in such rumours and make people aware of the benefit of the drive being run by the government to contain the spread of the deadly disease,” he had said.Extending greetings for Krishna Janmashtami, PM Modi urged the countrymen to carry forward the great traditions of the nation. He said "The festival of Janmashtami is the festival of birth of Bhagwan Shri Krishna. We are familiar with all the forms of Bhagwan, from naughty Kanhaiya to the one taking Colossal form Krishna, from the one well versed in scriptures to one skilled in weaponary. Be it art, beauty, charm, where all is not Krishna there! But I am saying all this because a few days before Janmashtami I had gone through an interesting experience. So I felt I should talk about this to you. You must be aware that on the 20th of this month the construction work related to Bhagwan Somnath temple has been dedicated to the people."The Prime Minister further mentioned Jadurani Dasi, a US citizen and shared her conversation with him. "Jadurani Dasi ji is American and is connected to ISKCON, connected to Hare Krishna movement and one of her major specialities is that she is skilled in Bhakti Arts. I had a long chat with her, but I want you to listen to some parts of it," he said.He said that when the people of the world pay heed to Indian spiritual systems and philosophy today, then the nation also has a responsibility to carry forward these great traditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-forget-swachh-bharat-amid-covid-19-says-pm-modi-in-mann-ki-baat-101630217533811.html
29-08-2021||India||Sanskrit plays key role in strengthening cultural ties: PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that the Sanskrit language plays an important role in strengthening cultural ties between India and other countries in the East. Notably, India observed the Sanskrit Week from August 19 to August 25 this year. Addressing the nation through the 80th edition of Mann Ki Baat, his monthly radio programme, on Sunday, the Prime Minister highlighted the "inspiring work" being done by people across the world in researching the Sanskrit language.Also Read | Mann ki Baat: PM Modi hails India's 'Yuva Shakti', pays tribute to Major Dhyan Chand"One such name is Mr Rutger Kortenhorst, a well-known Sanskrit scholar and teacher in Ireland," said Prime Minister Modi, adding a word about the pioneering research being done by the head of Sanskrit at the John Scottus Senior School in Ireland. The Prime Minister also highlighted the contribution of Professor Boris Zakharin of the Moscow State University, who teaches the ancient language at the varsity and has translated many works from Sanskrit into Russian, along with publishing other research papers and books.Similarly, the Sydney Sanskrit School is also one of the major institutions researching the language in Australia, said the Prime Minister.In #MannKiBaat today, PM @narendramodi highlighted the contribution of Professor Boris #Zakharin of the Moscow State University in teaching #Sanskrit and translating many works from Sanskrit into #Russian.#CelebratingSanskrit@PMOIndia @MEAIndia @mannkibaat @mfa_russia @RT_com pic.twitter.com/NRZRgXXRz7Referring to the cultural landscape of the Eastern world, the Prime Minister said that Sanskrit has played an important role here in strengthening cultural ties between India and Thailand. "Dr Chirapat Prapandavidya and Dr Kusuma Rakshamani, both of them are playing a very important role in the promotion of the Sanskrit language in Thailand," said Prime Minister Modi. "He also composed comparative literature in Thai and Sanskrit languages."PM @narendramodi in today's #MannKiBaat broadcast also spoke on the role of Prof. Dr. Kusuma Raksamani in promoting Sanskrit language in Thailand. India and Thailand share strong cultural and linguistic ties.#CelebratingSanskrit pic.twitter.com/bod7s7wRcVUrging his listeners to share similar stories, the Prime Minister said, "If you know someone who is doing similar work, you can also share your stories with #CelebratingSanskrit on social media."Also Read | On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi lauds Indore for becoming India's first 'Water Plus' cityEarlier, on August 22, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had extended his wishes on the occasion of World Sanskrit Day and shared his greetings with the people in Sanskrit.The 80th episode of the programme was live-streamed on the Bharatiya Janta Party's (BJP's) YouTube channel and the website of the Prime Minister's Office. It was being broadcast on the entire network of All India Radio, Doordarshan, and the AIR News website www.newsonair.com and Newsonair mobile app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanskrit-plays-key-role-in-strengthening-cultural-ties-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat-101630212289395.html
29-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Suspension of international flights extended till September 30||The Centre on Sunday extended the suspension on international scheduled commercial flights till September 30 owing to the coronavirus diseases (Covid-19) pandemic.The latest circular issued by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) continued to keep international cargo flights and those approved by the regulator to operate.The DGCA also said that scheduled international flights might be allowed on selected routes on a case to case basis.The Indian government banned international commercial flights since March 23, 2020, to check the spread of the Covid-19 infection. It eased the restrictions on flights in certain countries with which India has had an air bubble arrangement during the past year.The air bubble pact between the two countries allows the operation of special international flights by the national carrier between their territories. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 25 countries, including the United States, the United Kingdom, the United Arab Emirates, the Maldives, Netherlands, France, Germany, Qatar and Bhutan.India was considering lifting the restrictions on international commercial flights on August 31. However, it extended the ban in the face of a looming threat of the third wave of infection and the rising cases of the Delta variant of the Covid-19 in several countries.Even as the restrictions on international air travel continued, India allowed operating special flights on specific routes, especially to repatriate stranded citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-suspension-of-international-flights-extended-till-september-30-101630217817847.html
29-08-2021||India||Post-Covid infection in children rising in Kerala, 4 dead in last 5 months||4 children have died and over 300 were infected by Multi-System Inflammatory Syndrome-in Children (MIS-C), a post-Covid complication, in Kerala in the last five months, as per the state health ministry. MIS-C has emerged as a new concern for a state where a high number of Covid infections has persisted for more than two months.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday asked parents to avail immediate medical help if MIS-C symptoms are seen in children. “It is a treatable disease, but if ignored, it will lead to complications,” he said.Experts said MIS-C was a post-Covid disease among children with symptoms of fever, stomach pain, red eye and nausea surfacing three-four weeks following their recovery from the coronavirus.According to the state health ministry data, 10 % of all state population infected by Covid-19 so far, comprises children under 18 years of age while most of the MIS-C infected cases are amongst children under 15. The first MIS-C case was reported in government-owned SAT hospital in Thiruvananthapuram in March this year; but public health experts such as Dr Padmanabha Shenoy said scattered cases were also reported last year but its visibility increased in the last couple of months.“It is a rare complication affecting children. In some cases, after recovery of parents from Covid, they [children] got infected but failed to show symptoms. In many cases, symptoms surface at a later stage, and usually patients will be [found to be] PCR-negative. If not treated properly, it will lead to serious complications,” said Dr Shenoy.Intravenous immunoglobulin and steroids were being used for its treatment and the state health ministry has prepared a treatment protocol for hospitals to follow.29 MIS-C cases were reported in neighbouring Karnataka and 14 in Tamil Nadu in the last six months, experts said, adding that while most of the infected were male children, they were yet to find out the reason for this.With increased awareness, multi-disciplinary support and improved understanding and early diagnosis, it can be treated well, said internal medicine expert Dr N M Arun. “Timely diagnosis and medical aid is important in such cases,” he said, asking parents to watch their children for at least two-three months after they recover from Covid.Meanwhile, Kerala continues to be the pandemic capital of the country with around 70% of total Covid cases. On Saturday, it reported 31,265 cases with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 18.67 after testing 167,497 samples. The active caseload also crossed the two hundred thousand mark to reach 204,086 after three months. 153 Covid-related deaths were also registered on Saturday. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 45,083 cases with a TPR of 3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/postcovid-infection-in-children-rising-in-kerala-4-dead-in-last-6-months-101630218579298.html
29-08-2021||India||Mann ki Baat: PM Modi hails India's 'Yuva Shakti', pays tribute to Major Dhyan Chand||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hailed India's 'Yuva Shakti' on the 80th episode of his radio address-'Mann Ki Baat'. He began his address with a tribute to Indian field hockey player Major Dhyan Chand."All of us know that today is the birth anniversary of Major Dhyanchand ji. And our country celebrates it as National Sports Day, in commemoration. This year we won an Olympic medal in hockey after 40 years. You can imagine how happy Major Dhyan Chand must be today. We are seeing love for sports in the youth today. This passion for sports is the greatest tribute to Major Dhyan Chand," PM Modi said.Modi said every medal is special and India’s youth wants to do something new and at a large scale. "We must not let this momentum stop. Our sports grounds in villages, towns, cities must be full. Only through the participation of all, India can attain the height in sports it deserves," he added.Asserting that India's youth is giving emphasis to quality, PM Modi said, "Ask any youngster what he or she wants to do and a common answer will be - start up. The start-up sector is very vibrant in India."PM Modi noted that at a larger level, there is renewed momentum towards sports across the nation. "India is cheering for our #Paralympics contingent. Our fields must be full of players," he said.The Prime Minister said that this time, the Olympics have created a major impact. "The events at the Olympics are over; the Paralympics are going on. Whatever our country earns in this world of Sports may be little in comparison with the world, but enough has happened to bolster our belief," he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-hails-india-s-yuva-shakti-pays-tribute-to-major-dhyan-chand-101630213505156.html
29-08-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait meets injured farmers, 2-hr road blockade call given in Punjab||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait reached Haryana’s Karnal on Sunday and met farmers injured in police action on Saturday.Tikait met four injured farmers admitted at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) and said Karnal sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), who ordered the lathi-charge, should be booked along with other cops involved in it.“This incident has proved that they want to take control of the country with the help of force but we will not allow them to succeed”, Tikait added.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM)-- a front of several farmer organisations jointly leading the ongoing protests against the three farm laws---has also demanded strict action against Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha, who was purportedly filmed while instructing cops to target protesting farmers’ heads if they attempted to cross the barricades at the protest site.“We demand strict action against the Karnal SDM and all the farmer unions in Punjab will block all roads for two hours from 12pm to 2pm in solidarity with Haryana farmers and demand action against the SDM”, SKM leader Darshan Pal said in a video message.Farmers claimed that at least 10 amongst them were injured in a police lathicharge while they were protesting near the Bastara toll plaza on NH-44 at Karnal, close to the hotel where chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was holding a meeting of state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit. Police said the protesting farmers invited action by not heeding warnings that their assembly was unlawful since Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which bans the assembly of five or more people, was imposed in the area. According to the police, the farmers were adamant on moving towards the venue of the BJP meeting.The farmers’ front is now demanding that the SDM is terminated from service.“The duty magistrate (SDM) should be terminated for the torture and terrible lathi-charge on farmers and action should be taken against [other] police officers and [the government should] get compensate injured farmers and also get them treated for free,” Pal added. The district authorities didn’t comment on the video purportedly featuring SDM Ayush Sinha’s controversial instruction to the force to carry out a brutal attack on farmers. Deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav did not respond to the several text messages and phone calls.The SDM had earlier said that the cops were briefed as per the law. “I didn’t watch the video yet but the briefing to the cops was given as per the CrPC,” he had said. After the police action, the protesting farmers blocked all highways and link roads in Haryana for over four hours.Farmers agitating against the Central farm laws have been staging protests near the public functions of the state’s ruling BJP- Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) combine in Haryana since last year. Several farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year, seeking a repeal of the new farm laws, which they say will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by farm businesses. The government has maintained that the laws aim to ease restrictions on farm trade by setting up free markets, allow traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a framework for contract farming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-tikait-meets-injured-farmers-2-hr-road-blockade-call-given-in-punjab-101630215819118.html
29-08-2021||India||PM Modi addresses nation on 80th edition of Mann Ki Baat radio programme. Watch live||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is addressing the nation through his Mann Ki Baat monthly radio programme. This is the 80th episode of the monthly broadcast, which is held on the last Sunday of every month. Urging citizens of the nation to tune in, the Prime Minister tweeted on Saturday, "Tune in at 11 AM tomorrow. #MannKiBaat."The 80th episode of the Mann Ki Baat programme is being live-streamed on the Bharatiya Janta Party's (BJP) YouTube channel and the website of the Prime Minister's Office. It is also being broadcast on the network of All India Radio, Doordarshan, and the AIR News website www.newsonair.com and Newsonair mobile app.In the last edition of the Mann Ki Baat programme, the Prime Minister had asked Indians to salute the heroes of the Kargil War and read thrilling stories related to India's epic win at the battle. Noting that 75% of the citizens who send their feedback and suggestions to the Prime Minister about Mann Ki Baat are below the age of 35, he said that the programme reflects "the view of the youth of India".Watch the 80th edition of PM Modi's Mann Ki Baat LIVE here﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-addresses-nation-on-80th-edition-of-mann-ki-baat-radio-programme-watch-live-101630203397617.html
29-08-2021||NA||Mann Ki Baat Highlights: Sanskrit strengthens cultural ties, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is addressing the nation through the latest episode of his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio programme. He paid tribute to Major Dhyan Chand on his birth anniversary, wished people on Janmashtami and lauded people of Indore for making it the first 'Water Plus' city in the country. Previously, PM Modi spoke through Mann Ki Baat on July 25, which was its 79th edition. "Tune in tomorrow at 11am," the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) tweeted on Saturday.Listeners can tune into regional episodes of today’s address immediately after the Prime Minister’s address, and at 8pm as well on the concerned regional channels of All India Radio and Doordarshan.The first Mann Ki Baat episode was broadcast on October 3, 2014.Follow all the updates here:Sanskrit plays major role in strengthening cultural ties: PM ModiSanskrit plays an important role in strengthening cultural ties, says PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat.Mann Ki Baat has now become global, says PM ModiPM Modi says that Mann Ki Baat is no longer restricted only to India, people across the world are talking about it. "I receive messages from Indians based abroad," he says.'Whenever we speak of Swachh Bharat, Indore automatically comes up'"Whenever we speak of Swachh Bharat, Indore's name automatically comes up. It has been number 1 in Swachh Bharat rankings. But people of Indore are not satisfied with just that. They have made it the first Water Plus in the country," says PM Modi.PM Modi recalls meeting with Jadurani DasiAhead of Janmashtami on Monday, PM Modi recalls meeting with American national Jadurani Dasi, who works with ISKCON.Cannot let momentum in sports stop, says PM ModiIndia may have not won that many medals in Olympics, but today's youth is exploring opportunities related to sports. We cannot let this momentum stop. Let's made this momentum permanent in all walks of life: PM ModiToday's youth doesn't want to follow routine practices, says PM ModiToday's youth does not want to follow routine practices. He wants to go to unknown places and when he makes up mind, no one can stop him: PM ModiPM Modi pays tribute to Major Dhyan ChandPM Modi begins his address with tribute to Major Dhyan Chand, lauds Indian Hockey teams over their performance in the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics.80th episode of Mann Ki Baat beginsPM Modi begins addressing the nation through Mann Ki Baat. This is the 80th episode of the monthly radio programme.PM Modi likely to speak on Covid-19, Tokyo ParalympicsDuring his speech, the Prime Minister will likely speak on the current Covid-19 situation in the country, as well as the ongoing Paralympic Games in Tokyo. Also, today is 116th birth anniversary of legendary Hockey player Major Dhyan Chand.PM Modi's 80th Mann Ki Baat at 11amPM Modi will address the nation through 80th episode of his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio programme at 11am. The previous two episodes were aired on June 27 and July 25 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-live-pm-modi-to-address-nation-shortly-101630210009668.html
29-08-2021||India||Scripted history: Modi speaks to Bhavina Patel, lauds her for clinching silver in Tokyo Paralympics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to Para table tennis player Bhavina Patel and congratulated her on winning a silver medal at Tokyo Paralympics.Prime Minister lauded her efforts and told Bhavina that she has scripted history. He wished her the very best for her future endeavours, sources said.Bhavina Patel hails from Sundhiya in Vadnagar, Mehsana. Prime Minister told her that he's been to Sundhiya often and asked her who all from her family are still there, to which Bhavina replied that her parents are there.President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and other leaders congratulated India's para table tennis player Bhavinaben Hasmukhbhai Patel who clinched a silver medal at the Tokyo Paralympics on Sunday.Congratulating Patel for 'scripting history', PM Modi said her life journey is motivating and will draw more youngsters towards sports.PM Modi tweeted, "The remarkable Bhavina Patel has scripted history! She brings home a historic Silver medal. Congratulations to her for it. Her life journey is motivating and will also draw more youngsters towards sports."India's para table tennis player Bhavinaben Hasmukhbhai Patel won silver as she lost the gold medal match to China's Zhou Ying 3-0 in the women's singles - Class 4 here at the Tokyo Metropolitan Gymnasium -- Table 6 on Sunday. With this silver medal, Bhavina became the first medal winner for India in this edition of the Games.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scripted-history-modi-speaks-to-bhavina-patel-lauds-her-for-clinching-silver-in-tokyo-paralympics-101630212714826.html
29-08-2021||India||NCB arrests actor Armaan Kohli in alleged drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday arrested Bollywood actor Armaan Kohli in connection with an alleged drugs case. Kohli, a former contestant on the reality show Bigg Boss, was arrested in the early hours of the day after being detained by the agency on Saturday after some narcotics contraband were allegedly found during a raid at his residence in Mumbai's Juhu.Also Read| NCB raids ex Bigg Boss contestant Armaan Kohli’s Mumbai house, drugs recovered"He has been arrested under relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Officers will produce him in the court later in the day to seek his custody," an NCB official told Hindustan Times. "Small quantity of cocaine recovered from Kohli," the official further said.Headed by its zonal director Samir Wankhede, a team of the drug law enforcement agency, had raided the actor's residence at 2pm on Saturday. The action was taken as part of its ongoing "Operation Rolling Thunder" to crackdown on the alleged network of drug peddlers and suppliers in Mumbai. The search went on till 8pm, NCB officials said.The raid at Kohli's home took place on the basis of information revealed by an alleged drug peddler who, like the actor, was arrested on Saturday. He is suspected to have purchased drugs from the alleged peddler.Since last year, the NCB has questioned several major Bollywood names, including Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan in connection with an alleged Bollywood-drugs mafia nexus. The actors' questioning was linked to the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, who was found dead in his Mumbai flat on June 14 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-arrests-actor-armaan-kohli-in-alleged-drugs-case-101630211321889.html
29-08-2021||India||India logs 45,083 new Covid-19 cases, 35,840 recoveries in last 24 hours||India recorded 45,083 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 32,695,030, while the death toll climbed to 437,830 with 4 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday. This is the fourth consecutive day that India is seeing more than 40,000 daily Covid-19 cases.Active cases rose by 8,783 to stand at 368,558 in the same period, according to data released by the health ministry at 8am. Active cases constitute 1.10 per cent of total cases and the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands 97.6 per cent, the Union health ministry said.As many as 17,55,327 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far to 51,86,42,929. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 31,888,642 while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it said.As the fear of third wave of Covid-19 pandemic looms over the country, Kerala’s rising cases are a cause of concern. Kerala reported 32,801 fresh cases of coronavirus on Saturday, accounting for 70.15 per cent of the total cases India reported.The Ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday said that 60,25,95,250 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and union territories so far through the direct state procurement category. The ministry further said that 1,51,58,650 vaccine doses are in the pipeline. "More than 42 million (4,20,58,316) balance and unutilized Covid vaccine doses are still available with the states/UTs to be administered," it said.Meanwhile, India on Friday administered more than 10 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine in a single day across the nation for the first time since the start of the mass inoculation programme on January 16, according to data on the Union health ministry’s Co-WIN dashboard. “Record vaccination numbers today! Crossing 1 crore is a momentous feat. Kudos to those getting vaccinated and those making the vaccination drive a success,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Friday night.The Covid-19 vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advanced visibility of vaccine availability to states and Union Territories for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. The new phase of universalisation of vaccination commenced on June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-45-083-new-covid-19-cases-35-840-recoveries-in-last-24-hours-101630209529505.html
29-08-2021||India||Indian military to brain-storm over Taliban in Afghanistan||The Indian military brass led by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat is expected to brain-storm on impact of a Taliban regime in Afghanistan and its security ramifications on India and the sub-continent this week.Given the ideological and operational affiliation of the Taliban, a UN designated global terrorist group, with Pakistan based terror groups like Tehreek-e-Taliban, Jaish-e-Mohammed and Haqqani Network, the military brass including all the three service chiefs will study and assess the security imperatives of rise of Taliban in Kabul. The topic is a matter of concern as for the first time there will be no US forces on ground in Afghanistan.Also Read | Haqqani network is the sword arm of Taliban with Pakistan the common parentThe Indian military has a few areas of security concerns. Firstly, with the US leaving behinds billions of dollars’ worth hardware in Afghanistan, there will be serious proliferation of conventional weapons among the jihadists in the Indian sub-continent with sophisticated M-4 and M-16 rifles replacing the ubiquitous AK-47. The biggest worry are the military grade night vision devices, which are normally subjected to US export control regimes, the tactical drones and loitering ammunition. These US made military hardware is expected to find its way to Punjabi Islamists group like Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Tayebba (LeT) targeting India in Kashmir. The security situation will become dire when the Taliban cadre are able to fly the abandoned squadrons of Blackhawk helicopters and operate the all-terrain military vehicles.The other worry is that the umbilical linkages between the Taliban and Pakistan based terrorist groups will also give deniability to Islamabad in case of any terror strike in India. As in Taliban 1.0, the terror groups are expected to shift training camps to Afghanistan under the protection of the Taliban 2.0 and the Haqqani Network, which has known links with Pakistani deep state. The jihadists from the west will be calibrated by China through Pakistan and by Islamabad to pressure India on the western front while the eastern and northern front is far from settled due to belligerent PLA.Watch | ISIS, Taliban, Al Qaeda: Terror rivals or sinister partners? While the Indian military is confident of handling the rise of jihadist pressure from the west, it is concerned about the terror attack on India’s huge coastline with Pakistan based groups providing the logistics on sea. It is in this context, the Indian Navy and the coast-guard will have to plan for such emergency.The Indian Air Force will have to sharpen its air defence radar network as the Pak based jihadists are not averse to using drones to not only cart weapons inside Indian territory but also use them to drop explosives on key installations. The drone attack on Jammu air base by LeT last June was just the beginning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-military-to-brain-storm-over-taliban-in-afghanistan-101630209294194.html
29-08-2021||India||Congratulations pour in for Bhavina Patel on winning silver in Tokyo Paralympics||The country on Sunday rejoiced paddler Bhavinaben Patel's win of silver medal in Table Tennis at the ongoing Tokyo Paralympics in Japan. Patel won the medal after losing to China's Zhou Ying in the final of the women's singles class 4 event. She had earlier reached the final by defeating world no. 3 China's Miao Zhang 7-11, 11-7, 11-4, 9-11, 11-8 on Saturday. "I was slightly nervous during the match today. I couldn't implement my game strategy well. Next time, I will surely give my best. I'm happy that India has created history by winning a Silver medal in table tennis at Paralympics. I dedicate this silver medal to my country. I want to thank my coach, family members and friends for their constant support," Patel said.Immediately after her win, congratulatory messages poured in from various politicians. President Ram Nath Kovind said, "Bhavina Patel inspires the Indian contingent and sportslovers winning silver at #Paralympics. Your extraordinary determination and skills have brought glory to India. My congratulations to you on this exceptional achievement."Extending his greetings, External affairs minister S Jaishankar said, "Congratulations @BhavinaPatel6 on winning the silver medal for #TeamIndia at the #Paralympics. A proud moment."Union finance minister also congratulated Patel and said her perseverance and success shall shall as motivation for many. "Congratulations #BhavinaPatel on winning the Silver medal in #ParaTableTennis. Your perseverance and success shall shall as motivation for many. #TokyoParalympics."Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said, "Congratulations to Bhavina Patel for winning the #Silver . India applauds your achievement. You’ve done the nation proud. #TokyoParalympics."Vice-President of India Venkaiah Naidu also congratulated Patel and said the entire country is proud of her achievement. "Heartiest Congratulations to Bhavina Patel for winning a silver medal in the Table Tennis Women's Singles Class 4 event at the #TokyoParalympics2020. The entire nation is proud of her remarkable accomplishment. My best wishes for her future endeavours. #Paralympics #Praise4Para."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congratulations-pour-in-for-bhavina-patel-on-winning-silver-in-tokyo-paralympics-101630206776674.html
29-08-2021||India||Indian Air Force to replace INSAS rifles with new AK-103 weapons, details here||The Indian Air Force has signed an agreement to buy 70,000 AK-103 assault rifles from Russia as part of an emergency procurement, news agency ANI reported on Saturday. The newly acquired weapons, which will be used to replace the existing arsenal of INSAS rifles currently in use, are likely to arrive as early as in the next few months, the agency reported, adding that the new weapons are expected to bring a marked upgrade in India's combat abilities to tackle terrorist attacks in a much better way."The contract worth around ₹300 crore was signed last week under emergency provisions to buy 70,000 AK-103 assault rifles from Russia," a government official familiar with the development informed the ANI news agency. "The weapons would be first provided to troops in field areas like Jammu and Kashmir, Srinagar along with sensitive air bases.India has been looking to augment its defence capabilities in recent years, the need hastened by the recent skirmishes against Chinese troops at the eastern Ladakh front. Around 1.5 lakh US-made Sig Sauer rifles and 16,000 Negev Light Machine Guns (LMGs) have already been provided to Indian troops out on the front, while all the basic weapons currently in use by the armed forces are being modernised.AK-103 assault rifle: Upgraded version of the legendary AK-47The AK-103 assault rifle is an upgraded version of the legendary and deadly AK-47 rifles. Only the Marine Commandos of the Indian Navy currently use the AK-103 rifles, such as in operations at the Wular lake in Kashmir valley, where the elite unit is deployed. However, with the procurement of the new AK-103 riles, more troops within the armed forces will be able to use these rifles now, allowing them to fill the critical gaps in their preparedness in war-fighting.The AK-103 rifles would also be provided to the Garud special forces, who are deployed across the country at several different air bases.More advanced AK-203 assault rifles to be acquired soonAccording to the official cited by the agency, India and Russia are expected to sign another deal later to produce the even more advanced AK-203 assault rifles. The contract for the AK-203 assault rifles is being processed under the Indian Army, which requires around 6.5 lakh of these rifles to strengthen its troops' firepower, they said.Weapons requirementsThe Indian Air Force, on the other hand, has a requirement of over 1.5 lakh new assault rifles, a part of which will be met by the new AK-103 weapons arriving in a few months. Earlier, a portion of this requirement was when the IAF acquired 4,000 Sig Sauer assault rifles, as part of a broader contract procured under the Indian Army.The requirement for upgraded personal weapons has been felt by the IAF for a long time but the process gained speed post-Pathankot attack in 2016. The IAF now also lays a lot of stress on the personal combat capabilities of its troops along with using their technical abilities.The Indian armed forces have the freedom to choose the weapons they want to buy and these can be acquired under the emergency procurement route which allowed them to get deliveries within one year. These emergency procurements have allowed the troops to fill the requirement in their combat abilities as required to better meet security needs across the country and beyonf||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-air-force-to-replace-insas-rifles-with-new-ak-103-weapons-details-here-101630205359171.html
29-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Last UK troops have left Kabul, says British ministry of defence and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Last UK troops leave Kabul, Boris Johnson hails 'heroic' evacuation effortThe British ministry of defence said that about 14,000 people were airlifted out of Kabul airport in less than two weeks, according to a report. Read moreCovid vaccine drive to speed up further in September; 240 mn to be inoculatedApproximately 200 million doses are likely to be of Covishield, which will be delivered by the Serum Institute of India (SII). Read moreTokyo Paralympics: Bhavinaben Patel wins historic silver medal in TTBhavinaben Patel created history on Sunday by winning India's first Paralympics medal in Table Tennis (TT). Read moreDino Morea says he did 'small jobs to stay relevant' when acting offers dried up: 'I don't want to talk about it'Actor Dino Morea has reflected on a period in his career when he did small jobs to stay relevant and financially secure when acting offers dried up. Read moreKatrina Kaif's ₹1 lakh one-shoulder bodycon dress is the party outfit you've always wantedKatrina Kaif serves the perfect party look in a stunning yellow one-shoulder bodycon dress for an ad shoot. Read more'Attack on Afghan soil': Taliban slam U.S drone strike against ISIS-K terroristsHours after a U.S drone strike targeted Islamic State Khorasan Province or ISIS-K militants in Afghanistan, Taliban have slammed America. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-last-uk-troops-have-left-kabul-says-british-ministry-of-defence-and-all-the-latest-news-101630205175439.html
29-08-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine drive to speed up further in September; 240 million to be inoculated||The nationwide vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is expected to gather further pace in September as more than 240 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines are likely to be administered next month, Hindustan Times’ sister website Live Hindustan has reported citing Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan. This means that on average, 8 million shots will be administered each day in September, as against the corresponding figures for August which, at present, are between 5.3-5.4 million.Of these 240 million doses, approximately 200 million are likely to be of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca jab, which is being marketed locally as Covishield. These will be delivered by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer.Also Read | 20 crore Covishield doses to be supplied in September, SII informs CentreFurther, in first week of October, the supply of ZyCoV-D, the sixth and latest vaccine to receive Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), will commence, while the administration of shots will begin by the end of the month. The manufacturing of two other jabs approved by the drugs regulator -- those of Moderna and Johnson & Johnson respectively -- is projected to start from this month itself.As of now, the vaccination drive is completely dependent on Covishield and Covaxin, the first two vaccines which received EUA from the DCGI, in January. Sputnik V, the third shot to be approved, has been used only in a limited capacity. The nationwide inoculation drive began on 16th January and, thus far, 622,989,134 doses have been administered, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard. These include around 550 million and 76 million doses of Covishield and Covaxin respectively, as per official data.On August 27, India became the first country to vaccinate more than 10 million people in a single-day.Also Read | India administers record 10 million vaccine doses in a dayOf the half-a-dozen jabs approved by the DCGI thus far, two are indigenous while the rest are foreign developed. Covaxin and ZyCoV-D are both 'made in India,' while the rest have been developed abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-240-million-vaccine-doses-likely-to-be-administered-in-september-101630203314539.html
29-08-2021||India||IRCTC's 'Bharat Darshan' special train to start today: Check details here||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will operate a 'Bharat Darshan' special tourist train from Sunday, which will cover places like Hyderabad - Ahmedabad - Nishkalank Mahadev Sea Temple - Amritsar - Jaipur - and Statue of Unity. This tour package will end on September 10. The IRCTC had on July 30 shared the information on its Twitter handle. "The World's Tallest Statue, the holiest pilgrimage centre, the most spectacular palace, the 'Splendours of India' are plenty. #Book this 12D/11N train tour package here https://bit.ly/3iM6SPW & discover them all!," it said.The IRCTC in a statement said that the Bharat Darshan package is one of the most affordable, all-inclusive tour packages and all the important tourist places in the country will be covered by the special train.The booking of Bharat Darshan special tourist train is available online on the IRCTC website. Bookings can also be done through IRCTC tourist facilitation centre, zonal offices and regional offices.The boarding points for this special train are Madurai, Salem, Dindigul, Erode, Jolarpettai Karur, Katpadi, MGR Chennai Central, Nellore and Vijayawada and the de-boarding points are Vijayawada, Nellore, Perambur, Katpadi, Jolarpettai, Salem, Erode, Karur, Dindigul and Madurai.Key features of the Bharat Darshan special tourist train:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctcs-bharat-darshan-special-train-to-start-today-check-details-here-101630194189391.html
29-08-2021||NA||Breaking news: 18 children test positive for Covid in Mankhurd Children's Home in Mumbai||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Hurrican Ida makes landfall as Category 4 storm in Louisiana, reports AFP#BREAKING Hurricane Ida makes landfall as Category 4 storm in Louisiana: US forecasters pic.twitter.com/DWonn48sfhHurricane Ida makes landfall as Category 4 storm in Louisiana, reports AFP, citing US forecasters. ₹51,531 crore issued as refund to over 22.99 lakh taxpayers between April 1, August 23: IT DepartmentCBDT issues refunds of over Rs. 51,531 crore to more than 22.99 lakh taxpayers between 1st April,2021 to 23rd August,2021. Income tax refunds of Rs. 14,835 crore have been issued in 21,70,134 cases &corporate tax refunds of Rs. 36,696 crore have been issued in 1,28,870 cases(1/5)The IT Department said that ₹51,531 crore have been issued as refund to over 22.99 lakh taxpayers between April 1, 2021 and August 23, 2021.18 children test positive for Covid-19 in Mankhurd Children's Home, MumbaiAs many as 18 children from the Mankhurd Children's Home have tested positive for Covid-19 in the three days between August 25 and 27, the Mumbai civic body (BMC) said.US, China discuss Afghanistan, bilateral relations, reports ReutersAfghanistan, bilateral relations were discussed in a phone call today between US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi, reports Reuters citing Chinese state media.Uttarakhand govt to collect report on damaged bridges in state within a weekUttarakhand govt issues instructions to conduct an investigation of various damaged and dilapidated bridges and submit a report within a week, as many bridges in various districts of the state remain in poor condition.The Uttarakhand government has sought a report of the investigation of damaged and dilapidated bridges in the states and issued a notification to the effect, reports ANI.Taliban bans co-education in universities, says women to be allowed to studyAfghan women will be allowed to study at university but there would be a ban on mixed classes under their rule, the Taliban's acting higher education minister said on Sundayhttps://t.co/thEfbuhf30Taliban said that while women would be allowed to continue their education at university, co-education classes would be banned, reports AFP.Delhi records no new Covid-19 related deaths for 4th straight dayNo fresh death due to COVID-19 in Delhi, 19th time since onset of second wave, 31 new cases; positivity rate 0.04 per cent: Health BulletinDelhi reported no new deaths due to Covid-19 for the fourth day running and the 19th time since the onset of second wave, reports PTI.Taliban spokesperson says US airstrike killed suicide bomber, reports APUS military airstrike has targeted a suicide bomber in a vehicle who wanted to target the Kabul international airport amid the American evacuation operation, reports AP quoting Taliban spokesperson.US officials say carried out military strikes in Kabul, reports ReutersThe US has carried out military strike in Kabul, reports Reuters citing two US officials.1 child dead in rocket attack in Kabul, reports APAn Afghan police chief says a rocket has struck a neighborhood northwest of Kabul's international airport amid the US evacuation there, killing a child.Rashid, the Kabul police chief who goes by one name, says the rocket struck Sunday afternoon.No group immediately claimed the attack, reports AP.US says 300 Americans yet to be evacuatedBlinken says 300 US citizens left to be evacuated from Afghanistan, reports AFPExplosion heard in Afghanistan's capital Kabul, reports ANIExplosion heard in Afghanistan's capital Kabul, reports local mediaAn explosion was heard in Afghanistan's capital city of Kabul, reports ANI citing local media sources.Maharashtra minister Anil Parab receives ED notice, Sena's Raut says will go for legal fightशाब्बास!जन आशीर्वाद जत्रेची सांगता होताच अपेक्षे प्रमाणे अनिल परब यांना ई.डी.ची नोटीस बजावण्यात आली . वरचे सरकार कामाला लागले. भुकंपाचा केंद्रबिंदू रत्नागिरीत होता. परब हे रत्नागिरीचे पालक मंत्री आहेत.chronology कृपया समज लिजीये. कायदेशीर लढाई कायदयानेच लढू..जय महाराष्ट्रShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that Maharashtra transport minister Anil Parab has received a notice from the Enforcement Directorate (ED)."As the Jan Arshirwad Yatra culminated, ED notice was served to Anil Parab. The government at the top has started working. The epicentre of the quake was Ratnagiri. Parab is the guardian minister of Ratnagiri. Please understand the chronology. We will fight it legally. Jai Maharashtra," Raut tweeted.Andhra Pradesh reports 1,557 new Covid-19 cases, 18 deaths in 24 hoursAndhra Pradesh reports 1,557 COVID-19 cases, 18 fatalities. Infection tally rises to 20,12,123, death toll 13,825. Number of active cases of the disease in the state stands at 15,179.Andhra Pradesh reported 1,557 new Covid-19 cases and 18 deaths as the tally reached 2,012,123 and the death toll climbed to 13,825, reports PTI.In TN, Kodaikanal Boat and Rowing Club opens for tourists following new Covid-19 relaxationsTamil Nadu | Kodaikanal Boat and Rowing Club reopens for tourists in wake of new relaxations in COVID-19 guidelines."I wanted to visit the Club for a long time. It's pretty safe around here. Police are checking vaccination certificates, masks and sanitisers," says a tourist pic.twitter.com/HVUM1f3iS9The Kodaikanal Boat and Rowing Club reopened for tourists in wake of the Tamil Nadu government's new Covid-19 relaxations, reports ANI.Chandigarh police use water cannon as AAP women wing members tried to enter BJP office#WATCH | Chandigarh: Police use water cannon after protesting members of AAP Punjab Women Wing tried to enter the BJP Punjab office. Many women workers were later detained by the police. pic.twitter.com/ITr3ClgcKeChandigarh police used water cannons as members of the AAP party's women wing tried to enter the BJP Punjab office and many workers were also detained, reports ANI.France, Britain to submit proposal for safe zone in Kabul to people leaving Afghanistan: Emmanuel MacronFrench President Emmanuel Macron said that France and Britain would submit a proposal for a safe zone in Kabul to protect people trying to leave Afghanistan, during an emergency meeting by the UN, reports Reuters.Former Haryana CM Hooda demands high level inquiry on police baton charge on farmersAny problem can be resolved by talks only, not by suppressing people's voices. There must be a high-level inquiry into whatever happened yesterday. Culprits must be punished: Congress leader & former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda on lathi-charge on protesting farmers in Karnal pic.twitter.com/DaiVWdpDMUFormer Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda demanded a high level inquiry on the police baton charge on farmers in Karnal yesterday, reports ANI.President Kovind plants sapling at Ayodhya templePresident Ram Nath Kovind offers prayers, plants a sapling at Ram Temple in Ayodhya pic.twitter.com/5nLzziOM6mPresident Ram Nath Kovind offered prayers at the Ram temple in Ayodhya and planted a sapling, reports ANI.Delhi police asks people to celebrate Janmashtami at homes, warns of action against violation of guidelinesDevotees will not be permitted to visit temples on Janamashtami as DDMA guidelines prohibit religious gatherings. We will urge people to celebrate it at their homes & not to gather at temples. Action will be taken against those violating guidelines: RP Meena, DCP South-East,Delhi pic.twitter.com/j46GIJgw0XDelhi police asked people to celebrate Janmashtami at their homes and to avoid visiting temples as DDMA has not permitted religious gatherings. It also warned of action against people violating guidelines, reports ANI.Actor Armaan Kohli sent to NCB custody for a dayActor Armaan Kohli, who was arrested following the seizure of drugs from his residence in Mumbai, has been sent to NCB custody for a day(File photo) pic.twitter.com/lg4KWv9mvRActor Armaan Kohli has been sent to NCB custody for a day, reports ANI. He was arrested in Mumbai after seizure of drugs from his residence.Farmers block road near Bhandari Bridge, Amristar for 2 hours in protest against Karnal incidentPunjab: Farmers blocked the road at Bhandari Bridge in Amritsar for two hours in protest against the lathi charge on protesting farmers in Karnal, Haryana yesterday pic.twitter.com/oIlfxBLzurFarmers in Punjab protested against the police baton charge on farmers in Karnal, Haryana yesterday. The road at Bhandari bridge in Amritsar was blocked for two hours, reports ANI.New section of Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation inauguratedChief Minister of Karnataka Basavaraja Bommai on Sunday along with Union Minister Hardeep Singh puri, Revenue minister R Ashok, South Bengaluru MP Tejaswi Surya and Minister for Housing V Somanna inaugurated a new 7.5 kilometres long metro line in Bengaluru.At least 14 people injured in a cylinder blast in Dharavi14 people have been reported injured in the cylinder blast in Dharavi area of Mumbai: BMC; the injured rushed to Sion Hospital.Gujarat govt to give ₹3 crore to Paralympic silver medallist Bhavina PatelThe Gujarat government on Sunday announced a ₹3 crore reward for paddler Bhavina Patel for her historic silver medal win at the Tokyo Paralympic Games.Non-bailable warrant issued against accused of Mahakumbh Covid-19 testing scam in HaridwarA Special Investigation Team (SIT) has obtained a non-bailable warrant from the court against the accused of the Mahakumbh COVID-19 testing scam in Haridwar.SpaceX launches ants, avocados, robot to space stationA SpaceX shipment of ants, avocados and a human-sized robotic arm rocketed toward the International Space Station on Sunday.Ashok Gehlot has been discharged from hospital following angioplastyRajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot has been discharged following angioplasty at Sawai Man Singh Hospital in Jaipur.A stent was placed in one of his arteries that had 90% blockage, according to the hospital.AAP to take out Tiranga Yatras in Ayodhya, Lucknow, NoidaAhead of assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, the AAP will take out a Tiranga Yatras in Ayodhya, Lucknow and Noida to mark the 75th year of India's Independence, party leaders said.Hurricane Ida upgraded to Category 3 with sustained winds of 115 mphHurricane Ida upgraded to Category 3 with sustained winds of 115 mph: NHCMansukh Mandaviya releases first commercial batch of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin from new plant in GujaratUnion Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya releases first commercial batch of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin from new plant in Gujarat's Ankleshwar.Centre extends suspension on international passenger flights till September 30Suspension on regular international passenger flights extended till September 30.President Ram Nath Kovind arrives at Ayodhya onboard the special presidential trainPresident Ram Nath Kovind arrives at Ayodhya onboard the special presidential train. He was received by Governor Anandiben Patel and CM Yogi Adityanath on arrival.Three children die due to drowning in Yamuna riverThree children die due to drowning in Yamuna river near Wazirabad old bridge, investigation underway: Police.Economic Offences Wing, Delhi Police has arrested accused one Murari Kumar Srivastav of committing fraudEconomic Offences Wing, Delhi Police has arrested accused one Murari Kumar Srivastav of committing fraud and cheating in the name of an investment scheme. After collecting more than ₹3.5 crore from more than 500 investors, he shut down the company and ran away.Rain lashes various parts of ThiruvananthapuramIMD predicts cloudy skies with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers till 2nd September.NCB arrests actor Armaan Kohli in a drugs caseNCB arrests actor Armaan Kohli in a drugs case, he will be presented before a city court today.India logs 45,083 fresh Covid-19 cases, 460 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 45,083 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 32,695,030, while the death toll climbed to 437,370 with 509 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday.US evacuates about 2,000 people from Kabul in the last 24 hoursThe US has evacuated approximately 2,000 people from the Kabul airport in the last 24 hours, the White House has said, as the countdown for the end of America's longest military mission begins in Afghanistan.Rahul Gandhi congratulates Bhavina PatelCongratulations to Bhavina Patel for winning the #Silver . India applauds your achievement. You’ve done the nation proud, tweets Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.New Zealand reports 83 local Covid-19 cases as Delta outbreak growsNew Zealand reported 83 locally acquired cases on Sunday of the highly infectious Delta coronavirus variant, with Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern saying that some changes on how the outbreak is managed could be announced on Monday.Bhavina Patel brings home silver medal at Tokyo ParaolympicsIndian Para table tennis player Bhavina Patel brings home silver medal at Tokyo Paraolympics."She has made us proud, we will give her a grand welcome on her return," says her father Hasmukhbhai Patel in Mehsana, Gujarat.US embassy issues security alert"Due to a specific, credible threat, all US citizens in the vicinity of Kabul airport, including South (Airport Circle), new Ministry of the Interior and gate near Panjshir Petrol station should leave the airport area immediately" the US Embassy in Kabul says in a security alert.Last UK troops leave Kabul, Boris Johnson hails 'heroic' evacuation effortThe last of the British troops in Afghanistan have now been evacuated out of the Kabul airport, ending the United Kingdom's two-decade-long military campaign in the war-torn country.Joe Biden says another attack at Kabul airport highly likely in next 24 to 36 hoursUnited States president Joe Biden on Saturday (local time) warned that a new terror attack was likely at the Kabul airport in Afghanistan in less than two days, as he put the timeframe for the predicted attack to "the next 24 to 36 hours".Airtel board to meet today to consider fundraising optionsThe board of Bharti Airtel will meet on Sunday to consider various fundraising plans, including equity and debt.IRCTC's 'Bharat Darshan' special train to start todayThe Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will operate a 'Bharat Darshan' special tourist train from Sunday.US administers 367.9 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines: CDCThe United States has administered 367,911,870 doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the country as of Saturday morning and distributed 439,428,235 doses, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said.Blinken, Jaishankar discuss US-India coordination on Afghanistan, in United NationsUS Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Saturday (local time) and External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar discussed bilateral ties between the United States and India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-29-2021-101630193519238.html
29-08-2021||India||Amid Covid-19 surge in some states, govt warns against large gatherings||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases in some states, the Union ministry of home affairs on Saturday extended the guidelines in place to contain the pandemic till September 30, and warned against large gatherings during the upcoming festive season. In fresh Covid-19 guidelines, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla also said that the overall pandemic situation now appears to be “largely stable” at the national level, but expressed concern over localised spread observed in a few states and Union territories.“The state governments and UT administrations concerned, having high positivity in their districts, should take pro-active containment measures so as to effectively arrest the spike in cases and to contain the spread of transmission. It is important to identify warning signs of potential surges early on and to take appropriate measures to curb the spread. This would require a localised approach, as has been mentioned in Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) advisories dated April 25 and June 28,” said the communique.India on Saturday reported 45,056 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking its total tally to 32,694,032.Pointing out at the upcoming festive season across several states in India, the home secretary told states and Union territories to take suitable measures to avoid large gatherings during the coming festive season and, if required, impose local restrictions to prevent such gatherings.Also Read | Covid-19 this week: Surge in daily tally of cases, driven by Kerala casesA number of major festivals, including Diwali and Chhath, will be celebrated in the coming months. “States and UTs are requested to augment their enforcement efforts for effectively checking transmission of the disease,” he said, stressing on the five-fold strategy --- Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination and adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour --- for effective management of Covid-19Bhalla further pointed to the significant progress in the vaccination drive across the country and urged the governments to continue their efforts.Till Saturday night, India has administered nearly 630,067,629 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine to nearly 340,715,073 people with the first dose and 144,676,278 people having received both doses of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-surge-in-some-states-govt-warns-against-large-gatherings-101630191887912.html
29-08-2021||India||Haryana cops lathicharge farmers, fresh row erupts||The Haryana Police on Saturday lathicharged a group of protesting farmers in Karnal, leading to fresh protests and a political war of words against the backdrop of an ongoing agitation against three contentious farm laws.Members of different farm unions assembled at the Bastara toll plaza on NH-44 near Karnal as chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar chaired a state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) meeting at a private hotel ahead of the upcoming local polls, people aware of the matter said.The police said Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which bans the assembly of five or more people, was imposed in the area, which made the farmers’ gathering “unlawful”. According to the police, they made repeated announcements to the farmers to disperse but they were adamant on moving towards the venue of the BJP meeting. All roads leading to the venue were heavily barricaded.The farmers said the police started beating the protesters without any provocation, injuring at least 10. “Many farmers were injured after police brutally lathicharged them without any provocation. Some even could be seen with blood all over their clothes,” Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni said.The police, however, denied the charge. “We used mild force because they were blocking the highway. Some stones were also pelted towards the police. Mild force was used to disperse the protesters,” Karnal police IG Mamta Singh said.Farmers agitating against the central farm laws have been staging protests near the public functions of the state’s ruling BJP- Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) combine in Haryana since last year. Several farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year, seeking a repeal of the new farm laws, which they say will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by farm businesses. The government has maintained that the laws aim to ease restrictions on farm trade by setting up free markets, allow traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a framework for contract farming.On Saturday, the farmers blocked all highways and link roads in Haryana for over four hours after the police action. The blockade was lifted at around 7.30pm after the police released 11 detained farmers. “The police have released the farmers and we have decided to open the blockade but the decision about the agitation will be taken on Monday,” Chaduni said.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked the BJP government after the incident. “Once again the blood of farmers is shed, India’s head bows in shame,” he said in a tweet.Khattar, however, rejected the charge and said: “Obstructing official work is against democracy. If they [farmers] wanted to protest, they should’ve done it peacefully. If they jam highways and throw stones at police, then police will also take steps... We’ll look into it and take necessary action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-cops-lathicharge-farmers-fresh-row-erupts-101630191578549.html
29-08-2021||India||Odisha TV journalist keeps recording for talk show despite mother’s demise, earns applause||Moments before the camera was ready to roll for an interview-based talk show on popular Odia channel OTV on August 24 afternoon, Manoranjan Joshi reached out for his mobile phone to switch it to aeroplane mode. Then his mobile phone rang and Joshi froze after his friend told him that his 73-year-old widowed mother Saraju had died of cardiac failure in an ambulance while on her way to a hospital in Bhubaneswar.It took Joshi, 44, a Bolangir-based TV journalist, a few seconds to regain his composure to interview senior Congress leader Tara Prasad Bahinipati even as he was choking. Despite the Congress leader and his colleagues suggesting that the show be cancelled in view of his personal tragedy, Joshi went on interviewing and asking questions to the Congress leader for the talk show titled “Khola Katha”, which was aired on Friday evening.“He exemplified what professionalism is. He could have cancelled it, but he told everyone around that the show must go on as he knew it was planned and his mourning could wait. Normally people don’t appreciate how journalists work under deadlines and difficult circumstances. But what Manoranjan did has made us all proud,” said Radha Madhav Mishra, OTV’s news editor.On social media, those who know Joshi are hailing his professionalism and sense of commitment with many on Twitter saying his act was a “tribute to his late mother”. Bahinipati, who was interviewed by Joshi in the talk show, said the journalist has huge willpower. “His mother passed away and yet he continued with the show. He did not let his emotions take over. I pray to Lord Jagannath that her soul may rest in peace, and may the Lord give him and his family the courage to stay strong,” Bahinipati said.Joshi who has been with OTV for more than a decade and is now its western Odisha bureau chief, said the moment when he heard the news of his mother’s demise was the most tragic moment of his life. “For a moment I felt the earth slipping under my feet and my eyes welled up. But then I thought she would have wanted me to keep working no matter what. I thought doing the talk show would be the best tribute to her,” Joshi said.A day before she passed away, Joshi had arrived in Bhubaneswar for the recording of the talk show. However, on Tuesday, she complained of chest pain following which one of her sons, a doctor, admitted her to a hospital in Bolangir. Throughout the day, he kept making arrangements for his mother’s travel to a Bhubaneswar hospital in an ambulance till he got busy with the recording of the talk show.While the show was being recorded, Joshi said he tried his best to focus, but struggled a lot. “She had brought me and my 3 brothers up and gave us freedom to chase our dreams. She was our support system. I don’t know how I recorded the show,” Joshi said after cremating his mother.In a similar incident in 2017, a woman anchor of a TV channel of Chhattisgarh kept reading the news of a road accident in which her husband was killed without betraying any emotion. Supreet Kaur of channel IBC 24 kept on reading the breaking news of her husband’s death in a road accident leaving her colleagues speechless in her show of commitment and courage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-tv-journalist-keeps-recording-for-talk-show-despite-mother-s-demise-earns-applause-101630177656250.html
29-08-2021||India||Govt issues draft rules to end retrospective tax||The Centre on Saturday released draft rules including preconditions for withdrawing retrospective tax demands on aggrieved investors such as Cairn Energy Plc and Vodafone Plc, provided they “irrevocably” withdraw all existing cases against the government and furnish an “undertaking” that they would not initiate any legal action to claim costs, damages or interest in future.The draft was put up for public suggestions and comments from all stakeholders by September 4. After the deadline, the rules will be finalised by incorporating relevant suggestions to operationalise the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 2021 that was enacted during the monsoon session of the Parliament earlier this month, a finance ministry official said requesting anonymity.The Act was passed to alter “a clarificatory amendment” that was brought in by the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government in 2012 and had become contentious because of its retrospective application. The retrospective amendment had resulted in 17 legal cases, including two of arbitration by Vodafone Plc and Cairn Energy Plc in foreign tribunals. India lost both last year.“To implement the amendment made by 2021 Act, draft rules have been prepared to amend the Income-tax Rules, 1962 which specify the conditions to be fulfilled and the process to be followed to give effect to the amendment made by the 2021 Act,” the finance ministry said in a statement.The Act was amended to “bring tax certainty and ensure that once specified conditions are fulfilled, the pending income-tax proceedings shall be withdrawn, and demands, if any, raised shall be nullified, and the amount, if any, collected shall be refunded to the taxpayer without any interest”, it said.Vodafone and Cairn did not respond to queries seeking their comments on this development.The controversial amendment was made about nine years ago. The amendment was made after the Supreme Court in 2012 ruled that gains arising from indirect transfer of Indian assets were not taxable under the extant provisions of the Income-Tax Act.“The idea is, a sovereign government has the right to tax, but to apply it in retrospect has created a lot of discontentment,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told the Rajya Sabha on August 9 during a discussion on the Bill.The amendment bill was moved on August 5 in the Lok Sabha and passed the next day. The move is widely seen as investor friendly and also brings to an end messy litigation and arbitration, especially with Cairn, which has seen the company staking claim to India’s overseas assets.The legislation proposes to amend the I-T Act, 1961, and the Finance Act, 2012, amended during the tenure of then finance minister Pranab Mukherjee to introduce the retrospective tax law, which has since come to stand for all that’s bad in India’s tax regime.Ritesh Kumar S, executive director of IndusLaw said: “The approach adopted by the government in drafting the undertaking under the rules seems to be drawn from the two arbitration awards that have been secured by Vodafone and Cairn (respectively). The release from attachment of assets to enforce the order particularly appears to be stemming from the Cairn experience.”In July this year, Cairn was successful in its application to the French court, Tribunal judiciaire de Paris, to freeze (through judicial mortgages) residential real estate owned by the government of India in central Paris.To date, London-listed Cairn is pursuing the Government of India in multiple jurisdictions, primarily focused on regions with high-value assets, such as the US, the UK, Canada, Singapore, Mauritius, and the Netherlands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-issues-draft-rules-to-end-retrospective-tax-101630177176404.html
29-08-2021||India||IISc researchers identify marker to determine Covid severity||Researchers from Indian Institute of Science (IISc)-Bangalore have discovered a marker for determining severity of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as a probable therapeutic mechanism by studying genomic data from patients’ nasopharyngeal swab.With meta-analysis of the samples, the researchers have identified host factors that increased during the infection and could serve as a marker for severity of the disease. They zeroed in on genes from S100 family that can be picked up while doing an RT-PCR test for detecting infection and can tell how severe the disease is.The test can be done with all existing RT-PCR machines.“The test can be done at the same time as COVID-19 RT PCR test, using the same nasal swab samples. So along with Infection status, you can get disease severity status too. No upgrades required. Severity signature can be measured in all COVID-19 RT PCR testing labs using already available equipment and manpower. A severity testing kit will have to be formulated, which should be same cost wise, as COVID-RT PCR test,” said Dr Shashank Tripathi, corresponding author and scientist at the Centre for Infectious Disease Research at IISc.Currently, to determine the severity of Covid-19, doctors have to perform several blood tests or a chest CT scan.Going through the same data, the researchers also identified several processes in the human body that are involved in virus replication and disease progression. They found that a protein called Thioredoxin (TXN) was consistently high in Covid-19 patients. Based on the analysis, the researchers suggested that an FDA-approved arthritis drug, Auranofin, which targets thioredoxin and blocks its pathway, might be used as an antiviral agent against Covid-19.The researchers, thus, studied it in cell cultures and Syrian hamster model and found that it prevented the replication of Sars-CoV-2 that causes the disease.“Drug Auranofin inhibits inflammation by restricting IL6 production. It also targets viral replication directly; the mechanism of which is still being studied in our lab. It’s likely to be related to redox regulation,” said Dr Tripathi, adding that the lab is looking for industry partners to take the medicine into human trials.Several deaths in patients with Covid-19 do not happen due to the virus but due to an overactive immune response that ends up damaging the organs. To control the overactive immune response, doctors have been prescribing medicines such as Tocilizumab and Itolizumab to inhibit the IL-6 immune cells.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iisc-researchers-identify-marker-to-determine-covid-severity-101630176636720.html
29-08-2021||India||FDI inflow jumps by 90% in Q1 this year, says Goyal||New Delhi: Union minister for Commerce and industry, Piyush Goyal, on Saturday said India has potential to become the “manufacturing hub” of the world as it attracted $22.53 billion foreign direct investment (FDI) in the first three months of current financial year, a 90% year-on-year jump because of several policy reforms to facilitate trade and investments.The surge in FDI is “an endorsement of its status as a preferred investment destination” amongst global investors, a statement from the ministry said. FDI inflow in the first quarter of previous financial year was $11.84 billion.Addressing businessmen at the Jain International Trade Organisation (JITO), Goyal said every growth parameter is showing extremely exciting future. “Whether it is FDI, forex reserves, foodgrain reserves, agriculture production, manufacturing, all sectors are on a growth path. We now need to sprint ahead,” another statement quoting the minister said. JITO is a global organisation of businessmen, industrialists, knowledge workers and professionals.According to the commerce and industry ministry, FDI equity inflow grew by 168% in April-June 2021 at $17.57 billion compared to $6.56 billion in the same period a year ago. Automobile industry emerged as the top sector during the first three months of FY 22 with 27% share of the total FDI equity inflow, followed by computer software and hardware (17%) and services sector (11%), it said. In the automobile category, majority of FDI equity inflow (about 88%) was reported in the state of Karnataka, it said. Karnataka is the top FDI recipient in Q1 of 2021-22 with 48% share of the total FDI equity inflows, followed by Maharashtra (23%) and Delhi (11%), the ministry added.Addressing JITO, Goyal said “traders and exporters are the twin pistons powering the economic growth engine” of India. He lauded the role of all wealth creators of the country. “You are the people who help the government take several social welfare initiatives to the poorest of the poor,” said the commerce ministry statement quoting Goyal.“Through a series of programmes, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has transformed the lives of underprivileged, women and children of this country. The business community has helped realise the PM’s vision,” Goyal said. “Under the decisive leadership of PM Modi, India is transforming in every field. Be it ‘ease of doing business’ or ‘ease of living’… Today, a robust foundation laid in last seven years, inspires us to dream big and write our own destiny,” the minister added. Goyal said India is fast progressing on its discussions on free trade agreements (FTAs) with several countries such as the UK, UAE and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries, Australia and European Union (EU).He said India and US have agreed to aspire for $500 billion trade in near future. “World is looking for a trusted partner and that partner is India’s business community,” he added. “It may be noted that recently, India emerged as the world’s second most desirable manufacturing destination overtaking US. This shows the potential & promise of India to become the ‘Manufacturing hub’ of world,” the ministry’s statement quoting Goyal said.“We should also become a ‘Trading hub’, i.e., the place where world comes to shop,” Goyal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fdi-inflow-jumps-by-90-in-q1-this-year-says-goyal-101630176336221.html
29-08-2021||India||US strikes IS planners after Kabul attack||Acting on President Joe Biden’s promise to retaliate for the deadly suicide bombing at Kabul airport, the United States conducted a drone strike against an Islamic State target in Afghanistan on Saturday, as the airlift of those desperate to flee moved into its fraught final stages with fresh terror attack warnings.US forces overseeing the evacuation have been forced into closer security cooperation with the Taliban to prevent any repeat of the suicide bombing that killed scores of civilians crowded around one of the airport’s main access gates and 13 American troops.The attack was claimed by a regional Islamic State chapter, called the Islamic State-Khorasan, and the Pentagon announced that two members of the jihadist group were killed in the drone strike in eastern Afghanistan.“It was a single mission to get these targets and as the assessments and information flowed over time, we were able to recognise that another was killed as well and one wounded,” Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said at a Defense Department briefing on Saturday.“They were ISIS-K planners and facilitators and that’s enough reason there alone. I won’t speak to the details of these individuals and what their specific roles might be,” Kirby said. He added: “We have the ability and the means to carry over the horizon counterterrorism capabilities and we’re going to defend ourselves.’’He declined to identify those killed but said the United States knew who they were. US Central Command said it believed its strike killed no civilians. The airstrike came after Biden declared on Thursday that perpetrators of the attack would not be able to hide. “We will hunt you down and make you pay,” he said. The US President authorised the drone strike and it was ordered by defence secretary Lloyd Austin, an official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The airstrike was launched from beyond Afghanistan and the Central Command said it was conducted in Nangarhar province. The speed with which the US military retaliated reflected its close monitoring of IS and years of experience in targeting extremists in remote parts of the world. But it also shows the limits of US power to eliminate extremist threats, which some believe will have more freedom of movement in Afghanistan now that the Taliban is in power.“We have options there right now,” said Major General Hank Taylor of the Pentagon’s Joint Staff.Spokesmen for the Taliban, which took over Afghanistan as US forces withdrew, did not comment on the drone strike. The Taliban, hardline Islamist militants, are enemies of Islamic State and have said they have arrested some suspects involved in Thursday’s airport blast. EVACUATIONS WIND DOWNLater on Saturday, Pentagon said US troops have begun their withdrawal from Kabul airport as the evacuation efforts from the Afghan capital entered their final stages. With the airlift window narrowing sharply ahead of an August 31 deadline, thousands remained inside Kabul airport awaiting evacuation on Saturday.Gone are the crowds of thousands around the airport’s perimeter, hoping to be let through and allowed onto a plane. Now, the Taliban have sealed off roads leading to the airport and are only letting sanctioned buses pass. “We have lists from the Americans... if your name is on the list, you can come through,” one Taliban official told AFP near the civilian passenger terminal.The carnage of Thursday’s suicide attack injected further stress and tension into a situation already fraught with panic and despair for those wanting to leave and high risk for the US forces tasked with securing the operation.Based on a preliminary assessment, US officials believe the suicide vest used in the attack, which killed at least 169 Afghans in addition to the 13 Americans, carried about 25 pounds of explosives and was loaded with shrapnel. A suicide bomb typically carries five to 10 pounds of explosives, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss preliminary assessments of the bombing.FUTURE ATTEMPTSThe bombing followed a chorus of warnings about an imminent threat and, as people gathered outside the airport on Saturday, the US issued a fresh alert for its citizens to leave areas around the main gates “immediately”.At the White House, President Joe Biden’s press secretary Jen Psaki said US national security experts consider another attack is “likely” and the next few days will be “the most dangerous period to date”.Taliban spokesperson Bilal Karimi tweeted that the group’s fighters had already moved into parts of the military side of Kabul airport, but the Pentagon stressed that US forces retained control over the gates and airlift operations.Racing to meet the Tuesday withdrawal deadline has required close cooperation with the Taliban on evacuee movements and the IS threat. The head of US forces at Hamid Karzai International, Rear Admiral Peter Vasely, is in constant contact with the Taliban official overseeing security around the airport.Biden still faces the problem over the longer term of containing an array of potential extremist threats based in Afghanistan, which will be harder with fewer US intelligence assets and no military presence in the nation.Emily Harding, a former CIA analyst and deputy staff director for the Senate Intelligence Committee, said she doubted Biden’s assurances that the US will be able to monitor and strike terror threats from beyond Afghanistan’s borders. The Pentagon also insists this so-called “over the horizon” capability, which includes surveillance and strike aircraft based in the Persian Gulf area, will be effective.RFUGEE EXODUSUnder enormous criticism at home and abroad for his handling of the Afghan crisis and the US military withdrawal, Biden has pledged to stick to the airlift deadline and punish those responsible for the suicide blast.About 109,000 people have been flown out of the country since August 14, the day before the Taliban swept to power, according to the US government on Saturday.Many Western allies have announced an end to their airlifts, with some admitting that at-risk Afghans eligible for evacuation had been left behind. The United Nations said it was bracing for a “worst-case scenario” of up to half a million more refugees from Afghanistan by the end of 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-strikes-is-planners-after-kabul-attack-101630175795631.html
29-08-2021||India||Amid Covid-19 surge, Kerala to impose night curfew from next week||With Kerala reporting another surge and adding 31,265 fresh Covid-19 cases and a high test positivity rate (TPR) of 18.67%, the state government on Saturday decided to impose night curfew from next week and announced a number of steps to ramp up containment measures. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan admitted that Covid-19 cases had risen phenomenally due to various reasons but said the situation was well under control. He said there was a concerted attempt from certain quarters to sully the image of the state but it would not succeed. He also called a meeting of medical experts on September 1 and another with local body heads on September 3. Night curfew will begin from 10 pm to 7 am and only emergency movement will be allowed. “Some people are deliberately trying to trigger panic. The state never witnessed floating bodies in rivers or unending queues before cremation grounds. Its mortality rate is still lowest in the country, .5 against national average of 1.34 per cent,” the CM said while trying to paint a rosy picture. For more than a week, Kerala has been contributing more than 60 per cent of the total cases of the country. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 46,759 new cases with a TPR of 3%. But the CM said saving maximum lives was paramount. He also denied a barrage of allegations raised by the opposition that bureaucrats hijacked containment strategies, experts were never consulted and the state was heavily depending on antigen tests. “The virus never differentiates between the ruling and opposition parties. Instead of raising such frivolous charges it is time to fight together,” he said adding the state was making all arrangements foreseeing a possible third wave. “Some relaxations due to the festive season, high density of population, large number of elderly population, high presence of lifestyle diseases and the highly contagious Delta variant triggered the surge. We have increased tests and vaccination. By September end we will vaccinate all eligible people,” he said listing out the high vaccination rate, low wastage of doses and other factors. As the state with less than 3 per cent of the population of the country continues to report more than 60 per cent of the total cases consistently, many experts fear it can be the epicentre of an impending third wave. Once lauded for decentralised containment strategy its model has gone for a toss in the last two months, statistics show. The mortality rate it is also going up, in July it was .3 per cent but now it has risen to .5 per cent. There has been an upward spiral in daily cases, deaths and active caseload in the last five days. Kerala reported 31,265 cases with a TPR of 18.67 on Saturday after testing 1,67,497 samples. It also reported 153 deaths and the active caseload also crossed two lakh (2,04,086) after three months. On Friday Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan had sent a fresh letter to the government expressing serious concern over the high caseload and listed immediate measures to contain the surge. In the letter addressed to Kerala chief secretary VP Joy, Bhushan said the state will have to ramp up its containment measures on priority basis and increase tests considerably to check high transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-surge-kerala-to-impose-night-curfew-from-next-week-101630175678347.html
29-08-2021||India||Education min directs Mysore varsity to recall curbs on women||Karnataka higher education minister CN Ashwath Narayan on Saturday directed the University of Mysore (UoM) to withdraw its controversial circular, restricting the movement of girls alone on its Manasagangotri campus after 6.30 pm.“In the wake of the tragic incident in Mysore, I informed VCs to withdraw the order as soon as circular issued by the University of Mysore forbidding student movement at university campus after 6.30 pm. Accordingly, it was withdrawn,” Narayan told reporters on the sidelines of his visit to review preparations at the Sheshadripuram College’s CET centre in Bengaluru.Instructing the vice-chancellor of all universities to strengthen the safety measures by installing more CCTV cameras and improving the patrolling within the campuses, he said: “University campuses are normally big, but that does not mean we should curb the movement of girl students on the campuses. Instead, we should work towards creating a safe atmosphere inside the campuses.”On Friday, the University of Mysore decided to restrict the movement of students after dusk on the campus as well as in Kukkarahalli lake. The circular, which came in the aftermath of the gang rape of an MBA student at the Chamundi foothills, bars women students from venturing out within the campus, unaccompanied, after 6 pm.“Security officers should make arrangements to patrol the lake area from 6 pm to 9 pm,” the circular said. “Further, in the Mansa Gangothri premises, it is prohibited for females to sit alone after 6.30 pm. Security personnel will also be deployed for patrolling every day between 6 to 9 pm,” it added.While the notice triggered sharp criticism, the Vice-Chancellor of the university, G Hemantha Kumar, defended it saying: “The order has been issued after the police department raised concern over the safety of girl students in the campus which has lonely places. The guideline has been issued in the interests of the security of female students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/education-min-directs-mysore-varsity-to-scrap-controversial-circular-restricting-women-s-movement-101630175676789.html
29-08-2021||India||CBI arrests two over Bengal post-poll violence||Kolkata: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday arrested two people, including a woman, in connection with the post-poll violence in West Bengal, officials of the central agency said. The two persons have been identified as Bijoy Ghosh and Ashima Ghosh, who were arrested from Chapra in Nadia district in connection with the murder of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker, Dharma Mondol, on May 14, CBI officials confirmed.The Central agency carried out searches in at least 15 locations on Saturday and registered 10 more first information reports in connection with post-poll violence, taking the total number of FIRs to 21. A CBI team also faced some resistance in Nadia during its search operations with some workers of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) blocking the vehicle and shouting anti-CBI and anti-BJP slogans, officials of the central agency said.The Calcutta high court on August 19 ordered a court-monitored CBI probe into the allegations of murder and crime against women – rape and attempt to rape – that were reported after the assembly poll results were announced on May 2.A CBI team also went to meet the family of Shobha Rani Mondal, mother of a BJP booth president, who was also allegedly killed by TMC workers while trying to defend her son. She died on May 3.At least four special teams of the central agency, each headed by a joint director, are camping in the state and visiting the affected families to record their statements.While CBI has been ordered to probe into allegations of murder and crime against women, the court has set up a Special Investigation Team, comprising three senior IPS officers from the state, to probe into the other cases such as loot and arson.Earlier, a seven-member committee set up by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on the orders of the high court submitted its final report on July 13, slamming the TMC government on post-poll violence while recommending a CBI probe.The NHRC committee in its report had claimed that at least 1,934 complaints were lodged with the stat police between May 2 and June 20. They included 29 complaints related to murder, 12 rape and sexual assault, and 940 of loot and arson.The TMC had alleged that the enquiry committee was politically motivated as some of its members had connections with the BJP. The court, however, had rejected such allegations. “While five BJP workers were killed, 16 TMC workers were killed in violence says the NHRC report. I have no problem with a CBI probe because Bengal government has taken action in each and every case. But why would they visit the villages with BJP leaders and workers. They should work impartially,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee, said on Saturday while virtually addressing the foundation day of the TMC’s youth wing.However, saying that the probe was ordered by the high court, the BJP, said law was taking its own course and that the party had nothing to do with this.“The NHRC committee was set up on the orders of the court. The CBI is conducting its probe on the orders of the court. It would be monitored by the court. Where is the BJP coming from in this? We have nothing to do with this,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-two-over-bengal-post-poll-violence-101630175558044.html
29-08-2021||India||Jallianwala Bagh has inspired countless revolutionaries: PM||New Delhi Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday virtually unveiled the renovated complex of the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial in Amritsar, saying it will inspire generations to learn about the history of the “holy place”. Addressing the nation, the PM referring to the Jallianwala Bagh Massacre, reiterated that “it’s not right for a country to ignore such horrors of its past”, and, therefore, he said, India has decided to observe 14th August every year as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day.The Jallianwala Bagh Massacre took place on April 13, 1919, when colonial troops opened fire into a crowd of thousands of unarmed Indians who had gathered there to mark the occasion of Baisakhi. “Jallianwala Bagh is the place which inspired countless revolutionaries and fighters like Sardar Udham Singh, Sardar Bhagat Singh to die for the freedom of India. Those 10 minutes of April 13, 1919, became the immortal story of our freedom struggle, due to which we are able to celebrate the Amrit Mahotsav of freedom today. On such an occasion, the dedication of Jallianwala Bagh Memorial in the modern version in the 75th year of independence is an opportunity of great inspiration for all of us,” the PM said.Calling it a “responsibility” of every nation to preserve its history, Modi, who is also the chairperson of Jallianwala Bagh Memorial Trust, said, “Therefore, India has decided to observe 14th August every year as ‘Partition Horrors Remembrance Day’. India witnessed horrors like Jallianwala Bagh during the partition of the country. The people of Punjab have been the biggest victims of Partition. We still feel the pain of what happened at the time of Partition in every corner of India and especially in the families of Punjab,” he said.During his 20-minute address, the PM also referred to India’s efforts in evacuating its citizens from the crisis-hit Afghanistan and said that the current global conditions underline the importance of “Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat” and reinforces the need for “Atma-Nirbharta and Aatmvishwas”.“If Indians are in trouble, anywhere in the world, then India stands up to help them with all its might. Be it the corona period or the crisis of Afghanistan, the world has experienced it continuously...Hundreds of friends from Afghanistan are being brought to India under Operation Devi Shakti. Due to ‘Guru Kripa’, the government could bring the ‘swaroop’ of the holy Guru Granth Sahib along with people to India (from Afghanistan),” Modi said.The PM also spoke about the ongoing countrywide celebrations under the banner of ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsava’ to mark 75 years of its independence. The government is organising a series of events and activities dedicated to freedom fighters, especially the “unsung heroes”, historic events and places, across the country as a part of this celebration.“Efforts are made to preserve the places associated with the important stages of the freedom struggle and with national heroes and bring them to the fore. Like Jallianwala Bagh, national monuments are being renovated across the country such as Interactive Gallery in Allahabad Museum, Biplobi Bharat Gallery in Kolkata, etc. Contributions of Azad Hind Fauz (INA) have been brought to the forefront by giving a new identity to the place in Andaman where Netaji unfurled the national flag for the first time. Names of islands in Andaman have been dedicated to the freedom struggle,” the PM said.Modi expressed disappointment over the fact that the freedom fighters from tribal communities have not got a due place in history books. “Our tribal community contributed greatly and made great sacrifices for freedom. Their contribution did not get as much place in the history books as it should have. Work is currently underway on museums showing tribal freedom fighters and their struggle in nine states of the country,” Modi said.He also said efforts are on to “preserve” the rich heritage of Punjab. “Fortunately auspicious occasions like 550th Prakashotsava of Guru Nanak Dev ji, 350th Prakashotsava of Guru Gobind Singh Ji, 400th Prakashotsava of Guru Teg Bahadur Ji took place in the last seven years and the central government has tried to spread the teachings of the Gurus through these holy occasions,” the PM said.The event was also attended by several ministers and dignitaries including Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh who urged the Prime Minister to request the UK to return the personal belongings of freedom fighter Udham Singh, including his pistol and diary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jallianwala-bagh-has-inspired-countless-revolutionaries-pm-101630175500961.html
29-08-2021||India||27% reinfected during 4th wave in Delhi, says study||Around one in four people in Delhi diagnosed with Covid-19 previously may have been reinfected or had exposure to the virus during the April-May surge in cases, according to a study, which reinforces the likely effect of the more transmissible Delta variant that drove the deadly second wave of infections in India.Antibodies against Sars-CoV-2 — the virus that causes Covid-19 — were found in about 27% of the 91 participants at a time when the second wave was raging in the country, researchers at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, National Centre for Disease Control and the Cambridge University, said.The study, which is yet to be peer-reviewed , analysed the participants’ antibody levels at three intervals: July-end to mid-September 2020, early January to February-end 2021, and May-end to early July 2021.Also Read | 'We have to save our children': AIIMS doctor weighs in on Delhi schools reopeningAfter the first serological tests, the antibody levels went down the second time. However, for 25 of the 91 people, the antibodies shot up again by the third time the serological tests were conducted -- suggesting reinfections. Reinfections in 10 of these 25 cases were also confirmed either through the gold standard RT-PCR tests or through symptomatic indications, according to the research published ona pre-print server on August 20.“Our study shows nearly 27% reinfections. We have RT-PCR or symptomatic confirmation for reinfections in nearly 10% of the cases. We have previously said that the Delta variant evades immunity, now we have proof... Even if you take our lower estimate, it is 20% reinfection,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology.The second wave of infections was devastating for the national capital, which at its worst saw over 28,000 daily cases and hundreds of deaths a day in the last week of April. Families scrambled to find hospital beds, life-saving drugs and medical oxygen that are critical for treatment of the viral illness, and crematoriums and burial grounds too ran out of space.Dr Agarwal said regular sero-surveillance — surveys that are used to diagnose how much of a population has antibodies — is likely to give a better picture to confirm reinfections as many patients may not have positive RT-PCR tests done earlier.“For every case we detect, we miss probably 14 to 29 cases (because of the lack of a previous RT-PCR test confirming infection). It is difficult for people to have a previous RT-PCR report. Also, many asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic people will never get tested,” said Agarwal.The findings of this study are six times higher than the estimated 4.5% reinfection rate established by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in a April study that used RT-PCR tests as a gauge.87% HAD ANTIBODIESIn the third round of serological tests in May-July this year, serological tests were carried out for 846 unvaccinated people. Out of these, 87% had antibodies against Sars-CoV-2, indicating the large spread of the second wave of infections in the city. So far, there is no government sero-survey to give a picture of the virus’ spread during the latest wave of the pandemic.However, this sampling of 846 people was limited to a cohort of employees of CSIR (Council Of Scientific And Industrial Research) laboratories and their family members in Delhi, and may not give the representative picture of the city’s population.“Temporarily Delhi is in a state that looks like herd immunity (a level of infection after which the virus does not find enough hosts to spread to). However the immunity declines over time and the virus mutates, so there can be another wave...The next wave, however, would be much less severe. There could be increase in transmission, but the hospitals and ICUs are unlikely to fill up. There will be fewer deaths; the virus has partially evaded immunity but hasn’t completely bypassed it. A severe wave is unlikely unless the virus changes completely in which case all bets are off anyway,” Dr Agarwal said.DELTA EFFECTThe research also confirms what is largely established about the Delta variant: it is the most transmissible variant detected since the pandemic began.The Delhi government has carried out three sero-surveys since last year. In the latest such survey in January 2021, 56.13% of Delhi’s residents had antibodies against the virus.“This was expected to confer some protection from future outbreaks... Despite high seropositivity (in January), Delhi was among the most affected cities during the second wave,” the study said, attributing this surge to the Delta variant.Only 5% of the city’s residents were inoculated with at least one dose when the second wave of infections began sometime in late March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-crisis-one-in-four-patients-in-delhi-were-reinfected-during-the-second-wave-says-preprint-study-101630175376759.html
29-08-2021||India||Baghel returns from Delhi, gets rousing welcome at airport||Thousands of Congress workers and office-bearers gathered at Raipur airport on Saturday to accord a rousing reception of chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, who returned from Delhi after a meeting with the Congress high command over a reported two-and-a-half-year power-sharing agreement with state health minister TS Singh Deo.Baghel, along with 53 MLAs including six ministers, six mayors and other senior leaders of the party, reached Raipur airport at 3.10 pm, with supporters gathering from 1 pm. Baghel, who emerged from a marathon meeting with Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Friday night, seeming to escape being replaced by TS Singhdeo for now, came out of the airport beaming, waving to the crowd.Responding to questions of reporters about the meeting in Delhi, Baghel said, “Spoke to Rahul ji ( Rahul Gandhi) in detail about Chhattisgarh. Apart from political discussions, we discussed government schemes and the people of the state and finally, I invited him to the state on which he has given his consent. Rahul Gandhi will be visiting the state next week.”Baghel said Gandhi will come for a two-day visit and will also visit Bastar.“He will stay for two days and will also visit central and north Chhattisgarh to see the ‘Chhattisgarh model’ of development and show it to the country. Gandhi will review the works done by the Chhattisgarh government for the welfare of farmers, tribal, women, youth and poor… Rahul ji will meet everyone,” Baghel said.Earlier, on Saturday morning, the Congress president of Raipur, Girish Dubey sent a message on social media appealing to party workers to reach the airport by 1.30 pm to welcome Baghel. Around 3,000 supporters from Raipur, Durg, Kabirdham, Balod and nearby districts were present in and outside the airport carrying party flags and placards.The workers holding placards of “Bhupesh Hai tau Bharosa Hai” ( in Bhupesh there is trust ) raised slogans such as “Dilli Se Ayee Avaaz, Bhupesh Baghel zindabad” and “Chhattisgarh Adha hai, Bhupesh Baghel ke Sang khada hai” in support of Baghel.Singh Deo on Thursday fuelled speculation about a change saying anyone who plays in a team “wants to be the captain”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baghel-returns-from-delhi-gets-rousing-welcome-at-airport-101630175375535.html
29-08-2021||India||Oppn slams govt over absence of Nehru’s image on Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav posters||The absence of first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru’s photograph from a poster of “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav” celebrations by the Indian Council for Historical Research (ICHR) has sparked a row, with opposition parties saying the act is “petty and atrocious”.“Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav” celebrations are being held to mark the 75th year of India’s Independence.The poster in which Nehru’s photo was not included showcased Mahatma Gandhi, BR Ambedkar, Sardar Patel, Netaji Subhas Bose, Rajendra Prasad, Madan Mohan Malaviya, Bhagat Singh, and Hindu Mahasabha founder Vinayak Damodar Savarkar as freedom fighters. ICHR, however, said it created five other posters intended to be used on its website, and Nehru’s photo was used, but the remaining posters were not visible on its web portal because of a technical issue.“It is not merely petty but absolutely ahistorical to celebrate Azadi by omitting the pre-eminent voice of Indian freedom, Jawaharlal Nehru. One more occasion for ICHR to disgrace itself. This is becoming a habit,” the Congress’s member of Parliament Shashi Tharoor said on Twitter.Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi said the government can “never look big” by “diminishing the role of others” in the creation of an Independent India.“Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav can only be celebrated when it acknowledges the role of all. By omitting India’s first PM, ICHR reflects its own pettiness & insecurity,” she said.ICHR director (research and administration) Om Jee Upadhayay denied the allegations and said Nehru’s contributions to the country’s freedom struggle “cannot be ignored”. “Our team has prepared six such posters for the ongoing ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsava’. All those posters were supposed to scroll on the ICHR website. But due to some technical issue only one poster is visible on the website currently. Our technical team has been informed and it’s working on it. All other posters will soon be visible on the website. Nehru’s picture is very much there on one of these posters,” he said.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), meanwhile, said there was “nothing serious” in the omission of Nehru’s image. National BJP spokesperson Gopal Agarwal said that not just Nehru, but many other freedom fighters were missing from the poster.“BJP values his contribution. Even, from the ramparts of the Red Fort on Independence Day, the PM paid tributes to him. No one should take this omission seriously,” Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-slams-govt-over-absence-of-nehru-s-image-on-azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-posters-101630175317949.html
29-08-2021||India||Speak truth to power, SC judge tells citizens||Supreme Court judge Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud on Saturday underlined that citizens should get basic education to realise the value of their votes and exercise their right of speaking “truth to power”.According to justice Chandrachud, democracy needs truth to survive and it is not only the right of every citizen to speak truth to power but equally a duty cast upon him or her.“Since democracies are spaces of reasons, truth is important, as reasons cannot be based on falsehoods. Truth is also important to instil public faith in democracy... As citizens of a democracy, we need to commit ourselves to the search for truth as a key aspiration of our society,” emphasised the senior top court judge.Justice Chandrachud was speaking at an online lecture organised in memory of justice MC Chagla, a former chief justice of the Bombay high court who also served as a cabinet minister from 1963 to 1967.Delivering his address on the topic “Speaking Truth to Power: Citizens and the Law”, justice Chandrachud was categorical that while democracy was the form of government to avoid tyranny of the law and of the few who get elected, it is imperative for the citizens to strengthen public institutions to hold the governments accountable.“As citizens, we must strive to ensure that we have a press which is free from influence of any kind, be it political or economic, which can provide information in an unbiased manner. Similarly, schools and universities need to be supported to ensure that they create an atmosphere where students can learn to differentiate truth from falsehood and develop a temperament to question power,” said the judge.Citizens, justice Chandrachud underscored, must not only acknowledge the plurality of opinions in a country as diverse as India but celebrate this plurality since it would allow open space for more opinions.“We also need to protect the integrity of our elections, seeing elections not only as a right but also as a duty. To do this, we need to ensure all citizens are given basic education to realize the value of their vote,” highlighted the judge, adding that as citizens of a democracy, people should commit themselves to the search for truth as a key aspiration of our society.The judge added that by “citizens”, he does not mean just the elite and the privileged class alone, especially in the context of women, Dalits and others belonging to marginalised communities which did not traditionally enjoy power and their opinions were not conferred with the status of truth.“Since they did not enjoy the freedom to express their opinion, their thoughts were confined, crippled and caged. After abolition of the British Raj, the truth became the belief and opinion of upper caste men,” said justice Chandrachud.“With progress in society and annihilation of notions of patriarchy and caste supremacy, their opinions are slowly and gradually starting to be regarded as truth in India. The sooner we do it, the better as a society,” stressed the judge.Justice Chandrachud further said that citizens cannot bank only on the State to find the truth, particularly when totalitarian governments are associated with a constant reliance on falsehoods in order to establish dominance.“It can’t be said that the State will not indulge in falsehood for political reasons even in democracies. The role of the US in the Vietnam War did not see the light of day until the Pentagon papers were published. In the context of COVID, we see that there is an increasing trend of countries across the world trying to manipulate data. Hence, one cannot only rely on the state to determine the truth”, said the judge.Senior advocate Iqbal Chagla, Bombay HC judge Riyaz Chagla, Dr Rajesh Varhadi (head, department of law, University of Mumbai) and Dr Rashmi M Oza (chair professor, Justice Chagla Chair) also attended the online 6th MC Chagla memorial lecture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speak-truth-to-power-sc-judge-tells-citizens-101630175263004.html
29-08-2021||India||Rains likely to revive this week in Delhi: IMD||Following a ‘partial break’ in monsoon rains over northwest, central and west India for 3-4 days there is likely to be gradual revival of rains mainly over central India, India Meteorological Department said on Saturday. Its revival over west and northwest India may take a few more days, scientists said.Monsoon entered a ‘break’ or a ‘partial break’ phase thrice this season, mainly between June 29 to July 11. It was very weak in the first two weeks of August, leading to a significant deficit in rains across the country. While it revived over northwest India on August 19, it weakened again from August 24 onwards.Even though the weather body has said that the partial breaks cannot be compared to complete “break” monsoon conditions that have occurred in the past, the monsoon rain distribution appeared to be extremely skewed this year and is likely to impact agriculture in several parts of the country.“There have been one or two breaks in monsoon during many years in the past. But this time these are not complete breaks in monsoon over the plains. These partial breaks are a result of weakening of monsoon. The first reason behind this is that very few low-pressure systems have formed over the Bay of Bengal during the monsoon season which could bring abundant rain in its track. The second reason is that the Madden-Julian Oscillation, or MJO location, is unfavourable and is inhibiting convective activity. The cross-equatorial flow had also weakened, so we saw a partial break in monsoon rain over northwest India, central India and the west coast. These cannot be compared with break monsoon phases and hence, we cannot say if this has happened for the first time,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.The MJO location and amplitude strongly modulates the intensity of tropical convection and features like low pressure systems over the north Indian Ocean. MJO is an eastward moving disturbance of clouds, rainfall, winds and pressure that traverses the planet in the tropics and returns to its initial starting point in 30 to 60 days on an average.Overall, there has been a 10% deficiency in monsoon rain over the country since June 1, 12% deficiency over northwest India, 10% over east and northeast India, 13% deficiency over central India and 3% excess over peninsular India. The weak monsoon phases this time has also led to significantly dry conditions over certain parts of the country.The standard precipitation index (SPI) for many parts of Gujarat and West Rajasthan is in “severely dry” to “moderately dry” categories. Some districts in Odisha, Kerala, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh are also “extremely dry” to “severely dry” in August. The SPI is a record used for monitoring drought; it is negative for drought and positive for wet conditions.A low pressure area over northwest adjoining Bay of Bengal with an associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 5.8 km above mean sea level persists. “It is likely to move over west and northwest region across central and west India during next 4-5 days,” the Met’s forecast on Saturday said.The western end of the monsoon trough is likely to shift further southwards during next 48 hours and run to south of its normal position. “Entire monsoon trough is likely to run to the south of its normal position from August 30 for subsequent two days and shift northwards thereafter,” it said.The eastern end is running near its normal position and passing through Bahraich, Patna, Giridih, Digha and thence southeastwards to North Bay of Bengal. It is very likely to remain near normal/south of its normal position during the next five days.An off-shore trough at mean sea level is running from Karnataka coast to Kerala coast.Due to these meteorological conditions, widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rain is likely over Odisha and Andhra Pradesh till Monday, and in Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Vidarbha, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat region till Tuesday. Light to moderate scattered rainfall activity is likely over the rest of northwest India till Tuesday.“There is a cyclonic circulation over northwest Bay of Bengal and a low-pressure area is likely to develop over south Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh coasts which is likely to travel in the west-northwest ward direction. An offshore trough is already bringing widespread rains to Kerala and Karnataka. The impact of the low-pressure system will be felt over northwest India after August 29,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at national weather forecasting centre.“The low-pressure system which is likely to form may even bring rains to Gujarat and Rajasthan after a very long time. These regions are very parched and the crop in these regions is already destroyed. There may be scattered rain over Delhi, Punjab and Haryana around August 31,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather.During the past 50 years, scientists have been noticing a weakening of the South Asian monsoon. While this year’s high frequency of weak monsoon phases cannot be directly attributed to long-term weakening of monsoon over India because of lack of scientific analysis and attribution, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s latest report on the physical science of the climate crisis released earlier in the month said it is very likely that anthropogenic aerosols weakened the regional monsoon circulations over South Asia, East Asia and West Africa during the second half of the 20th century, thereby offsetting the expected strengthening of monsoon rains in response to global warming.Anthropogenic aerosols are nothing but air pollution particles which scatter solar radiation. They decrease evaporation and have a cooling effect on surface temperatures. The aerosols are masking the effect of global warming on the rise in monsoon rain and surface temperatures.“In general, it is understood that increasing greenhouse gas emissions will lead to rise in warming and increase in water vapour, and consequently increase in rainfall. But that hasn’t happened over South Asia. We have seen in the past 50 years that monsoon mean rainfall over central India has reduced by about 6% to 7%. But due to global warming, incidents of heavy and extremely heavy rain episodes have increased. Many studies indicate that aerosol cover has countered the effect of global warming on monsoon,” explained R Krishnan, director, Centre for Climate Change Research at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology and IPCC author.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-likely-to-revive-this-week-in-delhi-imd-101630175261896.html
29-08-2021||India||Delhi: Charges filed in 9-year-old Dalit girl’s murder||The Delhi Police on Saturday charged a priest and his three accomplices with the rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl, whose body was found at a crematorium in the cantonment area, sparking protests by activists and politicians in the national capital.In the charge sheet, the police used sections of rape, wrongful confinement, murder, destruction of evidence, and under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Prevention of Atrocities Act against Radhey Shyam (priest) and his accomplices Kuldeep Singh, Salim Ahmad and Laxmi Narayan.The 400-page charge sheet was filed on Saturday afternoon. The court is yet to take cognizance, and will hear the case on August 31.The girl, from a Dalit family in a village near Delhi cantonment, was found dead by her parents in a local crematorium earlier this month. The accused — a 55-year-old priest and his three associates — say the girl died of electrocution while fetching water from a cooler but the family alleges that the suspects hurriedly cremated the body after raping her. The four accused are in jail.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal confirmed that the charge sheet was filed before metropolitan magistrate Manu Shree of the Patiala House Court. A charge sheet is a record of documents submitted by police to a court, listing the details of a case and the evidence collected against an accused person. It is on the basis of the charge sheet that a court starts trial in a case.Officials aware of the details of the police investigation said that the Delhi Police have maintained in the investigation that the minor girl did not die of electrocution as was claimed by those arrested; and that two of them raped her inside the crematorium before murdering her.Though no senior police officer authorised to issue press statements commented on the details of the charge sheet, HT has learnt that the police based their findings on three aspects – confessions of the four arrested men made to the investigating officer; circumstantial evidence; and revelations by people connected to the case.To be sure, the confession of any person made before a police officer is not admissible as evidence before a court unless it is backed by other evidence. Only a confession before a judge is admissible as evidence against an accused.Because the body was charred, a medical board that conducted the post-mortem examination was unable to confirm rape. The police have also taken the help and comments from “experts in odontology” for their investigations.“We have sent her teeth and bones to the experts. Prime facie, the experts concurred that the child did not die of electrocution. Besides forensic experts also confirmed that the water cooler did not have live current so the child could not have died of electrocution, which was claimed by the arrested person. The reports of the teeth and bones sent to the forensic laboratory will confirm electrocution. The result is awaited,” an officer aware of the details of the charge sheet said, asking not to be named.Another officer said that of the four arrested men, two – Salim Ahmed and Laxmi Narayan – confessed that priest Radhe Shyam and Kuldeep Singh sexually assaulted the girl and they, too, helped Shyam and Singh in the murder and destroying the evidence.The court is likely to take cognisance of the charge sheet on Monday.According to the contents of the FIR filed by the girl’s mother, on the evening of August 1, the child went to fetch cold water from the water cooler installed at the crematorium. At around 6pm, the priest and the three employees of the crematorium called the child’s mother and informed her that her daughter had died of electrocution. The family told the police that the four men also showed the burn marks on her body. The four men allegedly told the child’s parents that it was better to hurriedly cremate the body because if they informed the police, the body would be sent for autopsy.The family also alleged that the four men said the child’s organs would be removed and sold by doctors. The four then cremated the body. But in the middle of the cremation, the girl’s mother suspected foul play and informed neighbours after which locals reached the crematorium, stopped the cremation and managed to retrieve charred remains of the girl’s body. The girl’s family then filed a complaint of rape, suspecting that the child may have been sexually assaulted and murdered.The rape and murder of the minor girl triggered protests in the Delhi Cantonment area. Many senior political leaders such as Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the family and assured their support in ensuring justice.Biswal said that while the police have filed a charge sheet within 30 days, a fast-track court will now conduct the trial in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhicharges-framed-in-9-year-old-dalit-girl-s-murder-101630174235479.html
29-08-2021||India||5 arrested for Mysuru gang rape, assault||Five people have been arrested from Tamil Nadu’s Tirupur district for allegedly raping a 22-year-old woman near Mysuru and assaulting her friend, Karnataka police chief Praveen Sood said on Saturday.The accused are blue-collar workers and often travelled to Mysuru for work, he said, adding that: “We have arrested five people from Tirupur. One suspect is absconding.”The 22-year-old college student was travelling with her friend near Chamundi Hills on the outskirts of Mysuru on Tuesday when the accused accosted them. The accused first demanded money, but when the two resisted, they attacked the woman’s friend and raped her, police said. The survivor and her friend have been discharged from the hospital, said police.While Sood did not reveal the identities of the accused citing the preliminary stage of the investigation, he said that one of the accused has claimed he is 17.“This came out during the initial interrogation,” he said, adding that they were yet to verify this claim. He cited changes to the juvenile justice law and said anyone involved in such a case can be tried as an adult, if aged over 16.According to the FIR, the accused have been booked under sections 376D (gang rape) and 397 (robbery or dacoity with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code.The Karnataka police chief said the investigating team relied on technical and scientific evidence for the probe. He, however, did not give details on how the police zeroed in on the accused.“We still have not brought them to Bengaluru, since the operation (to track the suspects)... went on throughout the night. We still have to interrogate them properly,” said Sood.Officials said the woman was not in a position to give a statement to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mysuru-gang-rape-5-people-arrested-from-tamil-nadu-101630146995825.html
29-08-2021||India||Covid-19 this week: Surge in daily tally of cases, driven by Kerala cases||India on Sunday recorded 45,083 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a day after the daily tally was clocked at 46,759, the highest single-day increase in nearly two months. These numbers indicated a trend that has been visible over the past week to anyone studying these numbers—a nationwide surge in cases driven primarily by a recent spike in Covid-19 cases in Kerala. According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the southern state now accounts for more than half of all the active Covid-19 cases in the country, followed closely by Maharashtra.Also Read | Explained: Why Kerala's Covid-19 peak is a concern for the rest of IndiaHere's a look at this week's Covid-19 numbers, with data sourced from the Union health ministry:At the beginning of the week on Monday, 25,072 people were detected as Covid-19 positive, the lowest single-day count in 160 days, as per the health ministry. Tuesday, too, saw around new 25,000 cases, while the daily positivity remained below the 3 per cent mark. However, the low number of infections on Monday could also be attributed to the fewer number of tests carried out over the weekend. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 1,295,160 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Monday across the country. On Tuesday and Wednesday, authorities tested 1,647,526 and 1,792,755 samples.On Wednesday, the health ministry's Covid-19 dashboard showed that India's daily tally of new coronavirus disease cases went up by nearly 12,000, the first major spike this week. On that day, the country recorded 37,593 new cases of Covid-19 over the 24 hours prior, while the daily deaths due to the coronavirus disease also saw a major rise. The health ministry’s update showed that 648 deaths were recorded on Wednesday, 294 more than that of Tuesday’s new fatalities when 354 patients had died. On Monday, 389 patients had died of the disease.Also Read | Schools scramble to put Covid-19 protocols in placeThen again on Thursday, the country's daily infection spike went up by over 20,000 as the health ministry's dashboard showed 46,164 new cases over the span of the past 24 hours. A recent surge in Kerala, it seemed, was behind the hike in nationwide numbers. According to official ministry data, Kerala alone accounted for over 68 per cent of India's total caseload on Thursday. Ernakulam and Thrissur were said to be the worst-affected district.The state government said that the reason for the spike is the festival of Onam, which was celebrated last week. “We expected a hike after Onam," Kerala health minister Veena George said. "A special drive is on to increase testing and vaccination. Since seroprevalence is very low in Kerala we have to find the infected and quarantine them at the earliest.”Another state which has been a cause of concern for the Centre is Maharashtra. The daily Covid-19 cases breached the 5,000 mark in Maharashtra - already the worst affected state - after a gap of five days on Wednesday. The Union health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, has asked Kerala and Maharashtra to consider night curfews in areas with high infection numbers.The situation showed a sporadic increase in the daily Covid-19 tally as the week progressed further. On Friday, the active caseload increased by 11,174 to reach 344,899, while the number increased by 14,876 to stand at 359,775 near the end of the week on Saturday, according to data released by the health ministry.Finally, the daily spike in new cases came down to 45,083 on Sunday, taking the cumulative infection tally to 32,695,030. Presently, active cases constitute 1.13 per cent of total cases, an increase from the 1.06% yesterday; but with this update, India has now recorded more than 40,000 daily Covid-19 cases for four days straight.Meanwhile, in a new record this week, India also administered on Friday more than 10 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine in a single day across the nation for the first time since the start of the mass inoculation programme on January 16. Lauding those who got vaccinated as well as those who made the vaccine drive successful, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday night that crossing one crore in vaccination numbers was a "momentous feat" for the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-this-week-surge-in-daily-tally-of-cases-driven-by-kerala-cases-101630127773032.html
29-08-2021||India||Holders of Jan Dhan a/cs to get insurance||After seven successful years of the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), the financial inclusiveness scheme, the government is considering providing life insurance and accident covers to over 430 million account holders, the finance ministry said on Saturday.The government plans to ensure coverage of PMJDY account holders under micro insurance schemes — Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), the ministry said in a statement. The Jan Dhan scheme was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Independence Day address on August 15, 2014.“Banks have already been communicated about the same,” the statement issued on Saturday said. According to the department of financial services (DFS) website, PMJJBY provides a life cover of ₹2 lakh for a premium of less than Re 1 per day. PMSBY covers accidental risks.The scheme provides ₹2 lakh for accidental death and full disability, and ₹1 lakh for partial disability for a premium of ₹12 per annum.The government is also making endeavours to promote digital payments among Jan Dhan account holders through the creation of acceptance infrastructure across the country and improving their access to micro-credit and micro-investment such as flexi-recurring deposits, the ministry said.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said: “The journey of PMJDY led interventions undertaken over a short span of seven years has in effect, produced both transformational as well as directional change thereby making the emerging FI [financial inclusion] ecosystem capable of delivering financial services to the last person of the society-the poorest of the poor.”“The underlying pillars of PMJDY, namely, Banking the Unbanked, Securing the Unsecured and Funding the Unfunded has made it possible to adopt multi-stakeholders’ collaborative approach while leveraging technology for serving the unserved and underserved areas as well,” she said in the statement.According to the finance ministry, the number of Jan Dhan accounts have jumped to 43.04 crore (430.4 million) in August 2021 from 17.9 crore (179 million) in August 2015.Out of the current account holders, 55.47% (238.7 million) are women and 66.69% (287 million) are located in rural and semi-urban areas.Minister of state for finance Bhagwat Karad said PMJDY has been one of the most far-reaching initiatives towards financial inclusion not only in India but in the world.“Financial Inclusion is among top-most priorities of the Government as it is an enabler for inclusive growth. It provides an avenue to the poor for bringing their savings into the formal financial system, an avenue to remit money to their families besides taking them out of the clutches of the usurious money lenders,” he said in the statement.While launching the programme on August 28, 2014, Prime Minister Modi described the occasion as a festival to celebrate the liberation of the poor from a vicious cycle.PMJDY has been the foundation stone for people-centric economic initiatives. “One in two accounts opened between March 2014 and March 2020 was a PMJDY account. Within 10 days of nationwide lockdown more than about 20 crore women PMJDY accounts were credited with ex-gratia,” the statement said.“In today’s COVID-19 times, we have witnessed the remarkable swiftness and seamlessness with which Direct Benefit Transfer (DBTs) have empowered and provided financial security to the vulnerable sections of society. An important aspect is that DBTs via PM Jan Dhan accounts have ensured every rupee reaches its intended beneficiary and preventing systemic leakage,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-mulls-insurance-cover-for-430-million-jan-dhan-account-holders-finance-ministry-101630131874785.html
