30-08-2021||India||Social media firms seek clarity on IT rules; self-explanatory, says govt||Even as social media companies such as Twitter and Facebook await clarity about a standard operating procedure for the new social media and intermediary guidelines, a ministry of electronics and information technology official on Monday said that the rules are self-explanatory.The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 were notified by the Centre on February 25, and came into effect on May 25. “It is very clear that the agency administering a particular law will be the appropriate government authority, whether it is under the state government or the Centre,” the IT ministry official said on condition of anonymity.The official added that even as the government works on the SOP, the rules for the removal of unlawful content are clear.“An intermediary, on whose computer resource the information is stored, hosted or published, upon receiving actual knowledge in the form of an order by a court of competent jurisdiction or on being notified by the Appropriate Government or its agency under clause (b) of sub-section (3) of section 79 of the Act, shall not host, store or publish any unlawful information, which is prohibited under any law...,” said the relevant section in the guidelines. At least five industry bodies wrote to the ministry in May, seeking an SOP for better implementationHT reached out to Facebook and Twitter for a response but did not receive any till the time of going to press. Industry officials, however, claim that there is a lack of clarity on definition of “appropriate government (authority)”.Apar Gupta, executive director of the Internet Freedom Foundation, an NGO, said the power to demand removal of unlawful content posted on intermediaries is abused by police departments and there have been instances when it was used to block content even before an FIR was filed. “The government justification is correct to a reasonable extent; it doesn’t have to define appropriate government , which already includes central and state agencies that operationalise particular areas of work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-media-firms-seek-clarity-on-it-rules-self-explanatory-says-govt-101630347852142.html
30-08-2021||India||Tamil Nadu puts restrictions on entry into beach, religious places till Sept 15||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday imposed additional restrictions in the state till September 15 to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state.The state government said the public beaches will be closed on Sundays while the entry to all religious places will be restricted for the people between Fridays and Sunday. Chief minister MK Stalin, who chaired a review meeting earlier in the day, said the order would be in effect till 6am on September 15."For the benefit of the public and to contain the spread of the virus, beaches will be closed on Sundays while the ban to visit places of worship on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays will continue. Holding of religious festivals also banned," a statement issued by the government said.The government, however, said its decision to resume classes for 9 to 12 and colleges from September 1 remains unchanged. The decision to ban the entry of people to beaches on Sundays followed visuals of hundreds of people thronging the popular spots, violating Covid-19 protocol, going viral on social media. Tamil Nadu recorded 1,523 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 21 related deaths in the past 24 hours on Monday. The active cases now stands at 17,085 while 34,899 people have succumbed to the viral disease since the pandemic struck.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-puts-restrictions-on-entry-into-beach-religious-places-till-sept-15-101630343878493.html
30-08-2021||India||Sumit, Avani in historic gold rush at Tokyo Paralympics||Sumit Antil, a 23-year-old javelin thrower from Haryana, lit up Tokyo’s Olympic Stadium to earn India its second gold in a matter of hours at the Paralympics, smashing his own world record in the F64 category (62.88m set at the 2019 World Para Athletics Championships in Dubai) three times out of the total six attempts. Throw No 1: 66.95m, world record. Throw No. 2: 68.08m, world record. Throw No. 5: 68.55m, world record. His efforts made it an unforgettable day for Indian javelin throwers at the Tokyo Paralympics. It was also an unforgettable day for India. Five medals were won on a Manic Monday — an incredible single-day haul that eclipsed its entire tally of four at the 2016 Rio Paralympics. India’s medallists comprised 19-year-old shooter Avani Lekhara, who became the first Indian woman to win gold at the Paralympics; 40-year-old javelin champion Devendra Jhajharia, who won silver to become the only Indian with three individual Paralympic medals; Sundar Singh Gurjar, who finished behind Jhajharia for bronze; Yogesh Kathuniya with a discus throw F56 silver; and Sumit Antil rounding off the day just like it began from Lekhara — with a golden touch and a world record.At the Asaka shooting range in Tokyo, teenage shooter Lekhera overcame a nervous qualification round where she barely squeezed through, only to find such perfect form in the final that she even hit a 10.9 — the highest score— en route to a world record-equalling score of 249.6 and the gold in women’s 10m Air Rifle SH1 (athletes with lower limb impairment). “I was just telling myself one thing…that I have to take one shot at a time,” Lekhara said over the phone. “There’s nothing else that matters now, just one shot at a time and just finish it. “I can’t describe this feeling, I’m feeling like I’m on top of the world. It’s unexplainable,” she said. It was not only at the range in Tokyo that Lekhara overcame her fears and internal turmoil — they have been her constant companion since that fateful day in 2012 when she met with a traffic accident and suffered injuries in her spinal cord. It needed a surgery and she was paralysed below the waist. Before the accident, Lekhara was a playful child who loved dancing. “But after that everything changed,” she said. “I was very angry at my physical condition. I did not want to speak to anyone.”Lekhara ’s parents desperately needed something to revive her spirit, so her father took her to an archery range and a shooting range. She immediately found a love for the rifle. “To reach the top after recovering from massive physical setbacks suffered as a 10-year-old due to no fault of yours, shows the kind of mental resilience, courage and focus you possess.... A medal cannot come close to measuring the impact of what you have accomplished at such a young age,” Abhinav Bindra, India’s first individual Olympic gold medallist, said on Twitter. A few hours after Lehkera’s golden run, at the Olympic stadium in Tokyo, Antil, also the victim of a traffic accident, added to India’s gold tally with his own record-breaking spree. “I didn’t quite understand what was happening around me. It was like a dream,” Antil said over the phone. Having breached the 65m mark in domestic competitions earlier this year, Antil was confident that he had the script to rewrite the record. “I knew I would break the world record. I wanted to touch 70m. Till the last throw, I was going for that 70m mark,” he said. Not that he thought it would be a walk in the park. “It was a tough field. I was under a lot of pressure. I didn’t sleep well the entire night,” he said. He also couldn’t sleep for months together in 2015, when the youngster from Sonepat met with an accident while on his bike, which forced his left leg to be amputated from below the knee. Antil had lost his father, who was in the Indian Air Force, when he was just seven and had always dreamt of joining the armed forces as a way of carrying forward the legacy. “I hit the lowest point mentally during that period. My dream was to get into the army, which couldn’t happen after my disability. It broke my dreams, and it broke me along with it,” Antil said. His mother pushed him to start picking up the pieces again. Antil, a big, muscular man, had an interest in sport, and was a wrestler — “but not at a good level” — before his accident. In 2016, Antil got fitted with an artificial leg and a year later he was made aware of para sports, and was introduced to the javelin by coach Virender Dhankhar. “The moment I saw the sport I knew that this is what I wanted to do. I never looked back after that,” Antil said. With his final record-setting throw, Antil let out a huge roar, lifting both fists in the air. “We are seeing some incredible performances in the Paralympics. Avani won gold medal, Sumit won the gold medal in javelin with a world record. Devendra bhaisahab, Sundar all of them are giving excellent performances. Somewhere I feel we are not following the Paralympics that much. So I would ask everyone to please follow and support them because despite such struggles they have gone there and winning medals for the country. Please support and cheer for them,” javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, who won India’s first ever track and field Olympics gold in Tokyo earlier this month, said in a video on Twitter. Antil’s roar was similar to the one let out by another Indian, almost twice his age, in the same stadium hours earlier. Devendra Jhajharia had seen his F46 world mark of 63.97m, set in Rio, overhauled by Sri Lanka’s Dinesh Herath with an effort of 67.79m. With throws of 60.28 and 60.62 from his first two attempts, the two-time Paralympic gold medallist knew he had to raise the bar, like he so often has in the past. And so Jhajharia loaded up, his javelin moving up and down above his right shoulder while taking deep breaths. Then came the big throw and a scream that lasted as long as the javelin swirled in the air. When it finally landed at 64.35m, his personal best, Jhajharia screamed again, his face a picture of fury. Moments later, that face wore a smile, and shouldered the India flag. At 40, Jhajharia had won his third Paralympic medal, a silver.“Our athletes continue to shine at the Paralympics! The nation is proud of Sumit Antil’s record-breaking performance in the Paralympics. Congratulations Sumit for winning the prestigious Gold medal. Wishing you all he best for the future,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi told Antil over phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sumit-avani-in-historic-gold-rush-at-tokyo-paralympics-101630347225087.html
30-08-2021||India||NTAGI may discuss kids’ vaccination against Covid-19 this week||With schools in many states reopening, with restrictions, and the government on August 20 approving the first vaccine for those over the age of 12, the big questions in every parent’s mind have been when the vaccination of children is likely to start, and who will be eligible for the first vaccines. These will likely be answered this week with the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) likely to meet this week to discuss the modalities of vaccination for those over the age of 12, according to people familiar with the matter. One of them, a senior government official, added that there may be a phased approach to vaccinating those over the age of 12 years, much like there was with the adult population, with children considered vulnerable to the disease getting the first jabs. “The list of comorbidities will be specified as it was done in adults; while in adults, age was a major criteria, in the case of children, it is likely going to be the comorbid conditions that will be the deciding factor for eligibility,” this person said on condition of anonymity. The health conditions that are likely to get included are all types of cancers, congenital heart disease, and chronic liver and kidney or lung diseases . Children who have undergone an organ transplant will also be prioritised. On August 23, NTAGI chairman N K Arora said, “Children with comorbidities will be given preference when paediatric vaccines are introduced in the system, be it Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D or Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, or the one that the Serum Institute of India is testing among children.” ZyCoV-D became the first vaccine to be approved for use on children although it is still not clear whether it will be reserved for that purpose or become another vaccine in India’s vaccine drive, which has gathered significant momentum in recent weeks.Zydus expects 50 million vaccine doses to be available by January. There are around 165 million people in the 12-17 age group. In a press briefing last week, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said ZyCoV-D will likely be available for use by October. “There is still a month or so for experts to decide; by the time paediatric vaccines will be available for use for the national programme, a decision should already be made on this,” the first person added. Bharat Biotech is also conducting trials of its vaccine on children and the results are expected soon. Experts believe it is better to prioritise vaccines if there is a supply constraint. “It is important to vaccinate all eligible children because they also run the risk of exposing the whole family, especially the elderly and sick y,” said Dr JS Bhasin, director and head, department of paediatrics, BLK Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ntagi-may-discuss-kids-vaccination-against-covid-19-this-week-101630346384498.html
30-08-2021||India||Haryana, Punjab CMs trade barbs over farmers’ protests||Chandigarh: A verbal battle erupted between the chief ministers of Punjab and Haryana on Monday over the ongoing farm protests as controversy raged over police action on cultivators two days ago in Karnal and farm groups issued an ultimatum to the state government. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Karnal magistrate Nishant Yadav shielded under-fire sub-divisional magistrate,Ayush Sinha, who stirred a row on Saturday by instructing police to “break the heads” of farmers during a protest against three central laws. Farm groups say police thrashed protesters without any provocation. One person died and another 10 were injured. “He (Sinha) should not have used such language though it is the job of officials to enforce law and order. I’m not saying he should not have enforced the rule of law strictly,” he said. The chief minister clarified that Sinha was deputed at a spot about 10-12 kilometres away from the spot where the lathi charge took place. A 2018 batch officer, Sinha was heard instructing police personnel to hit farmers on the head if they broke barricades to disrupt a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) meeting on Saturday. “Some words shouldn’t have been used. As head of Karnal administration, I express my regret. But SDM, on duty, is a sincere officer. He used some words in heat of the moment, he shouldn’t have. But his intention wasn’t wrong,” said Yadav. Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala had on Sunday promised action against Sinha amid mounting criticism of the lathi-charge on farmers.Khattar accused the Congress government in Punjab of driving the farmers’ agitation against the BJP-led Centre’s three farm laws. “There is a clear hand of the Punjab government in it,” said Khattar. “It’s a harsh reality,” he added.Later in the evening, he posed a series of questions to Punjab CM Amarinder Singh. He said Haryana procured 10 crops at minimum support prices, provided incentives, late payment fees and irrigation facilities, and asked what Punjab had done for farmers. Khattar said the protesting farmers should adhere to norms of democracy. “This agitation is not gaining anything due to such acts of disruption. The public sentiment is turning against them,” he said.“A positive dialogue was held between these protestors and district administration wherein they had given written consent that they would only protest in a symbolic manner and will not violate the law-and-order situation. However, it is really unfortunate to see that how at the behest of some politically motivated leaders, they had broken their promise,’’ the CM added.Hours later, Punjab CM Amarinder Singh hit back. “The BJP’s adamant refusal to revoke the laws reflected the vested interests of the party and its leadership, which had once again placed their crony capitalist friends over the common man....the crisis would not have assumed such grave proportions had the BJP heeded the farmers’ concerns and empathised with them,” he said. He said Khattar’s “anti-farmer” agenda was exposed. “Can’t you see that the farmers of your own state are angry with you for your apathetic attitude towards them and your party’s stubborn refusal to repeal the farm laws?” he asked.The lathi charge on protesters has sparked protests across Punjab and Haryana with farm groups blocking highways in several places. On Monday, farmers from across the state gathered for a mahapanchayat in Gharaunda town and sought registration of a case against those involved in the lathi charge. They also threatened to lay siege to the secretariat if their demands were not met by September 6. “Our brothers suffered injuries in the lathi charge...Officials involved in it, be it the SDM or police officials, a case against all of them should be registered,” said Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni. The three farm laws were passed last year but sparked almost immediate protests from farmers in Punjab, Haryana and other states. Since last October, tens of thousands of farmers have been siting in protest against the laws on the edges of the Capital -- a majority of whom hail from the foodbowl states of Punjab and Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-punjab-cms-trade-barbs-over-farmers-protests-101630345963667.html
30-08-2021||India||At UNSC meet, India seeks early Israel-Palestine talks to achieve 2-state solution||India on Monday called for early talks between Israel and Palestine to “resolve all final status issues and achieve a two-state solution”, saying the world community and the Middle East Quartet have a key role in reviving negotiations.Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla outlined India’s position while chairing a United Nations Security Council meeting on the Middle East peace process and the Palestinian question as part of India’s presidency of the council for August. This was among the last few key meetings chaired by India before the end of its presidency.India, Shringla said, will back all efforts to revive the peace process between Israelis and Palestinians.“High-level interaction between Israel and Palestine contributes to a better environment for the resumption of direct peace negotiations. We hope to see early commencement of these negotiations between the two sides, as they provide the best opportunity to resolve all final status issues and achieve a two-state solution,” he said. The international community, particularly the Middle East Quartet which consists of the UN, the European Union, the US and Russia, has an important role to play in reviving negotiations, he said.“Given our long-standing and firm commitment to the establishment of a sovereign, independent and viable state of Palestine, within secure, recognised and mutually agreed borders, living side by side with Israel in peace and security, India will remain fully supportive of all efforts to restart the peace process,” he added.Shringla reiterated India’s concerns at the recent escalation in the Gaza Strip, which highlighted the fragility of the ceasefire in the region and the need to addressing underlying causes which triggered the escalation. “We call on all parties to the conflict to respect the ceasefire and refrain from acts that could exacerbate tensions and worsen the security situation,” he said. He noted that the West Bank continued to witness incidents of violence and clashes between Palestinians and Israeli security forces, and said both sides must desist from provocative action. “We note the progress in the legal challenge to the eviction of Palestinian families in Sheikh Jarrah and underscore the need for respecting the historic status quo in East Jerusalem and its neighbourhoods. We also urge parties to refrain from unilateral measures that undermine the viability of the two-state solution,” he said.While seeking a “regular and predictable” transfer of aid and essential items to Gaza to ease the humanitarian situation, Shringla called on the international donor community to support the reconstruction of the region through the Palestinian Authority. Israel’s decision to increase work permits issued to Palestinians will help strengthen the Palestinian and Israeli economies, and the recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certificates issued by the Palestinian Authority and facilitating the passage of patients from the Gaza Strip to the West Bank are positive signals. India’s development cooperation is geared towards creating opportunities for the socio-economic development of the Palestinians, and the country has helped build schools, set up ICT and vocational training centres, a technology park and a national printing press. During India’s presidency of the UN Security Council, the body discussed several peace and security issues, such as the situation in Afghanistan, Myanmar, Syria and Yemen, and the Middle East peace process.Shringla chaired four meetings of the Security Council on Monday that adopted the Mali sanctions resolution, the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) resolution and the UNSOM resolution.The UNIFIL resolution extended the mandate of the peacekeeping mission for one more year. India is one of the largest troop contributors for UNIFIL and has been providing forces to the mission for 21 years. Currently, 862 Indian peacekeepers are serving in UNIFIL, and India has shown readiness to strengthen the UNIFIL maritime task force by deploying a maritime contingent.The Mali sanctions resolution condemned the activities in Mali and Sahel region of the Islamic State, al-Qaeda-linked terrorist groups such as IS in West Africa Province, IS in the Greater Sahara, and Jama’at Nasr al-Islam wal Muslimin. India has provided soft loans worth $353.6 million for developmental projects in Mali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-unsc-meet-india-seeks-early-israel-palestine-talks-to-achieve-2-state-solution-101630344824194.html
30-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Early indication of third wave in some states, says senior govt doctor||A senior doctor of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said there were early indications of a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic in some states that did not experience the severity of the second wave of the viral disease that wreaked havoc in several places across the country, including Delhi.Dr Samiran Panda, head of the ICMR’s Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases, said many states had imposed restrictions early, learning from the crisis witnessed in Delhi and Maharashtra earlier this year. “So, they did not see many transmissions,” Dr panda was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Covid third wave intensity expected to be 1/4 of second wave, say expertsHe further spoke about the fourth national serological survey that revealed more than 50 per cent of children in the country were infected by the virus, a figure slightly less than adults. Amid widespread fears of an imminent third wave hitting the younger generation hard, Dr Panda said there was no need to panic unnecessarily. “States have that examined their epidemiology and vaccinated their adults can slowly open schools,” he added.The fourth national serosurvey clearly shows that more than 50% of children are infected, a little less than adults. So, we need not panic unnecessarily. Those states which have examined their epidemiology & vaccinated their adults can slowly open schools: Dr Samiran Panda pic.twitter.com/wsJx0in9S9The country registered 42,909 new cases on Monday, taking the cumulative infection tally has risen to 32,737,939.A lot of states have gradually started resuming physical classes for students even as concerns over transmission of the virus remained high.Several experts have predicted a peak in the third wave between October and November this year and cautioned against relaxations of curbs, while calling for preparing the healthcare infrastructure to deal with the crisis if it arose.Also read | Fourth serosurvey finds 67.6% have antibodies, 40 crore Indians still vulnerableIndia has so far administered 64 crore vaccines against the deadly virus with more than 14,74,02,213 crore eligible adults having received both doses of the jab. Besides Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Serum Institute’s Covishield, Russia-made Sputnik V has been administered in small numbers, while Johnson & Johnson and Moderna Inc are negotiating for legal indemnity.The government recently approved the emergency use of Zydus Cadila's vaccine, ZyCoV-D children above 12 years of age and the doses are likely to become available by October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-early-indication-of-third-wave-in-some-states-says-senior-govt-doctor-101630340428599.html
30-08-2021||India||Not paint or curry, Kerala man caught with gold layered in his jeans||At a glance, it looks like jeans splattered with paint or curry, but it was not. Customs officials arrested a person from Kannur international airport on Monday after they found that he was wearing double-layered jeans in which gold-laced paste worth ₹14 lakh was hidden, officials said. The officials said though he cleared the initial check, they got suspicious about the thick jeans he was wearing. After removing the artfully crafted jeans, they found gold paste filled in between and said it took almost two hours to remove layers to retrieve the paste. Officials said this is the first time they came across such a smuggling technique. “Air intelligence unit at Kannur international airport seized 302 grams of gold in the form of a very thin paste, concealed within the double-layered pants worn by a passenger,” said the Kochi customs unit in a tweet. The accused had come from the United Arab Emirates and was arrested later. Officials admit that gold mixed in the form of paste with some impurities is difficult to trace and smugglers resort to ingenious methods to dodge the officials. Date seeds, thick bra straps, heavy belt buckles, shoe soles, sausages and gold paste are among some of the items the ingenious smugglers try in order to smuggle gold in. Last year, in Kozhikode, a passenger was arrested after gold was detected in his facemask. A woman passenger, carrying her baby, was found holding a water bottle made of gold. According to officials, hiding gold in cavities and swallowing gold capsules are also common. Kerala tops in the country in terms of gold seizures. Last year, 550 kilograms of gold was seized from four airports with the Kozhikode airport topping the chart for maximum seize.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-paint-or-curry-kerala-man-caught-with-gold-layered-in-his-jeans-101630338884091.html
30-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Security personnel foil infiltration bid in LoC and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Infiltration bid foiled on LoC in Poonch, 2 terrorists killedIndian Army on Monday foiled an infiltration bid and gunned down two terrorists on the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district, officials said. Read more here.Kerala Congress leader writes to Rahul Gandhi against KC Venugopal, expelledKerala Congress secretary PS Prasanth wrote to Gandhi that state unit workers had doubts about Venugopal’s actions and wondered if they were made in collusion with the BJP. Read more here. 'If you play Jadeja and an Ashwin, what are the individual temperaments?': WV Raman shares thoughts on the raging debateFormer India cricketer WV Raman explained that the decision for Virat Kohli, regarding picking both Ravindra Jadeja and R Ashwin, may not be as easy as it seems. Read more here.Jacqueline Fernandez questioned by Enforcement Directorate in money laundering caseActor Jacqueline Fernandez is being questioned by Enforcement Directorate in a money laundering case. Read more here.What Taliban made Afghan news anchor say after surrounding him with armed menBagwati in ZNMD to Jal in Vivah, tweeple describe 'lead actor' of famous filmsPeople are sharing hilarious memes under the ‘Movie… lead actor’ trend on Twitter. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-security-personnel-foil-infiltration-bid-in-loc-and-all-the-latest-news-101630335785317.html
30-08-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: August 31, 1956 — Central cabinet reshuffled; Krishnamachari new finance minister||New Delhi- Mr T. T. Krishnamachari will take charge of the Finance Ministry from the Prime Minister, with effect from Saturday. An official announcement made here today adds that the new Finance Minister will retain charge of the Iron and Steel Ministry as an additional responsibility, but will relinquish charge of the Commerce and Industry Ministry. As a consequential reshuffle, the Commerce and Industry Ministry will be split up into the Ministry of Heavy Industries, to be held as an additional charge by the Home Minister, and the Ministry of Commerce and Consumer Industries, which the Minister for Works, Housing and Supply will look after in addition to his present responsibilities. Except for the few weeks Mr Nehru has been in charge, this is the first time since independence that the Finance Ministry will be headed by a full-fledged member of the Congress Party. While Mr Deshmukh was an associate member of the Congress Parliamentary Party his two predecessors, Mr Shanmukham Chetty and Dr John Matthai, did not have any party affiliation. Announcing the distribution of portfolios a Cabinet Secretariat Press note said: Pandit Pant, Minister of Home Affairs, has been appointed to hold charge, in addition, of the Ministry of Heavy Industries. Mr T. T. Krishnamachari, at present Minister of Commerce and Industry and Iron and Steel, will relinquish charge of use Ministry of Commerce and Industry and take charge of the Ministry of Finance from the Prime Minister. He will thus hold charge of the Ministries of Finance and Iron and Steel. Sardar Swaran Singh, Minister of Works, Housing and Supply, has been appointed to hold charge, in addition, of the Ministry of Commerce and Consumer Industries. Mr D. P. Karmarkar, Minister of Trade and Mr Nityanand Kanungo, Minister of Consumer Industries, will be attached to the Ministry of Commerce and Consumer Industries. Mr M. M. Shah. Minister of Heavy Industries, will be attached to the Ministry of Heavy Industries. These changes will come into effect from September 1. PRESIDENTS ORDER Another Press note issued by the Cabinet Secretariat said: The President has issued the following order regarding the splitting up of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry into (a) the Ministry of Commerce and Consumer Industries, and (b) the Ministry of Heavy Industries:- “In pursuance of Clause 3 of Article 77 of the Constitution of India, the President is pleased to make the following order with effect from such date as may be appointed in ‘ this behalf by the Prime Minister, namely. (1) In place of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, the following two Ministries shall be constituted: (a) The Ministry of Commerce and Consumer Industries. (b) The Ministry of Heavy Industries. (2) The business of the Government of India, at present transacted in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, shall be allocated between the two Ministries as follows: (1) Ministry of Commerce and Consumer Industries: (i) All subjects now being dealt with in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry in the Trade Division. (ii) All subjects now being dealt with in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry in the Consumer Industries Division. (II) Ministry of Heavy Industries: All subjects now being dealt with in the Heavy Industries Division of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.” These changes will come into effect from September 1, 1956.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-august-31-1956-central-cabinet-reshuffled-krishnamachari-new-finance-minister-101630334924241.html
30-08-2021||India||Kerala Congress leader writes to Rahul Gandhi against KC Venugopal, expelled||Reports of infighting in state units of the Congress have become too frequent in recent days and the party’s leadership in Kerala became the latest to join the list on Monday.Kerala Congress secretary PS Prasanth was expelled from the party hours after it was reported that he had written to party leader and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi against All India Congress Committee general secretary and Rajya Sabha member KC Venugopal.Party’s state unit chief K Sudhakaran said Prasanth was expelled from the party for challenging the Congress high command and making wild allegations, according to an input from news agency ANI.Earlier in the day, senior Congress leader AV Gopinathan quit the party amid a tussle over the selection of 14 new district party chiefs even as senior leaders continued to air their opinion in public.His letter further reads, "Congress workers in Kerala are doubtful whether his actions to collapse the party are in accordance with the collusion he made with BJP."Hours ago, news surfaced Prasanth had written to Gandhi that state unit workers had doubts about Venugopal’s actions and wondered if they were made in collusion with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), adding the party was destroyed in states like Goa, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh ever since the former Union minister took charge."Congress workers in Kerala are doubtful whether his actions to collapse the party are in accordance with the collusion he made with BJP," the letter reportedly read.Also read | The inside story of the Bhupesh Baghel-TS Singh Deo battle in Chhattisgarh"Since he took charge, we could witness the destruction of the party in states including Goa, Karnataka, MP, Rajasthan, Punjab, Chhattisgarh etc," it further said.Venugopal was made AICC general secretary in 2017 and has since been in charge of the party's election war rooms in many states.Also read | As Congress factionalism persists in Punjab, Opposition smells an opportunityThe grand old party has been riled with leadership tussles in several places, including the last three remaining Congress-ruled states of Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan. Reports of dissent and tumult are reported frequently from several states, besides high-profile exits, one of the latest leaders being that of former Assam MP Sushmita Dev.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-congress-leader-writes-to-rahul-gandhi-against-kc-venugopal-expelled-101630334180418.html
30-08-2021||India||Nehru's image could be in next poster, says ICHR chief amid controversy||In the wake of an uproar over the absence of Jawaharlal Nehru’s image from a poster of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav,’ the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) said on Monday there was an “attempt to create a premature controversy”.Stating the contribution of the first Prime Minister of India “cannot be underestimated or seen”, ICHR director Om Jee Upadhyay said only one of the seven-eight posters was out so far, and that had led to the controversy.He added the ICHR had no “intention” to “diminish” Nehru’s contribution towards India’s independence, and “maybe” he would be seen in the “next poster soon”.“Seven to eight posters were supposed to be scrolled, but now one poster is visible. Soon other posters (will be) ready and (become) part of the website,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Upadhyay said that Nehru’s name was mentioned 17 times in the NCERT book of modern India, and his images appeared multiple times as well.Following the release of the poster, which is part of the ICHR’s series of lectures and seminars on the theme of ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations, several opposition leaders, including Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedim have slammed the Centre over the issue.Also Read | Oppn slams govt over absence of Nehru’s image on Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav posters“It is not merely petty, but absolutely ahistorical to celebrate Azadi by omitting the pre-eminent voice of Indian freedom, Jawaharlal Nehru. One more occasion for ICHR to disgrace itself. This is becoming a habit,” Tharoor tweeted.He also told ANI on Monday that any attempt to "rewrite history in [such] petty way" must be stopped. "It's like making a movie poster without the hero. Nehru must be there. This poster should be withdrawn," he was quoted as saying.It's like making a movie poster without the hero. Nehru must be there. This poster should be withdrawn. Stop attempting to rewrite history in this petty way: Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on one of the posters released by ICHR on 75 years of Independence pic.twitter.com/9oTdHNi489Another Congress MP Jairam Ramesh told news agency PTI the exclusion of Nehru’s image from the poster “goes against all facts and authentic history.” “We know PM (Narendra Modi) wants to obliterate Nehru's legacy, but this is unconscionable. He must rise above his prejudices and tell ICHR to fix it,” he was quoted as saying.Upadhyay said, “I cannot go to the side of any political commentary but as a research organisation of history, I am again telling you that there are many posters on the website of ICHR, which are to be scrolled and it will be difficult to identify which is the first poster and which (one is) the second because they will continue to scroll.”He added the technical team of the organisation “could not put all the posters at the right time” and a controversy arose “after the very first poster which is not right.”The poster included Mahatma Gandhi, BR Ambedkar, Sardar Patel, Netaji Subhas Bose, Rajendra Prasad, Madan Mohan Malaviya, Bhagat Singh, and Hindu Mahasabha founder Vinayak Damodar Savarkar as freedom fighters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nehrus-image-could-be-in-next-poster-says-ichr-chief-amid-controversy-101630332657234.html
30-08-2021||India||Scrub typhus: All you need to know about mystery infection being reported in UP||Mathura in western Uttar Pradesh have reported cases of a mystery fever, which has been identified as scrub typhus, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported. The disease has affected more than two dozen people in the district.The medical teams took samples from people in Koh village of Mathura district after reports of infection from the area. These samples were later found to be infected with scrub typhus, according to Livehindustan report.What is scrub typhus?According to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), scrub typhus is a disease caused by a bacteria called Orientia tsutsugamushi. It is also known as bush typhus.The infection spreads to people through bites of infected chiggers (larval mites).What are the symptoms?The symptoms of scrub typhus are similar to symptoms of many other vector-borne or rickettsial diseases and usually begin within 10 days of being bitten, according to CDC. These include fever and chills, headache, body aches, rashes and muscle pain.The site where the chigger bites develops a dark, scab-like region, which is also known as eschar. After contracting the infection, a person can experience mental changes, ranging from confusion to coma, according to CDC. Some of the patients also develop joint pains, which is characteristic of chikungunya. The infection can lead to respiratory distress, inflammation of the brain and the lungs, kidney failure and then multi-organ failure, ultimately leading to death.Is there a vaccine available for scrub typhus?According to CDC, no vaccine is available to prevent scrub typhus. It suggested that the risk of contracting the infection by avoiding contact with infected chiggers.The agency also said that when travelling to regions where scrub typhus is common, people should avoid areas with lots of vegetation and brush where chiggers may be found.Apart from India, cases of scrub typhus have been reported from rural areas of Indonesia, China, Japan and northern Australia.How to treat the infection?The CDC says that if someone gets infected by scrub typhus, the person should be treated with the antibiotic doxycycline. People who are treated early with doxycycline usually recover quickly, according to the agency.The CDC further advises people to dress children in clothing that covers arms and legs, or cover crib, stroller, and baby carrier with mosquito netting in order to keep scrub typhus at bay. It also asked them to treat clothing and gear with 0.5% permethrin as it kills chiggers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scrub-typhus-all-you-need-to-know-about-mystery-infection-being-reported-in-up-101630331864608.html
30-08-2021||India||Covid: K'taka orders a week's institutional quarantine for visitors from Kerala||The Karnataka government on Monday announced a week of mandatory institutional quarantine for people coming from Kerala amid an unrelenting Covid-19 pandemic crisis in the neighouring state.Karnataka’s revenue minister R Ashok said visitors would be quarantined for the week even if they carried a negative RTPCR report and a test would be conducted on completion of the seven days, a report in news agency ANI said.Also read | Karnataka's new Covid-19 rules offer some respite for flyers from UK, Europe, Middle EastAshok further said it was decided at a meeting chaired by chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, that night curfew would be relaxed in all areas except Kodagu, Hassan, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts, all of which share borders with Kerala that is reporting a high Covid-19 caseload.Over the past few days, Kerala’s share of coronavirus cases has been more than half of the total infections being registered across the country. It reported 19,622 new coronavirus infections, pushing the active caseload to 2,09,493, and 132 related deaths in the last 24 hours.Also read | Kerala Covid crisis: Over 190,000 cases in a week; expert meet on Sept 1Karnataka has managed to contain the spread of the virus and is gradually opening up public spaces and even physical classes for mid-senior students. According to the last available data, the state registered 1,262 fresh infections on Sunday and 17 fatalities.Education minister BC Nagesh said students of classes 6 to 8 can start going back to school from September 6 in talukas where the infection’s positivity rate was below 2 per cent. “Classes will be conducted with 50 per cent attendance, five days a week,” Nagesh was quoted as saying by ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-karnataka-orders-a-week-s-quarantine-for-those-coming-from-kerala-101630331402693.html
30-08-2021||India||Covid third wave intensity expected to be 1/4 of second wave, say experts||India may see a third wave of COVID-19 peaking between October and November if a more virulent mutant than the existing ones emerge by September, but its intensity is expected to be much lower than the second wave, a scientist involved in the mathematical modelling of the pandemic said on Monday.Manindra Agrawal, an IIT-Kanpur scientist who is part of the three-member team of experts that have been tasked with predicting any surge in infections, said if no new virulent emerges, then the situation is unlikely to change.If the third wave peaks, the country may see only 1 lakh daily cases as against more than 4 lakh when the deadly second wave was at its peak in May. The second wave killed thousands and infected several lakh."Status Quo is when no new mutant comes and New Variant is when 50% more infectious mutant comes by September. As one can see, the only scenario with some semblance of third wave is New Variant one for epsilon = 1/33. In this scenario, new cases rise to ~1 lakh per day," Agrawal tweeted.Last month, the model suggested that the third wave could peak between October and November and the daily cases could shoot between 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh every day if a more virulent mutant of SARS-CoV2 drive fresh infections.However, no mutant that was more infectious than the Delta, which drove the infections during the third wave, emerged.Last week's forecast was the same, but only the range of daily cases has been brought down to 1-1.5 lakh in the latest one.With the fresh data, the daily infections are further expected to drop in the range of a lakh.Agrawal said the fresh data comprising the vaccinations that have taken place in July and August, the sero-surveys that gave insights about the anti-bodies were factored in while assuming the scenarios. According to a study by the researchers of Institute of Mathematical Sciences, the R or the Reproductive value of the coronavirus pandemic was 0.89. It is necessary that the R value is under one that can help arrest the spread of infection.Vaccination has been the biggest weapon worldwide to combat coronavirus and more than 63 crore doses have been administered in the country, according to the CoWIN dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-third-wave-intensity-expected-to-be-1-4-of-second-wave-say-experts-101630329551122.html
30-08-2021||India||Tomato prices crash to ₹4 per kg amid supply glut in most growing states||Tomato prices in wholesale markets in most producing states have crashed to as low as ₹4 per kg amid supply glut, government data showed. In fact, the wholesale prices of tomato in 23 growing centres out of 31 monitored by the government were down by 50 per cent from the year-ago period or below three-year seasonal average.Currently, tomato crop of the early kharif (summer) season of the 2021-22 crop year (July-June) is being harvested. According to the data, the wholesale price of tomato in Dewas in Madhya Pradesh -- the countrys' top tomato growing state -- fell to ₹8 per kg on August 28 of this year from ₹11 per kg in the year-ago period.Similarly, the wholesale price of tomato at Jalgoan in Maharashtra -- the country's sixth largest tomato growing state -- fell by 80 per cent to ₹4 per kg on August 28 from ₹21 per kg in the year-ago period.Tomato prices at Aurangabad declined to ₹4.50 per kg from ₹9.50 per kg, while that of Solapur to ₹5 per kg from 15 per kg and in Kolhapur to ₹6.50 per kg from 25 per kg in the year-ago period."Prices have come under pressure in key growing states because of the supply glut. The tomato crop has been good owing to favourable weather," National Horticultural Research and Development Foundation (NHRDF) Acting Director P K Gupta told PTI.The tomato production from summer (early Kharif) season is estimated to be better than last year and farmers can be saved from falling prices if food processing companies come to their rescue, he said.No doubt, the favourable weather has helped boost the crop production, but farmers' tendency to grow the crop the price of which was ruling higher at the time of sowing -- has added to higher production, he added."When production is higher, prices come under pressure," Gupta said.According to the government data, wholesale price of tomato at Kolar in Karnataka -- the country's fourth largest tomato growing state -- dropped to 5.30 per kg on August 28 from ₹18.70 per kg in the year-ago period, while that of in Chickkaballapura fell to ₹7.30 per kg from 18.50 per kg in the said period.Similarly in Andhra Pradesh, the country's second largest tomato growing state, the wholesale price at Palamaner in Chitoor district fell to ₹18.50 per kg from ₹40 per kg.Palamaner and two more cities Madanpalle and Mulakalacheruvu in Chitoor district saw prices falling sharply from the year-ago period. And these three centres are identified as clusters for development under the government's 'Operation Green' programme.In Uttar Pradesh too, prices fell in the range of ₹8-20 per kg on August 28 this year from ₹14-28 per kg in the year-ago period.In West Bengal, wholesale price of tomato declined to ₹25-32 per kg in different growing areas from ₹34-65 per kg in the said period, the data showed.In consuming markets too, wholesale prices of tomatoes showed a decline.In Delhi's Azadpur mandi, wholesale price of tomato declined to 24 per kg on August 28 from ₹36 per kg in the year-ago period.Wholesale price of tomato in Mumbai declined to ₹12 per kg from ₹30 per kg, while that of in Bengaluru to ₹8 per kg from ₹30 per kg in the said period.Tomato crop is ready for harvest in about 2-3 months after planting.India's tomato production rose by 2.20 per cent to 21 million tonnes in the 2020-21 crop year (July-June) as against 20.55 million tonnes in the year-ago period, as per the Agriculture Ministry's second advance estimate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tomato-prices-crash-to-rs-4-per-kg-amid-supply-glut-in-most-growing-states-101630327203645.html
30-08-2021||India||Fake doctors a risk to lives of workers in Assam’s tea gardens||For 12 years, Simon Nag served several tea gardens in Assam as a medical officer. But his innings ended in June this year when police nabbed him for impersonating Dr Stephen Anthony, a doctor from Bengaluru presently based in Singapore. The 37-year-old, who did not pass even his Class 10 exams, served as a doctor at Mokalbari Tea Estate in Dibrugarh district and was able to dupe many during his stint in other tea gardens as well. It goes without saying that Nag was risking the lives of thousands of tea garden workers. However, Nag’s case is not an exception. In June itself, two other fake doctors working in tea garden hospitals were found in Dibrugarh district. One Eyakub Ali, the medical officer of Hatiali Tea Estate was nabbed for impersonating Dr Eyakub Ali Ahmed, an obstetrics and gynaecology specialist working in Chirang district. The same month, police in Dibrugarh registered a case against an unidentified person who was working as a doctor in Mancotta Tea Estate by impersonating Dr Hirak Das, a professor of anatomy at Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH). The accused has been on the run since. In September last year, Pankaj Kumar Nath (55), who was working as a doctor in Tinkhong Tea Estate was arrested by Dibrugarh police for practising for the past two years with the help of a forged MBBS certificate. According to government figures, there are 803 big tea gardens spread across 27 districts of Assam and run by private companies. Nearly 1 million casual workers are estimated to be employed in these gardens, where healthcare and other basic facilities like housing and drinking water are among the worst in the state. “Fake doctors are a menace. While a few of them practising in tea gardens have been nabbed, there could be more like them who have forged documents, stolen identities of genuine doctors and working at present in other tea gardens in Assam,” said Maj. (Retd.) Dr Jiten Borgohain, chairman of plantation doctors committee of Assam branch of Indian Medical Association (IMA). Borgohain, who also works as a medical officer in a tea garden, said there are several reasons why these fake doctors manage to get hired in tea gardens. Lack of uniformity employed by tea garden in appointments without any proper checks in some cases and the tendency to cut corners by appointing doctors on low salary are some of them. “The job of a doctor in a tea garden is not very attractive to most doctors...low pay, poor facilities in the hospitals and threat to personal safety are some factors. This, sometimes, has tea gardens not scrutinising applications thoroughly and appointing those who agree to work for a lower salary,” he said. He added that most of those who get appointed using fake certificates or stolen identities know a bit about what drugs should be prescribed for common illnesses and usually refer patients with serious complications or need of surgery to better government or private hospitals. “These doctors are courteous with their patients and usually keep shifting from one garden to another every few years to avoid detection. We have talked to tea companies about the need to improve their hiring process. Also, authorities need to rein in companies who hire them without proper checks,” said Dr Borgohain. Bidyananda Barkakoty, adviser of North Eastern Tea Association (NETA), an organisation of tea-planters which has around 150 members in Assam mentioned that fake doctors manage to get recruited as it is not possible for some employers to detect the forgeries and due to the scarcity of doctors sometimes appointments are made in haste. “There’s always a shortage of doctors in tea gardens and due to incidents of workers attacking medical officers after deaths of patients or when someone becomes seriously ill during treatment, it’s very difficult for companies to find people willing to work in tea garden hospitals,” he said. In September 2019, Dr Deven Dutta (73) died after workers in Teok Tea Estate in Jorhat, where he was employed, beat him up following the death of a worker. Seven doctors working in tea gardens had submitted resignations following the incident over fears of safety. Earlier the same year, Dr PC Thakur, posted in Dikom Tea Estate in Dibrugarh suffered multiple injuries after workers attacked him following death of a woman labourer. In June this year, Dr Basanta Goswami, 81, posted in Majulighur Tea Estate in Biswanath district was manhandled by workers over Covid-19 restrictions. Barkakoty said NETA would request Union minister of state for labour and employment Rameswar Teli, who hails from Assam and is a member of the tea-tribe community, to bring tea gardens in Assam under Employees’ State Insurance Scheme so that workers can avail better healthcare. “Fake doctors are getting recruited as companies are cutting corners. There are several more fake medical officers working in tea gardens. The state government should start anti-quackery units to nab such cases,” said Dr Abhijit Neog, chief operating officer of a Guwahti-based private hospital. Dr Neog’s investigation was crucial in the arrest of Simon Nag in June this year. He contacted Dr Stephen Anthony in Singapore and revealed that Nag was using his identity. A former employee of a major tea company, Neog’s investigations have led to arrests of 20 fake doctors across Assam till date. According to Tea Plantation Labourers Act, 1951, all tea gardens are required to appoint doctors for their workers. While appointments are made by tea gardens, monitoring of their work is done by the state labour department through a medical officer (plantations) in each district. At present, most of these posts are lying vacant. “In most districts, the posts of these doctors are vacant and even those who are there are not present most of the time. Till date, no study has been done on how the presence of fake doctors has affected the healthcare in tea gardens,” said Nabin Chandra Keot, vice-president of Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangha (ACMS), a Congress-backed organisation representing tea garden workers. “There should be a uniform policy on recruiting doctors in tea gardens. Besides checking credentials of doctors who are working at present some survey needs to be carried out for nurse and pharmacists as well. We had submitted a memorandum in this regard two months ago to chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma,” he added. In 2008, National Health Mission (NHM) Assam had introduced a public-private partnership (PPP) model to strengthen primary health facility in tea garden hospitals. The scheme gave funds to tea gardens to improve infrastructure as well as give additional benefits to doctors and healthcare workers. In 2019-20, Assam government launched a scheme to provide all essential drugs free of cost to all tea garden hospitals. At present 150 hospitals are running under the PPP mode. Last year, the Centre allocated ₹843.75 lakhs to these hospitals spread across 11 districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fake-doctors-a-risk-to-lives-of-workers-in-assam-s-tea-gardens-101630326163582.html
30-08-2021||India||TDP chief Naidu asks police to withdraw ‘false cases’ against party leaders||Former Andhra Pradesh chief minister and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N Chandrababu Naidu on Monday asked the state director general of police (DGP) to withdraw “false cases” against his party leaders in connection with a statewide protest organised by TDP against the rise in fuel prices on August 28.“A section of police were harassing opposition leaders along with the general public if they exhibited any iota of dissent against the government [sic],” Naidu said in a strongly worded letter to the DGP. The TDP attempted to conduct a statewide protest against fuel hike on August 28, which led to the arrests of some of its leaders, including Chintamaneni Prabhakar, a former MLA from Denduluru.Calling the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) government’s rule “suppressive police raj”, Naidu alleged that the police arrested TDP leaders from their homes late in the night as well, and asked Andhra Pradesh DGP Gautam Sawang to take cognisance of the “deteriorating” law and order situation.Also Read | Telangana govt opposes Centre’s funding of Veligonda project in AndhraThe former chief minister claimed that on August 28, agitators demanded the rollback of petrol, diesel and essential commodity prices in a “peaceful manner”.Naidu added that Prabhakar held a peaceful demonstration,and a false case was registered against him under sections 143, 341, 290, 353, 269, 271 r/w (read with) 149 of the Indian Penal Code, and sections of 32 PA-1861, 51(a) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. He stated that Prabhakar was arrested from a wedding function in Visakhapatnam. “What was the need to arrest an opposition party leader and former MLA in such an unscrupulous manner?” the TDP national president asked. The main Opposition has a low number of leaders in Andhra Pradesh, given that the ruling YSRCP, led by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, won 151 of the 175 assembly seats in the 2019 state elections. The TDP and YSRCP often lock horns over several issues, and Naidu has often alleged police partiality ever since he lost the elections two years ago. However, the ruling YSRCP hit back against Naidu, stating that Prabhakar has 74 cases registered against him for various offences committed in the past.“Chandrababu Naidu talking about Prabhakar, who is a history sheeterdoes not make sense, as he has 74 cases registered against him. During Naidu’s time as chief minister, Prabhakar had attacked two sub-inspectors and two Mandal Revenue Officers,” said Abbaya Chowdary Kothari, YSRCP spokesperson and MLA from Denduluru seat (in West Godavari district), explaining that Prabhakar had a history of assaulting the police.“If you are writing a letter to the DGP about him, what kind of a message are you sending?” he questioned.Kothari said on August 28,Prabhakar obstructed the road with 150 people and even pushed a police officer, for which action was taken against him. “Petrol prices are high as we have to pay back oil bonds, so why can’t Naidu use his MPs and question the BJP(-led Centre)? An officer on duty was attacked, so is Naidu saying that law should not taken its own course?” he questioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tdp-chief-naidu-asks-police-to-withdraw-false-cases-against-party-leaders-101630324783563.html
30-08-2021||India||Bengal gets highest number of Covid vaccine doses since January; steps up drive||West Bengal received more than ten million Covid vaccine doses this month, the highest it received since the drive began in January, officials said. With this, the state has started to ramp up the vaccination drive ahead of the festive season and has achieved the target of giving 500,000 doses in a day. “In August, we have received a little above 10 million vaccine doses. In September, we have been allotted around 13 million doses. The Centre usually sends more vaccines that what is allotted. So, we hope to receive around 15 million doses. Another 1.5-2 million doses may be purchased. This is the highest so far,” said a senior official of the state health department. Till date, the state has administered 39.6 million doses out of which 11.2 million were second doses. Also Read | Health minister releases 1st Covaxin batch from Bharat Biotech’s Gujarat plant“Of late we have been able to achieve the daily target of administering 500,000 doses. On August 27, we administered 560,000 doses, the highest so far in the state. If the supply is steady, we have the infrastructure to give around 1 million doses per day,” said another official of the health department. While chief minister Mamata Banerjee has, on multiple occasions, alleged that there was a short supply of vaccines from the Centre and has sent multiple letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue, the Bharatiya Janata Party in West Bengal had alleged that there was mismanagement of vaccines in the state. The state also managed to doses, but faced a shortfall of syringes. “From each vial,10 doses can be retrieved. But with a little efficiency, one can also retrieve 11 doses from each Covishield vial. Wastage of up to 10% is allowed in each vial. West Bengal has not only managed to stop any wastage but in many cases, we retrieved 11 doses thereby registering around 7% negative wastage. In turn, we consumed the syringes that came along with the vials,” said a senior health department official. The state is now planning to focus on how the vaccination process could be stepped up in the adjoining districts of Kolkata so that local trains could be resumed. Senior officials said while the government has managed to give at least one dose to 75% of population in urban centres like Kolkata, the government plans to vaccinate at least 50% of the population in the rural areas of adjoining districts with one dose. Local suburban trains connect Kolkata and Howrah with the villages and towns of the adjoining districts and thus form a major lifeline for the people coming to Kolkata for job every day. “The government is targeting districts such as South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, Nadia and parts of Burdwan where 50% of the people need to be vaccinated with at least one dose before local trains resume,” said another official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-gets-highest-number-of-covid-vaccine-doses-since-january-steps-up-drive-101630324663649.html
30-08-2021||India||Khattar asks Punjab CM Amarinder to resign, accuses him of instigating farmers||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday accused Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and Haryana Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda of instigating farmers against the three farm laws. He also claimed that there were no farmers from Haryana at Delhi’s border protesting the three farm laws passed by the Centre during the monsoon session last year.“In Punjab, he (Captain Amarinder Singh) is instigating farmers. In Haryana, (Bhupinder Singh) Hooda saheb and other Congress leaders are instigating them. No one has the right to block roads indefinitely,” the Haryana chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. He however later said that 85% of the farmers at Delhi’s Tikri and Singhu borders are from Punjab. Khattar claimed that farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal offering sweets to Captain Amarinder Singh indicates that the Punjab government is involved in the farmer protests, according to a report by HT.He also demanded Singh’s resignation from the post of the chief minister. Khattar also blamed the farmers and said that they have ‘no intention to hold conversations’ with the government.The Haryana chief minister’s remarks came after Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha allegedly asked police to ‘crack the heads’ of protesters in a video which went viral and was also shared by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Pilibhit Varun Gandhi. Khattar said that the remarks may not have been appropriate but ‘insisted’ on ‘strictness’.Khattar faced criticism from Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday who demanded police action into the incident. The Shiv Sena also said that the government led by Khattar has ‘no right to remain in power’ in its editorial Saamana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khattar-asks-punjab-cm-amarinder-to-resign-accuses-him-of-instigating-farmers-101630323420272.html
30-08-2021||India||Senior Cong leader AV Gopinathan quits party amid infighting in Kerala||Amid infighting over the selection of 14 new district Congress Committee chiefs in Kerala, senior leader AV Gopinathan quit the party on Monday even as senior leaders continued to air their opinion in public. Gopinathan, a former MLA and district Congress committee president of Palakkad, said he lost faith in the party leadership so there is no point in remaining with it. “I have been with the party for almost 50 years. I have lost all hope now. So there is no point in remaining in it,” he said in Palakkad while announcing his resignation. He said he had no plan to join any other party though CPI (M) leader AK Balan said it was up to Gopinathan to take a final call.As per news agency PTI, Gopinathan’s supporters had pressed for his appointment to the post of DCC chief but the leadership selected A Thankappan.Earlier, Gopinathan was upset on being denied an assembly seat in March elections but he was placated with the promise of a party post. Also Read | IMD issues yellow alerts for these districts in KeralaThis comes a day after senior leaders K Sivadasan Nair and former PCC general secretary AP Anil Kumar were suspended as part of disciplinary action for criticising the party openly. Today, they were served show-cause notices as well.Party’s central leadership is also upset with former CM Oommen Chandy and senior leader Ramesh Chennithala’s outbursts over the new list and has asked the state leadership not to dilute the list it or relent. Many senior leaders have criticised PCC president K Sudhakaran and Opposition leader VD Satheesan over the list but both claimed that enough discussions were held within the party. Meanwhile, some of Chandy’s erstwhile supporters, such as Thiruvanchur Radhakrishnan and PT Thomas, have asked party members to bury their differences and go by the list approved by the party high command. Some leaders opposing the list also blamed AICC general secretary KC Venugopal for the chaos but he is yet to comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-cong-leader-av-gopinathan-quits-party-amid-infighting-in-kerala-101630322923638.html
30-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Noida film city construction likely in Jan 2022, says govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Construction of Film City likely to start in January 2022, says UP governmentThe Uttar Pradesh government said on Monday that its ambitious Film City project is expected to start in January next year. The pet project of chief minister Yogi Adityanath will provide employment to 15,000 people, the state government added. Read more.After Mukul Roy, BJP MLA Tanmay Ghosh joins Trinamool CongressThe Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) strength in the West Bengal assembly fell to 73 on Monday when Tanmay Ghosh, who won the Bishnupur seat in Bankura district in the March-April polls, joined the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). Read more.IMD forecasts heavy rainfall in 5 states till September 2, warns of landslidesThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday said that Bihar, parts of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat and Goa are likely to receive widespread rainfall activity till September 2. In its weather forecast for the week, the IMD said that Konkan region and Goa may get very heavy falls on Tuesday and Wednesday. Read more.Karnal lathi-charge: Haryana govt has no right to remain in power, says SenaThe Shiv Sena on Monday lashed out at the Haryana government over the lathi-charge on farmers and said the police action against the protesters was like the "second Jallianwala Bagh". Read more.Hurricane hits US coast. Roofs blown off, trees uprooted as Ida makes landfallHurricane Ida struck the coast of United States' Louisiana Sunday as a powerful Category 4 storm. Videos show roofs being blown off, trees uprooted and extreme floods as the hurricane made landfall. Power outages were reported in the city of New Orleans and at least one person was reported dead. Watch here.Tokyo Paralympics: India's Sumit Antil wins gold in javelin throw (F64) event, sets new World RecordIndia's Sumit Antil on Monday set a new world record to win the gold medal in the men's javelin throw (F64) event at the ongoing Tokyo Paralympics. With the best throw of 68.85 m in the final in Japan, he took India's medal count to 7. Read more.Pilots fly into the eye of hurricane Ida. Watch incredible videoHurricane Ida, a fierce Category 4 storm, made landfall in American state Louisiana on Sunday afternoon. The Internet is now filled with various images and videos related to the storm or showcasing its aftermath. Among them, a clip shared by the NOAA Hurricane Hunters, a government organisation, has left people in awe. The clip shows two pilots of flying into the eye of hurricane Ida. Watch here.Tata Punch SUV teased again, reveals rear design for the first timeTata Motors has shared a new teaser video revealing the exterior design of the micro-SUV from the rear. The Indian carmaker recently unveiled the Punch micro SUV ahead of its possible launch ahead of the festive season next month. Read more.Oppo Reno 6 5G review: An all-rounder with good cameras and reliable performanceThe Oppo Reno 6 5G offers a good screen, reliable camera performance and battery life. Is it enough to justify the ₹29,990 price tag? Here’s what we think about the smaller sibling of the Oppo Reno 6 Pro 5G. Read more.Karan Johar reveals mom Hiroo had ‘two massive surgeries’ amid pandemic, shares video from hospital: ‘Oscar goes to…’Karan Johar took to Instagram to share a video of his mother, Hiroo Johar, from a hospital in Mumbai after she underwent an operation. He called her a ‘superhero’ in his caption and revealed that she underwent ‘two massive surgeries’ amid the Covid-19 pandemic. He also shared that his twins, Yash and Roohi, were waiting for their grandmother at home ‘with a cake and a song’. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-noida-film-city-construction-likely-in-jan-2022-says-govt-101630320209258.html
30-08-2021||India||Construction of Film City likely to start in January 2022, says UP government||The Uttar Pradesh government said on Monday that its ambitious Film City project is expected to start in January next year. The pet project of chief minister Yogi Adityanath will provide employment to 15,000 people, the state government added.The Film City will come up in Sector 21 of Yamuna Expressway Development Authority (Yeida) area of Gautam Buddha Nagar district.The UP government has approved the detailed project report (DPR) submitted by the consultant company CBRE South Asia Private Limited. "CBRE now has to get the bid document ready within three weeks, which will be followed by floating of a global tender in this regard in which both domestic and foreign companies will be able to participate," said Arun Vir Singh, the CEO of Yeida.The selection of the company, which will start constructing the Film City, will be finalised by December 31. The project is expected to be completed in three phases.Spread over an area of 1,000 acres, the sprawling Film City will be constructed at an estimated cost of ₹6,000 crore. It will be built through PPP (public-private partnership) model in three phases. In the first phase, studios, open areas, amusement parks and villas will be built.Chief minister Adityanath had in December last year announced the government's decision to build a world-class film city in the state. The UP government had promised that the proposed Film City will have latest technologies in the cinematic medium, including digital.It will have dedicated studios for shooting of films, TV serials, animation, web series, cartoon films, documentaries etc. Furthermore, the Film City will have special effects studios, outdoor locations, hotels, club houses, villages, workshops, shopping complexes, food courts, amusement parks, entertainment facilities for tourists, convention centres and a multi-level parking.The studios will be built in such a way that people can watch shooting of films, according to UP government. There will also be a common centre where all the facilities related to the film will be available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/construction-of-film-city-likely-to-start-in-january-2022-says-up-government-101630321302432.html
30-08-2021||India||Paralympics: Rajasthan to give cash rewards to medal winners from state||Three Rajasthan athletes have won laurels for the state at the ongoing Paralympics in Tokyo, prompting the state government to announce cash rewards for them.Shooter Avani Lekhara, who won gold, will get ₹3 crore; javelin thrower Devendra Jhajharia will get ₹2 crore while his teammate Sundar Singh Gurjar will get ₹1 crore for winning silver and bronze medals respectively.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted on Monday, “All the three players have already been appointed to the post of ACF in the Forest Department of the state government. The players of the state have brought laurels to the country and the state by winning medals, we are very proud of them.” “We are proud of Rajasthan’s Paralympic javelin throwers Devendra Jhajharia, who grabbed Silver & Sundar Singh Gurjar for claiming Bronze at Men’s Javelin Throw event,” he said in another tweet. Also Read | Rajasthan runs out of funds to pay for coal, four thermal power units shut downHe also congratulated para-athlete Yogesh Kathuniya for winning a silver medal in Men’s Discus Throw at the Tokyo Paralympics. Lekhara, who created history by becoming the first Indian woman to win a gold medal at the Paralympics, won in the R-2 women’s 10m Air Rifle Standing SH1 event. She is wheelchair-bound after she met with an accident on February 20, 2012, when she was just 11. Her father Praveen Lekhara, a government employee, said, “She has worked very hard for 7-8 hours daily and is expecting at least two medals. She is participating in four events and three are still remaining. She had made everyone proud.” Devendra Jhajhariya has consistently broken his own records. In 2004, he won gold after throwing the javelin 62.15 meters; he broke his record in Rio Olympics with 63.97mts; and now, though he won a silver, the throw was 64.35 mts. His younger brother Arvind said, “We were expecting gold but it’s a game. The entire country is proud of him.” “He has been competing for the past 22 years yet, his dedication and passion are unbeatable. He works out for seven hours daily,” he said. His arm got damaged when he was eight and got electrocuted while playing near a tree. Gurjar lost an arm in 2016 after a tin shed fell on him. He practised in Sawai Man Singh stadium in Jaipur under the supervision of his coach Mahaveer Saini. His brother, Hariom, said, “The entire village is happy on the achievement. Though he was sure of winning gold medal but he missed.” A statement released by the CM’s office said that the government has sanctioned ₹5lakh each for the training of these three players. “Free training and other facilities are being provided by the Rajasthan State Sports Council to Avani Lekhara and Sundar Singh Gurjar. Avani gets training in the shooting range- Jagatpura, which has state-of-the-art facilities while Sundar gets training at the Athletics Sports Academy in the SMS stadium,” the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paralympics-rajasthan-to-give-cash-rewards-to-medal-winners-from-state-101630319203959.html
30-08-2021||India||MSRTC employee’s daughter says father can’t pay fees due to delayed salary||In a viral video, a Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) employee’s minor daughter is requesting the corporation’s officials and the Maharashtra government to release pending salaries citing his inability to pay her tuition fees.The girl says her father is under constant stress since he has not been paid, leaving him with no money even for her tuition fees, due to which, she is forced to discontinue her education.“I request the government to provide the salaries of MSRTC employees as soon as possible. It should not happen that my father has to take an extreme step. I request you with folded hands to please give us our salaries,” the girl said in the video clip.The MSRTC runs buses across Maharashtra and is one of India’s biggest transport corporations, however, it has been incurring heavy financial losses for several years and the situation has worsened during the Covid-19 induced lockdowns. For over a year now, the MSRTC employees’ monthly salaries have been getting delayed by several weeks.Last week, an MSRTC employee Kamlesh Bedse, posted in Dhule, died by suicide, claiming he was unable to pay his debt due to his ‘low’ salary and the delays in its payment,.Jagnarayan Kahar, general secretary of the MSRTC Kamgar (workers) Union said salaries for the month of July had not been paid yet, forcing employees to take extreme steps. “We will be protesting outside all MSRTC bus depots. The work will go on but we will protest outside bus depots after work.” he said.MSRTC officials have requested the employees not to take any extreme step and assured that salaries will be disbursed immediately. “Discussions with the deputy chief minister have been done and the salary payments will be done immediately,” said Shekhar Channe, MSRTC managing director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msrtc-employee-s-daughter-says-father-can-t-pay-fees-due-to-delayed-salary-101630318303391.html
30-08-2021||India||ED raids properties linked to Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali in 'embezzlement' case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday carried out multiple raids at properties linked to Yavatmal-Washim parliementarian Bhavana Gawali in connection to a money laundering case.The ED has registered a case against the Shiv Sena leader on the basis of an FIR lodged by police alleging embezzlement of funds to the tune of ₹14 crore through government grants by misusing power.The development comes a day after the ED summoned another prominent Shiv Sena leader, Maharashtra transport minister Anil Parab, for questioning in a separate case of alleged money laundering involving former state home minister Anil Deshmukh.A senior ED official in Mumbai confirmed that the searches were ongoing at 7-8 places linked to Bhavana Gawali, a five-time Lok Sabha MP, in Mumbai and other places under the the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Reacting to the developments, Gawali called the raids "tyrannical" and compared them to "Emergency". She also claimed she didn't get any notice from the ED, yet."This is being done to damage me, a five-term MP, who has been working for the people. The Shiv Sena ministers and representatives are being targeted. I have institutions, including schools and Ayurveda college, which have been raided today," the oldest-serving MP from Maharashtra told the Hindustan Times."For decades, I have been running the institutions to provide education to children and for farmers in the rural areas. I haven't grabbed land and converted them into a non-agriculture plot and neither have I utilised government funds for personal gains," she added.Taking a dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party she said the probe agency should look into the allegations of the scam against a local BJP legislator. "You can investigate me as much as you want, but at the same time you must probe the allegations against the local BJP legislator, who faces a land scam to the tune of ₹500 crore, as well," Gawali said. Earlier in the morning, Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut said the ED notices to Shiv Sena ministers are not "death warrants" but "love letters."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhavana-gawali-shiv-sena-enforcement-directorate-maharashtra-money-laundering-101630316707470.html
30-08-2021||India||IMD forecasts heavy rainfall in 5 states till September 2, warns of landslides||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday said that Bihar, parts of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat and Goa are likely to receive widespread rainfall activity till September 2. In its weather forecast for the week, the IMD said that Konkan region and Goa may get very heavy falls on Tuesday and Wednesday.The southern part of the country will see widespread rainfall activity in the next 24 hours, with Telangana expected to received isolated very heavy falls today, the weather department said.The rainfall activity is expected to increase in the Northeast region from Wednesday, the IMD forecast added. "Scattered rainfall activity very likely over Western Himalayan Region and adjoining plains of Northwest India during next 4-5 days. Isolated heavy falls also very likely over Uttarakhand on 30th August, 2021," it said.The IMD has said that during heavy rainfall could lead to localised flooding, inundation and water logging in low-lying areas in Madhya Pradesh and other states. There is a possibility of landslides, reduction in visibility, damage to vulnerable structure and standing crops in these states, the weather department said.It also suggested action for the common people to avoid any loss of life of injury:The IMD on Sunday issued an orange alert for Uttarakhand. There have been intermittent rains in the state since Saturday night, which triggered landslides and waterlogging in various places.According to the information received from the Disaster Management Department (DMD), more than 200 roads including five National Highways, 15 state highways are blocked in Uttarakhand due to incessant rains and efforts are being made to open them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-forecasts-heavy-rainfall-in-5-states-till-september-2-warns-of-landslides-101630317001152.html
30-08-2021||India||Demand for caste-based census grows ahead of Uttar Pradesh assembly election||Ahead of assembly elections next year in around half-a- dozen states, including Uttar Pradesh, several political parties have intensified demand for a caste-based census and sub-categorisation of castes in the country, putting the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in a fix.Uttar Pradesh is home to as many as 79 castes that constitute the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) and 66 scheduled castes (SCs) and sub-castes. However, only a handful such as Yadavs, Kurmis, Lodhs, Rajbhars, Maurya and Kushwahas among the OBCs and Jatavs, Pasis, Valmikis and Koris among the SCs have been able to get political visibility with a lion’s share in political power, economic resources and government jobs.The OBCs and the SCs together account for around 60-70% of UP’s population. The census is held in the country every 10 years but the last caste-wise enumeration was carried out in 1931 and the same data is taken into account for various purposes even today. Around 40-50% of UP’s population is estimated to be OBC while the SC population was counted at 20.7% in the 2011 census.On August 23, an 11-member delegation led by Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to demand caste-wise enumeration of the OBCs in the census, to be held shortly. The Centre had informed the Lok Sabha in July that it would not enumerate caste-wise population, except those for the SCs and STs.The Samajwadi Party (SP) in UP has been the most vocal in raising the demand for the caste enumeration with the party eyeing OBCs votes, apart from consolidating the Yadavs, its core vote bank, for the 2022 assembly election.“A caste-wise tabulation of the census is necessary to achieve the objective of social justice because without knowing the numerical strength of various castes it is not possible for governments to plan and execute welfare policies for them in the right way,” SP spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary argued.He also cited Akhilesh Yadav’s slogan, “jiski jitni sankhya bhari, uski utni hissedari” (a community’s share in resources should be proportionate to its numerical strength) to highlight the relevance of caste-based census for delivering social justice.Other small regional outfits, including Anupriya Patel’s Apna Dal (Sonelal), Om Prakash Rajbhar’s Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), Sanjay Nishad’s Nishad Party, Keshav Dev Maurya’s Mahan Dal and Babu Singh Kushwaha’s Jan Adhikar Party that are led by OBC leaders, are all vocally supporting the demand for a caste-based census.Aware of the importance of caste politics in UP, the Congress, too, has backed the demand. It also claimed that it was during the last UPA government when a socio- economic caste census was carried out.“The UPA government got the caste-based census done in 2011 but the BJP did not publish the caste data after coming to power in 2014, although the party had demanded caste-based census when in Opposition,” UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu said.The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) are probably the only important political players in UP that are yet to take a clear stand on this issue. BSP state president Bhim Rajbhar refused to comment on the matter while RLD leaders, including party chief Jayant Chaudhary, also refrained from taking a stand. The RLD is the SP’s potential ally for the assembly polls in 2022 but does not seem to be on the same page as far as the demand for caste-based census is concerned.Political scientist Shashikant Pandey said the demand was the natural progression of the social churning that began with the emergence of OBC leaders such as Mulayam Singh Yadav and Kalyan Singh in UP and Lalu Prasad Yadav and Nitish Kumar in Bihar.“I see the social churning taking a concrete shape now with the regional parties rooted in castes having their say in political affairs and dictating terms to national parties like the BJP and the Congress,” he said. Pandey is the head of the department of political science in the Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Lucknow.The caste enumeration, according to Pandey, may, however, turn out to be a double-edged sword.“The caste data that the caste-based census can yield may help governments’ welfare schemes reach the most backward and deprived castes that have been marginalised till date,” he said.“But it has a flip side too. Once the exact numbers of OBCs and SCs are known, it may further hit the interests of the marginalised castes if their numerical strength is found to be lower than what it is presumed today since resources will then be distributed as per the numerical strength of castes...,” Pandey added.Such a situation, he cautioned, may also lead to caste conflicts within the OBCs and SCs and could also further intensify the caste tensions and animosity in the society in general.“It will be very interesting to watch the after-effects of the caste-based census if it takes place,” he observed.Observers say though many political parties are demanding the caste-based census in the name of social justice, their real motive is to get the 50% cap on reservation removed or raised after the actual caste-wise data is available in the public domain.“The next logical demand after the caste census is held will be for the enactment of a law to do away with the 50% cap ceiling put by the Supreme Court on reservation,” Pandey said.Agreeing with him, social scientist Rajesh Mishra said, “Reservation for the OBCs will have to be revised, sooner or later. The 10% quota for the poor among the upper castes has opened the Pandora’s Box and weakened the legitimacy of the 50% limit.”Although the Centre has said that it will not go for caste enumeration, both Pandey and Mishra agree that it may not be possible for the BJP government at the Centre to ignore the demand any longer considering the growing importance of OBC politics, particularly in UP.“Notwithstanding political divisions among the OBC castes/classes, no political party can afford their resentment on the issue, especially in the light of the upcoming assembly polls in UP,” Mishra said.Avoiding a direct reply, UP BJP spokesman Sameer Singh said, “The Justice Rohini Commission is already working on the sub-categorisation of OBCs and once the commission presents its report, the Central government will take a call to further promote the interests of the OBCs.”The BJP government, he said, gave the Constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes and decided only recently to implement the 27% OBC quota in NEET.The BJP, according to the observers, is reluctant for a caste-based census because such an exercise is fraught with the danger of leading to a situation that was witnessed when the Mandal Commission report was dug out and implemented in 1990 and this situation will harm the BJP’s goal of uniting and mobilising Hindus.“The BJP and its parent organisation the RSS have always made a case for unity of Hindus and any caste divisions that the caste enumeration may further intensify will hamper the goal of Hindu unity. This explains the BJP’s dilemma over whether to accept or not the demand for the caste-based census and sub-categorisation in the country,” Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demand-for-caste-based-census-grows-ahead-of-uttar-pradesh-assembly-election-101630312903215.html
30-08-2021||India||Militant killed along LoC in Poonch as army foils infiltration bid||The army on Monday foiled an infiltration bid by armed militants and killed one along the Line of Control in Poonch district of Jammu-Kashmir, said officials.Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said, “In the early hours on Monday, terrorists from across the Line of Control made an attempt to infiltrate in Poonch sector. Alert army troops detected the infiltration bid by effective use of the integrated surveillance grid”. “On being challenged by army troops, there ensued a fierce firefight with the terrorists in which one terrorist was neutralised and his body along with an AK-47 rifle has been recovered,” he added. “This action by alert army troops displays resolve of Indian Army to thwart any sinister design of the adversary along the Line of Control” he added.The operation was still on at the time of filing of this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/militant-killed-along-loc-in-poonch-as-army-foils-infiltration-bid-101630312603735.html
30-08-2021||India||Ahead of polls, Congress retains Girish Chodankar as Goa unit chief||The Congress high command has decided to continue with incumbent Girish Chodankar as Goa unit chief, thus putting to rest speculations over a change of guard ahead of the assembly elections. In a statement to the media, All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary KC Venugopal said the Congress president “has approved a the proposal for the continuance of Girish Chodankar as the president of Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) and Digambar Kamat as the leader of the Congress Legislature Party.” Chodankar will be assisted by Aleixo Sequeira, who has been appointed the working president. Sequeira’s appointment is being seen as a move to mollify the party’s old guard who were upset with Chodankar’s style of functioning. The decision to continue with Chodankar is along expected lines, though he has earlier resigned twice from the position-- after the party’s performance in the Lok Sabha elections in which the party chief himself lost to the BJP’s Shripad Naik from North Goa seat, and then in December 2020 after the local body polls. Also Read | New list of district heads fans discontent in Kerala CongressThe decision comes after AICC election observer P Chidambaram spent two days in the state, meeting state leaders and grassroot workers. However, Chodankar’s tenure was marked with divisions within the party and poor performance in both local bodies as well as legislative assembly elections. His tenure also saw the party steadily lose MLAs to the BJP, with just five MLAs left in its fold. Several party leaders, including MP Francisco Sardinha and Reginaldo Lourenço, had publicly called for his ouster “in the interest of the party”.Speaking to HT on the development, Sardinha said, “I said openly whatever I needed to. I respect the decision of the high command because it is they who take the decisions. If I were to take the decisions perhaps I would have decided differently. I am a loyal soldier of the party and will continue to work for the party.” Sequeira thanked the Congress leadership for assigning him an additional responsibility and said he was glad that the issue of leadership is finally laid to rest. “I had said that the issue should be sorted at the earliest. The onus is now on us to work together and ensure the victory of the Congress in 2022,” he said. In a statement, the party welcomed the appointments. “We sincerely feel that this will create a right balance between the youth and experience and Girish will have the experience to work alongside a seasoned campaigner like Sequeira. The latest appointments is another step in living up to our promise to the people that we are creating more space and opportunities and the new and the younger generation and the contestants on the Congress platform as desired by the Goan electorate,” party spokesperson Tulio de Sousa said. The Congress has also reconstituted several other committees, including a two-member election coordination committee consisting of headed by former chief minister and former PCC chief Luizinho Faleiro. The campaign committee will be headed by MLA Reginaldo Lourenço, finance committee by former CM and South Goa MP Francisco Sardinha, and manifesto committee by former Union minister Ramakant Khalap. The publicity committee will have Chandra Kant Chodankar as the chairperson and Martha Saldanha as co-chairperson.(With inputs from Umar Sofi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-polls-congress-sticks-with-girish-chodankar-as-goa-unit-chief-101630310623044.html
30-08-2021||India||Karnal lathi-charge: Haryana govt has no right to remain in power, says Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday lashed out at the Haryana government over the lathi-charge on farmers and said the police action against the protesters was like the "second Jallianwala Bagh". The Shiv Sena, in its mouthpiece Saamana, said when Prime Minister Narendra Modi was inaugurating the renovated Jallianwala Bagh complex in Amritsar, a second Jallianwala Bagh was happening in Haryana. “The seeds of cruelty being sown by the government will bear sour fruits. This is for sure...The Manohar Lal Khattar government has no right to remain in power,” the Sena said in its editorial.On Saturday, police lathi-charged a group of farmers heading towards Karnal to protest against a meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which was attended by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, state BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar and other leaders. At least 10 people suffered injuries in the police action.Also Read| Farmers’ mahapanchayat against police lathicharge in Karnal todayReferring to Union Minister Narayan Rane incident, the Sena also questioned why the critics of the Maharashtra government remained silent on Saturday’s incident in Haryana. “The farmers in Haryana were lathi-charged on their heads because they raised slogans against CM Khattar. A Union minister speaks of attacking the chief minister of Maharashtra and when action is taken against him legally, the state government is called intolerant,” the Sena, which is a part of the ruling Maha-Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra, said.The Sena also called Centre stone-hearted over the ongoing farmers' protest against the three farm laws and said that PM Modi hasn’t met the farmers, who have been protesting at the borders of Delhi, demanding the removal of the legislation.Also Read| Karnal SP says death of farmer not linked to lathi-chargeMeanwhile, the Haryana government has also come under fire over an officer’s remark about the treatment of the protesters during their protest. Ayush Sinha, Karnal’s sub-divisional magistrate, was heard in a video ordering police personnel to “break the head of the protesters” on Saturday.Several political leaders in Haryana, including deputy chief minister Dushyant Singh Chautala, have condemned the official’s remarks. Chautala promised action against Sinha and said his comments do not meet the ethical standards expected from officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnal-lathi-charge-haryana-govt-has-no-right-to-remain-in-power-says-sena-101630306187596.html
30-08-2021||India||Novo Cabs: Engineering grad from Kashmir launches valley's first taxi service||An engineering graduate in Kashmir has started his own cab service to bring taxis to the doorsteps of the people of Valley. This is the first time that such a facility has been launched in Kashmir valley.Twenty-nine-year-old Abdul Majid Zargar told local publications that he launched his venture 'Novo Cabs' to serve the people of Kashmir. A Bachelor of Technology (BTech), Zargar said his venture will help the people of Kashmir, who have suffered a lot in the last few years.Zargar completed his degree from Islamic University of Science and Technology (IUST) in Awantpora in 2017. Before launching Novo Cabs, he approached Chandigarh-based cab aggregator Jugnoo in 2019 to start its service in the valley. But soon, differences cropped up and Zargar moved away, according to Rising Kashmir.Novo Cabs was officially launched on January 1 this year, said Zargar, who has adopted a unique business model. He approached the locals asking them to rent out their vehicles on commission basis, reported Rising Kashmir.The start-up so far has 100 cars attached, which can be called through a mobile application. The app captures the exact location of a customer and helps the driver to reach his/her doorstep.The app interface is similar to that of popular cab aggregator giants like Uber and Ola, but Zargar told Rising Kashmir that his company has a long way to go. He is also training the drivers to use the app and communicate with the customers.Zargar planned to launch the service in 2019, but due to abrogation of Article 370 and restrictions on internet, he had to defer his plans and move to Delhi.But now that the situation has normalised, Zargar hopes to expand the oprations of his company.Zargar is currently working as a senior UX designer with an Ahmedabad-based virtual event management company Hubilo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/novo-cabs-engineering-grad-from-kashmir-launches-valley-s-first-taxi-service-101630309378900.html
30-08-2021||India||BJP stages protests today seeking reopening of places of worship in Maharashtra||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is holding ‘Shankhanaad and Ghantanaad’ protests across the state today demanding reopening of temples and other places of worship. Key state unit leaders participated in the protest and threatened to forcefully open places of worship next week if their demand was not met. BJP’s spiritual coordination cell organised the protest against Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government’s decision to prevent entry of general public to places of worship as part of restrictions imposed to check the spread of Covid-19. The Union health ministry last week asked the state government to restrict religious activities and celebrations during coming festivals amid potential threat of a third wave of Covid. Meanwhile, BJP’s state unit chief Chandrakant Patil led the protest at Kasba Ganpati temple in Pune, while former finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar led it at Babulnath Mandir in Mumbai. Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil and MP Sujay Vikhe Patil participated in a protest at Sai Baba mandir in Shirdi. Party’s Aurangabad leaders and workers tried to break gates of the Gajanan Maharaj Mandir open in Aurangabad. Police arrested the workers. Party legislator Ram Kadam staged a protest outside Siddhivinayak temple at Prabhadevi in Mumbai.Also Read | 18 kids contract Covid at children’s home in Maharashtra’s MankhurdRam Kadam said, “The MVA government has allowed liquor shops and bars to operate, but has kept the temples shut. We are not asking to violate the lockdown protocol, but our demand is to allow worshippers to visit temples in limited numbers. The MVA government is deliberately imposing restrictions on Hindu worshippers.”Criticising the BJP for its ‘contradictory view’, Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “Maharashtra BJP has been blatantly violating the Modi government’s directions. They have been violating Covid-19 restrictions by crowding...BJP should explain why Kanwar Yatra was banned? Why doesn’t the Maharashtra BJP protest against the Modi government for imposing restrictions on festivals? The BJP was responsible to intensify the second wave now they are indulged in the events to ensure advancement of the third wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-stages-protests-today-seeking-reopening-of-places-of-worship-in-maharashtra-101630309183215.html
30-08-2021||India||Back to school: Delhi and other states where offline classes will resume from September 1||As the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic has almost receded, schools and educational institutes in most states have reopened, with restrictions, for students in senior classes. From September 1, schools will reopen in other states as well.Also Read | 'Are we in rush?': Dr Naresh Trehan questions as schools reopen across countryHere’s a list of states where schools will reopen on the first day of the next month:(1.) Delhi: Schools in the national capital will reopen in two phases, as announced by the Delhi government last Friday. From Wednesday, schools will reopen for classes 9-12, while those for standards 6-8 are expected to restart from September 8. As per guidelines issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), maximum 50 per cent attendance will be allowed.Also Read | Staggered lunch breaks, quarantine room: DDMA guidelines for school reopening(2.) Tamil Nadu: The Tamil Nadu government announced on August 6 that physical classes will resume from September 1 for students in standards 9-12. Initially, lectures will take place with a maximum class strength of 50 per cent.Also Read | Tamil Nadu to reopen schools for classes 9-12 from September 1(3.) Rajasthan: Private and government schools in Rajasthan will reopen for the first time since April. To avoid gathering of all students at the same time, schools have been directed to keep separate arrival and departure timings of students from different classes.Also Read | Rajasthan: Yoga classes, staggered timings for schools reopening on September 1(4.) Madhya Pradesh: Students from classes 6-8 will return to schools in Madhya Pradesh, while classes 9-12 will now function daily. On-campus lectures for classes 11 and 12 resumed on July 26, while students in classes 9 and 10 returned to school on August 5.Also Read | Madhya Pradesh schools to reopen from September 1 for classes 6 to 8(5.) Meghalaya: All colleges will restart in Meghalaya, along with schools for classes 9-12 in urban areas. For rural areas, on-campus lectures will recommence for standards 6-12.Also Read | Meghalaya to relax Covid-19 protocols for tourism sector, schools from Sep 1 (6.) Gujarat: Offline classes will begin for standards 6-8 from September 2, as announced by the state government on August 25. Those in senior classes have been going to school since July 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/back-to-school-delhi-and-other-states-where-offline-classes-will-resume-from-september-1-101630305803543.html
30-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Madhya Pradesh's Malwa region sees spurt in communal incidents and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Spurt in communal incidents in Madhya Pradesh’s Malwa regionIn Malwa, the region which includes MP cities such as Indore, and Ujjain, at least 12 incidents of communal tension have been reported since September 2020. Read more‘Don’t be scared’: Afghan TV anchor relays Taliban message surrounded by armed fightersThe 42-second clip shows the host of a political debate programme reading a statement from the Taliban as well as at least eight Taliban fighters. Read moreIPL 2021: Washington Sundar to miss remainder of season due to injury, RCB name replacementThe youngster has not cleared the fitness test at the NCA with the finger injury he suffered in England not yet healed completely. Read moreKota Factory 2 teaser: Jeetu Bhaiyya and his students return for sophomore year, this time on NetflixNetflix has released the teaser for the second season of Kota Factory. The show's first season aired in 2019 on The Viral Fever and became a hit with viewers. Read moreNeha Dhupia is gorgeous in ₹17k cotton midi dress as she cradles her baby bump, see picsThe star, pregnant with her second child, has been serving chic maternity fashion goals on her holiday in pretty dresses. Read moreUS man dances to Chammak Challo with wife to celebrate wedding anniversaryThere are some videos on the Internet that are so sweet that they may leave you with a huge smile on your face. This is one such clip. Read moreMaruti cars set to become more expensive starting September. Here's whyFrom Alto to Vitara Brezza, the price rise has been planned across all models Maruti currently offers in the market. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-madhya-pradesh-s-malwa-region-sees-spurt-in-communal-incidents-and-all-the-latest-news-101630305375944.html
30-08-2021||India||LS Speaker to launch programme for J&K panchayati raj institutions on Tuesday||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla will inaugurate Parliamentary outreach programme for the empowerment of panchayati raj institutions of J&K on Tuesday.Birla arrived in Srinagar on Sunday from Ladakh. Union minister of state Dr Jitendra Singh; lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha; Union Minister of State Prahlad Singh Patel; and Members of Parliament will attend this function.Speaking about the outreach programme, J&K government spokesperson said, “A first-of-its-kind programme, it is intended to strengthen the institution of governance and planning at the grassroot level.” The first such programme was held at Dehradun, Uttarakhand, in January this year and was attended by 445 panchayat representatives and around 40,000 panchayat representatives and officials were connected via web link.Also Read | J&K allows colleges to resume offline classesThe spokesperson said that the broad objectives of the programme are to create mass awareness, participation and self confidence in the ground level leaders, besides a sense of ownership of the assets that have been created.Meanwhile, Birla will also visit Pahalgam and Gulmarg to meet panchayat representatives.Soon after reaching Srinagar, Birla said, “Forteen parliamentary committees with more than 300 MPs have visited the UT of Jammu and Kashmir which reflects the commitment of the Parliament towards democracy and development at the grassroot level in the UT.”He said the outreach initiative is a step towards capacity building and improving accountability and transparency of the Panchayati Raj Institutions.The three tier panchayati raj system got completed in J&K for the first time after District Development Council elections in all 20 districts last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lsspeaker-to-launch-programme-for-j-k-panchayati-raj-institutions-on-tuesday-101630303842770.html
30-08-2021||India||7 killed, 3 bodies recovered after landslide hits Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh||At least seven people were feared dead after their houses were hit by debris and muck due to cloud burst in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district, a senior official said on Monday. "The disaster occurred in Jamri and Tarkot hamlets in Jumma village when heavy rains led to debris and muck hitting the houses. So far, three bodies have been recovered and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) team is searching for the other missing persons of the village,” Ashish Chauhan, Pithoragarh’s district magistrate, said.Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said earlier in the day that two people were killed and five others were buried under debris in the village, around 125km from the district headquarters. “Instructions have been given to the district magistrate to intensify the rescue mission. I pray to God for the safety of the people trapped there," Dhami’s tweet roughly translated from Hindi read.पिथौरागढ़ जनपद के जुम्मा गांव के पास भूस्खलन की वजह से 2 लोगों की दुखद मौत एवं 5 अन्य की मलबे में दबे होने की खबर है।इस विषय में जिलाधिकारी से बात कर रेस्क्यू मिशन तेज करने का निर्देश दिया है। मैं वहां फंसे लोगों की सलामती के लिए ईश्वर से प्रार्थना करता हूँ।Pithoragarh district magistrate Chauhan told news agency ANI that teams of the SDRF and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) have been sent to Jumma village. “Relief materials are also being sent," he said.Pithoragarh district has been receiving incessant rainfall for the last four to five days, leading to several incidents of landslides. A 23-year-old woman went missing last week in Joshi village of Dharchula sub-division of Pithoragarh, reports news agency PTI.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday issued a yellow alert in the Nainital, Bageshwar, and Pithoragarh districts of Uttarakhand for August 29-30, forecasting heavy rainfall in these areas. The situation prevailing in the state is such that due to heavy rains, dozens of roads have been damaged, bridges have been washed away and many areas have been submerged.Chief minister Dhami on Sunday conducted an aerial survey of disaster-hit areas in the Garhwal division of the state, which has been affected by heavy rains. He surveyed the disaster affected areas of Devprayag, Totaghati, Tindhara, Kaudiyala, Rishikesh, Ranipokhari, Narendranagar, Fakot and Chamba of Garhwal division.Heavy rains in Uttarakhand have caused a lot of destruction and 166 roads in the state, including the Badrinath and Gangotri highways, have been closed. The Rishikesh-Badrinath road has been put on red alert due to incessant rains, reported news agency ANI.The Rishikesh-Gangotri highway (NH-94) was closed for vehicular traffic from Narendra Nagar to Chamba on Friday after a large portion of it was breached following heavy rains in Fakot and was blocked at a number of places due to landslide debris. It was opened for light vehicular traffic movement on Saturday."Teams of State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) have been sent to Jumma village. Relief materials are also being sent," Chauhan said, according to news agency ANI.Pithoragarh district has been receiving incessant rainfall for the last four to five days, leading to several incidents of landslides. A 23-year-old woman went missing last week in Joshi village of Dharchula sub-division of Pithoragarh, reports news agency PTI.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday issued a yellow alert in the Nainital, Bageshwar, and Pithoragarh districts of Uttarakhand for August 29-30, forecasting heavy rainfall in these areas. The situation prevailing in the state is such that due to heavy rains, dozens of roads have been damaged, bridges have been washed away and many areas have been submerged.Dhami on Sunday conducted an aerial survey of disaster-hit areas in the Garhwal division of the state, which has been affected by heavy rains. He surveyed the disaster affected areas of Devprayag, Totaghati, Tindhara, Kaudiyala, Rishikesh, Ranipokhari, Narendranagar, Fakot and Chamba of Garhwal division.Heavy rains in Uttarakhand have caused a lot of destruction and 166 roads in the state, including the Badrinath and Gangotri highways, have been closed. The Rishikesh-Badrinath road has been put on red alert due to incessant rains, reported news agency ANI.The Rishikesh-Gangotri highway (NH-94) was closed for vehicular traffic from Narendra Nagar to Chamba on Friday after a large portion of it was breached following heavy rains in Fakot and was blocked at a number of places due to landslide debris. It was opened for light vehicular traffic movement on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-killed-5-buried-under-debris-due-to-landslide-in-uttarakhand-s-pithoragarh-101630298412888.html
30-08-2021||India||At 42,909, India logs over 40,000 Covid-19 cases for 5th straight day||India's new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) stayed above the 40,000-mark for the fifth straight day on Monday as 42,909 people tested positive, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said. With the latest infections, India's cumulative infection tally has risen to 32,737,939. The fresh infections, however, were marginally lower (4.8%) than 45,083 cases reported on August 29. Between August 26-28, the country logged 46,164, 44,658 and 46,759 Covid-19 cases respectively, according to government data. Meanwhile, there were 37,593 infections on August 25.Monday's data also showed that 380 more lives were lost due to the viral disease, taking the death toll to 438,210 or 1.34% of the cumulative case tally. Recoveries mounted to 31,923,405 as 34,763 more patients were discharged, while active infections registered a decline of 7766 cases to slump further to 376,324. Recovered and active cases constitute 97.51% and 1.15% of the overall caseload, respectively.The latest positive cases were from 1,419,990 samples tested on August 29, as against 1,755,327 tests on August 28, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) data showed. Total 520,146,525 samples have been tested till now, the ICMR saidCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/Em0rjNvnJqOn the vaccination front, the total number of vaccine doses administered since January 16, when the nationwide inoculation drive commenced, has risen to 634,381,358, the dashboard shows.On August 27, India became the first country to achieve the milestone of administering more than 10 million doses in a single-day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-42-909-india-logs-over-40-000-covid-19-cases-for-5th-straight-day-101630296631418.html
30-08-2021||India||Mob beats up pastor in C’garh; raises slogans against religious conversion||Unidentified persons allegedly beat up a 25-year-old pastor and his family over charges of forced conversion in Kabirdham district of Chhattisgarh, police said on Monday. The accused also vandalised Kawalsingh Paraste’s house in Polami village around 1pm, and threatened his family before fleeing, said Kabirdham Police. “Paraste, a pastor residing in the village, said some people came to his house when Sunday prayers were going on and started vandalising the house. They later assaulted him and his family members,” Kabirdham superintendent of police Mohit Garg said. Also Read | Two arrested after Muslim man forced to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ in MP: CopsPolice said the attackers were heard raising slogans to stop religious conversion. “We have identified some people and a case has been registered. A search for the accused is on ,” said Garg. President of Chhattisgarh’s Christian Forum, Arun Pannalal, accused the police and the state government of not taking appropriate action in cases of attacks on Christian places of worship. “ We condemn the incident and appeal to the police to take action against the accused who are still absconding, ” he said. He added that the forum will file a Public Interest Litigation in the Supreme Court with all evidence of police’s inaction in recent cases of vandalism of churches in different districts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mob-beats-up-pastor-in-c-garh-raises-slogans-against-religious-conversion-101630297602729.html
30-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi likely to see light rain today, says IMD and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi likely to witness light rain on Monday: IMDDelhi is likely to witness light rain on Monday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. On Sunday too, the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered representative of the capital’s weather, did not receive any rain till 5.30pm despite the forecast for light and scattered rain. Read moreSouthern Railway launches Madurai-Sengottai daily special express trainThe Southern Railway on Monday, August 30, flagged off operations of an unreserved special express train between Madurai and Sengottai in Tamil Nadu. The train is numbered 06504 from Madurai to Sengottai, while, in the reverse direction, it is numbered 06503. Read moreUttar Pradesh to relax night curfew for 2 days in view of JanmashtamiThe Uttar Pradesh government has allowed relaxation in the ongoing night curfew across the state on Monday and Tuesday due to Janmashtami, according to a report by HT’ sister publication, Live Hindustan. Read more18 kids contract Covid at children's home in Maharashtra's MankhurdAs many as 18 children tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at a children's home in an eastern suburb of Maharashtra’s capital of Mumbai, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Read moreKiara Advani in bespoke bralette and skirt set promotes Shershaah with Sidharth MalhotraBollywood actors Kiara Advani and Sidharth Malhotra, rumoured to be dating, are enjoying the success of their recent release Shershaah. The two stars made an appearance on the sets of Kapil Sharma's show to promote the war drama. Read moreTokyo Paralympics: Avani Lekhara wins gold medal in shooting eventAvani Lekhara won India's first medal in shooting at the Tokyo Paralympics in the women’s 10m air rifle standing SH1 event on Monday. Lekhara won the gold medal with a total score of 249.6 in the final, equalling the world record. Read more'Dimple Cheema said she knew Vikram Batra for 4 years but spent only 40 days together': Shershaah writerScreenwriter Sandeep Srivastava has spoken about the homework he did for his latest movie, Shershaah. The film, based on life of Param Vir Chakra awardee Vikram Batra, also showed his love story with girlfriend Dimple Cheema. Read moreWatch| Haryana Dy CM's reaction to SDM's 'break heads' videoFacing heat, Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala condemned the 'break heads' direction of the Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha. He assured that his government will take action against the SDM, who is an IAS officer. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-likely-to-see-light-rain-today-says-imd-101630293153036.html
30-08-2021||India||Leaders slam Haryana cops for action on farmers during protest||Several politicians have slammed the police lathi-charge on a farmers’ protest in Haryana on Saturday.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has also received flak for defending the police action in Karnal, saying they promised a peaceful protest but hurled stones and blocked highways.Lashing out at the BJP-led Central and state government, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait compared the government with “Talibanis”.“Yesterday, an officer ordered (policemen) to hit farmers on their heads. They call us Khalistani. If you would call us Khalistani and Pakistani, we would say ‘Sarkari Talibani’ has occupied the country. They are Sarkari Talibanis,” said Tikait.Following the incident, a video went viral on social media, which was also tweeted by BJP MP from Pilibhit Varun Gandhi, in which Karnal sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Ayush Sinha could be seen instructing policemen to “crack their (protesting farmers’) heads” to prevent them from breaching the security barrier.Demanding an inquiry into the incident, Haryana leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said police action “shows the anti-farmer mindset of the state government.’’ He added, “It was a pre-planned attack. First, the state government creates conditions for the clash with farmers and then uses undemocratic, inhuman and cruel means against them.”Also Read | Dushyant Chautala says use of such language by IAS officer ‘condemnable’Congress leader Rahul Gandhi called out police violence against protesting farmers in Haryana’s Karnal, tweeting that it was a ‘shame’ that the farmers have to “shed blood”.With a two-line tweet in Hindi, Gandhi shared a photo of a farmer who was injured in the protest. “Again the blood of farmers is shed. India bows its head in shame,” he wrote.Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that the Khattar-led government was treating farmers like General Reginald Dyer (behind the Jallianwala Bagh massacre), refusing to allow them to protest peacefully against controversial farm laws.Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh too slammed his Haryana counterpart for “unleashing brazen brutality of the police on the peacefully protesting farmers, many of whom were injured in the lathi-charge,” news agency ANI reported.Meghalaya Governor Satya Pal Malik criticised CM Khattar and demanded an apology for the lathi charge on farmers.Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav hit out at the Haryana government. “They (farmers) were protesting against the visit of CM Khattar and other BJP leaders to Karnal. This is the true face of Haryana police,” Yadav tweeted.Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala condemned the violence and promised action against SDM Sinha for his controversial instructions to police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leaders-slam-haryana-cops-for-action-on-farmers-during-protest-101630293702528.html
30-08-2021||India||'Hard-earned and well-deserved Gold': PM Modi, others laud Avani Lekhara||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday congratulated shooter Avani Lekhara for her first-place finish in the ongoing Paralympic Games in Tokyo. Lekhara's gold is India's first medal in shooting in the current edition of the Paralympics.Also Read | Tokyo Paralympics: Avani Lekhara wins gold medal in shooting event"Phenomenal performance @AvaniLekhara! Congratulations on winning a hard-earned and well-deserved Gold, made possible due to your industrious nature and passion towards shooting. This is truly a special moment for Indian sports. Best wishes for your future endeavours," PM Modi tweeted minutes after she struck gold in the Japanese capital.Phenomenal performance @AvaniLekhara! Congratulations on winning a hard-earned and well-deserved Gold, made possible due to your industrious nature and passion towards shooting. This is truly a special moment for Indian sports. Best wishes for your future endeavours.According to news agency ANI, the Prime Minister also spoke to the gold medallist, congratulating her on the victory. PM Modi called her win a "matter of great pride" while she expressed her happiness for the support she received from the whole nation.PM Narendra Modi spoke to Avani Lekhara and congratulated her on winning the Gold at Tokyo Paralympics. He said this win is a matter of great pride. Avani expressed happiness at the support she has received from the entire nation. pic.twitter.com/7QHyPIWU5OUnion home minister Amit Shah called Lekhara's achievement "historic." Shah posted the following message on Twitter (roughly translated from Hindi): "Many congratulations to @AvaniLekhara who, through her hard work and excellence won a gold in the Paralympics, and has made every Indian proud. The entire nation salutes your passion and dedication to bring glory to the tricolour."ऐतिहासिक!#Paralympics में अपने परिश्रम और उत्कृष्ट प्रदर्शन से स्वर्ण पदक जीतकर हर भारतीय को गौरवान्वित करने वाली @AvaniLekhara को बहुत-बहुत बधाई।विश्व में तिरंगे का मान बढ़ाने के लिए आपके जुनून व समर्पण को पूरा देश सलाम करता है।Deepa Malik, who heads the Paralympic Committee of India, and was a medallist herself at the 2016 Rio Games, also congratulated Lekhara. "It's a Gold! Heartiest congratulations to @AvaniLekharafor winning India's first medal in #Parashooting. The young shooter kept her calm and won the medal by euqalling world record," Malik tweeted.It's a Gold! Heartiest congratulations to @Avanilekhara for winning India's first medal in #ParaShooting. The young shooter kept her calm & won the medal by equalling World record.@narendramodi @ianuragthakur@Media_SAI @Paralympics @ShootingPara #Praise4Para #Paralympics pic.twitter.com/h6JqIXehsvThe young shooter's family also expressed their happiness over her achievement. "For me, there can be no greater happiness than this. This is the result of her hard work. I hope she brings a gold medal in the 50m shooting as well," her grandfather, GR Lekhara, told news agency ANI.For me, there can be no greater happiness than this. This is the result of her hard work. I hope she brings a gold medal in 50m shooting also: GR Lekhara, grandfather of Avani Lekhana who won a gold medal in women's 10m AR Standing SH1 at Tokyo Paralympics pic.twitter.com/Z5osWv9PRCLekhara's gold came in the women's 10m air rifle standing SH1 event. Her total score in the final stood at 249.6. She qualified for the final with a seventh-place finish and a total score of 621.7 in the qualification round.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hard-earned-and-well-deserved-pm-modi-lauds-avani-lekhara-101630291817953.html
30-08-2021||India||IMD issues yellow alerts for these districts in Kerala||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted isolated heavy rainfall in Kerala on Monday and said the state will see a cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers till September 2. The IMD has issued a yellow alert for the Alapuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur districts of Kerala for Monday. According to the IMD, green alert means 'light rain', yellow alert stands for 'moderate rain' and orange alert is for 'heavy to very heavy rain'.In its daily monsoon report, the Met department has also predicted isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall over Kerala, Mahe, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on August 29, and Telangana on August 29 and 30.The Met department has also warned the fishermen in the area against venturing into the sea till Monday on account of strong winds over the Arabian Sea. “Strong wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph is likely over the South-west and West central Arabian sea. Fishermen are advised NOT TO venture into these sea areas," the IMD said on its website.The IMD said that the southwest monsoon has been vigorous over Kerala, with rain occurred at most places in Kerala and Lakshadweep.Heavy rains lashed Kerala on Sunday with some areas receiving around 10cm of rainfall. Heavy rainfall was reported at Vaikom in Kottayam district on Sunday, where 10cm rain was recorded, followed by Kakkayam in Kozhikode district and Vellarikkundu in Kasaragod district with 8cm each. The IMD issued an orange alert for Sunday predicting heavy to very heavy rainfall in Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-yellow-alerts-for-these-districts-in-kerala-101630289361946.html
30-08-2021||India||Health minister releases 1st Covaxin batch from Bharat Biotech’s Gujarat plant||Union Minister Mansukh Mandaviya released the first commercial batch of Covaxin from the Chiron Behring vaccines facility of Bharat Biotech in Ankleshwar, Gujarat, on Sunday.He said, “India is focused on slowing the spread of Covid-19 in the country, and the key to achieving this lies in the swift and efficient administration of vaccines. We want to ensure equitable access of the vaccine to every Indian citizen, and the expansion of Covaxin production facilities by Bharat Biotech will take us closer to this goal.”He also said the Ankleshwar plant has a manufacturing capacity of at least 10million doses per month starting Sunday.Also Read | 18 kids contract Covid at children’s home in Maharashtra’s MankhurdOn the status of Covaxin production in India, the Union minister said that Bharat Biotech has multiple production lines at its Hyderabad, Malur, Bengaluru, and Pune campuses, apart from that of Chiron Behring,Dr Krishna Ella, chairman & managing director, Bharat Biotech, said, “Our goal to develop a vaccine with global safety and efficacy standards has now been achieved, we are now marching towards the goal of annualised capacity of ~ 1.0 billion doses.”The health minister also took to Twitter to talk about the importance of vaccination drive in fighting the pandemic and said the launch “will increase the supply of vaccine in the country and will help in reaching the vaccine to every Indian.”The nationwide vaccination drive against Covid-19 is expected to gather pace in September as more than 240 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines are likely to be administered next month, Hindustan Times’ sister website Live Hindustan reported, citing Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-releases-1st-covaxin-batch-from-bharat-biotech-s-gujarat-plant-101630291242415.html
30-08-2021||India||‘A chance to learn about Lord Krishna’s biography’: PM Modi, President Kovind extend wishes on Janmashtami||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among several leaders who on Monday wished people on the occasion of Krishna Janmashtami, which celebrates the birth of Lord Krishna. President Kovind said Janmashtami is a chance to learn about Lord Krishna’s biography and wished that the festival brings happiness, health and prosperity in everyone’s life.“Warm wishes to all the citizens on the auspicious occasion of Janmashtami. The festival is a chance to learn about Lord Krishna’s biography and devote oneself to his messages. I wish that this festival brings happiness, health and prosperity in everyone’s life,” Kovind wrote on Twitter.Also Read| Covid-19: Bengaluru's ISKCON temple to remain closed on Janmashtami“Greetings to you all on the auspicious occasion of Janmashtami,” Prime Minister Modi also tweeted.“Hearty greetings to all the countrymen on the auspicious occasion of Shri Krishna Janmashtami. Hail lord krishna!” Union home minister Amit Shah tweeted.Greetings to you all on the auspicious occasion of Janmashtami. आप सभी को जन्माष्टमी की ढेरों शुभकामनाएं। जय श्रीकृष्ण!Also referred to as Gokulashtami, Janmashtami is one of the biggest festivals in India and is celebrated with enthusiasm and vigour across the country. The festival is particularly observed in Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura and Vrindavan as people observe fast and decorate their houses and temples.However, due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in the country, states and Union Territories (UTs) are observing the festival in accordance with some virus-related norms to ensure the situation does not get out of hand.Also Read| 'Limit Janmashtami festivities to homes, don’t visit temples', say Delhi policeThe Delhi Police on Sunday urged all residents of the national capital to celebrate Janmashtami in their homes and avoid gatherings at temples in the city. Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said action will be taken against those who violate the guidelines.In Gujarat, the state government announced relaxation in night curfew timings but urged residents to ensure that social distancing is followed at the celebration venues. On Monday, volunteers at the Iskcon temple in Surat were ensuring that Covid-appropriate and eco-friendly arrangements were made for the celebration.Also Read| Uttar Pradesh to relax night curfew for 2 days in view of JanmashtamiThe Uttar Pradesh government has also allowed relaxation in its ongoing night curfew on Monday and Tuesday due to Janmashtami. Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthy said on Sunday that all Covid-19 protocols must be followed during the celebration, adding people must wear masks and use hand sanitisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-janmashtami-president-kovind-and-pm-modi-extend-wishes-101630289856465.html
30-08-2021||India||Southern Railway launches Madurai-Sengottai daily special express train||The Southern Railway on Monday, August 30, flagged off operations of an unreserved special express train between Madurai and Sengottai in Tamil Nadu. The train is numbered 06504 from Madurai to Sengottai, while, in the reverse direction, it is numbered 06503.The Madurai-Sengottai special express is a daily service, as announced by the Southern Railway. As per the announced schedule, it will depart from Madurai at 7:10am and reach Sengottai at 10:35am. The train’s scheduled departure time from Sengottai is 3:45pm on the same day, with the arrival time at Madurai being 7:10pm, exactly 12 hours after departing from the cultural capital of Tamil Nadu.On the first day, the train began its journey at 7:11am, a minute behind schedule, according to National Train Enquiry System (NTES).The daily special is scheduled to halt at the following stations: Tirupparankundram, Tirumangalam, Kalligudi, Virudhunagar, Tiruttangal, Sivakasi, Srivilliputtur, Rajapalayam, Sankarankovil, Pamba Kovil Shandy, Kadayanallur and Tenkasi. This is the sequence of stoppages in the journey from Madurai; Tenkasi will be the first stoppage when the train leaves Sengottai later in the day.12 general second-class coaches and two guard vans make up the Madurai-Sengottai special express train.Railway Board had also approved two other unreserved special express trains beginning August 30. These are Tiruchirappalli-Karaikal-Tiruchirappalli DEMU Special (06490/06739) and Mayiladuturai-Tiruvarur-Mayiladuturai DEMU Special (06541/06542). While the former is a daily service, the latter will operate six days a week except Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/southern-railway-launch-madurai-sengottai-daily-special-express-101630289789487.html
30-08-2021||India||Delhi likely to witness light rain on Monday: IMD||Delhi is likely to witness light rain on Monday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. On Sunday too, the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered representative of the capital’s weather, did not receive any rain till 5.30pm despite the forecast for light and scattered rain.The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 26 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 34 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature on Sunday was 34.7 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature was 25.8 degrees Celsius – one degree below normal.August has been a month of extremes for Delhi, said weather experts. Data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for the first 29 days of the month shows that from a monthly rain deficit of 60%, the city received 11% surplus rain before returning to an 11% deficit as on Sunday. The city has received just nine rainy days (rainfall above 0.16mm) this month, lower than usual for August, according to data from the weather office.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 6am stood at 103. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 119, which is also in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in moderate category with PM10 as leading pollutant. External dust from western part of Delhi, and local re-suspended dust within the NCR (National Capital Region) are not able to get dispersed due to low wind speeds on local scale in NCR where share of coarser particle reached as high as 75%. The air quality is predicted to deteriorate to upper side of moderate category for the next two days under similar wind conditions and low rainfall.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-likely-to-witness-light-rain-on-mondayimd-101630289742249.html
30-08-2021||India||Union minister Muraleedharan to begin 3-day visit to Bahrain from today||Union minister of state (MoS) for external affairs V Muraleedharan will visit the kingdom of Bahrain from Monday till Wednesday and hold talks with the country’s ministers and dignitaries. This will be his first visit to Bahrain. Muraleedharan’s visit to the middle eastern country comes months after India and Bahrain on April 7 decided to bolster their bilateral defence and security cooperation including through regular consultations in the areas of maritime security, combating piracy and counter-terrorism.The decision was taken at a meeting of the India-Bahrain high joint commission which was co-chaired in New Delhi by external affairs minister (EAM) S Jaishankar and his Bahraini counterpart Abdullatif bin Rashid Al Zayani. Reiterating their condemnation for all forms of terror, both countries called upon all states to reject and abandon the use of terrorism again other countries.Also Read| India, Bahrain agree to bolster defence and security cooperationAccording to a statement, Muraleedharan will also meet a wide cross-section of the Indian communities, including those in business, health, education and social service. The statement said Bahrain is home to around 350,000 Indians and the Indian community enjoys great goodwill from Bahrain's leadership. Both the countries share excellent relations with regard to politics, culture and economy and these relations have further strengthened over the past few years. They have also cooperated closely during the coronavirus pandemic.“India-Bahrain bilateral trade is around USD 1 billion and has shown an increasing trend. Both countries are celebrating the golden jubilee of the establishment of their diplomatic relations in 2021,” the statement added.Last year, Jaishankar visited Bahrain from November 24-25 and held talks on bilateral, regional and international issues of mutual interest. And in 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Bahrain, in the first-ever prime ministerial visit by India. During his two day visit, Modi launched the renovation of the Shreenathji (Krishna) temple in the capital city of Manama and also addressed the Indian community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-muraleedharan-to-begin-3-day-visit-to-bahrain-from-today-101630285201282.html
30-08-2021||India||Nothing to worry about: Army Gen on Taliban fallout||An Indian Army general said on Sunday said the security situation in the Kashmir valley is under control and there is nothing to worry about on concerns about possible fallout of the Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan.“This is a playground and I do not want to comment about the outsiders. But remember, the security situation here (Kashmir) is in our control and there is nothing to worry about it,” said Lieutenant General DP Pandey, the General Officer Commanding of the Army’s 15 Corps. He was responding to a question on potential security challenges in Kashmir after Taliban claimed control of the war torn country.The GOC’s statement, made at a sporting event in Srinagar, comes days after chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat said that India is concerned about terrorist activity in Afghanistan spilling over into the country, but contingency plans are in place to deal with such a scenario.The comments come in the wake of Taliban wresting control of Afghanistan, including capital Kabul, as Western troops left the country to end their 20-year involvement there.Rawat, the country’s senior-most military commander, also said India anticipated the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan but its rapid pace was still a surprise. “From the Indian perspective, we were anticipating the Taliban takeover. We were concerned about terrorist activity overflowing into India from Afghanistan. Our contingency planning is ongoing, and we are prepared for that,” Rawat said.With the Taliban now firmly in control of nearly all of Afghanistan, the biggest concern for Indian security agencies is the presence there of between 7,000 and 10,000 terrorists from Pakistan-based groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed, Haqqani Network, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi and Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan. These groups have targeted Indian interests in Afghanistan in the past, and some like LeT have carried out attacks on Indian soil.The CDS remarks at an event on August 25 also hinted at India’s stand on dealing with the Taliban.Rawat said the group, which was ousted from power in Afghanistan by US-led coalition forces in 2001, was the same Taliban that existed 20 years ago. “All that has happened is that partners have now changed. It is the same Taliban …We will make sure that any activity which is likely to flow out of Afghanistan and find its way into India will be dealt with in the manner in which we are dealing with terrorism in the country,” he had said.With evacuations of Indian citizens and vulnerable Afghans currently the focus, New Delhi has so far maintained a cautious approach on the issue of recognising a Taliban regime in Afghanistan.“The situation on the ground is uncertain...Currently, there is a lack of clarity or no clarity about any entity forming a government in Kabul. I think we are jumping the gun here regarding recognition,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said at a press briefing on Friday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nothing-to-worry-about-army-gen-on-taliban-fallout-101630284959417.html
30-08-2021||India||India, Kazakhstan joint training exercise 'KAZIND-21' to begin from today||India and Kazakhstan will conduct a 13-day military exercise from Monday with a focus on counter-terror operations in mountainous terrain. The "KAZIND-21" exercise will be conducted at a Kazakh training node in Aisha Bibi in Kazakhstan from August 30 to September 11 this year, the Indian defence ministry said last week."The exercise will provide an opportunity to the Armed Forces of India & Kazakhstan to train for counter-insurgency/counter-terrorism operation in the mountainous, rural scenario under UN mandate," the defence ministry said in a statement, reports news agency PTI.The statement said 90 personnel from the Bihar regiment of the Indian Army will participate in the joint exercise. The Kazakhstan army will be represented by a company group.The scope of the exercise will include professional exchange, planning and execution of operations in a counter-terrorism environment, sharing of expertise and train for counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism operations in the mountainous, rural scenarios under the UN mandate. "The exercise will culminate after a 48 hours long validation exercise which will involve a scenario of neutralisation of terrorists in a semi-rural hideout," the ministry said in the statement.It added that the exercise will strengthen mutual confidence, interoperability and enable sharing of best practices between the armed forces of India and Kazakhstan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-kazakhstan-joint-training-exercise-kazind-21-to-begin-from-today-101630282173228.html
30-08-2021||India||7.5km added to Bengaluru Metro’s western extension line||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai and Union minister of housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri, on Sunday inaugurated the extended 7.5 kms line of the Bengaluru metro between Nayandanahalli and Kengeri on Mysuru Road after roughly two months of delay. The extension will connect two biggest cities in Karnataka.“The government is pursuing all efforts to make Bengaluru truly an international hub. The metro should have the capability to ferry many more people. There is a target to construct around 317 kms of routes,” Bommai said after the inauguration. The chief minister said that the route till Kengeri should be extended till Ramanagara, Magadi and Rajanakunte and has directed officials to draw up plans to execute the same which would take the total to 317 kms. The total length of the metro that is operational in Bengaluru is 56 kms in over 13 years. He said that another 36 kms would be completed by next year. Bommai said that the government can keep up timelines for the new proposed routes if there is early planning and perfect implementation. “Accountability of these major projects is more important than anything else,” he said, adding that the chief minister’s office (CMO) will supervise all mega projects in the city from now on. Bommai also said that within the next 20 days, a dashboard with information on all mega projects in the city will be up and ready where the monitoring of such large infrastructure initiatives will be done. “I will dedicate my first working hour of the day for supervising these mega projects of Bengaluru,” he said. Officials said that the extended line of the metro is estimated to serve around 75,000 people on average per day and connects the south-western part of the city in a direct line to the eastern corridor of KR Puram. Speaking at the inauguration, Puri said, “Bengaluru is one of the major engines of economic growth for the entire country, with (a) strong presence in information technology, biotechnology and applied sciences research. The city accounts for nearly 38% of total IT exports from the country. The Inauguration of the Western Extension Metro Line today is a step towards enabling faster commute and smart mobility options in the city.” “Journey of Bengaluru metro started with the sanction of Phase 1 in 2006 which is 42.3 km with an approved revised cost of ₹13, 845 crores. The first section of 7 km of Phase 1 commenced in October 2011 and daily passenger boarding of about 12, 500 per km of the Phase 1 pre-Covid-19 is comparable to the busiest metro network in the country next to Mumbai and Delhi,” Puri said. He added that the operational punctuality of the Bengaluru metro is 99.8% which is among the best in the country. “Since the inauguration of (the) first metro line in Delhi in 2002, today about 730 kms of metro lines are operational in 18 different cities. About 1,049 kms of metro rail / RRTS projects are under construction in various cities,” Puri added. However, the slow pace of work has made it more difficult for the average Bengalurean to depend on the metro services since it has taken over 13 years for the construction of just under 60 kms line in a city that is around 800 square kms in radius. The metro gets one of the biggest share in Bengaluru’s public expenditure but delays have escalated project costs. According to Bengaluru metro authorities, each year of delay adds 5% more to the project costs, which amounts to thousands of crores. The delays have forced people to depend on private vehicles which was exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic. The fear of contracting the virus in public transport has forced many people to use private transport. This has added to the problem of the growing number of vehicles on the road in a city that was adjudged to have the worst traffic in 2019 globally. There are 9.4 million vehicles in Bengaluru, according to government estimates. The poor quality of roads, inadequate public transport, increase of private vehicles has added to the city’s crumbling infrastructure with promises on mass mobility solutions remaining a distant and delayed dream which has caused more hardships due to addition of bottlenecks to the already nasty traffic snarls. With most of the roads dug up currently in Bengaluru in the name of “smart city” and other developmental projects, the dust and vehicular emissions have taken a toll on the general quality of life due to air and water pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bluru-metro-inauguration-reignites-language-dispute-101630262441701.html
30-08-2021||India||NCB seizes marijuana worth ₹21 crore, 3 held||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday said that it busted an inter-state drug racket near a toll booth on Hyderabad ring road and seized 3,400 kg of marijuana, with an approximate on-street selling price of ₹21 crores. Three persons have been arrested in connection with the case, zonal director of the NCB (Bengaluru zone) Amit Ghawate said in a statement.“Based on specific intelligence developed by NCB Bangalore, a joint team of NCB Bangalore and Hyderabad on August 28 seized a truck having Maharashtra registration and arrested three persons near (the) toll booth on Hyderabad ring road. On thorough examination, it was found that 3400 kg of ganja was concealed into the truck. It was packed systematically in 141 gunny bags,” he said on Sunday.The bust comes at a time when Karnataka has been heavily cracking down on narcotics in its continued war on drugs that continues to seep into India’s IT capital and other large cities through intricate networks and innovative ways to avoid detection.In this case, the gunny bags were concealed under tarpaulin sheets and covered by varieties of nursery saplings in large quantities in the truck. “It was difficult to detect the contraband,” the statement added.At least three people, who are suspected to be from Latur district in neighbouring Maharastra were arrested. The law enforcement authorities and other drug control agencies have been using one seizure to get information on more such operations to dismantle a large web of networks. “This operation was developed out of earlier operations, wherein seizure of a total quantity of 3,992 kg of ganja was affected resulting in the arrest of 16 persons and subsequent busting of 3 separate ganja trafficking networks,” according to the statement.There is also an alleged “kingpin” for this particular consignment is based out of Maharashtra, the NCB said. The source of the contraband is the Andhra Pradesh and Odisha border.The narcotics detection agency said that these drugs are peddled in various colleges, parties, individuals and other places through an elaborate ground network.“During the year 2020, a total quantity of 1,971 kg of ganja was seized, resulting in the arrest of 8 persons. This year, by the end of August 2021, a total quantity of over 7500 kg ganja have already been seized by the NCB, Bengaluru zone, resulting in the arrest of 25 persons. The two enforcement actions of the NCB and recent substantial seizures of ganja clearly indicate that the ganja traffickers have been desperate and taking the risk of carrying maximum quantity of the contraband at a time,” the agency statement noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-seizes-marijuana-worth-21-crore-3-held-101630262381293.html
30-08-2021||India||US strikes ‘suicide bombers’, says more attacks imminent||A US drone strike Sunday blew up a vehicle carrying “multiple suicide bombers” from Afghanistan’s Islamic State affiliate before they could target the ongoing military evacuation at Kabul’s international airport as Taliban guards stood outside, American officials said. The strike came just two days before the US is set to conclude a massive airlift of tens of thousands of Afghan and foreign civilians and withdraw the last of its troops, ending America’s longest war, with the Taliban back in power.At around the same time as the drone strike, Afghan police said a rocket hit a neighbourhood near the airport, killing a child. Rashid, the Kabul police chief, who goes by one name, confirmed the rocket attack, and video obtained by The Associated Press showed smoke rising from a building around a kilometre from the airport.The Taliban described the drone strike and the rocket attack as separate incidents, but residents of the Afghan capital heard only one large blast.One US official said the strike was carried out by an unmanned aircraft piloted from outside Afghanistan, and that secondary explosions following the strike showed the target had been carrying a substantial amount of explosives. Television footage showed black smoke rising into the sky.The drone strike took place while remaining civilians waited at the airport to be flown out before the last troops leave, a Western security official said. A US official said on Saturday that fewer than 4,000 troops remained.After an Islamic State affiliate’s suicide attack that killed over 180 people on Thursday, US President Joe Biden had vowed to keep up the airstrikes, saying earlier on Saturday that another attack was “highly likely”. The State Department called the threat “specific” and “credible”. The Taliban too increased its security around the airfield as several Western nations wrapped up evacuations. Two American military officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss military operations, called the airstrike successful and said the vehicle carried multiple bombers.US Navy Capt Bill Urban, a spokesperson for the American military’s Central Command, called the drone strike an action taken in “self-defence”. He said authorities continued “assessing the possibilities of civilian casualties, though we have no indications at this time.”“We are confident we successfully hit the target,” Urban said. “Significant secondary explosions from the vehicle indicated the presence of a substantial amount of explosive material.”Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid earlier said in a message to journalists that the US strike targeted a suicide bomber as he drove a vehicle loaded with explosives. Mujahid offered few other details.The strike was the second by America since the airport suicide bombing. On Saturday, a strike in Nangarhar province killed an Islamic State member believed to be involved in planning attacks against the United States in Kabul.The Sunni extremists of IS, with links to the group’s more well-known affiliate in Syria and Iraq, have carried out a series of brutal attacks, mainly targeting Afghanistan’s Shia Muslim minority, including a 2020 assault on a maternity hospital in Kabul in which they killed women and infants.The Taliban have fought against Islamic State militants in Afghanistan, where the Taliban have wrested back control nearly 20 years after they were ousted in a US-led invasion. The Americans went in following the 9/11 attacks, which al-Qaeda orchestrated while being sheltered by the group.US military cargo planes continued their runs into the airport Sunday, ahead of a Tuesday deadline earlier set by President Joe Biden to withdraw all troops. However, Afghans remaining behind in the country worry about the Taliban reverting to their earlier oppressive rule — something fuelled by the recent shooting death of a folk singer in the country by the militants.A Taliban official said the Islamist group had engineers and technicians ready to take charge of the airport after US troops depart.ADMINISTRATION CRISIS The US-backed Afghan government’s collapse as Taliban forces advanced towards Kabul earlier this month leaves an administrative vacuum that has led to fears of an economic crisis and widespread hunger.Prices for commodities like flour, oil and rice are rapidly rising and the currency is plunging, with money changers across the border in Pakistan already refusing to accept the afghani.On Saturday, officials ordered banks to reopen and imposed a limit on withdrawals of $200 or 20,000 afghani. Long queues forming outside bank branches of people trying to get money out.Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid has said the difficulties will subside quickly once the new administration is up and running. But with its economy shattered by decades of war, Afghanistan is now facing the end of billions of dollars in foreign aid poured in by Western donors.Mujahid said the Taliban would announce a full cabinet in the coming days. It had appointed governors and police chiefs in all but one of Afghanistan’s 34 provinces, he said.The Taliban also appealed to the United States and other Western nations to maintain diplomatic relations after withdrawing. Britain said that should happen only if the Taliban allow safe passage for those who want to leave and respect human rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-strikes-suicide-bombers-says-more-attacks-imminent-101630262082650.html
30-08-2021||India||Sting video exposes internal rifts in BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit||The sexual video sting tape controversy engulfing the Bharatiya Janata Party in Tamil Nadu has exposed fissures between the new entrants and the old guard of the national party. On Thursday, when ousted party worker Madan Ravichandran released audiotapes of purported conversations between him and state president K. Annamalai, the issue escalated, with calls of factionalism within the party and senior leaders’ criticism on how they dealt with the issue, also coming to the fore.The rumblings began last Tuesday when YouTuber Madan Ravichandran, who joined the party last year, released the video of general secretary KT Raghavan. Calling it a sting operation, Ravichandran said that he had gathered similar evidence against 15 others and that new president Annamalai allowed him to release the video. Almost immediately, Raghavan resigned from his post though he denied the allegations and decided to face it legally. Annamalai’s clarification also came quickly, confirming that Ravichandran discussed this issue with him, but he had not submitted the video as evidence for it to be probed. BJP also immediately formed an internal committee to probe allegations of sexual misconduct against Raghavan. On the following day, BJP fired Ravichandran. Upset over the developments, he then targeted the new BJP chief by releasing recorded audio conversations between them where Annamalai purportedly is discussing different options of dealing with this issue. One of the options was to engage the leadership in Delhi. Soon hashtags #isupportAnnamalai cropped up on social media, and BJP women leaders began posting videos and tweets defending that the party empowers women. There is talk about whether this was orchestrated internally due to the factionalism between those backed by the Sangh Parivar, between leaders of Brahmin and other communities. Party members are also wondering if other political parties in the state planted people like Ravichandran. Both Ravichandran and former IPS officer Annamalai joined the party only last year. Both are in their 30s, and the BJP celebrated them as the young voices to take on the Dravidian parties. “The basic problem is undue attention was given to newcomers,” said a state BJP leader who has been in the party for more than two decades and didn’t wish to be identified. “And all the leaders who have worked for the party all these years have been sidelined. And the new leaders have been promoting their communities.”The BJP is an anomaly in Tamil Nadu when compared to the rest of the country. The national party, which was barely a factor in Tamil Nadu, came into the spotlight only last year with their Vetrivel Yatra and protests on an issue on the Manusmriti. After 20 years, the party entered the assembly winning four seats. For this, the ex BJP president L Murugan had gone on a recruiting spree with several politicians jumping ship. “People like them don’t understand Hindutva. They’re opportunists,” said the leader quoted above. Murugan belonging to the Scheduled Caste community and his predecessor Tamilisai Soundararajan belonging to the Nadar community was the party’s efforts to shed its image of being a party of Hindi speaking upper castes.Murugan was rewarded for the party’s performance by being made a Union minister of state and paving the way for Annamalai to become chief in July. Annamalai grew quickly within the party given his close association with BJP national secretary B L Santosh which ensured he had support from the top leadership. He was given a ticket to contest in the recently concluded elections, but he was unsuccessful.Another leader said that the issue should have been dealt with without allowing it to become public. “Will such an incident in the DMK or AIADMK ever come out?” he asked. The scandal comes in the shadow of the BJP issuing a legal notice to Tamil daily over an article that claimed the party had allegedly received several complaints of sexual harassment against its leaders.Senior leaders continue to deny the article as well as recent events. “There is no factionalism in the BJP,” said a national leader not wishing to be named. “We need to check the background of Ravichandran. And an inquiry has been initiated against Raghavan.” He added that Annamalai and the state leadership had the issue under control and that they have not received any complaints of sexual harassment from women in their party.EXPERT/OPPN QUOTE||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sting-video-exposes-internal-rifts-in-bjp-s-tamil-nadu-unit-101630261962542.html
30-08-2021||India||Covid-19 surge rages on despite curbs in Kerala||Even as Kerala observed a complete lockdown on Sunday, the state reported 29, 836 new Covid cases with high test positivity rate (TPR) of 19.67 per cent, according to the state health ministry. The state also reported 75 deaths in last 24 hours taking the toll to 20,541, as per the data released by the health ministry.The number of patients requiring ventilator support also rose from 883 to 915 on Sunday with many hospitals saying that there is a considerable hike in daily hospital admission. Total hospitalisation with moderate or severe Covid-19 symptoms crossed 31,000 on Sunday while on Saturday it was 29,523. Active cases also rose to 212, 566 on Sunday from 2,04,086. At least four districts reported more than 3,000 cases on Sunday. While Thrissur logged 3,965 new cases, Kozhikode recorded 3,548, Malappuram reported 3,195 and Ernakulam 3,178. As cases continue to surge, the state government has called a meeting of experts on Wednesday and another meeting with local body heads next Friday. In last five days, Kerala has reported more 150,000 cases with daily contribution of more than 65 per cent in the country’s overall tally. The country on Sunday recorded 45,083 new infections with a TPR of 3 per cent.Despite spiralling cases CM Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday painted a rosy picture citing high vaccination rate (74 % vaccinated) and low mortality rate of 0.5% against the national average of 1.34 per cent. The Centre had even given a strong warning to the state to ramp up its containment measures and increase testing. Despite wide criticism, the state government is yet to increase its RT-PCR tests. While neigbhouriing Tamil Nadu conducted 1,63, 230 tests on Friday, Karnataka conducted 1,49, 393 while Kerala saw only 73,138 tests. Many experts even have asked the state to shed its soft corner for conducting antigen tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-surge-rages-on-despite-curbs-in-kerala-101630261961198.html
30-08-2021||India||Talks on theatre commands making progress: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said discussions on the creation of joint commands and their implementation were progressing well and fast, indicating that differences between stakeholders on the theaterisation model are being addressed and India is on course to set up theatre commands.“With the creation of theatre commands, the Indian armed forces will have to develop integrated operational concepts and doctrine for joint war-fighting,” Singh said. His comments came during a talk on Defence Reforms in Shifting National Security Paradigm at the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington, Tamil Nadu.Last month, Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria flagged concerns about the theaterisation model, arguing that it was critical to first get the structure right, even as chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat gave out details of the plan to achieve jointness and brushed aside the reservations.The government had in June formed an eight-member panel under Rawat to fine-tune the theaterisation plans and bring all stakeholders on board, especially IAF, for speedy roll-out of new joint structures.Singh said the creation of the post of CDS and the department of military affairs was an important step to start defence reforms. “These steps have given the necessary direction for further changes and provided a system of coordination under which we are continuously taking our efforts forward,” he said.The armed forces currently have 17 single-service commands spread across the country. The Indian Army and the Indian Air Force have seven commands each, while the Indian Navy has three. Creating theatres would involve merging the existing commands (except the Udhampur-based Northern Command).The defence minister also talked about the challenges posed by the situation in Afghanistan, which had driven all countries to rethink their strategy. “The Quad (a group consisting of India, the US, Australia and Japan) has been constituted keeping these things in mind,” he said. Last week, CDS said India was concerned about terrorist activity in Afghanistan spilling over into the country after the Taliban takeover and contingency plans were in place to deal with the scenario.Singh also touched on the border row with China in the Ladakh sector. He said a unilateral attempt was made to change the status quo on the border last year, but India faced its adversary with a new dynamism rather than the old response.The two countries are currently in talks to reduce border tensions by disengaging front-line troops from all flashpoints along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC). Disengagement has been completed in the Pangong Tso sector and Gogra or Patrol Point-17A. However, problems at Hot Springs and Depsang are yet to be resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-on-theatre-commands-making-progress-rajnath-101630261481978.html
30-08-2021||India||Two ‘dacoits’ gunned down in Assam encounter: Cops||Two alleged dacoits were killed and one was injured in a gunfight with the Assam police after a high-speed car chase in Goalpara district, officials said on Sunday.According to officials, the incident took place around 10:30 pm on Saturday during the curfew, imposed as part of Covid-19 restrictions, and search is on for two more persons who escaped.“Sometimes criminals think they can outgun, outrun and outsmart Assam Police. That happened at Goalpara yesterday. Goalpara police had to chase criminals across the area of four police stations while being shot at. But finally, police got better of them,” director general of police, Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta tweeted.“Two of the dacoits, Rafajuddin and Basit Ali, died in the shootout while one Rashidul Islam has been injured. All of them have prior cases of dacoity against them. We recovered one gun and the car they were travelling,” he added.With Saturday’s incident, the number of those killed in such encounters rose to 22. At least 34 others have been injured in such incidents across the state.While opposition parties have accused the police of being ‘trigger-happy’, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who handles the home portfolio, has urged police not to shy away from firing back at criminals while remaining within the ambit of the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-dacoits-gunned-downin-assam-encounter-cops-101630261300597.html
30-08-2021||India||MHA think tank suggests two new models of beat patrolling||Union home ministry’s think-tank, Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD), has recommended two new models of beat patrolling to the Union home ministry for urban and non-urban areas to improve policing at the grass-root level and strengthen police-public relation, which is marred by distrust. It has also recommended giving powers to the constables to investigate cognizable offences so that they can probe simple cases.The recommendations were made in a report submitted by the BPRD to the MHA. It suggested that police station areas in urban centres should be divided into 3 to 5 large beats with 3-4 constables or head constables allotted to each beat. It said the size of the beat and number of beat officers allotted should depend on the crime and law and order requirements of that particular area and it should be marked in a way that a beat officer should be able to cover the entire beat in about an hour on foot. The BPRD also said in the report that these beat officers shall not normally be allotted any other work, except during major law and order disturbances, disaster management requirements, VVIP visits and elections.“They shall adjust their work in such a manner that at least one of them will be available in the beat discharging beat related work all the time,” the report, reviewed by HT, stated. For non-urban areas, the BPRD has recommended dividing a police station area into 15-20 or more beats with one constable/head constable deputed to each beat. “Ideally, there should be one beat for each ward/panchayat,” BPRD said.“The beat officers allotted to each non-urban area beat shall be responsible for all the policing functions. They shall take the assistance of the village guards/chowkidars.. Beat officers of neighbouring beats may be appointed as the ‘link officers’ for the other’s beat during the periods of the long absence of the beat officer,” the report stated. “The state government(s) may consider giving powers of investigation to constables by amending the Police Rules wherever they do not allow an investigation by constables,”it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-think-tank-suggests-two-new-models-of-beat-patrolling-101630261241489.html
30-08-2021||India||In Mann ki Baat, PM Modi urges people to cherish and preserve Sanskrit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said “Sanskrit helps nurture knowledge and also national unity, strengthens it”.Addressing the 80th edition of his monthly radio programme ‘Mann ki Baat’, Prime Minister Modi said, “Through its thoughts and medium of literary texts, Sanskrit helps nurture knowledge and also national unity, strengthens it. Sanskrit literature comprises the divine philosophy of humanity and knowledge which can captivate anyone’s attention.”He also drew the country’s attention to the popularity that Sanskrit enjoys across the world.“It is taught across the world from Ireland to Thailand, from Russia to Sydney.”“Sanskrit language also plays an important role in the strengthening of cultural relations between India and Ireland and between India and Thailand here in the east. Dr Chirapat Prapandavidya and Dr Kusuma Rakshamani, both of them are playing a very important role in the promotion of the Sanskrit language in Thailand... Another such professor is Shriman Boris Zakharin, who teaches Sanskrit at Moscow State University in Russia...,” stated Prime Minister.“It is our collective duty to cherish our heritage, preserve it, pass it on to the new generation.... and future generations also have a right to it...”Commemorating the 116th birth anniversary of legendary Hockey player Major Dhyanchand, which is celebrated as national sports day, the PM said: “We may win many laurels, but the nation has always craved for a win in Hockey. Major Dhyanchand showed us the way, now we must continue to progress.”The PM also highlighted the forays made by young Indian entrepreneurs in the field of space. “There are so many college, university students and those in the private sector who are laying the foundation for the new developments in space that will take place in the future.”Drawing attention to India’s growing startup ecosystem, Modi said that the youngsters of today aren’t and should not be afraid to take risks. “Just a little while ago, we were talking about India’s stake in the toy market, now so many young entrepreneurs are working to innovate in the field.” He also urged the country to continuously maintain its commitment to the Swacchh Bharat, or Clean India campaign and appreciated Indore and Sivaganga’s (Tamil Nadu) contribution to the same.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-mann-ki-baat-modi-urges-people-to-cherish-and-preserve-sanskrit-101630260706557.html
30-08-2021||India||Railways floats a tender for 58 new Vande Bharat trains||The Indian Railways has floated a tender for the production of 58 new Vande Bharat trains, and it aims to roll out 75 such trains by August 23 next year, people aware of the developments said on Saturday.“With the tender for 44 Vande Bharat rakes earlier this year and the 58 new rakes, we will have 102 Vande Bharat trains ready by 2024,” a railway ministry official said on condition of anonymity. HT has reviewed a copy of the tender.The move comes in the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Independence Day announcement on rolling out 75 new Vande Bharat Express trains that will be launched to connect different parts of the country in 75 weeks to mark the ongoing “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”. These trains will be manufactured at the Integral Coach Factory, Chennai; Modern Coach Factory, Rae Bareilly; and Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala.The closing date for the tender is October 20, 2021. A pre-bid meeting will be held on September 21, with cut-off date for submission of pre-bid queries on September 14, an official said, asking not to be named.The tender, floated on August 28, invited bids for the design, development, manufacture, integration and testing of traction propulsion electrics for the manufacture of 58 rakes of Vande Bharat trains.The Railways in September last year floated a revised tender for procuring 44 semi-high speed Vande Bharat trains mandating 75% domestic components, making it a domestic tender. HT on August 20 reported the next lot of Vande Bharat rakes with upgraded amenities as well as better seating, security, and surveillance systems is expected to be commercially available from June 2022 onwards. “The first prototype rake is tentatively planned to be dispatched in March 2022, which will be put to commercial service tentatively by June 2022,” another senior official said.Some of the new amenities and safety features planned to be added include four emergency windows for easy evacuation of passengers; disaster lights in all coaches, to be used in the event of failure of all other lights in a disaster situation; and more emergency push buttons (four per coach).The coaches will also have a centralised coach monitoring system for all electrical, climate control, and other vital functions. An important upgrade in the new coaches will be a “pushback arrangement” for better reclining of seats. In the first two rakes of the Vande Bharat trains, issues regarding the seating comfort level were raised.PM Modi flagged off the maiden run of a Vande Bharat train on the New Delhi-Varanasi route on February 15, 2019. The second such train service between New Delhi and Shri Mata Vaishnodevi Katra was flagged off by Union home minister Amit Shah on October 3 that year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-floats-a-tender-for-58-new-vande-bharat-trains-101630260581154.html
30-08-2021||India||Over 250k hit, 6,200 displaced as floods ravage Assam districts||The flood situation in Assam worsened on Sunday with at least 258,000 people across 16 districts bearing the brunt of heavy rainfall and 6,200 being forced to take shelter in relief camps, officials familiar with the matter said.According to the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), Lakhimpur was the worst-hit district with 105,257 people in the area being affected by flooding followed by Majuli where 57,256 have been hit by the floods.According to the daily flood situation report by the Central Water Commission, the Brahmaputra was flowing at “above normal to severe flood situations” in Dibrugarh, Jorhat, Sonitpur, Goalpara, Kamrup and Dhubri districts due to continuous rainfall. “Tributaries of Brahmaputra, namely Beki in Barpeta, Jia Bharali in Sonitpur, Dikhow in Sivasagar, Sankosh in Dhubri, Subansiri Lakhimpur, Gaurang in Kokrajhar, Puthimari in Kamrup are flowing in above normal to severe flood situations.”While no human casualty has been reported in the flooding so far, the rising water levels continue to pose a threat to the wildlife in the state.Almost 70% of the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park has been flooded, forcing animals to flee to highlands, a forest department official told news agency PTI. “Bodies of three feral horses have been recovered so far. Two more have been rescued but their condition is critical,” the official added.The overall flood situation in the Kaziranga National Park (KNP) was also turning critical with around 50% of the area already under water, its director P Sivakumar said. Animals have started crossing the National Highway 37 that runs through the Park in search of dry land and one hog deer was killed in the act on Saturday, he said.State disaster management authority officials were hopeful that the condition would improve in the coming days.“The water levels of major rivers are showing a receding trend and there’s no alert for more heavy rainfall in the next few days. Hopefully, the situation will improve rapidly soon. Thankfully, there have been no human deaths reported across the state thus far,” said Dhiraj Saud, state project coordinator, ASDMA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-250k-hit-6-200-displaced-as-floods-ravage-assam-districts-101630260522432.html
30-08-2021||India||Want good India-Afghanistan relations, says Taliban leader||Taliban leader Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai has said the group wants to continue Afghanistan’s political, economic and cultural ties with India, the first time a member of the Taliban’s top hierarchy has spoken on the issue since the takeover of Kabul.In a nearly 46-minute video posted on the Taliban’s social media platforms on Saturday, Stanekzai spoke extensively in Pashto on the end of the war in Afghanistan and the Taliban’s plans for forming an Islamic administration based on Shariah. He also spoke about the Taliban’s views on relations with key countries in the region, including India, Pakistan, China and Russia.Since the Taliban assumed power in Kabul after the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government on August 15, the group’s spokesmen Suhail Shaheen and Zabiullah Mujahid have spoken to Pakistani media about the group’s views on relations with India. However, Stanekzai is the first senior leader to make a statement on relations with other countries. “India is very important for this subcontinent. We want to continue our cultural, economic and trade ties with India like in the past,” he said.“Trade with India through Pakistan is very important for us. With India, trade through air corridors will also remain open,” he said, outlining the Taliban’s plans for trade in the region.However, he didn’t say whether trade via India should be two-way. Pakistan has allowed Afghan traders to ship their goods to India through its territory but has never permitted Indian goods to be transported via Pakistani soil to Afghanistan.“We give due importance to our political, economic and trade ties with India and we want these ties to continue. We are looking forward to working with India in this regard,” Stanekzai added.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to Stanekzai’s remarks, which were widely shared on social media.While speaking about Afghanistan’s relations with Turkmenistan, Stanekzai mentioned the Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India (TAPI) gas pipeline project and said the Taliban would work to address the problems holding up the venture once a government is formed. Stanekzai also referred to the Chabahar port developed by India while speaking about relations with Iran and highlighted its importance for trade.He also spoke about relations with China, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Pakistan and Russia. He thanked Pakistan for hosting millions of Afghan refugees and said Afghanistan wants to have brotherly relations with Pakistan.As reported by HT, Stanekzai had informally reached out to the Indian side after the Taliban took over Afghanistan and made a surprise request for New Delhi to retain its diplomatic presence in Kabul. He had also referred to reports that fighters from Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Lashkar-e-Jhangvi (LeJ) were in Kabul and deployed at check posts on routes to the airport, and contended that all check posts, including those at the airport, were firmly in the hands of the Taliban.However, the Indian side concluded Stanekzai’s message couldn’t be taken at face value and went ahead with plans to pull out nearly 200 diplomats, officials and security personnel, including the ambassador, from Kabul.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that it was uncertain whether Stanekzai’s remarks were made in a personal capacity or represented the thinking of the Taliban’s top leadership. They come at a time when there are reports of differences among various factions of the group over issues such as the formation of the next set-up and appointments to key positions.The people also said the remarks could be part of efforts to seek legitimacy for the Taliban and attain some sort of autonomy from Pakistan, which has considerable influence on the group’s leadership. However, the people also noted that Stanekzai’s remarks had not addressed India’s security concerns, including the presence of Pakistan-based terror groups on Afghan soil.Stanekzai, who is seen as the number two in the Taliban’s negotiating team and third overall among leaders based in Qatar, trained for several years at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun in the early 1980s. The people cited above said he appeared to be taking on a key role in foreign relations though he has not been fully involved in recent decision-making in Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-good-india-afghanistan-relations-says-taliban-leader-101630260163407.html
30-08-2021||India||BJP banks on Pushkar Singh Dhami to lead 2022 Uttarakhand poll battle||In Uttarakhand, where it faces anti-incumbency and a slew of charges from mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic to the failure in compensating for job losses, the Bharatiya Janata Party is banking on chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami to address doubts about governance deficit and leadership crisis ahead of the 2022 assembly polls.The party is also hoping that with Dhami now in the saddle, the attention that the party drew for playing musical chairs with the chief ministers, which hinted at political instability, will be diverted. In March, the party replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat, who was in office for four years, with Tirath Singh Rawat who in turn was replaced after four months in office by Dhami who took oath in July.According to senior party leaders, following a recent round of meetings between the state and national leadership of the BJP chaired by party president JP Nadda, the CM was asked to sort out with speed governance issues in the last phase of the BJP’s five-year tenure.The state government has been asked to address concerns about job losses, listen to the demand for land laws that restrict the purchase of land to locals, and mitigate public anger about construction activities in the ecologically sensitive region, particularly the Char Dham road project.“Because of the hilly terrain and the limited avenues for employment generation in the state, jobs is always a key concern in the elections. However, this time because of the pandemic there has been severe job losses. Tourism has been affected and an overall slump in the economy has deepened the crisis. In such a scenario, people expect the government to step in and create more jobs,” said a state BJP functionary.The party is hopeful that Dhami’s announcement promising 22,000 jobs in various government departments, increasing the salaries of government teachers and resumption of jobs on contract basis will shore up the party’s fortunes. “Even though the appointments will take about five to six months since the service commission has to be roped in, it will subside the anger to a large extent,” the leader quoted above said.Another issue that has been simmering in the state that the CM has been asked to tackle right away is the issue of temple management through the Devasthanam Board.The new management model envisaged by Dhami’s predecessor Trivendra Singh Rawat was met with protest in the hill state and was given as a reason for his removal. While the government argued that the board was formed to administer and manage the properties of the temples including the four major centres of pilgrimage — Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri — the priests led a stir against it and still want it to be scrapped. The issue is also likely to figure prominently in the elections early next year.Earlier this week, Dhami had an hour-long meeting with a group of priests to assure them that the Devasthanam Board that was created in 2019 to serve as a management board for 51 temples in the state would not impinge on their rights.“Unlike his predecessors (Trivendra Singh) who had rubbed people the wrong way, Dhami is young and possesses the quality of taking people along. He listens and reaches out, a quality that helps in keeping the party flock together,” said a second leader based in Delhi on condition of anonymity.The leader, however, admitted that the party will have to think on its feet to counter the public perception about governance issues as the opposition has been quick to raise issues ranging from land laws to employment.With AAP throwing its hat in the ring and promising subsidised amenities as it does in Delhi, the BJP is being forced to come up with matching incentives and ingenuity to counter the promised sops. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has promised up to 300 units of free electricity per month to every family in Uttarakhand and free electricity to the farmers.The Congress, for its part, has stated that it will quash the amendments made to the Uttarakhand (Uttar Pradesh Zamindari Abolition and Land Reform Act, 1950) Amendment Act, 2018, that did away with a 12-acre ceiling on purchase of agricultural land for industrial purposes. Former CM Harish Rawat, too, has been vocal about the need for laws restricting the sale and purchase of land to locals.The BJP is also expecting the spate of landslides to snowball into a poll issue. As per details by the Uttarakhand government, there have been over 100 landslides in 2021 alone leading to loss of life and property.With environmentalists and common people alike blaming the construction of the 5.5 metre wide Char Dham road for deterioration of the local ecology, the party is on the defensive, claiming that it was necessary from the point of view of national security and development of the region.Even the Supreme Court in 2020 had directed the state government to limit the road width to 5.5m as against 10m proposed initially. “When flash floods on the Dhauliganga river occurred in February, many people blamed the construction activities in the state. More trees were cut than what was permitted and in the past year, there has been loss of life due to frequent landslides. Since people are concerned about the fragile ecology of the state that has harmed the economy as well, this issue will dominate the political discourse,” said MM Semwal of the HNB Garhwal Central University.Commenting on whether Dhami’s appointment can change the party’s fortunes, he said the BJP’s campaign has pivoted around Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s image and central schemes, but as the polls draw near, the people will demand to know what plans the BJP has for them.“The Congress, the AAP and the BJP are all competing for the Hindutva agenda. AAP, for instance, said it wants to turn Dehradun into an adhyatmik or spiritual capital; the Congress says Hindutva is not BJP’s monopoly. But given the high literacy rate of the state, people will demand to know what plans they have for economic revival, job creation and improving the healthcare infrastructure in the state,” Semwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-banks-on-dhami-to-lead-2022-uttarakhand-poll-battle-101630254880258.html
30-08-2021||India||Payment deadline under tax dispute scheme extended||The government has extended the last date for payment of amount under the direct tax amnesty scheme ‘Vivad se Vishwas’ (from dispute to trust) without any additional charge by one month to September 30, 2021 due to technical reasons, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said in a statement on Saturday.“Considering the difficulties being faced in issuing and amending Form no 3, which is a prerequisite for making payment by the declarant under ‘Vivad se Vishwas’ Act, it has been decided to extend the last date of payment of the amount (without any additional amount) to 30th September, 2021,” it said. Necessary notification to this effect shall be issued shortly, it added.CBDT clarified that there is no proposal to change the last date of payment with “additional” amount, which remains October 31, 2021.The scheme, which was enacted on March 17, 2020, closed on March 31 this year. However, taxpayers who have already made declaration within the stipulated deadline of March 31 could make payment without any additional amount or penalty up to September 30, 2021. As per the previous notification dated June 25, the last date of payment of the settled amount without any additional charge was August 31, and with additional amount was October 31, 2021.The Vivad se Vishwas scheme provides for settlement of disputed tax, disputed interest, disputed penalty or disputed fees in relation to an assessment or reassessment order. It grants immunity to taxpayers from levy of interest, penalty and institution of any proceeding for prosecution for any offence under the Income-Tax Act in respect of matters covered in the declaration.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the scheme in the Union Budget presented on February 1, 2020. It aimed to resolve legacy disputes involving direct taxes. Under the scheme, penalty and interest would be waived if the disputed amount is paid before the stipulated date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deadline-for-payment-under-tax-dispute-resolution-scheme-extended-to-sept-30-101630232200095.html
