31-08-2021||India||Taliban reaches out, says no anti-India activity in Afghanistan will be allowed||Putting unfounded fears of Opposition about “diplomatic isolation of India” after Taliban takeover of Afghanistan to rest, India today discussed the safety and security of its nationals with senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammed Stanekzai at Doha and got assurance from him that the new regime will not allow its territory to be used for anti-India activities. Stanekzai is the head of Taliban political office in Doha, Qatar and a former alumnus of Indian Military Academy in the 1980s. The meeting, sanctioned by the top Taliban leadership, lasted over an hour.After Stanekzai publicly made overtures to India to resume trade and economic ties on August 29, the Taliban leader quietly reached out to the Indian leadership both in New Delhi and Qatar in the past two days. The Taliban leader acknowledged the positive role that India had played in Afghanistan in the past two decades. The Indian interlocutor, Ambassador to Qatar and Af-Pak expert Deepak Mittal, made it clear that India wanted the safety and security of its nationals still stuck in Afghanistan as well as those of Hindu and Sikh minority communities living in that country. Mittal also sought assurance from the Taliban that Afghanistan under the Taliban would not allow the use of its territory for anti-India activity without naming Pakistan based terrorist groups.While the Modi government was caught by surprise with the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government in Kabul, it chartered its own diplomatic course in that country with the evacuation of its nationals as its priority. Without making any statement on the Taliban takeover, the government used its good offices with the US, Iran and Tajikistan to evacuate its nationals. The US forces were managing the Hamid Karzai airport, the Iranian support was needed for overflying rights for Indian Air Force heavy-lift aircraft and the Tajikistan government helped in allowing the IAF aircraft to be parked at the Dushanbe airport.Also Read | 'Super power decided to be mini power': Amrullah Saleh lashes out at USAt the all-party meeting on August 26, Opposition members raised the question of Indian diplomatic isolation at the turn of events in Afghanistan and others outside the government gratuitously suggested that the Modi government should seek the support of Russia and the UK. However, the Modi government refused to panic on the rapidly unfolding situation and dealt with the situation after considering at pros and cons among the national security planners.It was due to this confident approach and the investment in the people of Afghanistan that the Taliban reached out to India, something they would not do in the past due to pressure from an adversary. That Stanekzai personally called to fix up the meeting held in the Indian Embassy premises at Doha says it all with New Delhi already alerted in advance a day before. Clearly, the Indian efforts to broker a resolution at the UNSC on August 30 and that it heads the UNSC sanctions committee had a role to play in the Taliban reach-out.While the Opposition criticized the wait and watch policy of India in the all-party meeting, the Modi government wants all the assurances that Taliban leader Stankezai gave to be translated on the ground before it takes the next steps to deal with the new regime in Afghanistan. The ball is in the Taliban's court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-reaches-out-says-no-anti-india-activity-in-afghanistan-will-be-allowed-101630419768512.html
31-08-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination drive: Over 10 million administered doses on Tuesday, 500 million given first dose so far||More than 10 million doses of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were administered in a single day on Tuesday (till 6pm) to reach a new milestone in India’s inoculation drive.“Congratulations, as India administers another 1 crore #COVID19 vaccinations today Highest one-day record of 1.09 crore vaccine doses achieved till 6 pm - and still counting!,” Union minister for health and family welfare Mansukh tweeted.1⃣ Crore, 2⃣ Times, in 5⃣ daysCongratulations, as India administers another 1 crore #COVID19 vaccinations todayHighest one-day record of 1.09 crore vaccine doses achieved till 6 pm - and still counting!Under PM @NarendraModi ji, India is fighting strongly against corona. pic.twitter.com/ByEECsn1T5Earlier on August 27 (Friday), the country had for the first time administered over 10 million doses in a single day. As many as 10,335,290 doses were delivered on Friday. However, more than 10.9 million doses have already been administered as of 6pm on Tuesday, which is the new record for single-day vaccinations so far.Meanwhile, Mandaviya also said that 500 million people have received their first dose of the vaccine so far against Covid-19. “Another milestone achieved in the world's largest vaccination drive under PM @NarendraModi ji. 50 crore people received their first #COVID19 vaccine dose. I applaud the hard work of COVID warriors & diligence of citizens in helping achieve this momentous feat,” he tweeted.Another milestone achieved in the world's largest vaccination drive under PM @NarendraModi ji.50 crore people received their first #COVID19 vaccine dose.I applaud the hard work of COVID warriors & diligence of citizens in helping achieve this momentous feat 👏#50crBaahubali pic.twitter.com/5LycWu7QstThe cumulative Covid-19 vaccinations in the country crossed the 650-million mark on the day. "India marches ahead with another achievement in its fight against Covid-19," the Union health ministry said, sharing the news on Twitter. Earlier on Monday, it went past 640 million doses. Among these, 247,508,226 doses first doses and 27,263,275 second doses have been administered to beneficiaries between 18 and 44 years of age, the ministry's data showed. Further, in a separate update, the ministry also said that more than 54 million vaccine doses (54,230,546 doses to be exact) are remaining unutilised with states and Union territories as of date. Also, 1,494,040 doses are in the supply pipeline, the ministry noted. On Tuesday, the country reported 30,941 new Covid-19 infections and 350 more deaths, pushing the total confirmed infections so far to 32,768,880 cases and the death toll to 438,560.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-over-10-million-administered-doses-on-tuesday-500-million-given-first-dose-so-far-101630417853792.html
31-08-2021||India||Second phase trial of intranasal Covid-19 vaccine begins at 5 centres across India||The second phase clinical trial of Bharat Biotech’s intranasal vaccine against Covid-19 began at Prakhar Hospital in Kanpur and four other centres in the country on Tuesday, officials said.A total of 152 people have volunteered for this trial and nine of them were given the vaccine in Kanpur on Tuesday.The other centres are the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-New Delhi and Patna, Nizam Institute in Hyderabad, and the Belgaum Medical College in Karnataka.Dr JS Kushwaha, chairman of Prakhar Hospital, said a total of 30 volunteers would participate in the trial (in Kanpur) which was being conducted as per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research and Bharat Biotech.The nine volunteers were given four drops in each nostril at a gap of five minutes. They were observed for 30 minutes before they were allowed to go home. They would be called for the second dose after 28 days.Before this trial, Prakhar Hospital was involved in clinical trials of Covaxin meant for adults and children.The company had asked for the second phase trials of the intranasal vaccine on the basis of the phase one trial results.Approving the request, the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) sent out emails to these five centres on Sunday night to go ahead with the trials. The volunteers for this trial are in the 18 to 65 years’ age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-phase-trial-of-intranasal-covid-19-vaccine-begins-at-5-centres-across-india-101630418572581.html
31-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi, Punjab CM take different stances on Jallianwala Bagh revamp||Congress leaders have once again taken different stances on the same issue. While former party chief Rahul Gandhi condemned the government’s move to revamp the Jallianwala Bagh memorial in Punjab’s Amritsar, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has come out in support of the decision.“Such an insult to the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh can only be done by those who do not know the meaning of martyrdom. I am the son of a martyr - I will not tolerate the insult of martyrs at any cost,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi on Tuesday. “We are against this indecent cruelty.”Hours after Gandhi’s remark, the Punjab chief minister termed the government’s revamp move “very nice”. “I don’t know what has been removed. To me it looks very nice,” Singh said.CM Amarinder Singh on Saturday said it must serve as a reminder for future generations about the right of people to peaceful democratic protest.Several other Congress leaders, including the party’s deputy leader in Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi, also tweeted on the Jallianwala Bagh memorial issue. Congress leader Jaiveer Shergill alleged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government’s project of giving a makeover to the “Jallianwala passage is not to preserve but erase the marks of atrocities committed by General Dyer during British rule”. “Central vistafication of Jallianwala Bagh passage is the ultimate insult to those killed on that fatal day! Shame,” he said.Gogoi tweeted on Monday that such pomp reduces the gravity and horror of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial to “base entertainment”. “Call me a traditional Indian but I am not a fan of installing disco lights on institutions of importance and dignity,” he said.Congress general secretary KC Venugopal also lashed out at the government and said that the government has “created an event out of a tragedy”. “BJP not only erased all traces of the massacre by revamping Jallianwala Bagh, but added insult to injury by celebrating with sound&light show!” the Congress leader tweeted on Tuesday.Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi slammed the government for the renovations and said that the revamp was damaging “our collective history”.CPM leader Sitaram Yechury also criticised the move. “Only those who stayed away from the epic freedom struggle can scandalise this.” “Insulting our martyrs. The Jallianwala Bagh massacre of Hindus Muslims Sikhs who gathered together for Baisakhi galvanised our freedom struggle. Every brick here permeated the horror of British rule. Only those who stayed away from the epic freedom struggle can scandalise thus,” Yechury tweeted.The renovation of Jallianwala Bagh, where more than 1,000 people died 102 years ago, has come under fire, with not just politicians but also historians accusing the planners of ‘Disneyfying’ the monument.Indian historian S. Irfan Habib said that the revamp of the historical monument is “corporatisation” of monuments and asked the government to look after them without meddling with the “flavours of the periods these memorials represent”.British historian Kim A Wagner, who has written a book titled “Jallianwala Bagh”, analysing various aspects of the massacre, described the renovation of the Jallianwala Bagh Smarak to mean “that the last traces of the event have effectively been erased”.Wagner’s post was also retweeted by British Member of Parliament Preet Kaur Gill, who wrote, “Our history- being erased! Why?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-punjab-cm-take-different-stances-on-jallianwala-bagh-revamp-101630416892916.html
31-08-2021||India||CM Biplab Deb inducts three ministers into Tripura Cabinet||Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb inducted three ministers into his cabinet on Tuesday. It is the first Cabinet expansion since the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) formed the government in the state in 2018. The three, Sushanta Chowdhury, Bhagaban Das, and Ramprasad Paul, are first-time legislators. “We have taken the decision to expand our Cabinet to strengthen the government..., “ Deb told the journalists after the oath-taking ceremony. The expansion followed a series of meetings BJP national secretary Dilip Saikia, its North-East zonal secretary (organisation) Ajay Jamwal, the party’s Tripura unit in charge, Vinod Sonkar, and general secretary (organisation) Phanindranath Sarma held in Agartala on Monday.The four leaders rushed to Agartala on Monday after BJP leader Sudip Roy Barman, who was dropped from the state Cabinet in 2019 over alleged anti-party activities, held a meeting with some BJP legislators.Barman said the meeting was held to identify BJP’s mistakes and weaknesses for strengthening the party. He claimed the BJP and the state government were uninterested in listening to the party’s workers and that they will bring these issues to the attention of the central party leadership.Also Read | Teachers whose jobs were terminated stage demonstration in Tripura’s AgartalaThe rumblings within the BJP surfaced amid Trinamool Congress’s efforts to make inroads into Tripura.Paul and Chowdhury accompanied Barman to New Delhi last year to meet the BJP’s central leaders over the functioning of Deb’s government. He later told the media that the meeting was related to party organisation. Paul on Tuesday said he is hopeful of meet the expectations of the people. “I got a big responsibility, “ he said. Chowdhury promised to work for the welfare of the people. “I will appeal to the people to keep their faith in the state government,” said Chowdhury. Das said he has performed his duties sincerely given to him earlier. “Likewise, I will do my new duty as minister sincerely in the line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas promise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-biplab-deb-inducts-three-ministers-into-tripura-cabinet-101630415574622.html
31-08-2021||India||First formal diplomatic contact between India, Taliban: Safe return of nationals a priority||India on Tuesday raised with the Taliban the safe return of Indian nationals still in Afghanistan and concerns about Afghan soil being for anti-India activities during the first formal diplomatic contact between the two sides. India’s ambassador to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, flagged these issues when he met Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanekzai, the head of the Taliban’s political office in Doha. The meeting was held at the Indian embassy in Doha, on the request of the Taliban side, the external affairs ministry said in a brief statement. “Discussions focused on safety, security and early return of Indian nationals stranded in Afghanistan. The travel of Afghan nationals, especially minorities, who wish to visit to India also came up,” the statement said. Mittal also “raised India’s concern that Afghanistan’s soil should not be used for anti-Indian activities and terrorism in any manner,” it added. Also Read | High-level group focuses on India’s priorities in Afghanistan“The Taliban representative assured the ambassador that these issues would be positively addressed,” the statement said without giving details. As first reported by Hindustan Times in June, India had for the first time opened channels of communication with several Afghan Taliban factions and leaders, including Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, last year. The outreach was largely being led by Indian security officials and was limited to Taliban factions and leaders that were perceived as being outside the sphere of influence of Pakistan. Tuesday’s meeting was the first time that India has acknowledged any sort of official contact with the Taliban since the group assumed power in Kabul on August 15, following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. Experts said it was also significant that the meeting was sought by the Taliban’s political leadership. Stanekzai, seen as the number two in the Taliban’s negotiating team and third overall among leaders based in Qatar, trained for several years at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun in the early 1980s when he was an officer in the Afghan Army. He has apparently taken on a key role in foreign relations, including the Taliban’s outreach to countries in the region. In a nearly 46-minute video posted on the Taliban’s social media platforms on Saturday, Stanekzai had said the group wants to continue Afghanistan’s political, economic and cultural ties with India. This was the first time a member of the Taliban’s top hierarchy has spoken on the issue since the takeover of Kabul. “India is very important for this subcontinent. We want to continue our cultural, economic and trade ties with India like in the past,” Stanekzai said. “Trade with India through Pakistan is very important for us. With India, trade through air corridors will also remain open,” he said, outlining the Taliban’s plans for trade in the region. “We give due importance to our political, economic and trade ties with India and we want these ties to continue. We are looking forward to working with India in this regard,” Stanekzai added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-formal-diplomatic-contact-between-india-taliban-safe-return-of-nationals-a-priority-101630413470963.html
31-08-2021||India||Samyukt Kisan Morcha seeks Haryana CM’s resignation over lathi charge on farmers||Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Tuesday demanded Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s resignation and registration of a case against Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha over the lathi charge on protesting farmers over the weekend.The Haryana Police on Saturday lathi-charged a group of protesting farmers in Karnal. The farmers said the police started beating protesters without any provocation, injuring at least 10. Sinha was caught on video telling policemen to “break the heads” of any protester who crossed police barricades.SKM leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal and Jagjit Singh Dallewal released video messages extending their support to the farmers of Haryana.Also Read | The political battle over reformsThe messages came a day after Haryana farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni questioned SKM’s silence over the repeated lathi charge on farmers of Haryana.“We strongly condemn the police action on the farmers in Karnal causing injuries to several farmers and the alleged death of a farmer who had also participated in the agitation. We are with Haryana farmers. We also demand that Khattar should resign immediately, and an FIR be registered against Sinha,” said Rajewal. He slammed Khattar for questioning Punjab farmer leaders for serving sweets to Punjab chief minister over the increase in sugarcane prices. “We greeted the chief minister for highest sugarcane prices in the country. We want to say that if an opponent does a good job, we should appreciate it.”Dallewal said the farmers were protesting on the call of SKM. “All farmers of the country are with the farmers of Haryana, and they should not think that they are alone in this fight against the BJP-led government in Haryana.” He said the Morcha leaders will support the protest call of Haryana farmer unions on September 7 if their demands were not met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samyukt-kisan-morcha-seeks-haryana-cm-s-resignation-over-lathi-charge-on-farmers-101630413351314.html
31-08-2021||India||Farooq Abdullah, L-G Sinha spar at J&K panchayat bodies outreach programme||The first-ever parliamentary outreach programme for Jammu and Kashmir panchayat bodies on Tuesday saw a face-off between former chief minister and National Conference president Farooq Abdullah and lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha, with Abdullah saying, “If we are with the country, the country should also take care of us.”The former CM was referring to terrorist attacks on panchayat officials and demanded security for them. He also advised Sinha to do his work “honestly” and cautioned that if India can’t protect its diversity, it can’t prosper. “Srinagar and Chennai are so different. But our binding factor is the resolve that we can come together to create this country,” Abdullah said.He, however, “regretted” that NC didn’t participate in the grassroots-level elections — the panchayat elections in 2018 and the block development council polls in 2019. L-G Sinha’s speech was almost entirely a response to what Abdullah said. The J&K L-G recollected how he had to battle “legacy issues” and said, “Now, under the new dispensation, every penny is accounted for. No one can usurp public funds like they did earlier,” in an apparent reference to the tenure of earlier J&K governments when development funds allegedly didn’t reach the people.Also Read | Amit Shah launches portal for industrial development in Jammu & KashmirLok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, who had convened the programme, urged all democratic institutions to “work together” to “improve people’s lives. “If Panchayati Raj is strong, we can improve our governance and delivery systems and create atma-nirbhar (self-sufficient) villages,” he said.While Abdullah underlined that during National Conference’s tenure, elections could be held with great difficulty in two tiers of the three-tier panchayat system, Sinha hailed the implementation of the entire three-tier system under the Narendra Modi government. He also claimed that the district development council elections of 2020 were “impartial” and “without any violence”, trying to draw a parallel between the earlier elections and the recent ones.But Sinha and Abdullah agreed with Birla’s vision of the key role of panchayat leaders in J&K. The former CM cautioned that it would not be an easy job, but Sinha said all rural works should happen under panchayat supervision. He announced that J&K has received business proposals worth ₹25,600 crore, and in the coming years, at least ₹50,000 crore worth of investments will come.Birla maintained that J&K is now on the path of peace and prosperity and said that while India has a lot of diversity, it is democracy that holds the country together. “If democratic institutions are strong, we can reach out to the last person,” he said.“Tourists want to explore the lesser-known places in J&K. To find national or international markets for J&K produce, the panchayat institution must perform,” said Birla, adding, “If grassroots-level institutions are not strong, we can’t make a strong India. People want to work. They want their areas, villages to be at the top.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-l-g-sinha-spar-at-j-k-panchayat-bodies-outreach-programme-101630413110994.html
31-08-2021||India||Indian envoy meets Taliban representative in Doha after complete US troops' withdrawal||Indian envoy to Qatar met the head of Taliban's political office in Doha in a first formal diplomatic contact, the ministry of external affairs said on Tuesday. The meeting between Indian ambassador Deepak Mittal, and Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai, the head of the Taliban’s Political Office in Doha, took place at the Indian Embassy at the request of the Taliban side, according to the ministry."Discussions focused on safety, security and early return of Indian nationals stranded in Afghanistan. The travel of Afghan nationals, especially minorities, who wish to visit to India also came up," the ministry said in a statement.This is the first time India has acknowledged formal contact with the Taliban since Kabul fell to the group on August 15. During the meeting, India flagged concern that Afghanistan’s soil should not be used for anti-Indian activities and terrorism in any manner after US-led foreign troops have completely pulled out from the region. The ministry said that the Taliban Representative assured that India's concerns would be "positively addressed."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-envoy-meets-taliban-representative-in-doha-after-complete-us-troops-withdrawal-101630412560924.html
31-08-2021||India||Parliamentary panels to be encouraged to visit ‘far-flung’ areas: Om Birla||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla announced on Tuesday that parliament panels would be “encouraged” to visit Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), Ladakh and other far-flung areas during their study tours for better parliamentary outreach in these parts of the country. Also Read | Amit Shah launches portal for industrial development in Jammu & KashmirAt the end of his week-long tour of J&K and Ladakh, Birla said, “I will ask the 16 House panels under the jurisdiction of Lok Sabha to frequently visit these far-flung areas and interact with local people and grassroot level bodies and administration.” Birla, who planned the parliamentary outreach programme for J&K panchayat bodies, urged all democratic institutions to “work together” to “improve people’s lives”. “If panchayati raj is strong, we can improve our governance and delivery system and create atmanirbhar villages,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panels-to-be-encouraged-to-visit-far-flung-areas-om-birla-101630410586619.html
31-08-2021||India||PM Modi to release 125 rupee coin on birth anniversary of ISKCON founder AC Bhaktivedanta Swami||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be releasing a 125-rupees coin on Thursday to mark the 125th birth anniversary of AC Bhaktivedanta Swami, a Kolkata-born spiritual leader who founded the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) also known as the “Hare Krishna movement” in 1965. The move comes a day after the birth anniversary of Lord Krishna, Janmashtami.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release a special commemorative coin of ₹125 and will also address the gathering on the occasion of the 125th birth anniversary of Srila Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada Ji on 1st September 2021 at 4.30pm via video conferencing,” a statement from PM Modi’s office said.Union minister of culture G Kishan Reddy will also be present on the occasion.Born in 1896, AC Bhaktivedanta Swami authored several books besides establishing temples. He graduated in chemistry from Scottish Church College in Kolkata (then Calcutta_, following which he married, had children, and started a pharmacy business, which he quit to become a monk in 1959.He later moved to the US where he disseminated Vedic literature. Nearly 100 ashrams, gurukuls, temples, and farmhouses are believed to be established by him across many western countries. In West Virginia, US, he established New Vrindaban Temple in 1968. Swami died of a six-month-long illness in Uttar Pradesh’s Vrindavan in 1977 at the age of 82.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-release-125-rupee-coin-on-birth-anniversary-of-iskcon-founder-ac-bhaktivedanta-swami-101630409627937.html
31-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mulayam's meet with BJP leader creates buzz and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP-Mulayam meet creates buzz ahead of record memorial meetings for Kalyan SinghAhead of the memorial meeting in Lucknow to honour Kalyan Singh, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev paid a surprise visit to the Samajwadi Party (SP) patron Mulayam Singh Yadav. The visit was described as a “courtesy call” by the BJP. Read more here.Shershaah becomes Amazon Prime India's most watched movie, Sidharth Malhotra is 'overwhelmed with love'Sidharth Malhotra has thanked his fans for making Shershaah Amazon Prime's most watched movie in India. The film released on August 12. Read more here. Triumph launches 2021 Speed Twin in India, gets new brake, suspension, wheelsThe 2021 Triumph Speed Twin also gets some cosmetic updates and revised features as well. Read more here. Nora Fatehi in mustard embroidered lehenga set worth ₹2 lakh serves the look of your dreamsNora Fatehi drops a stunning video of herself in an ethereal mustard-yellow embroidered lehenga set worth ₹2 lakh on Instagram today. The outfit is a perfect choice for your own Haldi bash. Read more here. South Africa's Dale Steyn announces retirement from all forms of cricketSouth African pacer Dale Steyn has announced his retirement from all forms of cricket. Since making his international debut in 2004, He played 93 Tests, 125 ODIs and 47 T20Is. Read more here. US soldiers disable planes before leaving Afghanistan; Taliban's airport parade﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-stories-from-ht-sp-bjp-meetings-ahead-of-up-polls-creates-buzz-101630408162822.html
31-08-2021||India||Covid-19: Nadda congratulates Himachal govt for 100% vaccination of adults||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda congratulated Himachal Pradesh government for inoculating all the adults of the state with at least one dose of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine. Nadda said that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India is witnessing the world's fastest vaccination drive."Himachal has become the first state in the country, which administered first dose of corona vaccine to every adult citizen. I congratulate the people and the government of Himachal Pradesh for this achievement. Under the leadership of respected prime minister @narendramodi, India's vaccination campaign is the fastest in the world," according to the translation BJP chief's tweet. He is a member of Rajya Sabha from Himachal Pradesh.हिमाचल देश का पहला ऐसा राज्य बन गया है, जिसके हर वयस्क नागरिक को कोरोना वैक्सीन की पहली डोज लगाई जा चुकी है।मैं इस उपलब्धि के लिए हिमाचल प्रदेश की जनता और सरकार को बधाई देता हूँ।आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री @narendramodi जी के नेतृत्व में भारत का टिकाकरण अभियान दुनिया में सबसे तेज है।The Himachal Pradesh government announced achieving the milestone on Sunday."The state has completed the first dose of the vaccination to people of 18 plus age group with 100 per cent completion and it aims to complete hundred per cent vaccination of both the doses by November 30, 2021," said the state's health minister Dr Rajiv Saizal.The health minister also said that the state government will organise a special virtual event where PM Modi would interact with beneficiaries and health care workers of the state government.On Monday, Himachal Pradesh recorded 96 cases of Covid-19, which pushed it's tally to to 2,13,341. The death toll climbed to 3,579 as three more people succumbed to the infection, according to state health department.The number of active Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh stands at 1,643, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-nadda-congratulates-himachal-govt-for-100-vaccination-of-adults-101630408000251.html
31-08-2021||India||ISKCON founder's birth anniversary tomorrow; PM Modi to release special coin||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release a special commemorative coin of ₹126on Wednesday, on the occasion of 125th birth anniversary of Srila Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada. PM Modi will also address the gathering via video conferencing, a statement from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said.The function will start at 4.30pm, the PMO said. Union culture minister G Kishan Reddy will be present on the occasion.Swami Prabhupada founded the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON), also known as the "Hare Krishna movement", in New York in 1966. ISKCON has translated Shrimad Bhagavad Gita and other Vedic literature in 89 languages, playing a stellar role in the dissemination of Vedic literature across the world.Swamiji Prabhupada also established over a hundred temples and wrote several books, teaching the path of Bhakti Yoga to the world, the PMO said.According to ISKCON's website, it is a part of the Brahma Madhva Gaudiya Vaishnava Sampradaya, one of the four vaishnava sampradayas, and hence comes in an authorised disciplic succession of great spiritual preceptors.The precepts and practices of ISKCON were taught and codified by Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu (1486-1532) along with His brother Nityananda Prabhu and six of His principle associates, according to the website.It claims that ISKCON spread to the major cities of the whole world in just 11 years after the movement was established.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iskcon-founder-s-birth-anniversary-tomorrow-pm-modi-to-release-special-coin-101630407202753.html
31-08-2021||India||Amit Shah launches portal for industrial development in Jammu & Kashmir||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday launched a portal for the registration of units for Industrial development in Jammu & Kashmir via video conferencing. Speaking at the launch event, Shah encouraged industry leaders to invest in the Jammu and Kashmir to help develop the Union territory."The launch of this new portal under the 'New Central Sector Scheme 2021' will offer benefits of over ₹24,000 crores to the industrial sector. This is just an estimate," Shah said, adding that the actual benefits will be greater than the estimate.The home minister further stated that the youth of Jammu & Kashmir had to depend on government undertakings for employment due to the lack of industries in the erstwhile state. He asserted that Article 370 and 35A were the biggest hurdles for private sector investment."After the abrogation of Article 370 and 35A under the leadership of Shri Narendra Modi on August 5, an open environment was created, and employment opportunities were created for Jammu & Kashmir," Shah said at the launch.Union ministers Piyush Goyal and Jitendra Singh were also present alongside Shah for the launch of the portal.The portal was launched under the ‘New Central Sector Scheme for industrial development of Jammu and Kashmir’ which is applicable for any eligible manufacturing entity or eligible service sector enterprise registered business enterprise under Goods and Service Tax, according to the ministry of commerce & industry.The portal has been designed and developed for the effective implementation of the scheme in a transparent manner, the ministry added. The entire process under the scheme, which includes applying for registration, submitting claims and their processing within the department, will be done through the portal to avoid human interface.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-launches-portal-for-industrial-development-in-jammu-kashmir-101630406070852.html
31-08-2021||India||Bengal MLA's ghar wapsi to Trinamool; 3rd BJP leader to switch since Didi's win||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Bengal's Bagda assembly constituency, Biswajit Das left for Trinamool Congress camp on Tuesday. He is the third BJP leader to switch camp to the ruling Trinamool Congress after the Mamata Banerjee-led party's thumping victory in the assembly polls held earlier this year.Das's exit from BJP came a day after Bishnupur MLA Tanmoy Ghosh went back to Trinamool Congress, and after political heavyweight Mukul Roy's return in June. All three of them had ditched the Trinamool Congress for BJP before the assembly elections.Mukul Roy is a prominent face in Bengal politics and his return to the Trinamool Congress, could prove to be a boon for Mamata Banerjee's party in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.Biswajit Das, who was earlier with Trinamool Congress, had joined the BJP in June 2019. He had won twice from Bongaon North assembly constituency on Trinamool Congess ticket in 2011 and 2016 assembly election."I never felt very comfortable in the BJP. I wanted to return to the TMC long ago. The BJP has done nothing for Bengal," he said after joining the party in the presence of Trinamool Congress general secretary Partha Chatterjee in Kolkata.ALSO READ | Bengal assembly elections: BJP heavyweights, TMC turncoats fail to make a dentBiswajit Das had courted controversy within his own party ahead of the assembly elections in Bengal earlier this year, when he accused the BJP of "blackmailing" the people of the powerful Matua community on the pretext of granting citizenship. Despite joining the BJP, Das was also seen touching the feet of chief minister Mamata Banerjee at the state assembly last February, giving rise to speculations that he could return to the Trinamool Congress.With the exit of the three MLAs, the strength of the BJP in the 294-seat Bengal assembly came down to 72. Mamata Banerjee's party won 213 seats to secure a third-term in the West Bengal government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-mla-s-ghar-wapsi-to-trinamool-3rd-bjp-leader-to-switch-since-didi-s-win-101630405044508.html
31-08-2021||India||Uttarakhand minister draws flak for saying app can help regulate rainfall||On Monday, Uttarakhand minister for disaster management Dhan Singh Rawat copped flak by opposition leaders for a video where he was heard claiming that the state government was considering using “an app that could increase or decrease the intensity of rainfall as per requirement.” However, while there is no “app”, a three member expert panel has been formed by the department, headed by the director of the Uttarakhand Space Application Centre(UCAS) to study technology developed by Dubai based Russian scientist Yuri Tkatchenko that can reportedly affect rainfall patterns using “ion generators.” Rawat made the statement while speaking to a group of people in a gathering few days ago while speaking on the disaster management steps being taken by the state government amid heavy rains in state since last one week. The minister in the video circulated on social media could be purportedly heard saying, “Now there’s an app that has come out which can increase or decrease the intensity of rain in a place where it is expected to rain heavily and cause damage to life and property.” “I will soon give a presentation to the Centre on the same. If it allows, then this can be a boon for many other states of the country,” stated Rawat in the video. Congress national general secretary and former chief minister (CM) of Uttarakhand Harish Rawat while taking a jibe at Dhan Singh, shared the video on Facebook stating, “The app that Dhan Singh Rawat is talking about to give a presentation before the Centre would help to solve the challenges faced by the country and its farmers due to uncertain rains every year.” “Now, CM Pushkar Singh Dhami should recommend his name for Bharat Ratna award for this,” said Rawat. Another Congress state leader and party state spokesperson Garima Dasauni too ridiculed the minister and said, “There should be no dearth of entertainment in the state. After former CMs Trivendra Singh Rawat and Tirath Singh Rawat, BJP leaders Ajay Bhatt and Bansidhar Bhagat, the command has been taken by Bharat Ratna Dhan Singh Rawat.” “Now Rudraprayag’s rain will occur at Rudrapur and Dharchula’s rain will occur at Dehradun. Where did these leaders get so much wisdom?, “ said Dasauni. When contacted, Rawat laughed off the ridiculing of Opposition and said, “They are oblivious of the existence of such a technology. My department was apprised of that about a month ago after which we formed a panel of three experts led by director of Uttarakhand Space Application Centre (USAC) MPS Bisht to submit a report on the same to us after proper analysis.” “I am yet to receive that report after which following a detailed evaluation, I would go to the Centre to explain it for further action in direction to acquire it,” said Rawat. On the viral video, he clarified that he “didn’t make the statement to any media or official gathering.” “A few days ago, I was with four-five people in an informal gathering. We were discussing disaster management in the state when I also brought the new technology in the discussion. Someone among the gathering was recording by conversation. He put that video on social media but after editing the full context of my statement. I never talk about something without knowing it,” said Rawat. Corroborating Rawat, Director USAC MPS Bisht, informed that the government had earlier formed a panel of three experts led by him to study the technology known as “magnetic ion generator” while planning to implement in the state to fight forest fires. HT had earlier reported the development on the technology on August 7. Also Read | AAP says Char Dham Board will be scrapped if party assumes power in Uttarakhand“Minister Rawat was actually talking about the above-mentioned technology but he mistakenly used the work app for which he is being unnecessarily mocked. This technology actually does exist in the world and is developed by a Dubai based senior Russian scientist named Yuri Tkatvhenko Pavlovich . It is already used on several occasions in Dubai to create rainfall and or to push away the clouds formed in the atmosphere to cause cyclone,” said Bisht. He said as asked by the government the three-member expert panel which includes one expert each from Nainital based Aryabhata Research Institute of Observational Sciences and Dehradun centre of India Meteorological Department have submitted their report to the government about a week ago. “We have submitted it after proper analysis and with reactions from other experts to the secretary of disaster management department. Now it is up to the government to take any decision on its implementation,” said Bisht adding a representative of the Russian scientist is also present in Dehradun at present. Informing about the technology Bisht said, “Under this technology, magnetic ion generating plants are installed which artificially fuses the ions of hydrogen and oxygen present in the atmosphere. Their fusion then results into the formation of water which in turn increases the density of water droplets in freely moving clouds in the atmosphere, making them to rain over a desired area.” He said, “if implemented the technology which has not even gone to big countries including China and USA, Uttarakhand would be the first state in India to use it.” Claiming the new technology to be far superior to the existing cloud seeding one, Bisht said that the former is not “harmful to the environment but the latter one is.” “In cloud seeding which is often used by China to artificially create rains, chemical elements are dispersed in the atmosphere to create rains which is harmful to the environment. But in this technology, the existing ions of hydrogen and oxygen are artificially fused without use of any harmful chemicals,” said Bisht. Bisht also said that apart from fighting forest fires, the technology could also be used in fighting droughts. “In our state, sometimes people of rural areas migrate due to severe water problem. This technology could help in stopping that migration by creating artificial rains over that particular village as it has a range of about 1000km,” said Bisht.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-minister-draws-flak-for-saying-app-can-help-regulate-rainfall-101630405247485.html
31-08-2021||India||BJP-Mulayam meet creates buzz ahead of record memorial meetings for Kalyan Singh||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is holding ‘Shraddhanjali Sabhas’ or memorial meetings across 1918 places in Uttar Pradesh (UP) in honour of former UP chief minister and Hindutva icon Kalyan Singh; and the biggest of these events in Lucknow is being attended by a galaxy of top BJP leaders on Tuesday afternoon. The BJP has already named two medical institutes in Lucknow and Bulandshahr after Kalyan Singh and more such dedications are in the offing as the party looks to play up the Other Backward Caste (OBC)-Hindutva connect that Kalyan Singh represented ahead of assembly elections early next year. Kalyan Singh, a Lodh, was not just a powerful OBC leader but also a torch bearer of the Ayodhya temple movement and he formed a heady cocktail of the two to become the first BJP chief minister of politically most important state of Uttar Pradesh in 1991. He died after a long illness at Lucknow’s Sanjay Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) on August 21. Top BJP leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union home minister Amit Shah flew down to UP to pay their last respects to the late leader. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who himself escorted Kalyan’s mortal remains on all three-days while they were moved to different parts of the state for people to pay their last respects, had declared a three-day mourning in the state in Kalyan’s honour. Ahead of the memorial meeting in Lucknow, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev paid a surprise visit to the Samajwadi Party (SP) patron Mulayam Singh Yadav. The visit was described as a “courtesy call” by the BJP. A picture of the two leaders meeting was shared by the UP BJP chief on his official twitter handle. “I met respected Mulayam Singh ji ‘netaji’ at his residence to inquire about his well being and received his blessings. I pray to God for his good health and long life,” Swatantra Dev tweeted. The meeting comes in the backdrop of the BJP’s heavy criticism of Mulayam’s son and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav for not paying last respects to Kalyan Singh in person. Therefore, much significance was attached to Swatantra Dev-- who is himself an OBC representing the Kurmi sub caste-- visiting the SP patron, an OBC and a three-term former chief minister. A buzz gained ground that BJP chief visited Mulayam to invite him for Lucknow’s ‘shraddhanjali sabha’, to be also attended by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, defence minister Rajnath Singh, deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma and Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) veterans. Some prominent Muslim clerics like Kalbe Jawad, too, are likely to attend the memorial meet in Lucknow, BJP leaders said. The BJP, however, rejected speculations that the meeting with Mulayam Singh was to invite him to the memorial meet. “It was a courtesy visit by the party chief and I think [it] denotes a healthy trend in our democracy,” said UP BJP leader Himanshu Dubey. According to speculations fuelled by the SP camp, Mulayam Singh asked the UP BJP chief to join SP during the meeting. “You are doing good work. I have told you many times that you should be in SP and rise.” However, there was no confirmation of the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpmulayam-meet-creates-buzz-ahead-of-record-memorial-meetings-for-kalyan-singh-101630404586306.html
31-08-2021||India||Janmashtami long weekend gives hope for faster revival of travel industry||The Janmashtami long weekend saw more people travelling, giving hope to portals that things could look up for the travel industry. Like last year, portals said, this jump can also be attributed to continued decline in Covid cases combined with pent up travel demand and upcoming festive travel season. MakeMyTrip, one of the leading portals, said the current booking pattern reflects more confidence, willingness and comfort among travellers to venture out for leisure or work related travel.EaseMyTrip spokesperson said, “Compared to the period of July 28-30, we have seen a jump of 54% for Aug 28 to 30 in terms of travellers. Users have utilised this extended weekend to travel for leisure.”“Data on MakeMyTrip indicates a five times increase in travel bookings made this August as compared to last year for the same period. As compared to bookings in the same period last year, hotel bookings for stays more than two days have increased by 20%; and family travel with more than two members has witnessed growth by over seven times,”said Vipul Prakash, chief operating officer of MakeMyTrip.Prakash said near-term leisure travel bookings are up by 20%, with bookings for travel during the festive dates seeing a jump of 35%. As per OYO’s August 2021 booking data for August 27 to 30, the global travel technology company has witnessed a 34% surge in leisure travel across the country.“In India, for the Janmashtami weekend, we have seen an uptick in demand for local travel, wherein consumers are choosing destinations closer to their location or heading to religious cities like Mathura and Vrindavan,” said Yatish Jain, vice president and Chief Growth Officer, OYO (India & South East Asia).OYO’s booking trends revealed that Jaipur, Goa, Visakhapatnam, Kochi and Udaipur topped India’s most popular leisure destinations among travellers this long weekend. Majority of the demand stemmed from travellers in metro cities of Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Hyderabad, and Bengaluru. “Among business destinations, Delhi, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bangalore, and Mumbai emerged as the most booked cities,” Jain said. Amanpreet Bajaj,general manager, Airbnb India, Southeast Asia, Hong Kong and Taiwan said they are seeing a strong demand for travel, particularly to destinations a drive away from metro cities. “Travelers are showing a strong desire for vacations designed around private spaces and unique and immersive experiences. We’ve also seen people continue to embrace more flexible travel. Earlier this year, our YouGov survey showed that 69% of Indians were particularly interested in unique accommodations for their next trip -- such as heritage homes, farm stays, villas and havelis,” said Bajaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/janmashtami-long-weekend-gives-hope-for-faster-revival-of-travel-industry-101630403506548.html
31-08-2021||India||Lucknow to build next-gen BrahMos missiles, confirms Rajnath Singh||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday that the state-of-the-art next-generation range of BrahMos missiles will be manufactured in Lucknow.While inaugurating a slew of developmental projects, Rajnath Singh said Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has informed him that the proposed manufacturing unit of BrahMos missiles in the state would generate employment for an estimated 5,000 people. "Nobody ever imagined that missiles would be manufactured in Uttar Pradesh. BrahMos missiles will be manufactured near Lucknow," the defence minister was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Adityanath gave his consent to the project last week. According to media reports, director general of BrahMos Aerospace Sudhir Kumar Mishra had last week written to Uttar Pradesh's additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi, seeking 200 acres of land for the project at the UP Defence Industrial Corridor.Speaking on the occasion, Singh said that each household in Lucknow would get piped natural gas (PNG) connections soon. "I have been informed by Green gas Limited that a target has been set to provide PNG gas to each household in Lucknow which will reduce the consumption of LPG gas," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lucknow-to-build-next-gen-brahmos-missiles-confirms-rajnath-singh-101630401660168.html
31-08-2021||India||Five cases of Covid Delta variant sub-lineage AY.12 detected in Uttarakhand||Five cases of AY.12 variant of Covid have been detected in Uttarakhand -- three in Nainital district, one in Kotdwar area of Pauri Garhwal district, and 1 in Rudraprayag district. Dr Manoj Sharma, Dr BK Shukla, and Dr Bhagirathi Joshi, chief medical officers of Pauri, Rudraprayag, and Nainital districts respectively, confirmed that these five sample were detected with AY 12 sub-lineage of the Delta variant of Covid. They said they have started contact tracing and testing. They added that while the people whom these samples came from have recovered, a tab is being kept on the locality they live in. On August 28, six cases of Delta variants were detected in the state-- three in Pithoragarh and three in US Nagar districts. Last month, for the first time in the state, a 23-year-old in US Nagar was detected with the Delta plus variant. So far, Uttarakhand has reported over 342,000 Covid positive cases and 7,380 deaths from the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-cases-of-covid-delta-variant-sub-lineage-ay-12-detected-in-uttarakhand-101630402366320.html
31-08-2021||India||‘Can think of a middle ground if govt invites farmers for talks with open mind’||The farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws plan a mahapanchayat on Sunday after violence marred their protests over the weekend in Haryana’s Karnal. Ratan Mann, the state president of Bharatiya Kisan Union who has been also spearheading the protests in Haryana, spoke to Umar Sofi about their plans. Edited excerpts:How do farmers plan to go forward with their protests?There is a threshold to everything; one’s patience starts to break slowly once things cross that threshold. The government should work to end this mess. Even the Supreme Court has ordered it to resolve our issues, but when they promote an atmosphere of violence, anger will rise... Do you think if your demands are not met, given the anger, these protests might go out of hand?...no violence should take place as that is not a solution. But different kinds of people are protesting. Not all have that patience. There is a limited tolerance in everyone. Yet, we are trying to keep everything peaceful. We are already sitting in Delhi; there cannot be a bigger protest than this.Are farmers still determined to continue their protests despite a lack of success?If the government, with an open mind, invites farmers for talks, then we can think of a middle ground; everything is possible when people talk…. The government is not even ready for talks. They do invite us but say that do not talk about these laws. What is the point of going there? The government basically is not in a mood to embrace the farmers yet.Do you think there is pressure building on the government now?Definitely. If four people go and sit outside someone’s house, it does affect the person. But the government thinks farmers will eventually get tired and leave and that only a few will remain, who they shall quell. It is not easy for farmers to revive such a big movement if it ends. They have come and they shall stay.Also Read | Haryana, Punjab CMs locked in wordy duel over farm agitationPeople waited for Lord Ram even for 14 years. For us, it has just been nine months. The government has to agree one day.What is the road map ahead?It is not that the protest is not having any impact. The protest is uniting all the farmers across the country as brothers… The government is a people’s institution. In this institution, the vote is a big weapon for people and this weapon works peacefully. On September 5, we are organising an all-India mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh. In a democratic way, we shall educate farmers and other people there. We are, for now, beginning this mission in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, both poll-bound states. We believe the way (the Bharatiya Janata Party or BJP) was defeated in West Bengal; it will be definitely defeated in these two states as well. In Punjab, the game is totally against the BJP. Only after the defeat, they (BJP) will talk about farmers.Do you think the Opposition has been effective in raising farmers’ demands in Parliament?We had asked the Opposition parties that they should not walk out of the Parliament. The request was heeded, and they (Opposition) were strong. We organised a mock Parliament parallel to the original one. This was very effective and since independence, never has such a thing been done as a protest. We prepared resolutions there which we will be sent to the President. Is an amendment to these laws, not a solution?Even if they amend them right now and the protest ends, the government will amend them back to what they are. Would we be coming to Delhi again for protests? We never sought these laws. This is nothing but a forceful imposition only to benefit corporates who are already building godowns on government subsidies. Why is there a need to boost corporates through subsidies? Let the government make these godowns themselves; purchase directly from us and store them there. This should not be a matter of ego; the Prime Minister should embrace farmers and end this mess.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-think-of-a-middle-ground-if-govt-invites-farmers-for-talks-with-open-mind-101630399666191.html
31-08-2021||India||SC orders demolition of 40-storey towers in Noida over building norms violation||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered the demolition of twin 40-storey towers of realty firm Supertech’s Emerald Court project in Noida over grave violation of building norms. A bench, headed by Justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, upheld the 2014 judgment of the Allahabad high court and directed Supertech to pull down the towers at its own cost within three months under the supervision of an expert body. It has also asked the firm to refund all the homebuyers within two months apart from paying ₹2 crore to the Residents’ Welfare Association that led the fight against the illegal construction.The top court came down heavily on the Noida Authority for colluding with the builder to pave way for the illegal construction in breach of municipal and fire safety norms. It said the 2009 sanction plan approved by the Authority was illegal since it flouted the minimum distance criteria. The top court added the plan could not have been sanctioned even otherwise without the consent of the homebuyers.The verdict came on a clutch of petitions by homebuyers for and against the 2014 verdict of the high court. On April 11, 2014, the high court ordered the demolition of the two buildings within four months and the refund of money to apartment buyers. This judgment was stayed by the top court after the firm filed an appeal.Also Read | Govt doesn’t accept 14 collegium picks for HC judgesOn August 4, the top court reserved its verdict while reproaching the Authority for its “shocking exercise of power” in sanctioning the two residential towers in a green area, and then blocking the right to information requests from homebuyers about the building plans.As the Authority blamed homebuyers for complaining too late, the top court said: “From the way you are arguing it appears that you are the promoter. You cannot be fighting against the homebuyers. As a public authority, you have to take a neutral stand. Your conduct reeks of corruption from the eyes, ears, and nose and you are trying to find fault with the homebuyers.”The top court pointed out that when the homebuyers asked for the plan, the Authority wrote to Supertech on whether to share it and refused to give it to them at the developer’s behest. It added it was only after the high court expressly directed the Authority to give the plan that it did so.Supertech defended the construction of twin towers and claimed there was no illegality. It added it lost the case in the high court on two counts -- distance criteria and not taking consent of homebuyers before constructing the towers. The firm said the Emerald Court Owner Resident Welfare Association, which moved the high court challenging the construction of the twin towers, did not even exist when the plan was sanctioned, and construction began. It said out of 633 people, who booked the flats initially, 133 moved out to other projects; 248 took refunds, and 252 still had their bookings with the company in the project.The association claimed that the towers constructed by the builder were not in the original plan shown to them at the time of booking and they have blocked their view, fresh air, and sunlight.The two towers have 915 apartments and 21 shops. Of these, 633 flats were booked initially.In its verdict, the high court sought prosecution of Noida Authority officers allegedly involved in collusion with the developer. It ordered the demolition saying the two towers were built too close to each other and violated the Noida Building Regulations of 2010 that requires the minimum distance to be 16 metres. The high court noted the developer had not taken the consent of homebuyers as required under the Uttar Pradesh Apartment Owners Act, 2010.In appeal, Noida Authority argued the homebuyers did not complain when Supertech was increasing flats and floors in this project with each successive building plan.Supertech cited other housing projects in Noida which had a distance of six to nine metres between towers. It added in the case of the company’s twin towers, the distance between them is 9.88 metres or 32 feet. The company said it is the discretion of the builder to create a building block by keeping the buildings adjacent to each other or separate as long as the floor area ratio allows that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-orders-demolition-of-40-storey-towers-in-noida-over-building-norms-violation-101630398886327.html
31-08-2021||India||Karnataka makes 7-day quarantine mandatory for those coming from Kerala||The Karnataka government has made institutional quarantine must for people entering the state from Kerala. Such travellers will have to quarantine themselves for a week, Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said on Tuesday.The rule will be applicable even for those who are vaccinated and carry a negative RT-PCR test report, Sudhakar added.Travellers who arrive in Karnataka on a flight from Kerala will also have to mandatorily undergo seven-day quarantine. These travellers can choose a hotel of their choice, which had been designated for institutional quarantine, said Sudhakar. Such travelers undergoing institutional quarantine will be tested on the sixth day and if the report comes out negative for Covid-19 on the seventh day, they will be allowed to go, he added.The decision has been taken due to high numebr of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Kerala. On Monday, the southern state recorded 19,622 new cases and 132 related fatalities. Kerala logged 29,836 Covid-19 infections and 75 related deaths on Sunday. A day before, there were 31,265 cases and 153 deaths in the state.According to Sudhakar, the Karnataka government is working out a strategy in consultation with experts on how to further strengthen Covid prevention drive in the districts bordering Kerala, such as Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Chamarajanagar.He said the government may take "even more" stringent measures in the border districts to control the spread of Covid-19.Asked if there will be Covid-19-related restrictions during the upcoming Ganesha festival, Sudhakar said the health department has been insisting that no public function should take place, because wherever people gather in large numbers, the threat of the spread of the pandemic increases.To check the spread of the infection, the Kerala government has clamped night curfew and also decided to conduct a seroprevalence study to determine the immunity of people against the virus and assess the risk of the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-makes-7-day-quarantine-mandatory-for-those-coming-from-kerala-101630398527822.html
31-08-2021||India||High-level group focuses on India’s priorities in Afghanistan||A high-level group that includes external affairs minister S Jaishankar and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval is focusing on India’s priorities in Afghanistan, including the safe return of Indian nationals and ensuring Afghan soil isn’t used for terrorism against the country. The group, which also includes senior officials from key ministries and organisations, was directed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to focus on India’s immediate priorities against the backdrop of the rapidly evolving situation in Afghanistan, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The high-level group has been meeting regularly over the past few days, and among the key issues it is focusing on are the safe return of Indians still in Afghanistan, the travel of Afghan nationals, especially members of minorities such as Hindus and Sikhs, to India, and ensuring that the territory of Afghanistan is not used in any manner for terrorism directed against India, the people said. Also Read | Afghan soil shouldn’t be used to shelter terrorists, says UNSC resolutionThe group is also monitoring the ground situation in Afghanistan, where the US completed the drawdown of its troops on Monday, and international reactions to the latest developments, including the resolution passed by the UN Security Council. The external affairs minister acknowledged last week that at least 20 Indian nationals had missed a military evacuation flight from Kabul but didn’t give an exact figure for the number of Indians still in Afghanistan. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the number changed as requests came in from Indians to be evacuated. It is believed several dozen Indians are still in Afghanistan, down from about 1,500 late last month. Another 140-odd Afghan Sikhs and Hindus were also barred by the Taliban from entering Kabul airport to take a military evacuation flight to New Delhi. India has said it will stand by Afghans who had supported the country and those who are facing threats from the Taliban or fear persecution. As part of these efforts, the government introduced a new emergency e-visa regime though it is not clear how many visas have been issued under this arrangement. On the security front, India has strong concerns about the reported presence in Afghanistan of up to 10,000 fighters from Pakistan-based terror groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Jhangvi. There are also concerns about the Haqqani Network, a key faction of the Taliban that has targeted Indian interests in the past and has close ties to Pakistan’s security establishment. In a resolution adopted at the end of India’s presidency of the Security Council for the month of August, the United Nations Security Council demanded that Afghan soil shouldn’t be used to attack any country or to shelter terrorists. Even as American forces completed their drawdown in Afghanistan a fortnight after the Taliban takeover, the UN’s highest body also reiterated the importance of combating terror in Afghanistan, including individuals and entities sanctioned under UN Resolution 1267 and pointed to the Taliban’s commitments in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highlevel-group-focuses-on-india-s-priorities-in-afghanistan-101630398166056.html
31-08-2021||India||Mujhe yakeen hai mere pe film banegi: Mountaineer Uma Singh who conquered Mt Kilimanjaro||Will power drove Uma Singh, 25, from Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur, who conquered Africa’s tallest peak, Mount Kilimanjaro, on a cycle to the first base. Singh dedicated his achievement to Sonu Sood, carrying a poster of the actor to the top, which said ‘The Real Hero of India’. The actor congratulated Singh and promised to meet him. Singh has previously set the record for completing the fastest solo bicycle expedition to all Indian states and their capitals as per India Book of Records.Singh flew straight to Mumbai from Tanzania to meet Sood after the feat. Now elated to have met his idol, he says, “Bilkul believe nahi hua mil ke. Koi words nahi hai. Maine apna video daala sir ke saath social media pe, star jaisa feeling aa raha hai.” On why he decided to dedicate the win to the actor, he says, “Log jab bahar jane se darrte the, Sonu Sood sir ne itna kiya desh ki aam janta ke liye, apni jaan ki parwah bina kiya. Dil ke kareeb ho gaya.”Recollecting his journey so far, Singh reveals he worked odd jobs to pay for training. He shares, “Government job ki taiyyari mein parvat aur pahad pe charcha hua toh dimag mein baith gaya ke pahad climb karna hai ek din. In January 2019, I started my training.” He also credits his family and people from his hometown for raising funds. “My family has been my biggest support mentally but it was financial struggles that were a challenge toh mere gaao walo ne aur aas paas ke logo mujhe bohot help kiya. A good amount of money, approx. 5 lakhs were needed – for guide, permit fees, tickets and other expenses. Toh kisi ne 50 se leke 1500 rupees diye mujhe,” adds Singh who also feels he took a huge risk by not taking any insurance to save the costs.He now wants to climb Mt Everest, and hopes a film is made on him. “Next target hai Mt Everest. I want to make 4-5 more records, Bharat ka naam roshan karna chahta hun. Mujhe yakeen hai mere pe koi film banegi,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mujhe-yakeen-hai-mere-pe-film-banegi-mountaineer-uma-singh-who-conquered-mt-kilimanjaro-101630398046227.html
31-08-2021||India||Centre releases ₹13,385.70 crore grant-in-aid for rural local bodies||The Union finance ministry on Tuesday said that it has released an amount of ₹13,385.70 crore for providing grants to the rural local bodies. The amounts has been given to 25 states for the purpose, the ministry said in a release.This is the first instalment of the tied grants for the year 2021-22, and have been released as per the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission, the ministry said.✅Grant-in-aid amounting to Rs. 13,385.70 crore released to Rural Local Bodies✅Total grant amounting to Rs. 25,129.98 crore released to Rural Local bodies so far in 2021-22Read more➡️ https://t.co/MQBdooqFDf pic.twitter.com/FzHBKcMbZPThe highest amount has been given to Uttar Pradesh ( ₹2,162.4 crore), followed by Maharashtra ( ₹1,292.1 crore), Bihar ( ₹1,112.7 crore) and Madhya Pradesh ( ₹883.2 crore).With the release of the latest tranche, the Centre has given ₹25,129.98 crore in grants for rural local bodies this year, the finance ministry said.Explaining the purpose of tied grants, the ministry further said that these are released for improving two critical services: Sanitation and maintenance of open-defecation free (ODF) status, and supply of drinking water, rain water harvesting and water recycling.These tied grants are meant to ensure availability of additional funds to the rural local bodies over and above the funds allocated by the Centre and respective state governments.The finance ministry said that the amount of tied grants should be released by a state government within 10 working days of receiving it from the Centre, failing which they will have to pay interest.Out of the total Grant-in-aid allocated for Panchayati Raj institutions, 60 per cent is 'tied grant, the ministry said. The remaining amount can be utilised at the discretion of the Panchayati Raj institutions for location specific felt needs, it added. However, the ministry mentioned that the remaining 40 per cent of the amount should not be used for payment of salaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-rs-13-385-70-crore-grant-in-aid-for-rural-local-bodies-101630395790626.html
31-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Uttarakhand's Pauri Garhwal district reports first case of AY.12 variant and all the latest news||First case of AY.12 sub-lineage of Delta variant in Pauri Garhwal: Check detailsPauri Garhwal distrcit in Uttarakhand reported its first case of AY.12 variant of coronavirus on Monday, news agency ANI reported. The case of the variant was reported in Kotdwar in Pauri Garhwal, the district authorities said, according to ANI. Read moreTokyo Paralympics: Singhraj Adana wins bronze medal in shooting eventIndia's Singhraj Adana bagged the bronze medal in shooting P1 men's 10m air pistol SH1 final at the Tokyo Paralympics on Monday. His total score in the final was 216.8 and he finished in the third position to add to India's medal tally. It takes India's total medal tally at the Games so far to 8. Read moreBigg Boss OTT: Shilpa Shetty is 'proud' as Shamita Shetty tears letter from family to save Raqesh BapatShilpa Shetty is nothing but 'proud' of her sister Shamita Shetty after she came forward to save her 'connection' Raqesh Bapat on the recent episode of Bigg Boss OTT. Read moreTata Tigor EV 2021 launched, gets 4-star safety rating; range and price revealedTata Motors on Tuesday officially launched Tata Tigor EV at a starting price of ₹11.99 lakh, going up to ₹13.14 lakh (ex showroom). Read moreAnkita Konwar does 30k run and 30 Surya Namaskars for 30th birthday, Milind Soman is proudFitness-enthusiast Ankita Konwar and wife of the 55-year-old actor and celebrated supermodel Milind Soman celebrated her 30th birthday on Monday, August 30. Read moreShahid Afridi supports Taliban: What Pakistan sports star said on Afghan cricketFormer Pakistan Cricket Captain Shahid Afridi shared his views on cricket and women’s rights in Afghanistan after the Taliban takeover. The Pakistan cricketer spoke in favour of the Taliban for supporting cricket in Afghanistan. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-uttarakhand-s-pauri-garhwal-district-reports-first-case-of-ay-12-variant-and-all-the-latest-news-101630394816427.html
31-08-2021||India||'Won't tolerate insult of martyrs': Rahul Gandhi tweets amid outrage over Jallianwala Bagh memorial revamp||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday commented on the government's revamp of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial in Punjab's Amritsar, where more than 1000 people were gunned down by British troops in 1919. The Congress leader's attack came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday inaugurated the renovated complex of Jallianwala Bagh memorial. "Such an insult to the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh can only be done by those who do not know the meaning of martyrdom. I am the son of a martyr - I will not tolerate the insult of martyrs at any cost," Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi. "We are against this indecent cruelty."Rahul Gandhi also tagged a media report on the outrage on social media over the alleged changes at the Jallianwala Bagh memorial complex. "Those who didn’t struggle for freedom can’t understand those who did," the former Congress president said in a later tweet.जलियाँवाला बाग़ के शहीदों का ऐसा अपमान वही कर सकता है जो शहादत का मतलब नहीं जानता। मैं एक शहीद का बेटा हूँ- शहीदों का अपमान किसी क़ीमत पर सहन नहीं करूँगा। हम इस अभद्र क्रूरता के ख़िलाफ़ हैं। pic.twitter.com/3tWgsqc7LxSeveral other Congress leaders, including the party's deputy leader in the Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi and Jaiveer Shergill, also tweeted on the Jallianwala Bagh memorial issue. Shergill alleged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government's project giving a makeover to the "Jallianwala passage is not to preserve but erase the marks of atrocities committed by General Dyer during British rule". "Central vistafication of Jallianwala Bagh passage is ultimate insult to those killed on that fatal day! Shame," he said.Also watch | Row over renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial's light & sound show, new entranceAlso read | Jallianwala Bagh has inspired countless revolutionaries: PMOn Monday, Gogoi tweeted such pomp reduces the gravity and horror of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial to "base entertainment". "Call me a traditional Indian but I am not a fan of installing disco lights on institutions of importance and dignity. Such pomp reduces the gravity and horror of the Jallianwala Bagh Smarak to base entertainment. Similarly the strobe lights on Parliament are also appalling."PM Modi also digitally inaugurated the museum galleries at the memorial during the event, which also showcased the multiple development initiatives undertaken by the government to upgrade the complex in wake of the 100th anniversary of the 1919 massacre.A sound and light show was held to depict the events of the day of the massacre when more than 1,000 people were killed and hundreds wounded on April 13, 1919. British troops fired indiscriminately on an unarmed gathering of thousands assembled in Jallianwala Bagh amid nationwide protests against the Rowlatt Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-2-tweets-rahul-gandhi-comments-on-jallianwala-bagh-memorial-revamp-101630394058063.html
31-08-2021||India||Telangana high court stays govt decision to reopen schools from September 1||The Telangana high court on Tuesday put a stay on state government's order to reopen educational institutions from September 1, news agency ANI reported. Schools, colleges and other institutions are closed in the state due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Also Read: States where offline classes will resume from Sept 1Imposing the stay on reopening of schools, the high court said that no student from any school - private or government, KG to class 12 - will be compelled to attend physical classes.The high court's order was in response to a public interest litigation (PIL). It asked the state government to file an affidavit on the matter.The Telangana government had on August 24 announced that all government and private educational institutions including Anganwadi centres in the state will be allowed to reopen from September 1.The decision was taken after a high-level review meeting chaired by chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao (KCR). He said that the education system in the state has suffered a lot because of Covid-19.The state government had issued detailed guidelines for the reopening of schools. The schools were ordered to clean the premises and water tanks, and sanitise the classrooms.The schools were getting ready to hold classes and welcome students. Wearing masks and carrying hand sanitisers were made mandatory for every student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-high-court-stays-govt-decision-to-reopen-schools-from-september-1-101630393589795.html
31-08-2021||India||'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' in defence should not be at mercy of military bureaucrats||Addressing the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington in Tamil Nadu on August 29 on "Defence Reforms in shifting National Security Paradigm", Union defence minister Rajnath Singh said that his ministry was considering "integrated battle groups" to fight against the enemies. He said under this concept, extremely lethal brigade sized agile and self-reliant fighter formations will be made.While defence minister Singh is pro-reform and pro-military, his statement is also a revelation on how mired the Indian armed forces are in bureaucratic red tape. They are no different, perhaps worse, from the civilian bureaucracy in first taking the decision and then in implementing them. In fact, it is seen that in some cases, the military technology moves to a more advanced level while the military-civilian bureaucracy is still mulling on acquiring the previous version of the technology. Just like the Indian Constitution, the defence acquisition manual, with over 600 pages splattered with archaic words of the imperial past, is perhaps the longest written document in the military world.The concept of self-contained integrated battle groups was agreed to by the Army top brass nearly two decades ago after mobilisation of the Indian military under Operation Parakram against Pakistan immediately after the December 13, 2001 terror strike on Indian Parliament by Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists. As many as eight integrated battle groups were meant to replace the lumbering three strike corps of the Indian Army, which were based on World War II concepts of dedicated offensive and defensive formations. The integrated battle groups were at the heart of the "Cold Start " war doctrine of the Indian military, where the troops would be agile and prepared to go on offensive from the word go. The idea was that wars in the 21st century would be instant and would not give time for military preparation. Agile focused forces with defined war objectives would take the unprepared enemy by surprise was the concept that was validated way back in the 1761 Third Battle of Panipat, which changed the history of India.Just like the integrated theatre battle groups are being discussed and debated ad nauseam by the military and civilian brass, there have been hurdles put in place for the formation of the theatre commands as no service chief wants to let go of his fiefdom. For them, theatre command is a loss of power for individual military forces with the post of now exalted chief reduced to training and procurement under the new concept. And all central governments including those in the past tend to be on the right side of the military just like they are with the Indian farmers.While it is nobody’s case to demean the Indian military and exploits of the Indian forces, it is just that reforms in military take more time than even the civilian set-up with seniority-based bureaucrats and brass sending even the files pertaining to urgent acquisitions and decisions on a merry go round in the South Block and service headquarters. For them political leadership changes at best after a decade but they, and this includes the military brass, are around for three to four decades. It is another matter that neither the technology waits for them nor the revolutions in military concepts. But does the military-civilian brass of the defence ministry care?Just like the Army, the Navy is wrapped in its own cocoon when it comes to human resources or acquisitions. While the military industrial complexes of the world are moving towards nuclear attack submarines, the NHQ after a decade has come up with qualitative requirements or what is called QRs for six air independent propulsion submarines, which firmly shows the door to Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) on grounds of not having a two-year sea proven experience of Air Independent Propulsion (AIP) technology. The DRDO-developed AIP is land proven and validated by the best in the world in submarine design and development. The DRDO has other issues, but that is a topic for another day.However, the technology of diesel submarines has shifted from AIP to lithium ion batteries, which are more efficient and have longer sub-surfaced endurance than traditional lead acid submarines. Japan’s Taigei class of lithium ion battery submarine has already been commissioned this year and reports indicate the new batteries are technology of the future as they are operationally far better than the AIP submarine. This means that the Indian Navy’s AIP submarines, if and when they are built, tested, and commissioned, will be outdated in technological terms on the date they are put out at sea. And a decade later another defence minister will perforce have to extoll the virtues of the commissioned AIP submarine. The same is the case of third aircraft carrier in the era of stand-off weapons and ship killer missiles.The Indian Air Force bureaucracy is no different. They are still stuck on fighter aircraft numbers based on Chairman, Chief of Staff Committee approval that they should have 42 squadrons. With the onset of highly capable S-400 air defence systems, armed drones and swarm drones with the PLA air force, the way forward would be to rationalize the fighter requirements, but it is virtually impossible to convince the IAF brass.While Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his national security planners are aware of the gaps in the military-civilian decision making and the threat it poses to much required Atmanirbhar Bharat, the seniority and not merit based defence ministry brass is killing the initiative due to lack of speed in decision making and implementation. It is the bureaucracy and not the political leadership that will let down the “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan and Jai Vigyan” mission. Time for old wine in a new bottle is over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aatmanirbhar-bharat-in-defence-should-not-be-at-mercy-of-military-bureaucrats-101630389646561.html
31-08-2021||India||Assam: PM Modi reviews flood situation in call with CM Sarma; assures all possible support||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday spoke to Himanata Biswa Sarma, chief minister of Assam, to take stock of the flood situation in the parts of the state. During the call, PM Modi also assured all possible support from the Centre to help mitigate the situation. "I pray for the safety and well-being of those living in the affected areas," said PM Modi on Twitter.Sarma also informed about his conversation with PM Modi through his Twitter handle. "Current flood has gravely impacted the livelihoods of people. My gratitude to Adarniya Modi Ji for standing with us at this hour of crisis," he wrote on the micro-blogging site.Assam has been battling flood situations for the past several weeks. According to the Flood Reporting and Information Management System (FRIMS) report, 950 villages in 21 districts of Assam have been affected due to floods caused by torrential rains. These villages are inhabited by as many as 363,135 people, it also stated.As per the report, 44 relief centres that include 16 relief camps and 28 relief distribution centres have been opened in the state to help the flood victims. A total of 1,619 people have taken shelter in these relief camps. While no human casualty has been reported in the flooding so far, the rising water levels continue to pose a threat to the wildlife in the state.However, officials of the state disaster management authority were hopeful that the condition would improve in the coming days. “The water levels of major rivers are showing a receding trend and there’s no alert for more heavy rainfall in the next few days. Hopefully, the situation will improve rapidly soon. Thankfully, there have been no human deaths reported across the state thus far,” Dhiraj Saud, the project coordinator of Assam State Disaster Management Authority, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-pm-modi-reviews-flood-situation-in-call-with-cm-sarma-assures-all-possible-support-101630389376981.html
31-08-2021||India||First case of AY.12 sub-lineage of Delta variant in Pauri Garhwal: Check details||Pauri Garhwal distrcit in Uttarakhand reported its first case of AY.12 variant of coronavirus on Monday, news agency ANI reported. The case of the variant was reported in Kotdwar in Pauri Garhwal, the district authorities said, according to ANI.The state health department said that necessary guidelines have been issued and the patient has been quarantined at home. The medical team of the health department is continuously monitoring the patient.Officials said that relatives and other people who came in contact with the patient are being traced, the health department added.What is the AY.12 variant of coronavirus?The Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (Insacog) has classified AY.12 as a sub-lineage of the Delta variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus. The cases carrying the variant have been reported from many states in the country.This sub-lineage has been associated with the recent surge in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Israel.According to Insacog, both Delta and AY.12 appear to be very similar at a molecular level despite the functional impact of changes between the two not being known.What is the difference between Delta and AY.12 sub-lineage?Insacog said that Delta is the major variant of concern in India at this time. And AY.12, a reassigned sub-lineage of Delta, is being seen in many states.However, it said that the only difference between the two is that this sub-lineage does not have some of the mutations seen in the Delta parent lineage, such as G142D in spike protein.No new mutations of concern are noted in the spike protein of this variant, added Insacog.What authorities in Uttarakhand are doing?Chief Medical Officer, Pauri Dr Manoj Sharma said, "travel history of the patient of Delta Plus variant of coronavirus is being taken. Along with this, the relatives and other people who came in contact with the patient are being traced."Tests are also being done at the entry points of Pauri Garhwal district.Meanwhile, the number of Delta Plus variant of coronavirus cases in Rudraprayag district rose to 15 after a fresh case was reported on Monday, said the district health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-case-of-ay-12-sub-lineage-of-delta-variant-in-pauri-garhwal-check-details-101630387682427.html
31-08-2021||India||India has administered about 640 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered about 640 million Covid vaccine doses by Monday, August 30. With schools reopening in many states and the government having already approved the first vaccine for those above 12, the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation is likely to discuss vaccination of children at its meeting this week.Meanwhile, by 8pm on Monday, 639,901,822 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 5,337,042 doses were administered on the day. Of this, 3,855,587 got their first dose while 1,481,455 got their second dose.Also Read | Sero survey, new testing strategy: How Kerala is battling rising Covid-19 casesIn the 18-45 age group, 2,861,405 were given the first dose while 679,966 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 247,136,975 people have been given the first do while 27,224,648 have got their second shot as well.Among the healthcare workers, 10,357,664 have been given the first dose while 8,369,624 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,320,807 have got their first dose and 13,136,776 have got their second dose too.With 30,941 new cases, India’s total tally on Tuesday rose to 32,768,880, while the active cases declined to 370,640, according to the Union Health Ministry data.The death toll climbed to 438,560 with 350 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-about-640-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101630387606025.html
31-08-2021||India||Sero survey, new testing strategy: How Kerala is battling rising Covid-19 cases||Out of the 30,941 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 350 deaths across the country on Tuesday, Kerala has contributed most of the infections and fatalities. Kerala reported 19,622 Covid-19 cases and 132 deaths on Monday, which have pushed the southern state's caseload to 40,27,030 and the toll to 20,673. The state logged 29,836 Covid-19 infections and 75 related deaths on Sunday. A day before, there were 31,265 cases and 153 deaths in Kerala.Thrissur in Kerala reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases at 3177, followed by Ernakulam with 2315 and Kozhikode 1916. "Out of those found infected today, 62 reached the state from outside while 18,436 contracted the disease through their contact. The source of infection of 1,061 is yet to be traced and 63 health workers are also among the infected," Kerala health minister Veena George said in a release on Monday.Amid surging Covid-19 cases, the Kerala government clamped night curfew and has also decided to conduct a seroprevalence study to determine the immunity of people against the virus and assess the risk of the spread of the pandemic. Kerala health minister George said the permission to conduct Covid-19 seroprevalence study in the state has been granted. "The seroprevalence study is being conducted to find out how many people who have been vaccinated or have contracted the Covid-19 have been able to achieve the immunity against the virus. It will also be possible to find out how many more people are at risk of contracting the disease," she said.Also read | Karnataka govt mandates 7-day isolation for visitors from KeralaGeorge said the seroprevalence study would help in strengthening the Covid preventive measures the state is taking. "The last ICMR seroprevalence study conducted found that in Kerala, 42.07 per cent of people had acquired immunity against Covid-19. Kerala had the lowest number of infected people in the state. Since then, the state has made great strides in vaccination. That is why the seroprevalence study conducted by the state is very important," she added.In Kerala, George said the survey would cover people over the age of 18, pregnant women, children between the ages of 5-17, tribals above 18 and those living in coastal areas and slum dwellers. A seroprevalence survey uses antibody tests to estimate the percentage of people in a population who have antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19.George has also announced a revised Covid-19 testing strategy after 71 per cent out of Kerala's total population was eligible to be vaccinated taking at least the first dose of the vaccine. "The guidelines have also been issued based on the vaccination status in the districts. More people will be screened to know the exact extent of the spread of the disease in the community. The Covid spread will be assessed in all the districts based on sentinel and random samples. All the districts would take random samples to find out any new clusters of Covid outbreaks," she said.Also read | Covid-19 surge rages on despite curbs in KeralaThe minister said that in districts where the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine has been given above 80 per cent, RTPCR is recommended for individuals with any symptoms like mild sore throat, cough, and diarrhoea. "Antigen testing will be conducted at this location as part of Sentinel Surveillance. This test is performed on people with high social contact such as shops, malls, offices, institutions, and transit sites," she added. "Antigen will also be sufficient for a random test to assess the disease status in the district. The old system will continue in local government areas where the first dose of the vaccine is given below 80 per cent."Also read | India logs 30,941 new Covid-19 cases; fresh infections 28% lower than yesterdayThe collected samples should be sent to the labs without delay and the positive and negative results should be uploaded as soon as possible, she said. "Strict action will be taken against the labs which do against this. District health department officers will check the quality of Antigen and RTPCR test kits," she added.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the government will also call a meeting of experts on September 1 to assess the current situation and formulate a strategy on the way ahead.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sero-survey-new-testing-strategy-how-kerala-is-battling-rising-covid-19-cases-101630384702073.html
31-08-2021||India||The rumblings within the Congress continue -- from Punjab to Kerala||Former lawmaker AV Gopinathan quit the Congress on Monday amid growing rumblings within the party in Kerala. The Congress has faced similar challenges across the country, including Punjab, Chhattisgarh, and Rajasthan, where it is in power. Here is all you need to know about the troubles the Congress faces:KeralaGopinathan quit the party amid infighting over the selection of 14 district Congress Committee chiefs in Kerala. He said he has lost faith in the party leadership and that there was no point in remaining with Congress. Gopinathan had been upset over the denial of a ticket for contesting the assembly elections in March. But he was placated with the promise of a party post. Hours after Gopinathan quit the party, another functionary, PS Prasanth, was expelled. Prasanth’s expulsion came after he wrote to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying the party workers have doubts about general secretary KC Venugopal’s actions. Prasanth insinuated that Venugopal was working in collusion with the Bharatiya Janata Party. He said the party has been destroyed in states such as Goa, Karnataka, and Madhya Pradesh that Venugopal has been in charge of. On Sunday, two Congress leaders K Sivadasan Nair and AP Anil Kumar were suspended for criticising the party.PunjabChief minister Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu remain at loggerheads even as the latter was appointed as the Punjab Congress chief to end the infighting within the party. Sidhu has urged the party leadership to give him freedom in decision-making and insisted he does not want to be a dummy party chief. He has been critical of the chief minister for not delivering on the promises made in the run-up to the 2017 assembly elections.Also Read | TMC to approach Union minister for funds for work in cyclone-hit areasChhattisgarhChief minister Bhupesh Baghel appeared to have gained the advantage in the tussle for the top post in Chhattisgarh after a meeting with the Congress top brass on Friday. He invited Rahul Gandhi to visit the state after meeting him for the second time in three days. Baghel and his rival, state health minister TS Singh Deo, earlier held long meetings with Gandhi. Baghel later flew back to Raipur, organised a show of strength, and met loyalists. Ahead of Friday’s meeting, at least 45 of the party’s 70 lawmakers also flew to the Capital. The meetings came amid a reported two-and-a-half-year power-sharing agreement between Baghel and Deo. The conflict between Baghel and Deo stems from the agreement reached in December 2018 when Congress swept to power in Chhattisgarh by winning 68 of the 90 assembly seats.RajasthanThe ruling Congress in Rajasthan is yet to fulfil the promises made to Sachin Pilot after he rebelled against chief minister Ashok Gehlot last year. The party has faced bigger troubles in Punjab and Chhattisgarh. Pilot’s loyalists are likely to be accommodated in the Cabinet while he is expected to be assigned a plum position in the Congress organisationKarnatakaInfighting has emerged within the party over the chief ministerial candidate for the 2023 assembly polls. DK Shivakumar, the state Congress chief, and former chief minister Siddharamiah in June were involved in a war of words on the probable Congress’s chief ministerial candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-rumblings-within-the-congress-continue-from-punjab-to-kerala-101630384905824.html
31-08-2021||India||India logs 30,941 new Covid-19 cases; fresh infections 28% lower than yesterday||India saw 30,941 fresh infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), along with 350 related fatalities, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said on Tuesday. The cumulative Covid-19 infection tally in the country has risen to 32,768,880 including 438,560 deaths comprising 1.34% of overall cases, the data showed.Though the country has recorded less than 50,000 daily Covid-19 cases over the last few days, including single-day rise of less than 30,000, this is for the first time since August 25 when less than 40,000 people tested positive for the coronavirus disease in 24-hour span. Additionally, the fresh infections are a significant 28% lower than 42,909 cases reported on Monday.Also Read | At 42,909, India logs over 40,000 Covid-19 cases for 5th straight day Tuesday's data shows that 36,275 more patients were discharged, taking the total recovered cases to 31,959,680 or 97.53% of the cumulative caseload. The number of active patients, meanwhile, fell by 5684 to 370,640 representing 1.13% of the total cases.In a statement, the Union health ministry said the daily positivity rate is at 2.22% as the latest positive cases were from 1,394,573 samples tested for the viral disease. Total 521,541,098 samples have been tested till now for Covid-19, it said.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/3BPaohAcRCThe number of vaccine doses administered since the nationwide inoculation drive commenced on January 16 has gone past the 640 million-mark, and is currently at 640,528,644. This includes 5,962,286 people who received their shots on August 30. On August 27, more than 10 million beneficiaries were vaccinated, making India the first country to record this milestone.From Wednesday, schools and educational institutions will reopen in several states, including in Delhi. Those in some states have already restarted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-30-941-new-covid-19-cases-fresh-infections-28-lower-than-yesterday-101630382740037.html
31-08-2021||India||Amit Shah launches free laddu scheme for pregnant women in his constituency||Union home minister Amit Shah launched a laddu distribution scheme for pregnant women in his constituency of Gandhinagar, Gujarat, on Monday. It being Janmashtami, Lord Krishna’s birthday, Shah emphasised that Krishna’s child form is considered a model for a healthy child, and that no country can progress until its children were healthy. In that direction, he said, around 7,000 expecting women in Gandhinagar will be provided 15 nutritious laddus each through voluntary organisations every month, till the birth of their child.Also Read | Delhi weather: Expect a cloudy sky with moderate rainfall todayEmphasising PM Narendra Modi’s slogan of ‘Sahi Poshan, Desh Roshan’, Shah said that “in three years, around 75 million pregnant women and 30 million lactating mothers have been given 180 doses each of the folic acid supplement.”He added that Anganwadi and Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) workers have been given 860,000 smartphones. He said, “in a democracy, an individual is the first and the smallest unit,” adding that these schemes become meaningless if the beneficiaries remain weak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-launches-free-laddu-scheme-for-pregnant-women-in-his-constituency-101630384125639.html
31-08-2021||India||9 new Supreme Court judges, including 3 women, to take oath today||Nine new judges, including three women, would be administered the oath of office as judges of the Supreme Court by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana on Tuesday. Three out of these nine new judges -- Justice Vikram Nath and Justice BV Nagarathna and Justice PS Narasimha -- are in line to become the chief justice of India. The strength of the Supreme Court would go up to 33, including the CJI, out of the sanctioned strength of 34, after the swearing-in of the nine new judges.This will be for the first time in the history of the top court when nine judges would be taking the oath of office in one go. Also, the swearing-in ceremony would be held in the auditorium of the Supreme Court's additional building complex due to the coronavirus pandemic. Traditionally, new judges take the oath of office in the CJI's courtroom.Also read | Govt doesn’t accept 14 collegium picks for HC judgesThe Supreme Court Collegium recommended the names of these nine judges on August 17 for appointment as judges of the top court. President Ram Nath Kovind then signed the warrants of their appointment as top court judges.The top court has seen very few women judges since its inception and in the last over 71 years has appointed only eight women judges starting from M Fathima Beevi in 1989. Justice Indira Banerjee is the lone serving woman judge in the top court after her elevation on August 7, 2018.Supreme Court judges retire at the age of 65 and the retirement age of high court judges is 62.1. Justice Vikram Nath: Justice Nath, who was the chief justice of the Gujarat High Court, is in line to become the CJI upon the retirement of sitting top court judge Justice Surya Kant in February 2027. He would be succeeded by Justice Nagarathna, who would have a tenure of over a month as the head of the judiciary.2. Justice BV Nagarathna: Justice Nagarathna was a judge of the Karnataka High Court. Justice Nagarathna is in line to become the first woman CJI in September 2027. Justice Nagarathna, born on October 30, 1962, is the daughter of former CJI ES Venkataramiah.Also read | Supreme Court issues SOP for physical hearing of cases from Sept 13. Justice PS Narasimha: Justice Narasimha was a senior advocate and former additional solicitor general. Justice Narasimha would succeed Justice Nagarathna as the CJI and would have a tenure of over six months.4. Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka: Justice Oka was the chief justice of the Karnataka High Court),5. Justice Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari: Justice Maheshwari was the chief justice of the Sikkim High Court.Also read | Speak truth to power, SC judge tells citizens6. Justice Hima Kohli: Justice Kohli was the chief justice of the Telangana High Court7. Justice CT Ravikumar: Justice Ravikumar was a judge of the Kerala High Court8. Justice MM Sundresh: Justice Sundresh was a judge of the Madras High Court9. Justice Bela M Trivedi: Justice Trivedi was a judge of the Gujarat High Court(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-new-supreme-court-judges-including-3-women-to-take-oath-today-101630380635271.html
31-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: IMD predicts moderate rain in Mumbai, suburbs in next 24 hours and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.IMD predicts moderate rain in Mumbai, suburbs in next 24 hoursThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday Mumbai and its suburbs will continue to see rain during the next 24 hours due to a low-pressure area over western parts of Maharashtra's Vidarbha, leading to moderate rain at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places. Read MoreBiden says will address America on why deadline to withdraw US troops from Afghanistan was not extendedUS president Joe Biden announced on Monday (local time) he will address the nation on Tuesday to explain his decision not to extend the deadline beyond August 31 to end America’s military presence in Afghanistan. Read MoreCops at sealed buildings, marshals to ensure masks in Mumbai as Covid cases riseMumbai civic commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has directed officials to deploy police at the entrance of buildings sealed in order to stop people from entering them in another attempt to curb the spread of Covid-19 cases, which have been on the rise in the city. Read More‘They were bowled out for 36 in Adelaide but came back to pull off a famous series win’: Nasser Hussain warns EnglandJoe Root-led England bounced back in the ongoing five-match series after experiencing a stunning defeat in the second Test at Lord’s. Read MoreKBC 13's first crorepati Himani Bundela was apprehensive of how she'd be treated: 'Will they be sympathetic?'Himani Bundela has become the first crorepati of Kaun Banega Crorepati 13. The 25-year-old teacher from Agra has won ₹1 crore and will be attempting the ₹7 crore question. Read MoreMadhuri Dixit in embroidered rani pink sharara with sleeveless kurta weaves magicBollywood actor Madhuri Dixit Nene loves wearing sarees and lehengas and often sticks to traditional silhouettes for her red carpet or award show appearances. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-imd-predicts-moderate-rain-in-mumbai-suburbs-in-next-24-hours-and-all-the-latest-news-101630378602832.html
31-08-2021||India||Villagers take shelter on roads, higher ground, as rivers swell in north Bihar||A large number of villagers on Monday took shelter on roads, embankments and other safe places amid fears of flooding in parts of East Champaran, Gopalganj and West Champaran districts in north Bihar, where water levels in rivers kept rising ominously, officials said on Monday.In East Champaran’s Sangrampur block, a large number of villagers have taken shelter on roads, Champaran embankment and other higher grounds, while several families from Nautan block in West Champaran, too, have taken shelter on Champaran embankment with their livestock.“You never know how things will pan out in the next few hours considering the way water level in the river is rising. Therefore, we have taken no risk with regard to the safety of our family members and livestock. Like many other co-villagers, we have put up our tent,” said Prahalad Yadav, who has taken shelter on a road in Sangrampur block.Suresh Paswan, circle officer (CO), Sangrampur said the number of families taking shelter on the embankment and other places was between 50 and 60. “We will distribute raw food materials among them,” the circle officer said.Nautan circle officer (West Champaran) said villages in Bishambharpur and Bhagawanpur panchayat were prone to flooding. “There is waterlogging in agricultural land there and the possibility of a few villages getting flooded cannot be ruled out if water level rises further. We have already alerted the residents of those villages,” said Bhaskar, the CO, who doesn’t use a surname.In Sagauli and Banjariya blocks of East Champaran, water has entered the low-lying areas in about two dozen villages. “We are watchful. Need for evacuation has not arisen as yet,” Dharmendra Prasad Gupta, CO, Sagauli, said.In East Champaran, major rivers like Gandak, Lalbakeya and Sikrahna continued to be in spate on Monday following the heavy discharge of water (3.53 cusec at 5pm on Monday) from Valmikinagar barrage and incessant rain in the catchment area of Nepal. Meanwhile, two drowning deaths were reported from different parts of the district.In neighbouring West Champaran district, road link between Lauriya and Narkatiaganj has been disrupted with water from Sikarahana river flowing over the stretch of road at a diversion near Ashokan Pillar in Lauriya. The link between Sheohar and Motihari through Patahi is expected to be disrupted for the next few days, said Kumar Ravindra, sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Pakaridayal. The road transport was disrupted on Saturday with water submerging a stretch of road between Devapur and Belwaghat.In Gopalganj district, several families in Baikunthpur, Gopalganj (Sadar), Barauli, Kuchaikote, Majha and Sidhawaliya blocks have also taken shelter on roads and other safer places following incessant rainfall and rise in water level in the Gandak river. “Around 200 people were shifted to safer places in Baikunthpur and Sidhawaliya each. Community kitchens are running at five places in the district,” said Birendra Prasad, additional district magistrate (ADM), in-charge of disaster management, Gopalganj.The water in Gandak has risen around 3 inches above the danger level, he added.The district administration, however, has ruled out any threat to the embankment. “Though the water level has risen in Gandak, it is static now. We are watchful,” said Dr Naval Kishor Choudhary, Gopalganj’s district magistrate (DM)..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-take-shelter-on-roads-higher-ground-as-rivers-in-spate-in-north-bihar-101630380105722.html
31-08-2021||India||Assam: 70% of Kaziranga national park submerged by flood; 4 hog deer killed||Flood waters have submerged nearly 70% of the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) in Assam, forcing wild animals to move to higher grounds for safety. The park, spread across 430 sq km, has witnessed deaths of four hog deer till Monday morning due to drowning, attacks by villagers and accidents while crossing the National Highway-37 that passes through the reserve. The flood situation across Assam deteriorated slightly on Monday with the number of affected districts rising to 21 from 16 and affected persons rising to 363,135 from over 258,000 a day earlier. According to Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 950 villages in 50 revenue circles of the affected districts have been hit by flooding. Two incidents of drowning, the first human casualties due to floods this season, were reported in Barpeta and Morigaon districts. According to KNPTR authorities, 125 of the total 223 anti-poaching camps used for patrolling and keeping a tab on the animals are inundated at present while one has been vacated due to flooding. On Monday, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma ordered that heavy vehicles are kept off the road passing through the national park until significant improvement in the flood situation. “From Sunday, we have introduced a timecard system for vehicles, directing them not to cross the speed limit of 40 km/hr while passing through the park. This helps in saving the animals from getting hit by speeding vehicles,” said P Sivakumar, director, KNPTR. Every year, as flood waters inundate KNPTR, hundreds of wild animals including deer, rhinos, wild buffaloes and elephants cross NH-37 and head towards the hills of nearby Karbi Anglong district. Some get hit by vehicles while crossing the highway, especially at night. “We expect the flood waters to recede in the next few days as there’s no forecast for heavy rainfall soon,” said Sivakumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-70-of-kaziranga-national-park-submerged-by-flood-4-hog-deer-killed-101630377645389.html
31-08-2021||India||Covid-19 cases in Mumbai Metropolitan Region rise slightly in past few days||Covid-19 cases in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) have seen a slight surge in the past 15 days with the daily average of 250 new infections registered in mid August climbing up to 350 in the past five days.As per the state health department, Mumbai recorded around 325 cases on August 1, which dropped to 262 on August 15 but reached 345 on August 29. Similarly, Navi Mumbai had 72 fresh infections on August 1, which decreased to 51 on August 15, but rose to 87 on Sunday. Kalyan-Dombivli and Vasai-Virar, too, have shown a similar trend in the past 15 days. However, the graph is a bit different for Thane city, which reported 67 cases on August 1, which decreased to 50 in mid-August and dropped further to 44 new infections on Sunday.Maharashtra health department officials say the surge is not a trend and the easing of restrictions could have resulted in the minuscule rise in the number of infections. Among the most significant relaxations, suburban trains in Mumbai were opened for fully-vaccinated travellers starting August 15.On Monday, Maharashtra reported 3,741 Covid-19 infections, taking its tally to more than 6.46 million Covid cases including 137,209 deaths, 52 of which were recorded in the 24 hours preceding the release of the state health bulletin on Monday. The active case count in the state was 51,834 on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-cases-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-rise-slightly-in-past-few-days-101630375545269.html
31-08-2021||India||'RC valid for 15 years but diesel vehicles can’t ply after 10 years'||The state transport department on Monday issued public notices to clarify that diesel vehicles over 10 years old and petrol variants over 15 years old cannot ply on Delhi-NCR roads even though the registration certificates (RCs) of the vehicles are valid for 15 years.The notice came after the department received a number of queries from the public pointing to the conflict in the validity of RC and the life of registered vehicles in Delhi, especially diesel variants as several people pointed to the contradiction with the proposed national scrappage policy.“The general public is informed that the validity of all category of vehicles in the RC is shown as 15 years. But a diesel vehicle cannot ply in Delhi beyond 10 years in terms of court orders. However, NOC can be obtained for diesel vehicle beyond 10 years but less than 15 years for [other] states which have conveyed their concurrence for registration of such diesel vehicles,” read the notice.“Owners of such vehicles, i.e., more than 10 year old diesel and more than 15 years old petrol vehicles, are hereby advised not to ply these vehicles on the roads in Delhi-NCR, and further advised to get such end-of-life vehicles scrapped through authorised scrappers of the transport department, the list of which is available at the website of the department,” it further stated.At present, the Delhi transport department is reaching out to owners of vehicles registered in 2014-15 and have de-registered at least 100,000 such vehicles. Officials said that this number is quite small considering there are 3.8 million vehicles -- 3.5 million petrol and 300,000 diesel -- which are older than the permitted age limits.As per orders issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in 2015 and the Supreme Court in 2018, any registered diesel vehicle over 10 years old and petrol vehicle over 15 years old cannot operate in the National Capital Region.This is different from the Centre’s draft scrappage policy, where the age for re-registration depends on whether it is a private or a commercial vehicle, and will also take into account the fitness of the vehicle.Officials, however, said the Centre’s draft vehicle scrapping policy will have little impact for owners of vehicles registered in Delhi, unless there are fresh directions from the NGT or the Supreme Court.In March, the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) released the first draft of the national voluntary vehicle scrappage scheme, under which a private vehicle over 20 years old will have to mandatorily undergo fitness and emission tests, failing which it will be deemed as an end-of-life vehicle (EOLV) and scrapped.For commercial vehicles, the age limit is 15 years, following which such vehicles will have to pay more for fitness certificates and also cough up a “green tax” which will vary from state to state, depending on the pollution levels.None of the rates have been decided yet, and the policy is likely to be implemented from next year.“Delhi’s motor licensing officers issue no-objection certificates (NOCs) for vehicles that are either above 15 years old, or above 10 years if it is a diesel variant. The vehicles cannot be used in Delhi, but these NOCs can be used in select states to get the vehicle re-registered there. It is illegal to drive any such vehicle without re-registration in that state,” said a senior transport official.States where such vehicles are allowed to be sold and re-registered include Rajasthan, which allows it in all its districts; Bihar (18 districts); Maharashtra (26 districts); Uttar Pradesh (33); West Bengal (all districts but only BS-IV vehicles); and Meghalaya (all districts).On July 15, MoRTH notified fresh amendments to the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 2021 to include a special provision for registration of vintage motor vehicles. All two-wheelers and four-wheelers over 50 years old from the date of first registration, maintained in their original form and not having undergone any substantial overhaul, which includes any modification in chassis or body shell or engine, shall be defined as Vintage Motor Vehicles, it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rc-valid-for-15-years-but-diesel-vehicles-can-t-ply-after-10-years-101630373079256.html
31-08-2021||India||EIU declined India's offer to use govt data for Democracy Index||The Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) declined an offer from the Indian government to provide official data for its “Democracy Index” rankings, according to documents accessed by HT and officials aware of the development.According to documents prepared by an inter-ministerial group for Niti Aayog’s plan to create a dashboard for monitoring global indices, the Principal Economist (Asia) of EIU informed Indian government officials that the scoring for the index was done on the basis of monitoring developments through information available in the public domain.This, the documents suggested, include political opposition to certain new laws, and mentioned issues such as the Land Report Bill, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, and the state-backed blackout of the internet in Jammu & Kashmir that may have led to a downgrade.The response came after government officials reached out to EIU to seek clarifications regarding the Democracy Index, which put India in the 53rd spot and classified it as a “flawed democracy”. Indian officials sought details on the sample size; the other aspects of the methodology; the details of agencies/authors or contributor; and consultations with government agencies, if any.According to documents reviewed by HT, the Union government asked the High Commission of India (HC) in London to understand from the EIU based in London, “the assessment mechanism of the Democracy Index (DI)” and the “methodology, sample size, details of authors and agencies that were used to curate this index”.Other documents note that the government made several attempts to reach out to EIU’s Principal Economist Asia & Client Engagement Officer, Fung Siu, and finally interacted with her in September 2020 via Zoom.HT reached out to EIU with a detailed questionnaire but received no response. HT also reached out to Fung Siu separately but got no response.It isn’t clear when the Zoom interactions took place but the documents put down details of the interaction.“EIU relies on the annual reports of US based think-tanks like Freedom House and Pew Research, Human Rights Watch and Reporters Sans Frontieres (Reporters without Borders). For example, the action of JSF to recently downgrade India from completely free to partially free in terms of press freedom will definitely resonate in EU country forecasts,” they noted her as saying.According to the documents, on being asked on whether there were any consultations with government or official agencies during the preparation of the index, the EIU officer asserted that at no point does EIU consult governmental agencies, as their work is independent of any external interference. Concerned entities are informed and sent a copy of their report. “On the qualitative side, Ms Siu emphasised that India was a very strong country, and even if some quantitative elements looking dismal, she would have the final say on the forecast, and asserted that barring extreme scenarios of India going to war and suffering a terrible monsoon, the net report for India will still be positive.”Her team generates data for various forecasts, including monthly forecasts and the annual Democracy Index, the documents added. They also mentioned that there are 100 employees in the EU’s Gurugram office.HT on August 16 reported that Union government tried to engage with EIU headquartered in London, according to documents accessed by HT and officials familiar with the development. This admission was made in a letter, reviewed by HT, written by the Union law ministry to the Rajya Sabha secretariat on July 15 seeking to disallow a question by an MP on “Indian Position in Democracy Index,” that was due for answer on July 22. The ministry said the question was sensitive in nature.The EIU released the Democracy Index in 2008 (with updates in 2008, 2010 and every year since), which is an index compiled by examining the state of democracy in 167 countries (of which 166 are sovereign states and 164 are UN member states), attempting to quantify this with an Index of Democracy focusing on five general categories: electoral process and pluralism; civil liberties; political participation; functioning of government; and political culture.“The scoring is done on the basis of monitoring developments through information available on the open source. When asked about the sources of data used by EIU, Ms Siu was empathic in asserting that government data is never a primary source. While they look at RBI announcements, finance ministry, and other departmental announcements, these are only supplementary sources,” the documents said.“Ms Siu politely but firmly declined the offer from the Mission to supply data, research or similar inputs. Policy implementation is evaluated both in terms of the intention of the GOI to implement policies, and also in terms of political backing (for example, Ms Siu mentioned that when the government did not have majority in the Rajya Sabha, any proposed scheme would be analysed in the light of the possibility of opposition in the RS,” they added.The documents noted that, according to the economist, EIU would look not just at “the government’s projected intention and will, but also political backing”.“Ms Sui gave the example of the Land Reform Bill, which she suggested will be almost impossible for GOI to implement even with full majority. This deduction is based on her team’s historical perspective on this issue, as they have surmised that land reform has always been a thorny issue for any Government attempt over the decades. The First Secretary (Eco, Press & Info) responded by saying that Land Reform in India is not a new process, and it was successfully implemented earlier also. This is in continuation of the same. Many states have also implemented land reforms,” the documents said.EIU also stated that the nine months of State-backed internet blackout in Jammu & Kashmir from 2019 was logged in their system as a perceived threat to civil liberties, resulting in a consequent downgrade.“She (Ms Sui) also referenced the CAA and the subsequent protests leading to the alleged muzzling of civil liberties, as also being a likely factor in India being marked down in the index,” the documents said.HT on April 17 reported that the law ministry’s legislative department wrote to several ministries and departments on April 1 seeking details on the parameters used in the rankings of the EIU’s Democracy Index, as part of a larger exercise under the aegis of Niti Aayog to monitor parameters used in key global indices including Ease of Doing Business, World Press Freedom, Human Development, Global Innovation, and Global Climate Risk.The legislative department had been assigned to monitor India’s performance on the Democracy Index. Niti Aayog’s Development Monitoring & Evaluation Office (DMEO) was tasked with monitoring all the indices and facilitating the measurement and monitoring of India’s performance on these indices through a single dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eiu-declined-india-s-offer-to-use-govt-data-for-democracy-index-101630368712964.html
31-08-2021||India||Govt doesn’t accept 14 collegium picks for HC judges||The Union government has declined to accept 14 names for appointment in the high courts as judges, asking the Supreme Court collegium to review its recommendations. The numbers include the oldest recommendation made by the collegium back in July 2019.According to people familiar with the development, it has taken more than a year for the government to decide on returning 10 of these 14 names while two of them have been sent back for the second time even after the collegium reiterated them.Those names returned for reconsideration earlier this month included five names for appointment in the Calcutta high court which had been pending with the government since July 25, 2019, despite the final recommendation of the SC collegium.Similarly, one name for the Jammu and Kashmir high court had been pending for almost 21 months while another one not accepted by the government for the same court was forwarded in March this year after additional inputs sought by the government regarding the advocate’s legal practice. Pending for 11 months, four names for the Delhi high court have also been returned, the people cited above said.Apart from those being sent back for a reconsideration for the first time, the government has also opted to seek a review of two names for the second time. This, even though the memorandum of procedure (MoP), which guides the appointment of judges in the higher judiciary, makes it clear that the government is bound by the decision of the collegium after the names are reiterated.The government has demanded reconsideration of two names meant for the Karnataka and Kerala high courts. Of the two names returned for the Karnataka high court, one was initially recommended in October 2019 and reiterated in March this year.Similarly, despite the collegium’s reiteration of a name for the Kerala high court in March this year after rejecting all objections, the government has chosen not to clear a name for that court.As of August 1, 455 posts of high court judges were lying vacant in the 25 high courts across the country against the total strength of 1,098. The vacancy translates to more than 41% of the total strength. The high courts of Delhi, Allahabad, Calcutta, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Patna, Punjab and Haryana, Rajasthan and Telangana face shortage of more than one-third of their total judges’ strength.The files have been sent back after attorney general KK Venugopal assured the top court in April that the government will take a decision on the oldest pending names within three months. Later in April, the Supreme Court had in a judgment set down 18 weeks as an outer time limit within which the Centre is expected to process the names for appointment of high court judges, besides notifying appointments once the names are reiterated by its collegium.However, on August 9, citing huge vacancies of judges across the high courts in the country, the Supreme Court had come down heavily on the Union government for bringing the “third pillar of democracy to a standstill” by not appointing judges and warned that the government’s administration will also come to a standstill if this attitude continues.“There is a huge paucity of judges but you are not interested... If the judicial system is sought to be brought to a working halt, then your administrative system will also come to a working halt. It is time you (government) realise this,” a bench, headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, told a government law officer on August 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-doesn-t-accept-14-collegium-picks-for-hc-judges-101630367061316.html
31-08-2021||India||Govt says rules explanatory as social media firms await clarity on new IT guidelines SOP||New Delhi: Even as social media companies such as Twitter and Facebook await clarity about a standard operating procedure for the new social media and intermediary guidelines, a ministry of electronics and information technology official on Monday said that the rules are self-explanatory. The Information Technology (IntermediaryGuidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 were notified by the Centre on February 25, and came into effect on May 25 ; they are applicable on social media intermediaries such as Twitter and Facebook, and over-the-top (OTT) platforms such as Netflix, Hotstar and Amazon Prime.“It is very clear that the agency administering a particular law will be the appropriate government authority, whether it is under the state government or the Centre,” the IT ministry official said on condition of anonymity. “There is a need to realise that the law enforcement agencies concerned also seek information from these intermediaries. This touches upon a larger issue and all law enforcement agencies are allowed to ask the companies to act in congruence with Indian law.”The official added that even as the government works on the SOP, the rules for the removal of unlawful content are already clear. “An intermediary, on whose computer resource the information is stored, hosted or published, upon receiving actual knowledge in the form of an order by a court of competent jurisdiction or on being notified by the Appropriate Government or its agency under clause (b) of sub-section (3) of section 79 of the Act, shall not host, store or publish any unlawful information, which is prohibited under any law for the time being in force in relation to the interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India; security of the State; friendly relations with foreign States; public order; decency or morality; in relation to contempt of court; defamation; incitement to an offence relating to the above, or any information which is prohibited under any law for the time being in force,” states the relevant section in the guidelines. At least five industry bodies wrote to the ministry in May, seeing a SOP for better implementation of the rules. HT reached out to Facebook and Twitter for a response but did not receive any till the time of going to press. Industry officials, however, claim that there is a lack of clarity when it comes to the definition of ”appropriate government (authority)”. “Does this mean that any local police station can send a takedown request?” asked one industry official who asked not to be named. “The government can always notify a list of appropriate governments and its agencies. That way there will be clarity.”Apar Gupta, executive director of the Internet Freedom Foundation, an NGO that works in the area of digital rights and liberties said the power to demand removal of unlawful content posted on intermediaries is already abused by police departments under Section 91 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and there have been instances in the past when it was used to block content even before a first information report was filed. “The government justification is correct to a reasonable extent; it doesn’t have to define appropriate government , which already includes central and state agencies that operationalise particular areas of work,” he said. “The social media companies, though, to act under the Shreya Singhal judgment, will comply with notices by government bodies that are legally empowered to direct removals. Beyond compliance, they may be seeking ease of coordination.” The Supreme Court ruled in the landmark Shreya Singhal case of 2015 that online intermediaries would only be obligated to take down content on receiving government or court orders.The industry official asserted that the social media firms are complying with the new rules even without a SOP. “What they are seeking is clarity so that compliance is practical. As far as takedown orders under section 69 (A) of the IT Act are concerned, there is a set procedure. A notice is issued, followed by a meeting, a discussion and then there is agreement or disagreement over the content,” the official said, adding that the companies only want to know the process in the light of the new rules so “they can comply better”. Representatives of various social media firms also met minister of state for electronics and information technology Rajeev Chandrashekhar on Thursday to discuss a host of issues. “Twitter remains deeply committed to serving India. I appreciate the conversation with @Rajeev_GoI and look forward to working with @GoI_MeitY on our shared goal of ensuring that the Internet empowers healthy public conversation,” Twitter’s legal, policy and trust & safety lead Vijaya Gadde tweeted after the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-says-rules-explanatory-as-social-media-firms-await-clarity-on-new-it-guidelines-sop-101630354123915.html
31-08-2021||India||Money laundering case: ED raids 7 places linked to Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali||Mumbai The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday conducted searches at seven places in Maharashtra linked to Bhavana Gawali, Shiv Sena MP from Yavatmal-Washim, in connection with an investigation into alleged money laundering, people aware of the development said. The central agency on Monday also raided three places in Maharashtra in connection with the money laundering case registered against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh. These places are related to Nagpur’s deputy RTO Bajrang Kharmate, said to be a close associate of transport minister Anil Parab, a close confident of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. However, ED did not reveal the places that were raided. The central agency has already issued summons to Parab and asked him to attend the agency’s office in Mumbai on Tuesday. The raids have come after a viral video showed Parab purportedly instructing the superintendent of police of Ratnagiri to arrest Union minister Narayan Rane without waiting for an arrest warrant. On Monday, ED officers along with armed Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawans raided five institutions controlled by Gawali, including Janshikshan Sanstha at Rishod, a degree college at Shirpur, an Ayurveda college at Degaon, Shri Balaji Sahakari Particle Board Karkhana Ltd at Malegaon, and Mahila Utkarsha Pratishthan at Rishod. Two other places, including one in Mumbai, were also raided, the people added. ED officers claimed they have seized some documents and recorded statements of some people during the raids. Officers of the central agency said they have registered a case under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on the basis of a first information report (FIR) registered with Washim police in connection with alleged financial irregularities in a trust linked to Gawali. ED suspects Gawali’s involvement in money laundering and embezzlement of funds to the tune of ₹17 crore as well as misuse of power in obtaining government grants and funds for a project. Gawali is a five-term Lok Sabha member, representing Yavatmal-Washim constituency since 1999. People cited above said the alleged irregularities revolve around Gawali obtaining loan of around ₹43 crore from National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) through Balaji Sahkari Particle Board, which was allegedly misused and not utilised for the purpose the loan was provided. Harish Sarda, former vice-president of Shiv Sena’s Washim district unit, first unearthed the alleged misappropriation of funds at Shri Balaji Sahakari Particle Board Karkhana and named Gawali in his complaints to various authorities, including police. He also filed petition before the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court after local police and other authorities did not act on his complaints. Sarda in his complaint to the police alleged money laundering and embezzlement by Gawali and her associates by misusing power in obtaining grants and funds for Balaji plant located at Malegaon in Washim. Gawali’s father Pudalikrao, who also represented the region in the Lok Sabha, was its chief promoter. The factory was set up in 1998 to collect crop residue and use it for preparation of particle boards for making furniture, partition material and other purposes. The aim of the project was to provide employment to local farmers, Sarda said in his complaint. However, the factory never started functioning. In 1998, the estimated project cost was ₹43.85 crore but it was allegedly undervalued to ₹7.9 crore by a firm called MITCON and was later sold to Bhavna Agro Products run by Gawali on August 16, 2010. The complainant also claimed that Gawali’s father illegally transferred 14.90 hectares of factory land to Mahila Utkarsha Pratishthan in 2001 without obtaining necessary permission from competent authorities. Cooperative society land cannot be transferred to any public trust without government approval, Sarda had stated. Last year, Sarda sought thorough investigation into irregularities from any central law enforcement agency like ED or Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). ED initiated an investigation in the matter and is also looking into alleged misappropriation of funds availed by Gawali’s firm Bhavana Agro Products and Service Ltd from the two banks. The agency is likely to summon Gawali for questioning. Shiv Sena on Monday said action against party leaders was “vendetta politics”, adding that it won’t have an impact on Sena or the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “The ED is hand in glove with BJP and this must be investigated… For the past few days, BJP leaders had been saying that Anil Parab is next [to face ED action]. Either ED has kept one desk officer in BJP headquarters or a BJP office-bearer has been deputed as a desk officer in ED. Hence, all these actions are happening. Otherwise how did they know that Anil Parab will get notice or when he will be summoned for questioning. Kirit Somaiya, Chandrakant Patil and many others know,” Sena leader Sanjay Raut said. Responding to the allegation, Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said, “Everybody has the freedom to level allegations. But ED, CBI and other agencies are independent bodies that are not controlled by one person or one party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/money-laundering-case-ed-raids-7-places-linked-to-shiv-sena-mp-bhavana-gawali-101630353464550.html
31-08-2021||India||Man held for smuggling gold-laced trousers at Kannur airport||Customs officials on Monday arrested a man arriving from the United Arab Emirates at the Kannur international airport after they found out that he was wearing double-layered pants laced with gold past worth ₹14 lakh.Officials said, though he cleared the initial check, they got suspicious about the thick jeans he was wearing. After removing the artfully crafted jeans, they found gold paste filled in between. The officials said it took them almost two hours to remove layers to retrieve the paste. This is the first time they came across such a smuggling technique, they said. “Air Intelligence unit at Kannur international airport seized 302 grams of gold in the form of a very thin paste, concealed within the double-layered pants worn by a passenger,” the Kochi customs unit said in a tweet. Officials admitted gold mixed in the form of paste with some impurities is tough to trace, and smugglers resort to ingenious methods to dodge them. Date seeds, thick bra straps, heavy belt buckles, shoe soles, sausages and gold paste are some of the methods smugglers resort to for smuggling gold in the country. Last year in Kozhikode, they arrested a passenger after detecting gold in his facemask. A woman passenger, carrying her baby, was found holding a water bottle made of gold. Officials said hiding gold in cavities and swallowing gold capsules are also common. Every day, they offer refreshingly new ideas to dodge the law, they said. Kerala tops in the country in terms of gold seizure. Last year, around 550kg were seized from four airports, and Kozhikode airport tops the chart. Despite special flights, it continued unabated, statistics show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-held-for-smuggling-gold-laced-trousers-at-kannur-airport-101630349625778.html
31-08-2021||India||Telangana set to use drones for afforestation campaign||The Telangana government has partnered with Marut Drones, a Hyderabad-based startup, to launch a drone-based afforestation project, named ‘Hara Bahara’, under which five million trees will be planted in 12,000 hectares across all 33 districts of the state. The project was announced on Monday by state IT minister K.T. Rama Rao (KTR) during the launch of ‘AgHub’, or Agri Innovation Hub, at the Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agriculture University (PJTSAU) in Hyderabad. Information technology & communication (IT&C) and forest departments have partnered with Marut Drones for the project. During the launch of ‘AgHub’, the Seedcopter drone by Marut Drones was unveiled along with the poster launch of the ‘Hara Bahara’ campaign, which the state government has initiated to accelerate the mission of a ‘green Telangana’. The mission was initiated under the state’s ‘Telangana ku Haritha Haram’ programme, which has been running over half a decade to accelerate afforestation. Addressing delegates and other officials at the event, the state IT minister said, “Forests are essential to maintain a clean and habitable environment for human life, and emerging technologies have potential to support the afforestation efforts. Being already at the forefront of using drones for new use-cases, we are initiating Hara Bahara to plant seeds to increase forest areas across all the districts of the state.” Seedcopter is an aerial seeding solution for rapid and scalable reforestation. “It’ll not only reverse environmental damage but also create vital employment in rural, tribal and other vulnerable communities. Its core objective is to build strong communities for afforestation and bring awareness at a grassroots level on the effects of deforestation,” said a press release from the state government. The new project uses drones to disperse seed balls over thin, barren and empty forest lands to turn them into “lush green abode of trees,” the release said. The process will begin with field surveys and mapping of terrain in the state to understand the ecosystem and demarcate the areas needing urgent attention. ‘AgHub’ to support agritech startups ‘AgHub’ has been set up by PJTSAU) as a special purpose vehicle to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in agriculture. The newly launched startup incubator will also have rural innovation centres in other parts of the state to encourage rural innovation, said a note on the new initiative from PJTSAU. “It will cater to the promotion of rural entrepreneurship for building agribusiness enterprises promoted by rural youth, women, farmers and FPOs,” the note said. The ‘AgHub’ has been granted ₹9 crore for five years by the National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development (Nabard), which has funded the incubator under its Rural Business Incubation Scheme (RBIC) scheme||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-set-to-use-drones-for-afforestation-campaign-101630349624469.html
31-08-2021||India||NTK chief Seeman supports Raghavan in ‘sting video’ case||Tamil nationalist and founder of Naam Tamizhar Katchi (NTK) S Seeman on Monday extended his support to KT Raghavan, who recently resigned from his post as the general secretary of Tamil Nadu BJP over a sexually explicit video of him released on social media, engulfing the national party into a series of controversies. “Has he done something that is not happening in the world?” Seeman asked while speaking to reporters. “People have been caught watching porn inside the Assembly. That is wrong. But he was doing something in his room.”Last Tuesday, YouTuber and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member Madan Ravichandran, who was later ousted from the party, released the video of Raghavan on a video call with a woman, whose identity was protected. Ravichandran said that the woman was helping them in their ‘sting operation’ to probe if their senior leaders were involved in sexual harassment and exploitation.Seeman said the crime was recording Raghavan and making it public. “Without his knowledge, you’ve recorded him in his personal space that’s a social crime. He (Ravichandran) should have been arrested first,” said Seeman. “What can be achieved by eavesdropping on what people are doing and recording it?”However, Congress MP Jothimani released a video on social media calling Seeman irresponsible and a B-team of the BJP. “It is shocking to see him supporting a sexual offence,” said Jothimani. “Tamil society will never accept those committing sexual crimes against women and those who support such women.” She went further to say that since there have been allegations of sexual offences made against Seeman in the past, he was supporting Raghavan. “It leads us to doubt whether Seeman is trying to cover up his crimes.”While Seeman’s speeches have often caused a furore, they are more keenly watched now as NTK has grown rapidly to become the third-largest party after the Dravidian majors in Tamil Nadu. It secured a 6.7% vote share in the recently concluded elections.Meanwhile, Raghavan has denied allegations of sexual misconduct made against him in the video and has decided to face it legally. The party has formed an internal committee to probe the issue and expelled Ravichandran and an associate G Venba for going ‘against party ideals’.Ravichandran said that he had gathered similar evidence against 15 others and that BJP’s new president K Annamalai allowed him to release the video. BJP has denied receiving such complaints.The incident comes after the state BJP issued a legal notice to Tamil daily Dinamalar in June over an article that claimed the party had allegedly received several complaints of sexual harassment against its leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ntkchief-seeman-supports-raghavan-in-sting-video-case-101630349564468.html
31-08-2021||India||Kerala reports 19k new Covid cases, 132 deaths||Kerala on Monday reported 19,622 new Covid cases with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 16.17 per cent after 117,261 samples were tested, and 132 deaths, the state health ministry said. The drop in TPR is a result of low testing held on Sunday, the health department confirmed. In the wake of rising Covid cases and rap from the Centre, on Saturday the government announced that it will impose night curfew across the state Monday onwards, while efforts are on to ramp up Covid testing and vaccination drive. The total active Covid cases in the state now stand at 209,493, while total fatalities have risen to 20,673. Thrissur reported maximum cases on Monday with 3,177 positive reports, followed by Ernakulam (2,315) and Kozhikode (1,916). A look at the health ministry statistics shows that at least five districts reported a high TPR average in the last one week, with Thrissur 22.6, Malappuram 22.3, Palakkad 21.7, Kozhikode 21.4 and Wayanad 21.3 per cent leading the charts. The health department has asked the district collectors to take stern action to control the abnormal TPR. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines, TPR above 10 per cent is a serious situation, warranting strict measures, including total lockdown. But not a single district is below the criteria. The lowest TPR is in Kasaragod at 10.8. Critically- hit during the first phase, medical experts feel that the northern-most district is likely to have achieved herd immunity. “The present surge is likely to continue for more than a week. But we have no idea why the night curfew was imposed, usually at night movement is minimum. We are happy finally the government decided to call a meeting of experts which was quite overdue,” said public health expert Dr S S Lal, who was earlier with the WHO. Despite high TPR and daily cases, there is no unusual rush in hospitals, and at least 30 per cent of the ICU and ventilators beds are vacant. In the last two days, hospital records show but there is a steady rise in normal admission (not serious ones), state health minister Veena George said, adding that the situation is well under control and the Onam festival surge will subside soon.“Situation is under control. The government will do everything possible to contain the surge. We are planning to vaccinate all eligible by Sept end,” she said. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 42,909 cases with a TPR of 2.14% and Kerala contributed lion’s share of total cases and Covid-related deaths in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-19k-new-covid-cases-132-deaths-101630349507275.html
31-08-2021||India||Naidu asks DGP to drop ‘false’ cases against TDP leaders||Former Andhra Pradesh chief minister and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu asked the state director general of police on Monday to withdraw what he claimed “false cases” filed against his party leaders in connection with a statewide protest against rise in fuel prices on August 28.“A section of police was harassing opposition leaders along with the general public if they exhibited any iota of dissent against the government,” Naidu said in a strongly worded letter to DGP Gautam Sawang. The TDP attempted to hold a statewide protest against fuel hike on August 28, which led to arrest of some of its leaders, including Chintameneni Prabhakar, former MLA from Denduluru in West Godavari district.Calling the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) government a “suppressive police raj,” Naidu alleged that the police arrested TDP leaders from their homes late in the night as well, and asked the DGP to take cognizance of a “deteriorating” law and order situation.The former chief minister claimed that agitators on August 28 were demanding a rollback of prices of petrol, diesel and essential commodities in a “peaceful manner.”Naidu claimed that Prabhakar held a peaceful demonstration, for which a false case was registered against him under sections of Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. He said Prabhakar was arrested from a wedding function in Visakhapatnam. “What was the need to arrest an opposition party leader and former MLA in such an unscrupulous manner?” the TDP national president asked. The ruling YSRCP hit back against Naidu, stating that Chintamaneni Prabhakar has 74 cases against him for various offences committed in the past.“Chandrababu Naidu talking about Chintemaneni, who is a rowdy sheeter, does not make sense as he has 74 cases against him. The same fellow during Naidu’s time as chief minister had attacked two sub-inspectors and two mandal revenue officers. If you are writing a letter to the DGP on him, what kind of a message are you sending?” questioned Abbaya Chowdary Kothari, YSRCP spokesperson and MLA from Denduluru.Kothari said Prabhakar had obstructed the road with 150 people and even pushed a police official, for which action was taken against him. “Petrol prices are high as we have to pay back oil bonds, so why can’t Naidu use his MPs and question the BJP-led Centre? An officer on duty was attacked, so is Naidu saying that law should not take its own course?” he asked. In AP, the main opposition TDP is weak in terms of MLAs, as the ruling YSRCP, led by chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, won 151 out of the 175 in the 2019 assembly elections. The TDP and YSRCP often lock horns over hosts of issues, and Naidu has often alleged police partiality ever since he lost the elections two years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naidu-asks-dgp-to-drop-false-cases-against-tdp-leaders-101630349505712.html
31-08-2021||India||Congress leader quits over Kerala DCC list||Senior Congress leader V Gopinathan on Monday announced his resignation from the primary membership of the party as the internal rift over the selection of 14 presidents of District Congress Committee (DCC) continued.Later on Monday, the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) expelled PCC secretary P S Prashant for anti-party activities. He was suspended from the party but continued to flout discipline by raising frivolous charges, said PCC chief K Sudharkaran. He had raised serious charges against AICC general secretary K C Venugopal and blamed him for the present mess in the party. Prashant was a candidate from Nedumangad in Thiruvananthapuram district in assembly elections but failed to win it.Announcing his resignation from the party at a press conference here, the senior leader said he would not like to continue as a stumbling block in the progress of the party for which he worked tirelessly for the last five decades.“I have been with the party for almost 50 years. I have lost all hopes now. So there is no point in remaining in it,” the former MLA and Palakkad district Congress committee chief said. Supporters of Gopinath had pressed for his appointment to the post of DCC chief but the leadership selected A Thankappan to lead the party in the district. Gopinathan was also unhappy after he was denied a party ticket in the March assembly election but was placated after he was promised a party post. While reports suggest the ruling CPI(M) is trying to woo the grassroots leader, Gopinathan said he has no plans to join any other party for now. CPI(M) leader A K Balan said it was for Gopinathan to take a final decision. “The developments show decline and degeneration of the Congress. It is for him to chalk out his future plan,” he said.Meanwhile, it is learnt that the party central leadership is reportedly upset with former chief minister Oommen Chandy and senior party leader Ramesh Chennithala for their public outburst over the selection of DCC chiefs. The top leadership also reportedly directed the state unit not to amend the list according to the sulking leaders. The new list by Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee chief K Sudhakaran and opposition leader V D Satheesan have come under criticism from several party leaders, with both Chandy and Chennithala alleging that the DCC chiefs were selected sans discussion. Sudhakaran and Satheesan have, however, maintained that adequate talks were held with everyone before shortlisting the names. Some leaders have also blamed AICC general secretary K C Venugopal for the mess.The party on Monday issued show cause notices to two senior leaders -- K Sivadasan Nair and former PCC general secretary K P Anil Kumar -- who were suspended two days ago for publicly expressing displeasure over the listParty leader Joseph Vazhakkan said the party cannot move ahead by ignoring the views of senior leaders like Chandy and Chennithala. Chandy’s erstwhile supporters like Thiruvanchur Radhakrishnan and P T Thomas have asked party leaders to bury their differences and accept the list approved by the high command. Meanwhile the allies of the United Democratic Front (UDF) expressed reservations over continued infighting in the lead party. The Revolutionary Socialist Party said it will keep away from the UDF meet if the drama was not settled soon. Other allies like the Muslim League and Kerala Congress (Joseph) are also unhappy. But UDF convener M M Hassan said he will talk to allies and their worries will be sorted out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-quits-over-kerala-dcc-list-101630349504300.html
31-08-2021||India||Karnataka HC tells govt to ensure strict adherence to rules on manual scavenging||Karnataka high court on Monday asked the state government to ensure strict compliance of rules with regard to manual scavenging. A division bench of acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum said that the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013 and the rules must be followed in such cases. Talking about the instances where people have lost their lives in manual scavenging the court said no safety gear is provided to workers. “The persons who have lost their lives were certainly not wearing air purifier gas mask and they were not properly equipped and therefore the state government and all local bodies of the state government are directed to ensure that in case a sewer has to be cleaned manually, no cleaning will take place without following statutory provisions under the act and the rules, especially from rule 3 to 8,” the order said. “It is unfortunate that even when the act is in existence, its provisions are being violated by local bodies by the state government or by the contractors appointed by the local bodies.”During the hearing on Monday, the court pointed out that the statutory provisions contained in the 2013 Act provide for the rehabilitation of manual scavengers, however, the survey, which is the first step in the rehabilitation process, has not been completed yet. The court directed the state government to file a detailed report and further inform the reasons as to why the survey has not been completed. The court has also pulled up the government for not rehabilitating the family members of those who lost their lives due to manual scavenging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-hc-tells-govt-to-ensure-strict-adherence-to-rules-on-manual-scavenging-101630349324449.html
31-08-2021||India||Dispose SC/ST atrocity cases quickly: Karnataka CM Bommai to officials||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday directed officials for speedy and swift disposal of atrocity cases against Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) after reports of long delays in initiating processes in such cases across the state.Chairing a meeting of the state level vigilance and monitoring committee under SC/ ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act 1989, Bommai directed the social welfare department to coordinate with the home ministry on these matters.“He (CM) directed the officials to review (the) action taken report on the decision taken in the meeting every month. It was decided to hold (a) quarterly meeting of the committee, in case there are issues that need to be addressed immediately. He directed to ensure the district level and sub-divisional level committees hold meetings quarterly,” a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO) stated.The statements and directions come at a time when Karnataka has seen an increase in cases of atrocities against marginalised sections.Between April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021, there have been 2,327 cases of murder, exploitation and other cases on members of the SC/ST community in Karnataka, according to data from the Karnataka government, Hindustan Times reported on July 1.The number of cases grew from 1,504 cases registered the previous year, according to data from the National Crime Records Bureau. The cases include murder, exploitation, burns and other crimes against the members of the community.In total, there have been 87 murders, 216 cases of exploitation, 2,024 other instances and 3 incidents of fire, according to government data. The government has given around ₹2,842.38 lakh as compensation for these crimes.Out of the 2,775 arrested persons and 2,945 have been charge sheeted for crimes and atrocities against SC/ST communities in 2019, while only 50 were convicted and 1,513 were acquitted, data shows.On June 6, two brothers from the Dalit community were assaulted, abused and humiliated when they approached two barbers for a haircut in Yelaburga taluk in Koppal, one of the most backward villages in the state and country.But law enforcement authorities, whose duty it is to stop such practices and book those responsible, have also been accused of not just turning a blind eye on such atrocities but also fueling them.Bommai on Monday said that the authorities should focus on safety and protection of complainants and witnesses and even suggested that, in sensitive cases, they be under police protection. It was also decided to appoint the Additional Advocate General to oversee the process.The chief minister also said that more than 108,000 applications under Scheduled Tribes and other Traditional Forest Dwellers Act 2006 have been rejected in the state. “To review this matter, it was decided to set up a state level review committee, comprising 3 members representing these communities too,” the CMO said.Karnataka fares among the poorest in terms of distribution of land deeds to forest dwellers and tribals who have inhabited these lands for generations when compared to its counterparts in southern India, data shows, indicating how issues pertaining to non-dominant caste groups are rarely a priority for the state and its political dispensation, Hindustan Times reported on August 20.Out of the 275,446 applications received till end of 2020, only 14,667 titles have been distributed, according to the ministry of environment, forest and climate change in a response to the Lok Sabha.This amounts to 20,813.51 acres of forest land (already distributed) to dwellers who have been demanding proper titles for them to remain in their natural and traditional habitat without being under the sword of eviction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dispose-sc-st-atrocity-cases-quickly-karnataka-cm-bommai-to-officials-101630349264365.html
31-08-2021||India||Karnataka govt mandates 7-day isolation for visitors from Kerala||The Karnataka government on Monday said that all visitors coming from Kerala will be subjected to seven-day mandatory institutional quarantine as a measure to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state.“One week institutional quarantine is mandatory for people coming from Kerala and testing on 7th day is compulsory irrespective of the persons vaccination status or he/she is holding (a) negative RT-PCR report,” R Ashok, Karnataka’s minister for revenue department said on Monday.The decision comes in the wake of surge in Covid-19 cases in neighbouring Kerala which has been reporting a high number of new infections as against Karnataka which reported less than 1,000 cases across the state on Monday.Karnataka’s active case count came down to 18,392 after 1,324 more patients recovered, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.The positivity rate in Karnataka stood at 0.64% and the case fatality rate stood at 1.54% as 15 more died, taking the death toll to 37,293, data shows.Ashok also said that the night curfew restrictions in Chikmagalur, Hassan , Mysuru, Shivamogga, Kolar and Kalaburagi would be relaxed. He, however, said that Kodagu and Dakshina Kannada that border Kerala will remain under the same restrictions as before.Night curfew will continue in Hassan as well, the minister said.“Positivity rate has increased to 19% in Kerala and everyday 30,000 cases are being reported. Therefore restrictions will continue in Dakshina Kannada and Kodagu,” according to the statement from the government.Ashok also said that marriage halls and other events will be allowed 50% occupancy like in cinema theatres with a ceiling of 400 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-govt-mandates-7-day-isolation-for-visitors-from-kerala-101630349205586.html
31-08-2021||India||Karnataka schools gear up to welcome students from Sept 6||The Karnataka government on Monday said that physical classes for students of classes 6, 7 and 8 will resume from September 6 across the state in taluks or administration units where the positivity rates is below 2%.“Classes will be conducted with 50% attendance on alternative days, five days a week. During weekends, sanitization will be done,” R Ashok, Karnataka’s minister for revenue department and in-charge of Covid-19 in Bengaluru said on Monday.The decision comes a week after the state government reopened classes for students of 9 and 10 which has received a good response in terms of attendance so far as the administration and ministers continue to encourage more students to return to attend physical classes.Ashok said that they will continue with the current arrangements for a month and then take a call on resuming classes for students below class 5.“We are fine with that (today’s announcement). But still we want to tell the government to please look into the recommendations made by the state task force where the main thing is literacy and numeracy have completely collapsed at primary level and something has to be thought of at this level,” Shashi Kumar, the state convenor of the Karnataka Private School Managements, Teaching and Non-Teaching Staff Coordination Committee (KPMTCC) said. He added that the government was not looking at the earlier recommendations made by the expert committee to reopen physical classes in schools at the earliest. “Any further delay in school reopening may push children into malnutrition, child labour, child marriage, child trafficking, begging etc., making their condition worse,” the report submitted to the government on June 22 stated.The call to resume physical classes has come under significant criticism from various quarters in the state, especially by parents and guardians, who have asked the government to reconsider its decision due to the impending third wave of Covid-19 infections.Parents and guardians have also alleged that the decision to reopen schools are part of the ploy by private educational institution operators who will now have more reason to demand fees for the academic year despite the looming threat of another Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown.There are 38,040 schools having classes 6, 7 and 8 in which over 3.1million students and 152,000 teachers, according to data shared by the primary and secondary education department.There are 24,391 schools having classes between 1 and 5 which have over 5.4 million students and around 162,000 teachers, data shows.The government has even stated that there has been a positive response to children wanting to return to school.Ashok said that there were 6,472 samples taken from students attending schools and only 14 of them have tested positive so far, which he said, was a validation for the government’s initiative to resume physical classes.The minister also said that there were 2,912 gram panchayats in the state that had zero Covid cases.Data shared by the government stated that there have been days when the percentage of attendance in classes 9 and 10 were around 65%, which the government believes is testimony that more students want to return to schools at the earliest.“We want to protest this decision but protests are not allowed since there is Covid, but schools are allowed,” Ganesh Poojary from the parents coordination committee told Hindustan Times on Monday.He said that it was fine to start schools in rural areas since many children had missed classes due to lack of connectivity but said that the government could have waited to do the same in Bengaluru.“Bengaluru is a big no no. Because the density of the city is too much and people are travelling around and we do not know where they are travelling,” he added.Poojary said that schools are being forced to reopen to help private schools collect fees and nothing more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-schools-gear-up-to-welcome-students-from-sept-6-101630349204315.html
31-08-2021||India||SC Bar Association terms SOPs on physical hearings arbitrary, non-starter||Less than 48 hours before the Supreme Court was set to begin physical hearings in a limited number of cases, the biggest body of lawyers practising in the top court – the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) – termed the standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the Court a “non-starter”, and contended that lawyers were not willing to take the option of physical hearings with so many conditions attached.In a letter addressed to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana on Monday, SCBA president and senior advocate Vikas Singh said, “In our view, the SOP is a non-starter as our members would not like to take the option for physical hearing with so many conditions attached.”The SCBA also called for a wider opening up in the court, citing how the Covid case positivity rate in the Capital was down to 0.04%, and several other sectors had already been reopened.Singh termed the SOP a “mere lip service”.“Ultimately the effort seems to be to ensure that the courts do not open. This is a mere lip service to reopening the Supreme Court,” Singh told HT.The senior lawyer added: “The bar association began vaccination drive for its members in March and now most of the lawyers have got both doses of the vaccine. The staff of the Supreme Court have already been vaccinated by the administration. So, what is the purpose of issuing this kind of an SOP?”Singh further said that it will be for the SCBA members to individually decide if they want to attend physical hearings with so many conditions attached.The SOP released by the Supreme Court on Sunday said that lawyers opting for physical hearing of cases would require a special entry pass and had to exercise the option well in advance to the registry of the Court. The physical hearing of cases was restricted to hearing of regular appeals or old matters on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, beginning September 1. On the remaining days (Mondays and Fridays), the hearing of fresh/miscellaneous matters would strictly be through videoconferencing, the SOP said.The guidelines also restricted entry in the court to 20 lawyers at a time, and said that in matters where more than 20 persons appear physically, the concerned Supreme Court bench will have the discretion to adjourn the matter and hear the case through videoconferencing mode.The Registry of the Supreme Court met bar association leaders earlier this month and took their view on opening up courts for physical hearing. The circular of the court releasing the SOP noted that the decision to resume physical hearings (with hybrid option) was in continuation of the decision of the court taken in March this year, and on consideration of the requests received from the bar associations, along with the recommendation by a seven-judge Committee of Supreme Court judges recommending limited physical hearing of cases in August last year.Opposing the SOP on multiple grounds, the SCBA letter said, “The system of issuing special passes should be dispensed with in the SOP.” It said that the SOP should be only with regard to entry of courtrooms, and not restrict the movement of lawyers in the high security zone, which included the corridors, libraries, bar rooms and canteens. “The SOP prohibits the entry of lawyers to the high security area without special passes, which will, in turn dissuade our members from applying for physical hearing,” SCBA said.Even on the restriction imposed on 20 lawyers per courtroom, SCBA expressed reservations, suggesting that the limitation should be based on the size of courtroom. “The number of 20 can be justified only in the smallest courtrooms.” On the aspect of adjourning the matter at the last minute where number of litigants/lawyers in a case exceeds 20, the SCBA said, “A decision on adjourning the matter should be taken before listing the matter.”SCBA has more than 13,000 lawyers as its members.The association, however,emphasized the need to begin physical hearing of cases.It said, “While the bar is also apprehensive about the third wave (of Covid pandemic)…the said fear does not justify restricting the functioning of the Supreme Court now.” SCBA supported resumption of normal functioning of court at the earliest, as it said that the Supreme Court, being the apex court of the country, should be a guiding star for other high courts and lower judicial courts in the country to follow their example.The lawyer body said Covid-19 is not going to end completely, and lawyers must be proactive and learn to live with it. With the appointment of nine new judges in the top court, SCBA said that more benches will be available for disposal of cases. “If the hearings were to resume in the physical court, the number of cases disposed off will be very large and the huge pendency created during the pandemic will get some respite.”After beginning on an experimental basis for one week or so, we must move to physical hearing to restore normalcy in the Supreme Court, the association said, adding that a call can be taken later on continuing with it if number of cases suddenly spike.As courts account for a small aggregation of people, the association added that by “any stretch of imagination”, their functioning cannot result in a spike in Covid-19 cases. “This is because our premises can be a place where the activities will be controlled completely (by following Covid protocols).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-bar-association-terms-sops-on-physical-hearings-arbitrary-nonstarter-101630348784444.html
31-08-2021||India||Farmers broaden agenda, it’s no longer just about farm laws||Farm unions protesting three agricultural laws passed last year are broadening their agenda to oppose the Modi government’s major economic policies, including the new asset monetization programme, which, they claim, will impact the farm sector directly.A key farm union leader, Gurnam Singh Charuni, accused the Union government of harbouring a secret agenda to “kill farmers and their leaders” by unleashing brutal police force -- an allegation that follows a bloody put-down of a farm protest in Haryana’s Karnal on Saturday.Rakesh Tikait, a leader representing the Bharatiya Kisan Union, said “sarkari Taliban and their commanders” had been identified, referring to the government and bureaucrats as “Taliban”.“Haryana has always been a land of farmers’ activism. But never before we have seen such brutality. Both the state and central governments have a secret agenda to kill farmers and farm leaders through police beatings,” Gurnam Singh Charuni, a top leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said.A redrawn agenda of the unions is likely to be unveiled on September 5, when a major mahapanchayat (rural rally) is slated to be held in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar.Farmers, largely from Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, are on protest since November last year, demanding a rollback of a set of laws to liberalise the farm sector in a challenge to the Modi government.On Saturday, a farmer, Sushil Kajal, died after returning from a protest in Haryana’s Karnal, where protestors faced heavy police crackdown. State authorities have denied he died from the beating, saying the deceased had a heart condition.A viral video showing a Haryana sub-divisional magistrate, Ayush Sinha, issuing a set of instructions in which he asked a posse of riot policemen to “break the heads” of protesting farmers has riled farm unions. Thousands of farmers gathered at the spot of the police action on Monday to demand action against the official and policemen.At a press conference in Chandigarh, Haryana chief minister ML Khattar said the officer’s “choice of words” was not correct but action would be taken on the basis of an assessment by the local administration.Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala also said he did not approve of the 2018-batch IAS officer’s choice of words and that the latter would face action.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha has held a series of meeting since. One of its members, requesting anonymity because the new plans were not officially adopted yet, said its demands would no longer be about just a repeal of the three laws.“We will oppose all of the (Union) government’s economic policies. Farmers will oppose privatisation of assets recently announced because they will directly impact farmers,” he said.The farm leader said the new “privatization” plan includes “selling off” warehouses of the state-run Food Corporation of India.Last week, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman unveiled a ₹6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline to lease out assets to the private sector to unlock capital. The finance minister rejected charges that the plan amounted to privatization.The farm unions said they would choke major cities and centres with large demonstrations in the next few weeks.Under the monetization plans, the government plans to lease out warehousing assets owned by state-owned firms FCI over the next four years for an estimated ₹28,900.“This means costs of storing grains will increase. Ultimately, public and farmers will have to suffer. That is why I have been saying that this government is run by two-three big corporations, not a political party,” Tikait said.In their new agenda, the farm unions will also include issue such as unemployment and functioning of the national rural employment guarantee scheme.“The crackdown in Karnal in which a farmer died will increase the stalemate because the police used unprecedented force. Such tactics ultimately will preclude any scope for dialogue,” said Sudhir Panwar, a professor with Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-broaden-agenda-it-s-no-longer-just-about-farm-laws-101630347583710.html
31-08-2021||India||J&K Panchayat leaders urge LS Speaker to bolster security||In wake of recent attacks and threats from terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir, several Panchayat leaders on Monday urged Lok Sabha Speaker for additional security cover and modern vehicles.Birla, who is on a four-day trip to the Valley, visited Pahalgam on Monday and interacted with the panchayat leaders.Anantnag’s District Development Council chairman Md Yusuf Gorsi told Birla that he has been given just two PSOs (personal security officers). “We are from south Kashmir and we have just two security guards. It is strange that Jammu and south Kashmir panchayat leaders have same security levels” Gorsi said.Zerena Akhtar, DDC chairperson of Pahalgam, said, “We are required to inform police before we go anywhere. And then, we again come back to the hotel. We haven’t met our family members for months now.” Another DDC member, Nihar Mir from Dashnepora argued that the security situation in Jammu and south Kashmir are “very different.” “We require more security. We are under constant threat. We must be given good vehicles to travel in hilly terrain,” said Mir.Speaker Birla, who has come to Srinagar for the first of its kind parliamentary outreach programme for panchayet leaders in Jammu and Kashmir, assured them that “the union government is fully committed to provide you security”. “I will convey your security concerns to the Jammu and Kashmir Lt.Governor (Manoj Sinha),” Birla said.Lauding their efforts, he said, “It’s for everyone to see how Panchayat Raj Institutions have strengthened democracy in Jammu and Kashmir.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-panchayat-leaders-urge-ls-speaker-to-bolster-security-101630347345836.html
31-08-2021||India||UP Police book Sisodia, Singh for ‘violation of Covid norms’ at Tiranga Yatra||Deputy chief minister of Delhi Manish Sisodia and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Rajya Sabha member and in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, Sanjay Singh, were booked under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Epidemic Act for taking out Tiranga Yatra in Agra on Sunday evening. The AAP leaders are blamed for allegedly leading the Yatra with more than 500 participants while not complying with Covid-19 norms even as the permission was granted for only 50 participants.The case was registered at Loha Mandi police station in Agra on Monday morning under sections 188, 269, 270 of IPC and sections 3 and 4 of the Epidemic Act for exceeding the limit of participants permitted to attend the ‘Tiranga Yatra’. Police said while only 50 people were permitted to participate in the Yatra, but the number went above 500.“Permission granted by the district administration of Agra was for 50 participants but the 17 named and 400 to 500 unidentified participated, not complying with Covid-19 norms, which require wearing of mask and social distancing. The rally moved while the participants raised slogans. There were found in violation of Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure implemented in the district,” said the police.The case was registered against 17 named AAP leaders and workers, including Sisodia, Singh, party’s Agra district chief Bane Singh Pehalwan, and Kapil Vajpayee,incharge of Agra North assembly seat. About 400 to 500 unidentified people have also been booked, police said.“Agra police has been acting under pressure from ruling party BJP, they first denied permission for the Yatra, then allowed it with change in route and has now registered case against the AAP leaders,” Vajpayee said.The Tiranga Yatra was undertaken from GIC ground to Shaheed Smarak in Agra on Sunday evening with a sizeable turnout of AAP workers. The route of the Yatra was changed as the Agra administration refused to allow AAP leaders to move from GIC ground to Bijlighar.Earlier in the day, Sanjay Singh at a press conference had said that the party would undertake Tiranga Yatra in all 403 assembly constituencies of the state. Uttar Pradesh goes to polls early next year. Tiranga Yatra will be taken out in Noida on September 1 and Ayodhya on September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-police-book-manish-sisodia-sanjay-singh-for-violation-of-covid-norms-at-tiranga-yatra-101630347344466.html
31-08-2021||India||Dindori bears brunt of Maoist-police game||Fitari is quiet. The kind of quiet that can only exist in a village in the middle of a Sal forest. And the kind of quiet that can only exist in a village whose habitants are famously reclusive. A thin black tar road snakes its way to the village, cutting through the Maikal hills, and crossing small rivulets. As the rare vehicle passes through the village, playing children scatter and adults stop and stare.The sound of engines and strange faces are equally rare here, but the demeanour of people shows a disquiet that comes from a new threat. Over the past year, uniformed visitors, both Maoists and the police, have become increasingly frequent. And for villages in Dindori, now on the country’s Maoist map, that can only mean trouble.In July, the Union home ministry revised its list of districts affected by Left Wing Extremism across the country, bringing them down from 90 to 70. In every affected state, except one, the number of districts either stayed the same, or declined. The only exception was Madhya Pradesh, where Dindori was added to the list. The list has also seen the addition of Chhattisgarh’s Mungeli district, but that replaces another district, Balod.Mungeli shares a border with Dindori, and another district on the list, Kabirdham (also in Chhattisgarh). For security agencies, this is an admission that a decade-long expansion project of the Maoists into a region called the MMC (Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh-Chhattisgarh confluence) zone, first spotted in 2012, requires focussed attention.For 17-year-old Maha Singh Dhruv, the classification comes with a sense of dread, of the uncertainty and fear impending conflict bring. “For the last year, I have been afraid of entering the forest thinking that if someday they (Maoists) will meet me and ask for help, and what will I do? I will have to help them because they carry weapons, but if I do, the police will ask a hundred questions.”Dhruv is a Baiga, a tribe that accounts for at least 80% of the population in Fitari, which has a population of 500 voters. The tribe, famously reclusive, is one of the 75 notified Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups(PVTG) in the country, and one of the seven notified in Madhya Pradesh.The government defines PVTG’s as “tribal communities who have declining or stagnant population, low level of literacy, pre-agricultural level of technology and are economically backward.”Dhruv lost his father very young, and lives in small one-room hut with his mother. He once went to school in the village itself, but dropped out once his father died. Like with everyone else in the village, he has no income. There is only subsistence. There is paddy that grows seasonally in two acres of land, and a small kitchen garden where there are long stalks of maize. The rest, the forest has always provided for. But now, with the peace beginning to fray, Dhruv wants to leave. “I want to leave this place now. I need a job in Dindori town, 80 kilometres away.”The village has electricity but no mobile towers, and to make a phone call, the few who have phones climb up to specific areas atop hills where the signal bar on the handset flickers on.The police focus is on three police station areas in Dindori district, Samnapur, Bajag and Karanjiya. But senior police officials told HT that earlier this year, they were given inputs of a team of Maoists attempting to speak to villagers in Fitari. Silence is perhaps the best escape and Dhule Baiga, another villager, has an answer everyone else does too. “I know nothing,” he says.Sanjay Singh, superintendent of police, Dindori, said the police have noticed movement of Maoists and their interactions with villagers in and around 65 villages, mostly in “Baiga Chak.”In 1890, the then colonial government notified “Baiga Chak” as an area that the Baigas lived, where they would practice shifting agriculture, locally called “Bewar”. At the time, the Baiga Chak had seven villages, but the term is now commonly used to refer to 52 villages, both in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.But even if villagers are afraid to talk of the increase presence of Maoists, the police argue that there are clear indications of their growing presence. In 2018, a mere 4km away from Fitari, in the biggest local market in Dhurkuta, where everything from an umbrella to spices are sold, a driver spotted a group of 28 armed cadres crossing the forests. “I remember it was a chilly morning and I was returning from a marriage in Dhurkuta. I counted them. Initially , I thought they were police personnel but later because they were very cautious, I realised that they are Maoists,” said the driver, tracked down by HT, who lives in Chhattisgarh’s Kabhirdham, bordering Dindori, and asked not to be named.Acting on this information, the police had at the time, sent teams to the village and found telltale footprints at the spot the driver mentioned. “I tried to ask the villagers but most said nothing. Only one elderly Baiga told me that he saw those people twice, walking outside the village,” a local police officer said.Officers of the Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh Police, who have interrogated surrendered cadres who worked in the MMC zone in the last three years, believe that the Maoists are developing a new base in the dense Amarkantak forests.Amarkantak is where the Vindhya, Maikal and Satpura ranges converge in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.In 2012, the Central Committee of the CPI (Maoist) decided to form this new zone, apart from the one already operational in Bastar called the Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC). Documents accessed by the police show that by 2017 the work of “social investigation” was completed by “vistar platoons” covering more than 500 villages in the area. This survey included analysis of demography, target population, economic status, employment, and socio-economic problems of the area along with the identification of safe routes for the movement of armed cadres. The aim is to create another “Abhujhmaad”, which is a 4,000-sq-km area in south Bastar, unmapped by the government, and known to be the area where members of the Central Committee of the CPI(Maoist) live and from where they operate.In their conversations, surrendered cadres have told police that the Maoists have surveyed the forests to map water bodies, high vantage points to watch the movement of troops and police stations in a bid to create a safe zone. The team responsible for developing this passage and base area is headed by Maoist commander Rakesh Ode, originally from Gadchiroli, who has a team of 22 armed cadres. Ode heads three Area Committees of CPI (Maoist), Bhoramdeo, Bodla and Khatiamocha, and reports to Kabeer who heads the Kanha Bhoramdeo ( KB) division of the MMC zone. Police records show that there are a total of 85 armed cadres operating in the area, of which 34 are women.The increase in the Maoist presence is also throwing up a familiar, hotly contested argument, one that has caused much strife in areas such as Bastar -- the growing police presence. The Dindori Police plan to set up four new police camps in the area, at Chauradadar , Padaripani , Chada and Gaurakanhari , all in Baiga Chak. In Dhurkuta, this plan worries Arjun Singh Dhruv, president of the Baiga Nritak Dal and a retired teacher. “I don’t know about Maoists and their presence in this area, but one thing is concerning for us – our freedom. When the forces will be deployed, we will be caged.”Dhruv said that Baiga culture has very little crime, close to no theft, so much so that there are very few homes that even own a lock. “The nearest police station, Bajag is 28 km from this village, but when the police from outside (referring to paramilitary personnel) come to this area they definitely intrude into our daily lives, and can harass us,” he said.Dr Vijay Chaurasia, a homeopathy doctor based in Baiga Chak and author of the book “Prakriti Putra Baiga”, shares similar concerns and said that it took him close to a decade to win the confidence of the Baigas. “If the Maoists are talking to Baigas and trying to enter this peaceful community –they are actually harming them. But the government decision to deploy forces in this area makes this tribe venerable. This is a bad move.”But Ved Ram Hanote, station house officer of the Bajag police station, said he has already spotted signs of a shift in stance and vocabulary in some sections of the population. “We have information that some people, possibly Maoists, are entering remote villages of Baiga Chak and encouraging the residents to encroach forest land for cultivation. To me it seems that the language of Baigas has changed; they have a new vocabulary where some are talking about rights and laws. Rights and laws are not bad in themselves, just that the change in words tells me that a new influence has seeped in.”Although there has been no recorded Maoist violence in Dindori, the district police believe that the villages inside the forest of Dindori are now a safe area for Maoists. In March, a massive anti-naxal operation was launched by the Mandla police where, under fire, the Maoists escaped towards Dindori and settled there for about a week. “They travel along a river called Kharmer, which borders the two states, every time they feel pressure in Chhattisgarh or Mandla,” said Singh, the Dindori SP, adding that the state government had been trying to include Dindori in MHA’s list for last two years.He said that he hoped that the inherent reclusiveness of the Baigas would stem the spread of Maoist influence, but hidden in that, is a double edged sword. “They rarely entertain outsiders and therefore the chances of widespread Maoist influence is less. But if the Maoists do manage this, then it would be really difficult for us because they rarely say anything to the police,” added Singh. The district plans to deploy only Baiga policemen in these areas, who will aid the paramilitary in their operations, and attempt to “keep a check on them.” The plan is to deploy 400 central forces, but augment them with 550 district police personnel. “We have started training officers to prevent any harassment . The behaviour of police must change while working in these tribal dominated areas otherwise the Maoists could take advantage and we will lose the trust of the community,” said the SP.However, within the state apparatus, there is no unanimity on what is clearly a complicated question. Intelligence officials HT spoke to said that the increase in deployment itself may be just what the Maoists wanted. “I think that the Maoists want such a deployment of police forces because this will make tribes feel threatened and in turn, they can create ideological space for themselves. What is the need of such a huge deployment? These villages are merely along the passage of Maoists towards Amarkantak. Baigas don’t like uniformed people and hence it could be dangerous,” an officer posted in the region said on condition of anonymity.In Chhattisgarh’s neighbouring Mungeli district, also newly added to the list of Maoist districts by the MHA, around 50 villages of the Khudiya post in Lormi, are being watched closely by the state. Police functionaries said that all of these are Baiga dominated villages and more than 10 “interactions” have been recorded in the past year. Remote and sparsely populated, these villages are cut off in the monsoon. “My brother lives in Aurapani and guards a small rest house there. He told me that about a year ago , four people in black uniform came and asked him several questions about and topography. They enter our village from Ajgar Pahad in Mungeli,” said Chamran Singh Baiga, who once lived in Aurapanu, but has since moved to Mahuamacha village.A senior police officer, posted in Chhattisgarh’s capital of Raipur said that Mungeli has developed into an area of strategic importance for the MMC zone. “We have included the district in our list Khudiya outpost is the entrance point of their base area –the Amarkantak forests. If they get support or recruitment from the villages alongside, it will be very difficult to contain them in next few years,” added the officer who asked not to be named.Chhattisgarh DGP DM Awasthi said that the state wanted to be careful with its planning and deployment and not exacerbate a sensitive situation. “In 2018, Kabirdham was added in MHA’s list and now we have decided to add Mungeli. The reason is simple, Maoists are expanding the MMC zone towards Amarkantakand it is important to check them. We are still thinking about deployment and based on intelligence inputs decisions will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dindori-bears-brunt-of-maoist-police-game-101630347224447.html
31-08-2021||India||Crackdown on gutka sale leads to serial rapist in Chennai||What started as a crackdown on a shopkeeper for selling a banned product, chewing tobacco (gutka) in Chennai, and an examination of his phone to trace his source of supply took a horrific turn after the police discovered that he was an alleged serial rapist of minors, and had actually saved video clips of the assaults.In all, police have discovered that he was involved in five rapes; worse, in two cases, the mothers of the girls were complicit in the rapes.By Monday, the five girls, aged 4,9,11,13 and 15 were rescued and sent to a government-run home for children. The accused, A Perumal and the mothers of two of the girls who connived with him have been jailed under sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 and section 376 (rape) of the IPC and Information Technology Act.On Saturday, the police received a tip-off that Perumal was selling gutka. Sure enough, a raid turned up 30 packets of the banned product. But the police wanted to also apprehend the dealer supplying to him but he resisted handing over his phone. “We grew suspicious and thought the phone had details of a godown where gutka is stacked,” said inspector E Rajeshwari. The police eventually seized two mobile phones, including an iPhone, from Perumal. That’s when the bigger crime began to unravel.“My head was spinning,” the officer said. “There were so many videos--some he had recorded with these five girls and a lot, he had downloaded from the internet.” The police confirmed that the videos which he downloaded were adult pornography and didn’t involve children. His phones have been sent to a special team to analyse if he shared the videos of the children he had filmed.Deputy commissioner R Karthikeyan said they are yet to ascertain if this has been going on for months or years. “There is a lot of obscene content on his phone. Only after forensic examination and gathering more evidence can we come to a conclusion,” the officer said.Police said that the two mothers arrested are sisters who are also seen in the videos engaging in sexual acts with the 48-year-old man. “The crime has happened with the children at their own homes with the mothers’ knowledge,” said an investigating officer who asked not to be named.Once the videos were discovered, the police set out to find the victims. It isn’t clear how they did this, but the first child they found was a 9-year-old who led them to the remaining girls. “She said one of them was her cousin sister and the other three were their friends.” The parents of the other three girls didn’t know what had happened to their daughters and had left them with the two accused women when they went to work, said the police. “The children had not complained before but now when we are questioning them they are opening up,” added the officer.Police said that money was behind the involvement of the mothers in trafficking and sexual assault. Each time, Perumal paid each of the two mothers between ₹1,000 and ₹2,000. “The fathers brought no income. These women did odd household jobs and said they were struggling to eat even one meal,” said the police. The other three girls are also from poor families and police said that they will remain in the government home until investigations are complete.“These two mothers without any hesitation agreed to send their daughters in exchange for money,” Karthikeyan said. “Had we not checked his phone, this would never have come to light.”Perumal’s wife and two adult children were also unaware of his behaviour, police said. They are now investigating whether there are more victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crackdown-on-gutka-sale-leads-to-serial-rapist-in-chennai-101630346684296.html
31-08-2021||India||Assam Congress severs ties with AIUDF; yet to take a call on BPF alliance||The Assam Congress on Monday decided to sever ties with All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), which was part of the ‘mahajot’ or the Opposition grand alliance of 10 parties formed ahead of the March-April assembly elections. The final decision with regard to breaking ties with the “unwilling” Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) is yet to be taken.The decision came at the core committee meeting of Assam Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) held at Guwahati ahead of by-election to six assembly constituencies in the state.“The committee observed that ‘mahajot’ alliance partner AIUDF’s behaviour and attitude in relation to Bharatiya Janata Party has baffled the members of the Congress party. The AIUDF leadership’s and senior members continuous and mysterious praise of the BJP party and the chief minister has affected public perception of Congress party,” a resolution adopted at the meeting stated.“The core committee members of APCC unanimously decided that AIUDF can no longer remain an alliance partner of ‘mahajot’ and in this regards will send intimation to All India Congress Committee (AICC),” it added.Congress, AIUDF, BPF and seven other parties were part of the ‘mahajot’ formed to counter the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party ahead of the state polls this year. While Congress won 29 seats, AIUDF bagged 16, BPF won 4 and CPM bagged 1 seat—taking the grand alliance to 50 seats. On the other hand, BJP and its allies won 75 seats and returned to power for the second consecutive term.Reacting to Congress’s move, organising sectary of AIUDF and MLA, Md Aminul Islam said, “The Congress is free to take decisions regarding their party, but we would term their decision to sever ties with us a historical blunder. We had formed alliance with Congress in order to oppose BJP’s communal agenda in the assembly polls.”“Congress can’t accuse us of having nexus with BJP. Instead today’s decision was the outcome of pro-BJP elements within the Congress. It was a BJP strategy to use Sivasagar MLA and Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi to break our alliance. They become successful in that and Congress was the loser,” he added.Monday’s core committee meeting also decided that the BPF had “already expressed their unwillingness in various forums to remain in the alliance” and hence, it authorised APCC president Bhupen Borah to take a decision on continuation of the party’s ties with BPF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cong-severs-ties-with-aiudf-yet-to-take-a-call-on-bpf-alliance-101630346143617.html
31-08-2021||India||How to read the June quarter GDP numbers||The National Statistical Office will release the GDP numbers for the quarter ending June on August 31. The June quarter saw a large economic disruption on account of the second wave of Covid-19 infections. The wave, which peaked on May 9 in terms of seven-day average of daily new cases, was far more severe than the first wave in terms of infections and deaths. While mobility restrictions were not as crippling as the 68-day nationwide lockdown which was imposed on March 25, 2020, there were some and they did generate significant headwinds for economic activity.RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC), according to its latest resolution of August 6, expects June quarter GDP to grow at 21.4%. Interestingly, this is an improvement over the 18.5% forecast made in the June meeting of MPC. Here are three charts which tell us what to expect and what to make of the GDP numbers to be released on Tuesday.RBI’s projection suggests output will not come back to pre-pandemic levels Like most economic statistics after the lockdown, the GDP numbers will also have a large base effect. This is because of the massive economic disruption which the 68-day long lockdown inflicted on the economy last year. In normal times, even a double-digit GDP growth rate would have meant that the economy was experiencing a boom. However, when read with the massive contraction in last year’s numbers, even a 21.4% GDP growth – this is what MPC has projected – will mean that economy has not regained pre-pandemic levels. India’s GDP suffered a contraction of 24.4% in the quarter ending June 2020.India’s growth challenge in the post-pandemic phase has been to take economic activity levels back to pre-pandemic levels and then try and get it on to a healthy growth path. The economy was losing growth momentum even before the pandemic broke. MPC’s latest projection is intriguing, because while it has upwardly revised June quarter GDP projections, the numbers for the remaining three quarters have been brought down compared to the June projection.High-frequency indicators suggest a staggered demand side damage because of the second wave While GDP numbers come with a significant lag and are likely to be revised further during the course of the year, many high frequency indicators can tell us about the state of economic activity in the first quarter of the current fiscal year.The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) has emerged as among the most popular high-frequency indicators of economic activity in the post-pandemic period. NIBRI comprises Google mobility indices, driving mobility data from Apple, and details of power demand and the labour force participation rate. The NIBRI series considers 23 Feb 2020 as the base and subsequent data entries have been indexed to it.NIBRI started losing momentum in the March quarter itself and fell sharply as the second wave of Covid-19 cases gained momentum. NIBRI’s lowest value in the June quarter was 60.3 in the week ending May 23. It recovered to 86.3 by the week ending June 27. NIBRI’s all-time low was in the week ending April 26, 2020, when it fell 44. It recovered to 70.5 by the week ending June 28, 2020.The fact that the second wave led to a smaller fall in NIBRI compared to the first wave is good reason to believe that economic activity did not suffer as much. However, when seen with the fact that RBI’s MPC has made a downward revision in its growth forecasts for the remaining three quarters of the year, even though NIBRI has shown a V-shaped recovery and has already crossed 100, suggests that the second wave’s economic impact might manifest more on the demand side rather than supply side – and perhaps with a lag.Services might have suffered more than manufacturing activity, and this can lead to broad-based economic pain The Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) from IHS-Markit suggests that the second wave might have inflicted a bigger shock to service sector activity than industry. PMI manufacturing, which crossed the psychological threshold of 50 – a PMI value above 50 indicates expansion in economic activity compared to the previous month and therefore indicates sequential recovery – in August 2020 itself, and stayed above the 50-mark in the months of April and May, though the second wave. In fact, PMI manufacturing increased marginally between April and May. It only fell to 48.1 in the month of June. Services PMI, on the other hand, lost momentum in April itself and was below 50 in the months of May and June. To be sure, the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) suggests that industrial activity in the June quarter also lost momentum. The IIP index in the June quarter was 121.8 compared to 137.4 in the March quarter. The corresponding values for the quarters ending June 2020 and June 2019 were 84 and 130.4. A bigger adverse impact on services because of the second wave of Covid-19 infections could have meant that a bigger proportion of the workforce might have experienced a squeeze in incomes, as services, especially in the informal sector are a bigger employer in India than manufacturing. It will be interesting to see whether the GDP numbers are in keeping with these trends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-to-read-the-june-quarter-gdp-numbers-101630343084149.html
31-08-2021||India||'Terror forces may exploit Afghan situation': Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said that the government was closely monitoring the situation unfolding in Afghanistan and taking steps to ensure that anti-India forces do not exploit the developments there to fuel cross-border terrorism in India.Delivering a talk on national security as part of the late Balramji Das Tandon lecture series, the defence minister said the developments in Afghanistan posed new security challenges. He said the government is committed to ensuring the security of Indians in Afghanistan.“Security of Indians is a cause of concern for the government. We also do not want anti-India forces to take advantage of the evolving Afghan situation for cross-border terrorism,” he said.The Indian security establishment has flagged concerns about terror spilling over from Afghanistan to Jammu and Kashmir via Pakistan after the Taliban takeover. Last week, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat said India was concerned about terrorist activity in Afghanistan spilling over into the country after the takeover and contingency plans were in place to deal with the scenario.On August 25, Rawat, the country’s senior-most military commander, said India anticipated the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan but its rapid pace was surprising.Taliban wrested control of the Afghan capital Kabul on August 15, capping a swift takeover of most major cities in the country.In an assessment done as recently as last month, the Indian side had concluded that the Taliban would shift its campaign to capture territory from rural areas to urban centres and provincial capitals only by the end of August, after the completion of the withdrawal of US forces. The Indian side had also expected that there would be air support for Afghan security forces from the US if the Taliban entered urban areas. Assessments done by both the Indian and Afghan sides also suggested that the fighting would continue for at least two to three months, till winter sets in.However, the Taliban rapidly stepped up its offensive this month, seizing one provincial capital after another, both in the southern part of Afghanistan, the traditional stronghold of the group, and the north, where it had faced greater resistance in the past. This was done by concluding agreements with warlords and commanders of the security forces, and thousands of troops simply surrendered without a fight at a time when the Ashraf Ghani government showed no indication of taking the fight with the Taliban.Singh touched on the ongoing border row with China in the Ladakh sector. He said that the government had made it clear to the forces that any unilateral action by the neighbour on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) will not be ignored.“That’s what the Indian Army did that day in Galwan and bravely confronted the PLA soldiers and forced them to retreat,” Singh said, referring to the June 2020 brutal skirmish that left 20 Indian and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers dead.He said future generations would be proud of the bravery and restraint shown by the Indian Army in Galwan valley.Talking about the efforts of the security forces to counter terror activities in Jammu and Kashmir during the last seven years, Singh said the UT would soon be free of terror.“The strength that separatist forces used to get due to Article 370 and 35A is now nowhere to be seen,” Singh said. The government’s 2019 decision to abrogate Article 370 of the Constitution that provided for special status to J&K and the bifurcation of the border state into two union territories was hailed by military experts as a bold and logical move towards national integration.“The anti-India forces have understood that they are no longer in a position to do much in the Kashmir Valley, especially after the abrogation of Article 370. I want to assure you that no power in the world can separate J&K from India,” the minister said.He also enumerated reforms undertaken by the government to strengthen national security, including creating the post of chief of defence staff and the department of military affairs.“We are working towards creating theatre commands in a new way. This is also going to be a revolutionary step in itself,” he said. On Sunday, he said discussions on the creation of joint commands and their implementation were progressing well and fast, indicating that differences between stakeholders on the theaterisation model are being addressed and India is on course to set up theatre commands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-want-anti-india-forces-to-exploit-afghan-situation-to-fuel-cross-border-terror-rajnath-singh-101630332045141.html
31-08-2021||India||After Mukul Roy, BJP MLA Tanmay Ghosh joins Trinamool Congress||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) strength in the West Bengal assembly fell to 73 on Monday when Tanmay Ghosh, who won the Bishnupur seat in Bankura district in the March-April polls, joined the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC).While Ghosh did not give a direct reply on whether he will resign from the assembly to avoid action under anti-defection law, education minister Bratya Basu, who inducted him in the party, said, “Everything will be done according to rules.”“I invite people’s representatives from all parties to join the TMC and be a part of the mammoth development and social welfare projects taken up by Mamata Banerjee. Her dedication and performance drew me towards the TMC,” Ghosh said.Also Read | Bengal post-poll violence: CBI meets affected families, files 7 more casesThis is the second defection by an Opposition MLA since the polls earlier this year in which the BJP won 77 seats.Before Ghosh, Mukul Roy, who was a BJP national vice-president, returned to the TMC on June 11. But the legislator from Krishnanagar North has not resigned from the BJP till now and has been appointed the chairman of the assembly’s public accounts committee.The BJP has sought his disqualification under anti-defection law.Earlier, two other BJP MLAs did not take oath but resigned to retain their Lok Sabha seats, bringing down the party’s tally in the 294-member assembly to 75.The TMC bagged 213 seats. Polls were held in 292 seats as two candidates died in Murshidabad district before the elections. The Left and Congress could not win any seat.“The BJP has no base at the grassroots level in Bengal. Everything is superficial. It could have never won 200 seats. The leaders were only making loud noises. Those who won, did so because of their own strength and charisma,” Ghosh said.Ghosh’s absence will make no difference to the BJP and the party will seek action against him under anti-defection law, said Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya.“Not all people are capable of handling the pressure Opposition leaders have to face. Ghosh gave in. He came from the TMC before the polls. This has no significance for us,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-mukul-roy-bjp-mla-tanmay-ghosh-joins-trinamool-congress-101630321663546.html
31-08-2021||NA||News updates: EU removes US from Covid-19 safe list for non-essential travel||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:EU removes US from Covid-19 safe list for non-essential travelThe European Union (EU) has removed the United States from Covid-19 safe list for non-essential visits, reports AFP citing a statement. The move comes amid surge in infection rates in the US.'AIUDF no longer part of grand alliance,' says Assam CongressAhead of by-polls in six constituencies of the state, Assam Congress has said that the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) is no longer going to be a part of grand alliance. The decision came at the core committee meeting of Assam Congress held in Guwahati.Military operations to continue in Afghanistan, says US Army Major General William 'Hank' TaylorMilitary ops in Afghanistan continue, with our primary focus on safety & security of troops who remain in Kabul.On Sunday US military forces conducted an unmanned, over-the-horizon airstrike on a vehicle known to be an imminent ISIS-K threat: US Army Maj Gen William “Hank” Taylor pic.twitter.com/V9MlCabDt1The US conducted the strikes after attacks carried out by the IS late last week claimed the lives of more than 100 people, including 13 US troops.Uttarakhand extends Covid-19 curfew till September 6The Uttarakhand government has extended the Covid-19 curfew till 6am of September 7, news agency ANI reported on Monday.Tamil Nadu implements news Covid-19 curbs till September 15The Tamil Nadu government has implemented new Covid-19-related restrictions till September 15. All religious places will remain closed from Friday to Sunday. Entry to the beaches will be prohibited on Sundays, news agency ANI reported.Maharashtra prohibits public gatherings for Dahi Handi festivalThe Maharashtra government has prohibited all types of public gatherings, including community rituals, cultural events, and human pyramids for the Dahi Handi festival in the state. It has directed to organise symbolic events and telecast them through local cable TV network and online media to avoid crowding in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, according to a notification issued by the state home department.India has administered 64 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine so far: Union health ministry#LargestVaccineDrive #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/PnYJ808NQ3The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Monday took to Twitter to announce that India has administered 64 crore doses of vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) so far.Classes for 1-8 students in Firozabad to stay shut till Sept 6 due to dengue spreadSchools for Classes 1-8 will remain shut in Uttar Pradesh's Firozabad till September 6 in view of spread of dengue, ANI reported.Karnataka schools for Classes 6-8 to resume in talukas with below 2% Covid positivity rate from Sept 6 onwards, says education ministerSchools for classes 6 to 8 will resume in talukas with Covid-19 positivity rate below two per cent, starting September 6, Karnataka education minister BC Nagesh said. "Classes to be conducted with 50 per cent attendance, five days a week," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Two terrorists successfully neutralised near the LoC by Indian ArmyContinued search operations near the Line of Control (LoC) on Monday revealed the body of another terrorist with AK-47 rifle across the Line. With this, two terrorists have so far been neutralised by the Indian Army, news agency ANI reported.IS claims responsibility for rocket attack at Afghanistan's Kabul airport, reports ReutersThe Islamic State (IS) has claimed responsibility for the rocket attack at Kabul's Hamid Karzai International Airport, reports Reuters citing the group's statement on the telegram channel.Coronavirus deaths surpass threshold of 4.5 million as Delta variant wreaks havoc, reports AFPThe world has passed the grim threshold of 4.5 million Covid-19 deaths, according to an AFP tally, as the virulent Delta variant wreaks havoc globally https://t.co/HlgHsH3gfH pic.twitter.com/gqt73sh5gOThe coronavirus death toll across the globe has crossed 4.5 million, according to the AFP tally.ED questioning Bollywood actress Jacqueline Fernandez in Delhi in money laundering case, reports ANIEnforcement Directorate (ED) is questioning Bollywood actress Jacqueline Fernandez in Delhi for the last five hours, in a money laundering case.(File photo) pic.twitter.com/ftUj2CkNcNBollywood actress Jacqueline Fernandez was summoned by the ED in connection with a money laundering case.'Nation's proud of ...record-breaking performance': PM Modi on Sumit Antil's gold medal at Tokyo Paralympics and setting WROur athletes continue to shine at the #Paralympics! The nation is proud of Sumit Antil’s record-breaking performance in the Paralympics.Congratulations Sumit for winning the prestigious Gold medal. Wishing you all the best for the future.Sumit Antil on Monday set a new world record with a best throw of 68.85 m in the final in Japan, thereby taking India's medal count to 7. Read more.UP CM confirms death of 32 children, and 7 adults due to suspicious dengue like fever in FirozabadUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has confirmed the death of 32 children and 7 adults from the suspicious dengue like fever in Firozabad.Tanmoy Ghosh joined TMC out of helplessness: Dilip GhoshThey were behind him for a very long time, he was scared. He had left TMC and come to us. They even filed an FIR against him, so they scared him in every way. He has joined TMC out of helplessness: West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Tanmoy Ghosh, BJP MLA who joined TMC today pic.twitter.com/Tv3gsQR1z3NIA dismisses demand for custody of ex-Mumbai cops Waze and Mane in Antilia bomb scare and Mansukh Hiren murder casesAntilia bomb scare and Mansukh Hiren murder cases | Special NIA court rejects NIA's demand for custody of dismissed Mumbai Police officers Sachin Waze (in file pic) and Sunil Mane. They are presently in judicial custody at Taloja prison. pic.twitter.com/C5Z1xlMA8KWHO fears 236,000 more Covid-19 fatalities in Europe by December 1The World Health Organisation (WHO) fears 236,000 more Covid-19-related fatalities in Europe by December 1. The public health agency has also shown 'serious concern' over the stagnating vaccine administration rates in the continent, reports AFP.'Will go through it': Karnataka health minister Sudhakar on report presented to him by experts to combat possible Covid third waveHealth practitioners and private nursing homes of Karnataka had formed a committee to combat possible third COVID wave. They've officially presented a report to me. I will go through it: Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar pic.twitter.com/JRcqGoqWymHaryana CM Khattar says farmers from his state aren't protesting; asks who is Capt Singh to demand his resignationWho is he (Capt Amarinder Singh) to demand my resignation Instead, he should resign because he is behind the farmers' agitation. Farmers protesting there (at Delhi borders) are from Punjab. Farmers from Haryana are not protesting at Singhu or Tikri border: Haryana CM ML Khattar pic.twitter.com/D7dvNVN6CuED raids seven-eight locations in Maharashtra's Washim in connection to alleged money laundering case by Shiv Sena MP Bhavna GawliThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday conducted raids at seven to eight locations in Maharashtra's Washim district in connection to an alleged money laundering and embezzlement of funds to the tune of ₹14 crore by Shiv Sena MP Bhavna Gawli by misusing powers in obtaining government grants and funds for a project.Hurricane Ida downgraded to tropical storm, reports Associated Press citing forecastersBREAKING: Ida downgraded to a tropical storm, 16 hours after striking in Louisiana as a Category 4 hurricane, forecasters say. https://t.co/pIhworTVemWest Bengal BJP MLA Tanmoy Ghosh joins TMCWest Bengal | BJP MLA from Bishnupur, Tanmoy Ghosh, joins Trinamool Congress"BJP is into vindictive politics. They're attempting to snatch rights of WB people by using central agencies. I urge all politicians to support CM Mamata Banerjee for public welfare," he says pic.twitter.com/Bd0BtI5JlrPithoragarh cloudburst update: 7 feared dead; 3 bodies recoveredSeven people were feared dead after their houses were hit by debris and muck following a cloudburst in Pithoragarh district of Uttarakhand on Monday. Three bodies have been recovered, all of them of children. Read moreKarnal lathi-charge: Haryana govt has no right to remain in power, says SenaThe Shiv Sena on Monday lashed out at the Haryana government over the lathi-charge on farmers and said the police action against the protesters was like the "second Jallianwala Bagh". Read moreTeachers should be priority group for Covid vaccines, says WHOThe World Health Organization (WHO) said on Monday that school teachers and other staff members should be the priority group for taking the vaccine against Covid-19.According to the United Nations's agency, measures to ensure that schools can function throughout the pandemic include "include offering teachers and other school staff the Covid-19 vaccine as part of target population groups in national vaccination plans."Mizroram records 440 new Covid-19 cases; 88 children among infectedMizoram's caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to 57,962 on Monday as 440 more cases were recorded. The new cases include 88 children, a health official told news agency ANI. Of Monday's case count, Aizwal saw the highest at 310 infections, followed by followed by Mamit (74) and Kolasib (15), the official added.Neemuch incident: 5 people held so far, says MP home ministerArrests have been made in recent incidents in Rewa, Neemuch. So far, five people have been arrested, another person to be arrested today in the Neemuch incident. No criminal is being spared: Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra on law and order situation in the state pic.twitter.com/qhI2xsbSUZMadhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said on Monday that five people have been arrested in the Neemuch incident so far, adding, another person will be arrested today.Delhi govt issues guidelines for reopening of schools in CapitalThe DDMA on Monday issued guidelines for reopening of schools in the national capital from September. Read moreThe guidelines are as follows:> Maximum 50% students per classroom may be called depending upon capacity.> Students and teachers living in containment zones will not be allowed to attend schools.> Schools, colleges will be required to set up quarantine room for emergency use.White House confirms Kabul airport rocket attack, says operations 'uninterrupted'Hours after as many as five rockets were fired at the Kabul airport on Monday with just a day left for the United States to pull out its troops from Afghanistan, the White House confirmed the attack and said operations continue to remain uninterrupted at the airport. Read more2 killed, 5 buried under debris due to landslide in Uttarakhand's Pithoragarh, says CM Dhamiपिथौरागढ़ जनपद के जुम्मा गांव के पास भूस्खलन की वजह से 2 लोगों की दुखद मौत एवं 5 अन्य की मलबे में दबे होने की खबर है।इस विषय में जिलाधिकारी से बात कर रेस्क्यू मिशन तेज करने का निर्देश दिया है। मैं वहां फंसे लोगों की सलामती के लिए ईश्वर से प्रार्थना करता हूँ।Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami tweeted on Monday that two people have died while five others are buried under debris due to a landslide in the state's Pithoragarh district. Read moreIndia reports marginal dip in new Covid-19 cases at 42,909India's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) witnessed a marginal dip on Monday as 42,909 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 32,737,939, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8am. As many as 34,763 patients recovered and 380 succumbed to the viral disease in the said period. With this, the cumulative count of recoveries and deaths has climbed to 31,923,405 and 438,210 respectively. The active cases stand at 376,324. Read moreOn Janmashtami, President Kovind and PM Modi extend wishesPresident Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among several leaders who on Monday wished people on the occasion of Krishna Janmashtami, which celebrates the birth of Lord Krishna. Read moreSeveral rockets heard flying over Kabul, targets unclearNews agency AFP reported on Monday that several rockets were heard flying over Afghanistan's capital Kabul, adding the targets were unclear.Uttar Pradesh to relax night curfew for 2 days in view of JanmashtamiThe Uttar Pradesh government has allowed relaxation in the ongoing night curfew across the state on Monday and Tuesday due to Janmashtami, according to a report by HT’ sister publication, Live Hindustan. Read moreN.Korea appears to have restarted nuclear reactor, says UN agencyThe United Nations' atomic agency said on Monday that North Korea appeared to have restarted its plutonium-producing reprocessing reactor in a "deeply troubling" development. According to news agency AFP, the development on the reactor comes as talks between North Korea and the United States remain at a standstill. Union minister Muraleedharan to begin 3-day visit to Bahrain from todayUnion minister of state (MoS) for external affairs V Muraleedharan will visit the kingdom of Bahrain from Monday till Wednesday and hold talks with the country’s ministers and dignitaries. Read moreBengaluru Metro's extended Purple Line to open for commuters from todayBengaluru Metro’s extended Purple Line on Mysuru road will open for commuters from Monday, a day after the 7.53-km long stretch was inaugurated by Union minister of housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri and Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai. Read moreHave capacity to evacuate remaining Americans from Afghanistan: White HouseThe Biden administration said on Sunday that the United States has the capacity to evacuate the approximately 300 Americans remaining in Afghanistan who want to leave before the August 31 deadline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-30-2021-101630281478119.html
