02-06-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar reports 10 fresh coronavirus cases||Jalandhar reported 10 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday. All COVID-19 infections surfaced from Defence Colony. Recently, three Non-Resident Indians who recently returned from Kuwait also tested positive.Punjab currently has 257 active cases, with 2,000 people already having recovered. These cases have yet to be added to the official state tally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-reports-10-fresh-coronavirus-cases-93407
02-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||140 passengers board two trains as services resume||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 1As the Ferozepur Railway Division today brought two express trains back on track after a halt of over two months, as many as 140 passengers from Jalandhar boarded the two trains from the city railway station.While 94 passengers boarded the Amritsar-Haridwar Jan Shatabdi (02054), 46 passengers boarded Amritsar-Jainagar Saryu-Yamuna Express (04650), said Station Supervisor RK Behl. Both trains were chugged off from the station at 7.30 am and 1.15 pm, respectively.Besides local residents, the passengers included Army personnel who were stuck in the city after the imposition of the lockdown and migrants, who could not receive confirmation messages for Shramik Special trains. The migrant workers said they spent around Rs 400-600 per seat.Mohammad Swaraj, who works as an embroidery labourer at the Atari Market, said: “It’s been a roller-coaster journey during the lockdown. Sans work, we desperately wanted to go home but failed to fulfil the official formalities. Even after getting the Covid screening and registration done, we didn’t get a seat in the Shramik Special train.”When we came to know that the railway services were resuming today, we went to an agent who booked our seats and gave us tickets for Saryu-Yamuna Express.”Swaraj was accompanied by his four other friends who boarded the train to reach their village in Muzaffarpur.After thermal screening at the entrance of the station, only reserved passengers, who had confirmed tickets and RAC, were allowed to travel by the trains. Moreover, police personnel and health staff ensured that all passengers were wearing masks and maintaining social distancing before boarding the train.Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Rajesh Aggarwal said Amritsar-Haridwar Janshatabdi that originated from Amritsar carrying 284 passengers would conclude its journey in Roorkee after covering Beas, Jalandhar City, Phagwara, Ludhiana, Sirhind, Ambala Cantonment, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri and Saharanpur stations.Saryu-Yamuna Express left for Jayanagar at 11:55 am from Amritsar. It would conclude its journey in Darbhanga, Bihar, after covering Jalandhar City, Phagwara, Ludhiana, Sirhind, Ambala Cantt, Old Delhi, Moradabad, Lucknow, and Chapa.“According to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health, passengers without any Covid symptoms were allowed to travel in trains. The passengers can book theirtickets through the IRCTC website, ticketing agents, mobile apps and reservation counters at railway stations,” the DRM said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/140-passengers-board-two-trains-as-services-resume-93081
02-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||Only 500 migrants turn up for special train to Jalpaiguri||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 1Of the 2,000 migrants called to board the 77th Shramik Special train heading to West Bengal from Jalandhar today, only 500 turned up.While the 12 pm Shramik Special train to Jalpaigudi in West Bengal chugged off today after a gap of about a week, with the majority of the migrants having been sent off in previous trains, the train to West Bengal went out nearly empty today.Of the 500 who turned up to board the train to Jalpaigudi in WB, only 150 were from the city while the majority were from other neighbouring districts. As many as 150 passengers from Jalandhar and 200 from Hoshiarpur board the train. Residents from Ropar, Nawanshahr and Pathankot were also among the passengers.Till May 25, 76 Sharmik Special trains ran from Jalandhar ferrying over 95,000 migrants from the district (of the 1.5 lakh registered) to Gaya, Madhubani, Purnia, Siwan Gorakhpur, Balliya, Buxar, Varanasi and other places. Of the 95,000, 8,000 to 10,000 people were from other districts. Labourers from Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Batala, Faridkot, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala were sent on trains in the past.After the first run of the Shramik Special trains ended, migrants have also been boarding buses from the Jalandhar bus stand to go to Ludhiana to board trains from there. However, when the district administration sends messages to migrants, a few turn up.Officials said after looking at the response to trains to Bengal, there were no plans to start anymore Shramik Specials soon.ADC (G) Jalandhar, Jasbir Singh, said: “The majority of the migrants have already left. With most of the trains going almost empty, the decision to start next trains will only be taken as per demand. If any labourers are left and are wishing to go via trains, they can also be taken to Ludhaina through the bus service started by us. However, no labourers’ group has approached the SDM for that as yet.”Babita Kler, Nodal Officer (Migration), said: “We had called 2,000 persons but only 500 turned up. Most of them were from Hoshiarpur and only 150 were from Jalandhar. Many of them willing to go now are from other districts. The number of migrants wiling to leave the city has seen a drastic decrease. Several workers who had previously registered did not turn up. Others were unwilling to go. The future Shramik Special trains will be run as per demand. The district administration will take a call on the same.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/only-500-migrants-turn-up-for-special-train-to-jalpaiguri-93082
02-06-2020||Tribune Reporters||4 more test positive, count reaches 255||Jalandhar, June 1With four more Covid cases on Monday, the count has reached 255 in the district. The affected persons are a Jalandhar- based woman and three men, who came from outside. Two of the men are aged 25 and one 30, while 210 persons have been discharged in the district. So far, the district has recorded eight deaths.8 new cases in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: A total of 137 samples were received by the authorities in Hoshiarpur, of which eight tested positive on Monday. Till date positive cases stand at 129. All new positive cases found today were from Nangali Jalalpur village in the Tanda block.Civil Surgeon Jasbir Singh said the total number of samples taken so far in the district were 2,649, of which 2,210 were found negative, 129 positive, while reports of 281 samples were awaited and 29 samples were found invalid. The Civil Surgeon appealed people to wear masks and follow the social distancing norms.He said: “The government has fixed a fine of Rs 500 each for not wearing mask and spitting in public. A person will be fined Rs 2,000 for violating the home quarantine norms.”Eight new Covid-19 cases in Nangli Jalanpur village on Monday had created panic among area residents. With this, the count of cases in the village had gone up to 26. Teams of the Health Department working in the containment zone on Monday took 67 samples of village residents.Medical teams from Government Hospital, Tanda, and Government Hospital, Dasuya, led by Tanda SMO KR Bali took samples of residents. The SMO said the medical teams took samples of those persons who came in contact with Covid patients and are kept in quarantine at their homes. Patients found positive today were sent to Hoshiarpur for treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-more-test-positive-count-reaches-255-93083
02-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||Amid glitches, 92 DLs issued on Day 1||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 1As many as 92 new driving licence (DL) were issued on the first day of resumption of services by the Regional Transport Authority today.However, some applicants complained that technical glitches hampered the smooth process.A large number of residents today arrived at the driving test track office. Jaswinder Singh, a worker, said, 18 applicants were tested for their driving skills. Those who had applied for licence before the lockdown also visited the office for collecting the same. However, they were asked to take fresh appointments.Meanwhile, there was a total chaos at the office as some applicants were seen without masks. They did not follow social distancing norms. In the absence of a sufficient number of guards, the applicants gathered at the main chamber and did not follow social distancing.Secretary, RTA, Barjinder Singh said as the transport department had resumed its services, the licence issuing process would continue till further directions. He said learner’s driving licence, permanent licence and renewal requests would be considered on the same day of submission of applications.“In the first phase, 30 slots of learner’s licence will be issued to the applicants 15 minutes after they apply for it on the same day at the driving track, provided all documents were complete, while for making permanent licence, 20 slots have been reserved,” he said.The licence would be issued on the same day between 3pm and 5pm. There was also the facility of home delivery by paying postal charges, said Barjinder. He said only those persons who had taken online appointment would be allowed to enter the track.Social distancing norms violatedThere was a total chaos at the driving test track office as some applicants were seen without masks. They did not follow the social distancing norms. In the absence of a sufficient number of guards, the applicants gathered at the main chamber without maintaning social distancing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-glitches-92-dls-issued-on-day-1-93084
02-06-2020||---||Farmers protest Electricity Amendment Bill||Jalandhar, June 1Members of the Kisan Sangharsh Committee at Lohian on Monday held a dharna outside the office of the SDO, Fattuwal village, in protest against the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020.Farmers held the protest in solidarity with electricity employees and against the government move to privatise electricity in the country. Speaking on the occasion, cashier of the union, Gurlal Singh, said the Central Government was looking to pass a Bill which was going to ruin farmers.They said the resolution was passed by the Badals with corporate families and the incumbent Congress government was silent about it. They demanded that the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 and the Electricity Amendment Act 2003 be dismissed and subsidies be implemented for farm labourers.They also demanded that beneficiaries be given electricity at Re 1 per unit. The protesters demanded 16-hour power supply and regularisation of contract labourers. Salwinder Singh Jania, Jagtar Singh Chak Wadala and Satnam Singh Araiwal were among prominent present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-protest-electricity-amendment-bill-93085
02-06-2020||---||Rs 6.04 lakh collected as fine from 2,496 offenders since March 23||Jalandhar, June 1In its drive against those who violate the lockdown norms by not wearing masks, the Jalandhar Police Commissionerate have issued 2,496 challans to them, thereby imposing a fine of Rs 6.04 lakh since March 23 this year.Divulging details, the Commissioner of Police said the police had so far issued 2,496 (without mask) challans and collected Rs 6.04 lakh as fine from the violators.He said a fine of Rs 3,000 had been imposed so far for violation of the home quarantine norms, adding that 256 persons had been fined Rs 26,000 for spitting in public places.Likewise, Bhullar said on Monday 343 traffic challans were issued and three vehicles were impounded. The Commissioner of Police said on Monday 112 persons without mask were challaned and a fine of Rs 50,900 was imposed on them.He said this drive would continue in the coming days and action be taken against the violators. Meanwhile, he said Jalandhar Police Commissionerate had issued 27,841 challans against those who violated the traffic norms and impounded 1,863 vehicles, arrested 1,228 persons besides registering 987 FIRs ever since March 23.He added that the people had to play a vanguard role for further checking the spread of Covid-19. Bhullar told it was the social responsibility of the residents to ensure the directives of the government to contain the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-6-04-lakh-collected-as-fine-from-2-496-offenders-since-march-23-93086
02-06-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Ignoring their issues, block extension educators are working on frontline||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 1Going beyond responsibility, block extension educators (BEEs) are not only commanding the survey work in Covid-affected areas, they are also working as a link between paramedical staff, SMOs and other departments.Despite mother testing positive, he didn’t stop workPosted at the CHC, Kala Bakra, BEE Nitiraj Singh had to face a crisis at his home when his mother and sister-in-law were tested positive for Covid. Both of them were hospitalised. Nitiraj and his family were kept under home quarantine. But even in such a situtaion, he did not stop working. He continued all work from his home. Now, his mother and sister-in-law have been discharged.This couple sends son to grandmother’s houseBEE Sharandeep Singh is posted at the CHC, Kartarpur, and his wife Harvinder Kaur at the PHC, Jandiala. After the increase in coronavirus cases, they sent their only son to his grandmother’s house in Amritsar. Every day, they talk to their son through video call.They said their son insists them to take him back.“But it is not possible to leave the block in such an emergency,” the couple said.They too playing important role in battle against CovidSandeep Walia, BEE, posted at the PHC, Mehatpur, is responsible for the largest block in the district. While he is playing an important role in containing the virus in his area, his wife Dr Sonia, posted in the Civil Surgeon’s office, Kapurthala, is also contributing to the fight against Covid.Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla, Civil Surgeon, Jalandhar, said the mass media wing had an important role in promoting schemes and facilities of the department and in organising awareness campaigns to prevent diseases.“BEEs, who are public relation officers in the block, are working as frontline workers in the present crisis,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ignoring-their-issues-block-extension-educators-are-working-on-frontline-93087
02-06-2020||Our Correspondent||‘Follow safety guidelines as pandemic not over’||Nakodar, June 1Thanks to the hard work done by the state government led by Capt Amarinder Singh, police, administration, health workers and civil society, the Covid-19 situation is under control. However, the pandemic is not over yet and people should continue to strictly follow safety guidelines as they move around at public places now, said Member of Parliament (MP) Santokh Singh Chaudhary after honouring people for their work during the lockdown here on Monday.During a visit to Shampur village in the Nakodar Assembly constituency, the senior Congress leader applauded the work done by the police and the administration and felicitated Bilga SHO Surjeet Singh, Nurmahal SHO Hardeep Singh, Bilga Municipal Council president Paramjeet Pamma, naib tehsildars, patwaris and others at a function organised by the Guru Ravidass Sabha and Gobind Ram.MP Chaudhary said the impact of coronavirus had been unprecedented that even superpowers of the world have found it difficult to tackle it. But in the state, number of cases have remained low due to early steps taken by the government and strict compliance with safety guidelines, adding that the situation in Jalandhar was also under control.He expressed gratitude towards the police and civil administrations, doctors, nurses, municipal councils, panchayats, NGOs, volunteers and Congress workers for working day and night to fight the virus and looking after people adversely affected by it. He warned that the situation was still fragile and precautionary steps must be taken while going outside.The MP also hit out at the Central Government for not paying heed to warnings of the Opposition and turning a blind eye to miseries of poor migrants.“After mismanaging everything and creating a mess, the Centre has now left the same to states to sort it out,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/follow-safety-guidelines-as-pandemic-not-over-93088
02-06-2020||Our Correspondent---||Tributes paid to former college principal||Hoshiarpur, June 1 Tributes were paid to Tirath Singh, a former principal of Government College, here, who expired on May 22.  The bhog and prayer for peace of the departed soul was held on Sunday at his residence. Born in 1944 at Raowal village in a poor family, Tirath Singh did his MSc from Panjab University.  He had joined the service as a physics lecturer at Government College, Tanda, in 1973 and retired as principal from Government College, here, in 2002. Well known for his soft voice and noble behaviour, Tirath Singh is survived by his wife Prakash Kaur, son and two daughters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tributes-paid-to-former-college-principal-93089
02-06-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Govt must provide direct tax benefits to companies’||RAJIV Sajdeh, vice-chairman, CII, Amritsar, and one of the partners of Indo German Yarn and Fibres LLP, believes that gradually industries in the country will pick up pace in the coming days. He had established Indo German Yarn and Fibres LLP in 1990 and has been engaged in the field of technical textiles for the domestic and export market. The company is working closely with the European firms in this sector, especially Germany. It is producing performance-based yarn and fabric, used in Industrial Personal Protection. The special fabrics produced by them are inherent fire resistant at high temperatures and resistant to sharp cuts. These yarns and fabrics are exported to the Netherlands, Germany, Turkey, USA and China. In an interview with Neeraj Bagga, he discusses the current scenario for the business community. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted your business?Our major consumers, including steel mills, automotive industry and fibre optic cable, were severely impacted by the lockdown. As a result, in this first quarter, we could only touch 30 per cent of the turnover in comparison to the corresponding period last year. Export orders scheduled for April-May could not be placed and some have been cancelled. Low sales have resulted in piling up of raw material, affecting the flow of liquidity.The textile sector is reeling under inverse GST. The raw material is charged at 18 per cent, yarns at 12 per cent and fabric at 5 per cent. This results in huge liquidity blockage and needs to be immediately rectified. The government should provide some direct benefits in taxes to those companies who have continued to pay full salaries to their employees during this period.Rajiv Sajdeh, Vice-Chairman, CII, AmritsarHow do you expect resumption of your business with full capacity?We expect that our supplies related to some essential production-based industries will come back on track soon. As other industries come back on line, things should get better in the next quarter. At present, we are operating with 30 per cent capacity and hopefully we will start working with 50 per cent capacity by June-end if things remain normal. Further projections are difficult at the moment as some major industrial states like Gujarat and Maharashtra will take more time to resume industrial activities.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to workers?We paid full salaries for March and April in a phased manner to our employees. We hope to continue with the same mode during this quarter until we regain the previous speed. Our employees have been very understanding and co-operative in this regard.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?Liquidity is the key to our survival. Excellent relations with our suppliers and buyers helped us during these hard times. Raw material suppliers have been coporative with us as far as payment extensions are concerned.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?This unprecedented crisis posed a big challenge and brought out some opportunities, which we never thought. The Indian textile sector accepted the challenge and rose to the occasion by producing PPE kits and will soon export them. The government has also recognised the role of the technical textile sector in providing protection to our frontline warriors.What are your expectations from the government?The textile sector is reeling under inverse GST. The raw material is charged at 18 per cent, yarns at 12 per cent and fabric at five per cent. This results in huge liquidity blockage and needs to be immediately rectified. The government should provide some direct benefits in taxes to those companies who have continued to pay full salaries to their employees during this period. Undoubtedly, we expect so much from the government, but at the same time, the district administration, District Industry Center and police also assisted the industrialists in the resumption of their stalled factories.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-must-provide-direct-tax-benefits-to-companies-93090
02-06-2020||Hoshiarpur||Youth drowns in Mehngrowal dam||32-yr-old shot dead in villagePhagwara: Two unidentified armed motorcyclists shot dead a youth, Jarnail Singh (32), in front of his house at Tadaundra (Mehatpur) village late on Monday evening. SSP (Rural) Navjot Singh Mahal said the suspects came to the house of the victim and opened fire when he opened the door. He died on the spot. The victim was a gangster and was facing eight criminal cases. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-drowns-in-mehngrowal-dam-93092
02-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||He earned Rs 30 on Day 1 of resuming work||Jalandhar, June 1How badly the Covid-induced lockdown has hit the unorganised sector is evident from the fact that hundreds of daily wagers, who earned their livelihood by doing menial jobs at bus stands, railway stations and at other places, are still finding it hard to make both ends meet.Mahinderpal (62), who has been selling stationery items at the bus stand here for the last four decades, says he earned only Rs 30 on the first day of his work on Saturday against his per day sale of Rs 800-900 before the lockdown.My landlord has been nice to me. He didn’t force me to pay the rent at once and took it in instalments. I got ration from some NGO twice, so we managed that period. But now, there is no ration or help as markets have opened, therefore, I am in dire need of money to sustain my family.Mahinderpal, A seller of stationery items at bus stand“Although relaxations have been given, due to the fear of Covid-19, people are avoiding venturing out. The footfall at the bus stand has reduced to 20 per cent. I don’t think the situation will improve in the coming days, so I am thinking of finding another job”, he said.Mahinderpal says he buys stationery items from a wholesale shop to further sell it bus-to-bus, at ticket counters, dhabas and at waiting areas or anywhere in the bus stand where he finds people sitting in good numbers. “On the sale of Rs 800-900, I make a profit of at least Rs 500. My customers are students and service persons. But as colleges, IELTS centres and many offices are still closed, I hardly find any customer,” he rued.He said it had become difficult for him to arrange even two meals a day. “I have a rent of Rs 2,500 to pay for my one bedroom set at Dashmesh Nagar here. I have my wife and two sons living with me. My sons used to work as waiters at the bus stand here, but as dine-in is not allowed, the eatery owner has not called them to the job. They have also not been paid. This pandemic outbreak has rendered us jobless and affected our lives both financially and mentally,” he said.When asked how he managed the last two months of the lockdown, he said he borrowed some money from his relatives to buy ration and pay rent to his landlord. “My landlord has been nice to me. He didn’t force me to pay the rent at once and took it in installments. I got ration from some NGO twice, so we managed that period. But now there is no ration or help as markets have opened, therefore I am in dire need of money to sustain my family,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/he-earned-rs-30-on-day-1-of-resuming-work-93093
02-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Despite 99.4 percentile in JEE (Mains), she is working hard||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, june 1Suwidhi Malhotra, who has completed her Class XII, had secured 99.478 percentile in the JEE (Mains) held in January this year. She is confident of securing a berth in one of the IITs or NITs. But ever since, she has been working hard as she aspires to further improve her percentile in the second exam of JEE (Mains) to be held in July and get the computer science engineering stream in one of the IITs.There will be at least 7-8 lakh more candidates, who will appear for the JEE (Mains) that will be held again between July 18 and 23. So, the competition in terms of percentile will certainly be stiffer. There will be many students who would revised the entire syllabus multiple times and would have practised harder utilising all the days that are available to us because of the lockdown. So, I just cannot sit back.Suwidhi Malhotra, Aspiring EngineerSuwidhi bagged the second slot among all girls from Jalandhar in the exams, but this has not made her overconfident in any way.She said she is not attending any online classes or crash courses at the moment. She has been preparing for the test on her own. “I am giving equal time to all subjects, including physics, chemistry and mathematics, as I need to score equally well in all,” she added.Suwidhi said, “Had the examination been held on time, I would have been free in April, but somehow it has been lingering on due to Covid-19. We all tend to forget what we had learnt two months ago or so. Revision and regular practice is the key to success in such exams.”“The long phase of preparedness after the examination has somehow led to boredom. It is not easy to kill this boredom. But somehow everyone in my family keeps on motivating me to continue with the hard work. My younger sister helps me keep my refresh. My father Dr Joteesh Malhotra and mother Cini Malhotra, who are academicians and doctorate degree holders in the fields of electronics engineering and life sciences, respectively, have always inspired me. They keep on taking a note of how and what I am revising. For two years, they are the ones who went through a rigorous duty of picking and dropping me to the tuition centres. It is now my time to pay them back using all my effort.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/despite-99-4-percentile-in-jee-mains-she-is-working-hard-93094
