03-06-2020||Our Correspondent||No social distancing at market committee event in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, June 2As local market committee chairman Rajesh Gupta and deputy chairman Baldev Singh Narsala took charge of the office on Tuesday, social distancing remained absent. State Industries Minister and three MLAs were present during the event.Congress leaders and activists gathered in a large number and while being photographed, they stood close to each other. Though as per government instructions, any social, religious, political or academic function or gathering is prohibited, not only the event was organised but a large number of people also attended it which include Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora, Shamchurasi MLA Pawan Kumar Adia, Chabbewal MLA Raj Kumar, Dasuya MLA Arun Dogra, district Congress president Dr Kuldeep Nanda and Improvement Trust chairman advocate Rakesh Marwaha.Cabinet Minister Arora and MLA Pawan Kumar Adia said Rajesh Gupta had been appointed as the chairman with the consent of all MLAs of the district. They hoped that he would be successfull in establishing better relations in mandis to overcome problems of farmers and arhtiyas.Gupta thanked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, ministers and legislators for appointing him as chairman. Representatives of various organisations, family members and dignitaries of the city congratulated Gupta. Sumesh Soni, Navpreet Rahal, Vikas Aggarwal, Ashwani Saini, Prince Gupta, Mintu Makkad, officials and members of the Dana Mandi Sabzi Mandi Arhtiya Association and Congress leaders and activists were among those others present.What to do if people don’t understand: AroraWhen asked about social distancing being not taken care of in his presence during the event, Industries Minister Sunder Sham Arora said: “I am also asking mediapersons to stay away and you are asking about social distancing.”When asked contrary to government instructions how many people gathered in the function in his presence, Arora said: “There too I have repeatedly asked people to go out but if they don’t understand, what one can do.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-social-distancing-at-market-committee-event-in-hoshiarpur-93544
03-06-2020||---||Garbage dots roadsides as Jalandhar MC fails to pay dues to firm||Jalandhar, June 2Owing to a dispute between the Delhi-based dozer company and the Municipal Corporation (MC) regarding clearance of dues, the Health and Sanitation Department of the MC has hired a city-based dozer company for lifting garbage from various waste dumping points.As per official sources, the MC had reportedly failed to clear the dues worth around Rs 35 lakh of the Delhi-based company, following which workers of he company denied to lift garbage from various chowks of the city since Sunday.One of the company executives on the condition of anonymity said the monthly payment was pending since August last year. However, the company was running its machines in the city even after the termination of its contract in April this year. Subsequently, after receiving no assurances from the civic body, the company stopped its dozers from lifting and levelling the garbage.Chandan Grewal, leader, Sanitation Workers’ Union said workers were regularly dumping garbage but in the absence of dozers, lifting of the same could not be done.Tonnes of scrap were lying unattended at several dump sites of the city. Heaps of garbage have been lying at various dumping points, including near Doaba Chowk, Plaza Chowk, Fish Market, BMC Chowk, Burlton Park and Partap Bagh.Huge quantity of garbage at many places is a poor sight. Moreover, the dumping areas have become a breeding ground for stray animals, causing inconvenience to commuters and residents of living in nearby areas.As the vehicular movement has also started after relaxations in the lockdown, commuters rued that the city was still the same and the foul smell emanating from the filth was unbearable.Meanwhile, Mayor Jagdish Raja said: “Gaurav Gupta Company has been hired for regular lifting of garbage. Besides, the civic body is trying to find a way out to fulfil demands of the Sanitation Workers’ Union.” To get their demands fulfilled, the union workers have reportedly announced to intensify their protest in the coming days against the civic body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/garbage-dots-roadsides-as-jalandhar-mc-fails-to-pay-dues-to-firm-93545
03-06-2020||Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi||Nangli Jalalpur becomes hotspot with 26 Covid cases||Hoshiarpur, June 2With 26 Covid cases, Nangli Jalalpur village of the Tanda block in Hoshiarpur district has become a new coronavirus hotspot.Kapurthala has been declared Covid-free and Nawanshahr is on the way to be virus-free as only two active cases are left. Prior to it, Moranwali village in Garhshankar was the hotspot with 16 cases and one death and the Pathlawa village in Nawanshahr too had witnessed even lesser number of Covid-19 patients.The first Covid-19 patient in Nangli Jalalpur was traced a week ago that too after his death at a private hospital in Jalandhar where he was admitted for a kidney-related complication. Later, samples of his contacts were taken and among those found positive was the driver who used to take him to the hospital. He was in contact with several other persons of the village following which the chain of infected persons started rising.The said driver had organised a langar at his home. Though he was not found positive at that time, the village sarpanch had stopped him from organising the langar but he did it and around 10 families participated in the same. A woman with three shops in the village and surrounding areas has been found Covid positive.After that her family members and some of her customers were also found positive. By now 25 infected persons have been traced after the first Covid death in the village.Meanwhile, the village with a 4-km radius, consisting of nine villages, has been declared as a containment zone by Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Monday.District epidemiologist Dr Shailesh said the village was sealed and now the 4-km area around the village, including nine villages, had also been sealed and declared as a containment zone. Teams had been constituted for a door-to-door survey in these villages and intensive sampling would be done, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nangli-jalalpur-becomes-hotspot-with-26-covid-cases-93546
03-06-2020||Jalandhar||Social distancing goes for a toss at shops, vends in Jalalndhar||Now with several restrictions in the lockdown have already got relaxed, people have started coming out in high numbers. At many shops and food joints, and sugarcane juice vends, people were seen violating the social distancing norms.Inside narrow lanes and on roads people are seen in large numbers. Though they wear masks, they hardly follow physical distancing.Even when top cops of the district have been saying that social distancing (minimum six-ft distance) have to be maintained during all activities, it seems that people are hardly following the same and the pandemic has not discouraged them from going out and take precautions.Recently, Senior Medical Officer AS Duggal had also made an appeal to people to not to go easy post relaxations.“The relaxations doesn’t mean that the risk of the virus has died down. It is still there,” he had said, adding that he was shocked to witness heavy rush outside juice vends and food joints and people were standing close to each other while buying vegetables. People above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidity, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years have been advised to stay at home, except for essential needs and health purposes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-at-shops-vends-in-jalalndhar-93547
03-06-2020||---||Online counselling for jobless youths begins||Jalandhar, June 2As the unemployment rate surged to its highest amid suspended economic activities during the Covid-19 induced lockdown, the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise (DBEE) has started providing online and telephonic assistance to unemployed youths in the district.The digital initiative was adopted following statements of the Employment Generation and Skill Development and Training Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who lately stated that with the opening up of employment economy and relaxation conditions of lockdown, there is a need of employment generation and skill development among the unemployed youths. Hence, the facility has been started so that youth can get information related to different careers by staying at home.Sunita Kalyan, District Deputy Director of DBEE, informed that the online career counselling facility for the unemployed youth of the district had been started keeping in view the ongoing lockdown. “Since May 29, around 110 queries have been received on the helpline number and email ID. In addition, 427 youths have been counselled digitally. The counsellors are providing detailed information regarding self-employment schemes on mobile applications. Also telephonic and face to face interviews are being conducted for placement of youth following necessary Covid measures”, added Kalyan.Apart from counselling on self-employment, migration to foreign countries and loan related queries, the department will also provide online free coaching for government jobs in coming days, added Kalyan.A worker at the employment bureau said, on the directions of the state government, the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar and Karobar Mission is being running digitally due to the pandemic. Helpline number 9056920100 and E-mail ID: helplinedbeejal@gmail.com has been issued for the assistance.Owing to the increased unemployment rate, the youths in the city are mostly enquiring about jobs available. The District Bureau of Employment and Enterprisehas also created an online web link for registration of educated and other unemployed youth who are looking for jobs. Similarly, a link has also been created for registration of the employers also who are looking to hire employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-counselling-for-jobless-youths-begins-93548
03-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Rotary Club distributes school bags, notebooks||Jalandhar, June 2Members of the Rotary Club, Goraya Midtown, on Tuesday under their mission ‘Rotary Connects the World’ handed over school bags, green boards and notebooks to teachers of government primary schools at Nathewal and Chachrari in Jalandhar district to further distribute these among schoolchildren.The club distributed over 100 school bags, notebooks and green boards worth Rs 33,000 in both schools with the aim to motivate students to study dedicatedly from their homes amid the lockdown.Lupinder Kumar, member of the club, said on the request of the teachers of the school, 30 members of the club contributed Rs 1,000 each from their pockets for the noble cause. He said maintaining social distancing, we today handed over all these items to school teachers. The teachers have assured that they would distribute these items on doorsteps of the students while following all the guidelines of the administration.He said the sole purpose behind donating these items was to encourage students towards studies and to let them know that their teachers care for them and had been making all efforts to ensure quality education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rotary-club-distributes-school-bags-notebooks-93555
03-06-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Online education proving a boon for her exam preparations||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 2The students who are in the final year of their master’s degrees are confused and rather apprehended what will happen next. After the completion of masters, students look for jobs and this time they are worried about how they will find jobs and what the future has for them.It is true that had there been no pandemic, we would have more resources and would have joined coaching centres too, but now we have moulded ourselves according to the situation. We have some practical subjects too and learning online about them is quite difficult, but our teachers are making sure that they provide us recorded videos which are proving very helpful. — Namisha Gupta, MA-II studentNamisha Gupta, 23, a student of Masters in Arts (MA) II, is preparing for her final exams that may take place in July. Besides, she is also studying to crack the UGC exam.Apart from notes provided by her teachers, Gupta is taking the help of online education too. “My teachers have given us proper notes and the syllabus has been completed. I am taking guidance from YouTube lectures and I found out new websites and online links to hone my skills for aptitude test on a daily basis,” she added.Gupta said the lessons taught in the classes were very helpful for them. “It is true that had there been no pandemic, we would have more resources and would have joined coaching centres too, but now we have moulded ourselves according to the situation,” she said.Gupta, who aspires to be a lecturer, said at present her notes and laptop were her source of gaining knowledge. “We have some practical subjects too and learning online about them is quite difficult, but our teachers are making sure that they provide us recorded videos which are proving very helpful,” she said, adding that she had been preparing for the UGC exam for the past year, and now when the time had come, the pandemic had hit the world.“There are some students who have problem in connecting to the internet as they have poor net connection. This is the only hindrance which some of the students are facing at this time,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-education-proving-a-boon-for-her-exam-preparations-93556
03-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||Virtual site tours to boost real estate sector||Jalandhar, June 2With families spending more time at home during the lockdown, realtors have noticed a rising interest among buyers to own property.Manav Narula, proprietor of Kohinoor Property Studio, said though the past two months had witnessed a slowdown in the real estate business across the country, low interest rates and a weaker rupee at present have been contributing in changing the mindset of investors.He said non-resident Indians (NRIs) stranded here for over two months now had been asking for digital presentations and making up their mind to invest in residential property. Besides, the lockdown had forced service class people to think of buying own home and pay EMIs instead of rent, he added.“Be it builders, contractors and realty players, all of us have been hit like any other sector due to the lockdown. But I strongly feel it is a short-term disruption and the situation will improve soon depending on how long the economy takes to revive. However, once the economy bounces back, we will see a sharp recovery in the residential real estate sector because affordability is at all-time high. But the same could not be said for commercial property as it will take time to revive,” Narula said.On being asked what new trends he has adopted to attract the buyers, he said almost all realtors and builders had been opting innovative campaigns to promote their projects across digital platforms. “We are focusing more on digital presentations and virtual site tours, so that buyers get 80 per cent idea of the project while sitting at their homes", he said.He said since the business had reopened, he had received good numbers of enquiries online. "As work from home becomes more relevant, demand for larger spaces have increased. In fact, being locked up in homes for two months has changed people's mind, with clients not willing to live with compromises. Thus, a rebound in residential property is expected very soon," he said.When questioned if the lockdown will hit the prices of property in the state, Manav said for the time no changes in the prices were expected understanding the sentiments of the buyers. However, the situation might not be the same as there had been an increase in the cost of raw material as India imported steel, iron products, plastic and fibre from China. Thus, after the period of six to eight months, the rates might go up, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virtual-site-tours-to-boost-real-estate-sector-93557
03-06-2020||Industry & Lockdown||‘Moratorium imposed by govt on loan repayments hitting us hard’||Jalandhar-based PKF Finance Ltd has been getting less than 25 per cent recoveries of its loans. The owner of Rs500-crore group, Alok Sondhi, talks about the strategies adopted by the finance sector to deal with the crisis due to the Covid-19 breakout. In an interview with Deepkamal Kaur, he throws light on measures being taken to provide relaxation to the loanees. Excerpts:How has been the business since the Covid-19 outbreak?The business has suffered a lot. Being in the finance sector, we are facing a double-edged sword. While the government imposed moratorium on us in terms of accepting back the loan amount, but there is no relaxation for us for paying back the money to banks. On our payment side, there is moratorium on us and we are not supposed to accept money, but we have to pay back to the banks. Single-track action cannot happen, but luckily we have strength to bear it all.The business has suffered a jolt. Being in the finance sector, we are facing a double-edged sword. While the government imposed moratorium on us in terms of accepting back the loan amount, but there is no relaxation for us for paying back the money to banks. On our payment side, there is moratorium on us and we are not supposed to accept money, but we have to pay back to the banks. — Alok Sondhi, owner, PKF Finance LtdHave things improved in the past one month?Profitability has been badly hit. In fact, we are calculating how much loss we have already incurred this year. April has been completely washout. But things have started picking up and we have recovered by 25 to 30 per cent as of now. On the investment side, there are not many takers. Our recoveries are not even 25 per cent and it is not a healthy situation.How do you see the coming days for the business?Well, it is difficult to predict anything, but I think the entire situation may take at least four months or so to get back on track. In this grim scenario, the most interesting part is that though we have reduced the rate of interest on deposits, people are still coming to us for deposits as they have faith in us and don't like to depend on banks. But we are planning to reduce the rate of interest further and discourage any further deposits as there is no lending. Our lenders, including transporters, are in a bad position.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to employees?We have about 200 people on roll, mostly professional accountants. Though our pay date is 7th of the month, we have paid full salary on the 1st itself so that they can buy ration and other essential items. But now some senior employees have voluntarily agreed to 15-20 per cent pay cut. Those with lesser salaries have had to face smaller cuts. For the staff, we have introduced interest-free loans for buying tablets for their children attending online classes. Interest-free loan has also been offered for the purchase of two-wheelers, including second-hand vehicles.How many employees are coming to the office?In Punjab, almost entire staff are coming to the office. In Delhi and Gurgaon, we have told our staff that they can come conveniently, but who were coming by metro or their houses in containment zones have been asked to work from home. In Bilaspur (Himachal Pradesh), our office is in the containment zone. So, it has been lying shut at the moment.What changes have you made to keep the faith of the clientele?We have cut our rates on default by 50 per cent. We want to pay only as much as is our cost, so that they can all survive. In the business, we believe that our customer is God. So if they will survive, then we will survive. We are lending to industrialists for generators, medical equipment and agriculture tools.Do you believe that the Centre's financial package will help people come out of the crisis?It was a nice talk by the government, but the RBI and banks have not cooperated with the Finance Minister on the issue. Not a single penny has been announced for MSMEs or microfinance. The government should start lending directly rather than going through banks. We held a video-conferencing with the Finance Minister three days ago. I made three points - giving money at cheaper rates, seeking relaxation from the RBI for reverting on NPA norms for finance companies, providing 180 days of default time instead of 90 days and doing away with rating requirements for finance companies. As the general secretary, Punjab and Haryana Finance Companies Association, I need to raise concerns for the whole sector. We are also going to put up all points through the national body of the Finance Industry Development Council.How do you see the future of companies in the finance sector?I guess 80 per cent of the companies will vanish. Only those who were in the trade for 10 years or more and were doing the business ethically while keeping a good amount of financial reserve will survive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/moratorium-imposed-by-govt-on-loan-repayments-hitting-us-hard-93558
03-06-2020||Phagwara||Couple’s murder: three remanded||e-Sanjeevani OPD beginsPhagwara: The Health Department has commenced e-Sanjeevani OPD for gynaecology services from Tuesday to ensure mother and child healthcare. This was stated by Kapurthala Civil Surgeon Jasmeet Bawa here on Monday. The CMO said this service could be available for pregnant women from 8 am to 9:30 am while e-Sanjeevani OPD would be available for other services from 10 am to 1 pm. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/couples-murder-three-remanded-93559
