09-06-2020||Ajay Joshi---||Jalandhar mall opens to warm response on Day 1||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, June 8 Amid a daily spike in the number of Covid cases, shopping malls and religious institutions were reopened today after a gap of over 70 days as part of the first phase of ‘Unlock 1’ (the first stage of the three-phased lockdown exit plan). Elaborate arrangements were put in place to ensure safety of visitors in the wake of Covid spread. Visitors at these places were greeted with hand sanitisers and thermal scanners. Strict norms on social distancing and sanitisation were also followed. Malls and religious places were kept open for the public till 8 pm. While worship started at as early as 5 am in most of the temples, gurdwaras and mosques, malls were opened after 10 am. Ravinder Sharma, supervisor at Devi Talab Mandir, said around 1,500 devotees entered the temple and offered prayers today. “Devotees were under observation of volunteers and guards inside the temple complex and nobody was allowed to violate the social distancing norms,” he said. Similar was the view at MBD Neopolis Mall, located in the heart of the city. A visit to shopping malls will no longer be the same like before the lockdown was imposed in March. The entry would be granted only after strict adherence to guidelines to contain the spread of the virus. Kamaluddin, a security supervisor at the MBD mall, said the entry was only allowed to those who were wearing masks and having COVA application in their mobile phones. Besides, not over 50 visitors were allowed to enter the mall premises at one time. Over 350 persons today visited the mall. Those who didn’t have COVA application, downloaded it at the entrance to ensure their entry. Name, address and contact number of visitors were also noted down at the entrance. Meanwhile, the authorities apparently forgot to deny entry to elderly persons as two-three persons aged over 70 entered the mall for shopping. Triptam Mahendru (72),  who had come with her husband from Lohian Khas, said they were waiting for malls to open to purchase summer wear. While the sales in most of the malls remained minimal, sports lovers took the benefit of opening of their favourite brand stores and purchased sports gears and fitness equipment. Jatinder Singh, Decathlon store manager at the MBD mall, said they managed to have 20-30 per cent sale as people in a large number purchased sports and fitness equipment. People also showed interest in purchasing bicycles as the lockdown motivated them to go green.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-mall-opens-to-warm-response-on-day-1-96604
09-06-2020||Our Correspondent---||Over 5K challaned for not wearing face masks||Hoshiarpur, June 8 As many as 5,037 persons have been challaned in the district and fined Rs 17,69,900 so far for not wearing masks. Besides, over 146 persons were issued challans for spitting in public places. A sum of Rs 26,900 was collected from them as fine. DC Apneet Riyat said 135 teams had been deployed by the district administration to monitor 2,203 persons who had been home quarantined in the district. Civil Surgeon Jasvir Singh said so far 4,691 samples had been taken, of which 3,862 samples were tested negative and reports of 669 samples were yet to arrive. He said the district Covid count had reached 136 cases, of which 14 were active and five persons had died. As many as 24 samples were found invalid Meanwhile, samples of 396 persons were taken today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/over-5k-challaned-for-not-wearing-face-masks-96605
09-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar second in Punjab to cross 300 mark||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 8From 15 cases at the isolation ward in the district at one point of time, the number of active cases in the district has reached 67 today, 55 of them are at the local Civil Hospital.On Sunday, Jalandhar became the second district in the state to hit the 300 mark. Today, the number has risen to 314. While it took two months during the lockdown for the district to reach the 200 mark, it has taken less than a month to reach 300.Despite revised SOPs for discharge and mass discharges of several patients, the Covid numbers in the district have continued to grow at dramatic rates. The rise in cases is also accompanied by apprehensions about medical treatment.While the Civil Hospital led the fight against the virus, at one time filled to 200, it has a capacity of 340 isolation beds for Covid patients. Additionally, the Shahkot IMA centre has 30. Collectively, both centres have 20 ventilators (10 each).Containment zonesWhile as per the guidelines, there are only three cluster zones in the district. At present, as per officials, no containment zone has been added to the district. Areas which have seen majority of additions in the past several days include Rose Garden, Lamma Pind, among others. Even Virk village, which had no case for months, got a new case yesterday.Ever since the lockdown restrictions have been relaxed, social distancing has gone for a toss. In various chowks, public squares and other public places such as malls, offices and shops, people have seen violating the social distancing norms.Civil Surgeon Gurinder Kaur Chawla said: “The district is also facing a crisis like the rest of the state or country. The situation is the same everywhere. We have no guidelines so far regarding any revision in numbers of ventilators in the district. The 20 available ventilators are sufficient for now. We can add those on reserve in the private sector when the need is felt.”The Civil Surgeon said: “Currently, there are no containment zones in the district.”With 14 samples testing positive today, the district tally has risen to 314. Three children are among those who have tested positive today.The children include two boys, aged four and seven, respectively, both residents of Raj Nagar, here, and a seven-year-old child from Alloowal.Other cases tested positive today include two women from Swarn Park (both aged 21, a 44-year-old man from Basti Sheikh, a 37-year-old man from Bhagat Singh Colony, two persons from Lamma Pind (aged 37 and 27), a 29-year-old woman from Raj Nagar, a 48-year-old man from Labh Nagar, a 50-year old man, a 55-year-old woman from Suraj Ganj and a 41-year-old man.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-second-in-punjab-to-cross-300-mark-96607
09-06-2020||---||400 college students hold protest, demand concession in tuition fee||Jalandhar, June 8 As many as 400 students from various city-based colleges today staged a dharna in front of the District Administrative Complex to protest against the fee demand. The agitated students from Lyallpur Khalsa College, DAV College, HMV College, KMV City Institute and others also protested against their college managements for conducting examinations even as no regular online classes were conducted.  The students submitted their memorandum to ADC Jasbir Singh seeking the state government’s intervention. The students said their college managements were pressuring them to deposit the tuition fee. Daksh Padam, president of the Students’ Union, Lyallpur Khalsa College, said their classes had been on hold since the lockdown.  Online classes were also conducted occasionally, but most of the syllabus remained uncovered.  He said most students were not in a position to pay the fee, and when classes had not been conducted, the fee should also not be charged. “Students belonging to all categories should be provided fee concession”, said Daksh, a student of BCA second year.  Similarly, other students also rued that they could not have access to online classes, hence half of the topics remained uncovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/400-college-students-hold-protest-demand-concession-in-tuition-fee-96609
09-06-2020||---||SBS Colony flat owners resent poor upkeep||Jalandhar, June 8 After the parapet of a house gave way two days ago, owners of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Colony flats have resented that the Jalandhar Improvement Trust was not taking care of the colony that had been established by it nearly 25 years ago. Residents said as there was heavy rainfall and windstorm on Saturday morning, the parapet of a house went down with a thud. They showed cracks that had started appearing in the outer walls of the building and the garbage that was accumulating spaces between the flats. They said the wild growth all around the flats and even in its crevices was making the building weak. JIT Chairman Daljeet Singh Ahluwalia said: “The flats were constructed by us more than 25 years ago and handed over to the MC. So, the onus of maintaining flats now lies with the owners who had bought these flats. It is only the sewage and other common facilities that the MC has to maintain. Most people occupying the flats are our payment defaulters and we have been issuing notices to them.” “Still we will get the exact situation checked tomorrow and issue directions to the flat owner or the MC (whosoever found responsible) to get the repair work done and ensure safety of the residents,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sbs-colony-flat-owners-resent-poor-upkeep-96610
09-06-2020||Jalandhar||Agriculture Dept to double area under maize||To promote crop diversification and save the depleting groundwater, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department is set to double the area under maize cultivation by encouraging farmers to shun the cultivation of the water-guzzling paddy crop. The department has started providing quality maize seeds to the farmers and set the target of increasing the area under maize cultivation from 8,800 hectares to 16,500 hectares in the district. Jalandhar Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO) Surinder Singh said the department was offering maize seeds of several hybrid varieties which were duly certified by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU). He said the varieties including DKC 9164, NK 7750, NK 7720, P 3396, P 3401, PAC 751, ADVG-9293, PMH-1, PL 801, PL 901, TX-369, Lakshmi-333, LG-3405, were being given in offices of the department to the farmers. The groundwater table had been depleting by 37 cm annually in the district and all 10 blocks of the district had been declared overexploited. The CAO said maize could be the best alternative for the water-consuming paddy crop to save the depleting groundwater. He said there was a need of 3,700 litres of water for one-kg paddy, whereas in the case of one-kg maize, 1,222 litres of water was needed, which was much lower than paddy. Dr Singh said: “By replacing paddy with maize, we can stop further depletion of groundwater in the district.” He added that the department was also brainstorming over the issue of marketing problem of the maize crop and the same was being sorted out so that maximum farmers could be motivated to adopt the crop. The CAO also advised the farmers to use portable dryer for drying the maize crop before bringing it to the market. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/agriculture-dept-to-double-area-under-maize-96611
09-06-2020||Our Correspondent---||Clear cane dues of  farmers, says AAP||Hoshiarpur, June 8  A sit-in was staged by the Aam Aadmi Party in front of the District Administrative Complex, protesting against the non-payment of more than Rs 400 crore of the outstanding amount of farmers, by sugar mills.  Addressing the dharna, AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema said the sugar mills under Hoshiarpur parliamentary constituency had to pay more than Rs 400 crores to the farmers. Since most of these mills were either of Congress and Akali Dal leaders, state government was sitting mum. He said the farmers of Punjab were already going through economic slowdown and now, due to non-payment of dues of farmers by these sugar mills, the Aam Aadmi Party had to protest in favour of the farmers. Cheema said the voice of farmers would not be suppressed at any cost. He said the government was working on the lines of Akali-BJP government. Whether it is drug, sand or liquor mafia, it is still active like the previous government. He said at first, the liquor scam and now the seed scam had taken place in Punjab on such a large scale, but no action was taken by the government, while these two departments are with Chief Minister.  On this occasion, the head of Doaba Zone, Dr Ravjot Singh said more than Rs 400 crore of farmers was stuck with the sugar mills, but the government had kept quiet. He said the Aam Aadmi Party would continue the struggle against the mills and the government till the above dues are given to the farmers. MLA Jai Kishan Rodi, MLA Manjit Singh Bilaspur, MLA Kulatar Singh Sandhwan were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/clear-cane-dues-of-farmers-says-aap-96612
09-06-2020||---||JIT to launch housing scheme for EWS families||Jalandhar, June 8 The Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) will launch an affordable housing scheme for the economically weaker section (EWS) of society soon. Chairing a meeting of the JIT, held at its office on Monday, MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary said rapid urbanisation had caused severe housing shortages in the state, particularly in the city. He said it was the need of the hour to come up with affordable housing projects. The senior Congress leader said the JIT would send its recommendation regarding the policy on affordable housing to be framed by the state government. According to the proposed policy, the civic body would identify land for the project and if that belonged to the state government or was in the ownership of any of the department of the state or the Centre, the JIT would submit a Cabinet note along with the revenue record of the land to the Department of Local Government. He said after ascertaining the cost of dwelling units of minimum carpet area of 30 square metres, the process for identification of beneficiaries would be initiated. The MP said the government would tie up with banks to provide home loans to beneficiaries, along with interest subsidies. He instructed the JIT Chairman, Daljeet Singh Ahluwalia, to prepare the project proposal soon. Welcoming the proposals, MLAs Pargat Singh, Rajinder Beri and Sushil Kumar Rinku said the initiative would help channelise the flow of money in the market and strengthen the economy. They said construction of more houses in the city would not only resolve the housing problem but would also generate employment opportunities in the construction sector. On the occasion, senior Youth Congress leader Kaku Ahluwalia, SE Rakesh Garg, EO Jatinder Singh and others were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jit-to-launch-housing-scheme-for-ews-families-96613
09-06-2020||---||8 mobile phones recovered from jail inmates||8 mobile phones recovered from jail inmates Hoshiarpur, June 8 The Central Jail authorities, during a search operation in the jail, recovered eight mobile phones from under trials and prisoners. On the basis of the complaint received from the jail administration, the city police have booked eight accused.  The accused were identified as under Prince, alias, Mani, a  resident of Tarn Taran; Gurpreet Singh, alias, Gopi, alias, Goli, a resident of Kotli Surat Malian, Police District Batala; Sajan Kaliyan and Ramandeep Singh, alias, Rami, a resident of Amritsar; Baljinder Singh, alias, Gandhi a resident of Mahidipur, under police station Bhogpur, district Jalandhar and Arun Kumar, alias, Chhuri Maar, a resident of Amritsar (all under trials), prisoners Satish Gill, a resident of Jalandhar and prisoner Bahadur Khan resident of Fatehgarh Sahib. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/8-mobile-phones-recovered-from-jail-inmates-96614
09-06-2020||Ashok Kaura---||‘Ensure compliance with safety protocols’||Kapurthala, June 8 Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal, while reviewing the functioning of the Revenue Department today, issued various guidelines to officers in view of Covid-19. During a meeting with the officials of the Revenue Department at the meeting hall of the District Administrative Complex, she said the stalled work of the Revenue Department had now resumed after a hiatus due to Covid-19.  Therefore, she directed the officers to expedite the work of demarcation, auction of shamlat lands and deposits. She also directed that the pending cases should be settled expeditiously. She directed all the Sub Divisional Magistrates to conduct regular meetings with the Tehsildars, Naib Tehsildars and other concerned officers at their level to evaluate the work related to the Revenue Department. She also said the services being provided under the Right to Service Act should be provided to the people in a timely and transparent manner. Apart from this, she also reviewed the computerisation of land records and functioning of service centers and issued various instructions to the officers. The Deputy Commissioner directed to ensure compliance of social distance and other health protection measures in Fard Kendras and Seva Kendras in the wake of Covid-19. She directed AIIMS to coordinate with the Police Department at the checkpoints, bus stands and other public places to contain the Covid spread.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ensure-compliance-with-safety-protocols-96615
09-06-2020||---||Now, 8-laning of PAP ROB proposed||Jalandhar, June 8To decongest the vehicular traffic on the Jalandhar-Amritsar National Highway near the PAP Chowk railway overbridge (ROB), Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar today gave in-principle approval to the PAP-ROB eight-laning project.Both officers today held a brainstorming session with National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officers at the District Administrative Complex. They said the NHAI would construct four additional lanes along with the ROB. They said the widening project of the ROB has also been submitted to the Railway Ministry by the NHAI and a team of railways had also visited the site recently.They said the NHAI would also construct two roundabouts on PAP Chowk and Rama Mandi Chowk for streamlining of the traffic with provisions of traffic lights. They also asked the PSPCL to coordinate with the NHAI for ensuring speedy shifting of some electric transmission lines near the site.They also asked the NHAI officers to make sure that trenches/drains along the retaining wall of the flyover were made underground to make the movement of traffic hassle-free and smooth.The duo said they would regularly monitor the progress of these projects by holding such meetings in coming days too.Additional Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal, Deputy Commissioner of Police Naresh Dogra, ADCP Gagnesh Kumar, Assistant Commissioner of Police HS Bhalla and NHAI Project Director Col Yogesh Chander (retd) were among those others present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-8-laning-of-pap-rob-proposed-96618
09-06-2020||---||KMV keeps students engaged in social service during lockdown||Deepkamal KaurTribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 8Even as educational institutes are shut, students of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya have kept themselves engaged in some kind of activity or the other during the lockdown.They did not just attend online classes and appeared for their online internal assessments but were also kept themselves engaged in a number of activities ranging from community counselling, holding online physical activity workshops, participating in video competitions, distribution of cooked food, mask making, poster making and conducting free classes on cosmetology, dance and spoken English.A tough taskmaster, Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi says: “Thankfully, we had already digitally developed technology and we were ready to start with online activities right since the lockdown started. We finished the syllabus in time, made students revise, cleared their doubts and even gave them test papers and projects.”The Principal added, “But soon, we realised that the lockdown is going to be extended for a longer period and we need to take care of our community. Among the first things that we did was to take care of the mental health of the people. The staff and students from the psychology and nutrition department got into action and started counselling people on phone. The young as well as the elderly reached out to us for seeking advice from our experts through the programme which we began calling 'KMV Cares'. As a part of the same initiative, even I volunteered to talk to my studenats about such issues directly through Zoom.”Under the same programme, the college started distributing free meals to the migrants around adjoining Focal Point area. “Our hostellers were gone but our 16-17 cooks were with us. We provided them ration in large quantities and asked them to make simple meals in bulk quantities which we got distributed for almost 10 days,” shared the principal.Next came the project to stitch masks. The college staff and students have already stitched and distributed 35,000 masks to the people. “We sent the masks to the administration, police and Jalandhar MP and asked them to distribute these to people who need them. We asked students to stitch masks and drop them in a collection box kept at the college gates. The masks are still coming and we have 5,000 more masks for distribution at the moment. So, we deputed NCC students from our college asking them to keep an eye on anyone going out without mask, stop him and hand it over to him for use,” Dr Dwivedi said adding that this initiative was started under another project titled 'Helping hands'.With regard to the college activities, she said, “Initially, when there were issues regarding the need to spread awareness about Covid and social distancing, we got 1,000 posters readied by students and got them put out in common places in villages and cities for people to read and learn. Then on, we got video competition organised again on awareness and got the videos circulated on social media for better understanding. We got dietary charts prepared for developing immunity. Three of our students were even declared 'Covid Warriors' by the Union Government.”Principal Dwivedi said, “Now that the students are done with their internal assessments, they were again free. So, they have started taking free online classes, dance, painting, spoken English, cooking and cosmetology. People from as far as Banaras, Jharkhand, J&K and Dehradun are attending our live classes and watching our recordings on the social media. I have even organised 15 webinars. So, certainly we have attempted to enhance our reach, helped the community and widened the horizon of our students in these days, making the lockdown time really worthwhile.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kmv-keeps-students-engaged-in-social-service-during-lockdown-96637
09-06-2020||---||No buzz for this city gift shop as sales negligible post relaxations||Avneet KaurJalandhar, June 8Hit by the Covid-19 nationwide lockdown, businesses have been experiencing major impact no matter how established they are. It has become challenging for traders to keep their financial wheels moving due to less revenue.Ravinder Singh, owner of the Sahib's Gallery at the Model Town here, feels that people have been avoiding to buy anything except essential items. “Everybody is grappling with tremendous uncertainty about their future plans. Even if I think of planning new strategies to attract customers, the fear of present scenario and increasing number of Covid cases stop me. It is quite possible looking around the situation that government may again impose curfew. Hence, it's wise to wait for at least six months.”He said on the first four days of opening the shop, the sales were quite good. However, after that, the sales went down by more than 80 per cent. “In our business, youngsters do the most shopping. We have fancy gifts, home décor items, soft toys, perfumes, watches, wallets, handbags and among other things. As most of the people are staying at home and avoiding venturing out, we have fewer customers,” he said adding that only one or two clients a day at present have been visiting.When questioned, if they have ordered any new stock with the reopening of the business after two months, Ravinder said as the sales have gone down, they are in no mood to replenish the stocks. “We buy most of our products from foreign nations, including China, Japan and Europe. But, the present conditions are not favorable, so we have been avoiding placing any new order. Covid-19 will have a long-lasting impact on the overall economy. I do not see things turning normal anytime soon,” he said.He also said there had been no government support to the traders and businessmen. “The government announced the moratorium, but it only increased our burden as the interests were piled up. The government could have at least waived electricity bills and bank interest,” he said.On being asked if he has any future strategies planned to attract sales, Ravinder said the situation had changed the mindset of the public. “We have to wait and analyse the scenario in the market before we jump onto any plans or strategies. But we would bring some new stock during the Raksha Bandhan,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-buzz-for-this-city-gift-shop-as-sales-negligible-post-relaxations-96638
09-06-2020||RANJAN Aggarwal||‘Entrepreneurs should get loans at low interest rate’||How has the Covid-induced lockdown impacted your business?There were huge losses in the form of salaries to employees, payment of bank interest on advances, electricity bills during the lockdown period. During the lockdown, we had no income but only expenses.Do you expect any of your businesses to restart in the near future?At present, the demand is nil. Also, keeping in mind the safety of workers, it is difficult to restart operations. Most of the labourers are from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and around 80 per cent of them have left for their homes. Without them, we can't restart production. We are waiting for them to come back and the demand to rise and lift the sagging morale of industries.How are you dealing with salaries of your factory workers?Since May, we have been giving 70 per cent salaries to labourers. From this month, we are running factory at 30 per cent capacity but will give full salary to those working.What is the share of online tradingin your profession?The share of online trade in our business is zero.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?The important lesson that I have learnt from the lockdown is to be self-dependent. In tough times, neither the state nor the Centre comes to the rescue. Each business house, big or small, should fulfil the corporate social responsibility as it leads to long-term productivity.How do you consider the current crisis, as a challenge or an opportunity?The current crisis is definitely a challenge. To handle the current labour crisis and to run the business when there is no demand are tough tasks. The closure of business will lead to liquidity crunch as securing payments for the products sold will remain a biggest task.What are your expectations fromthe government?In these tough times, entrepreneurs are expecting hand-holding from the government. The Reserve Bank of India should lower the repo rate from 4 per cent to 3 per cent. Like the Rs63,000 crore given to banks to deal with NPAs, the government should give financial support to small entrepreneurs. Interest on loans for the lockdown period should be waived off and instalments should be deferred for a year. Businessmen must get new loans at the interest of 4 per cent to 5 per cent. Electricity tariff for the period should also be waived and power tariff for the next six months should be fixed at half of the present level. These measures will help industries recover. The Rs20-lakh crore package announced by the Union Government is of little use.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/entrepreneurs-should-get-loans-at-low-interest-rate-96639
