11-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||86-year-old man is 10th Covid casualty in district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 10With the death of an 86-year-old man who tested positive for Covid-19 in the district here this morning, the number of casualties in the district has risen to 10. With four more positive cases today (including the deceased man), the total tally in Jalandhar has risen to 319.The deceased man, a resident of Moti Nagar in Jalandhar, was taken to the IMA facility at Shahkot in Jalandhar but he died on the way, as per doctors. The last death that occurred in the district was on June 3 when a 64-year-old man who tested positive for Covid-19 breathed his last.Dr Navjot Dahiya, president of the state chapter of the IMA, said: “The 86-year-old man had been receiving treatment at a private hospital where he was also tested positive for Covid-19. He was also taken to the local Civil Hospital, but the family decided to shift him to the IMA facility. He died within minutes of being brought to the IMA facility. He was gasping when he was brought in.”The deceased had co-morbidities, including hypertension, diabetes and heart diseases, said Dr Dahiya.Dr TP Singh, nodal officer, Covid-19, Jalandhar, said: “So far, no previous contact of the deceased has been established but the process to track and test his family members is on. He also had co-morbidities. He died while on the way to the IMA facility and as per the authorities there, he was brought dead.”Of the four patients who tested positive today, the other three include a 46-year-old man with a travel history (he had returned from Delhi on May 31), a resident of Friends Colony; a 66-year-old man, a resident of Avtar Nagar and a contact of a previous patient, and a 64-year-old resident of New Vijay Nagar. Both 46 and 66 year old persons have been admitted to the CMC, Ludhiana, and the 64-year-old person had been admitted to the DMC, Ludhiana.The 66-year-old man is also a lab technician at a private hospital.Notably, a high-profile astrologer (50), died in the past week. His four family members had tested positive for Covid. As the deceased was not tested for Covid, he is not part of the official coronavirus tally in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/86-year-old-man-is-10th-covid-casualty-in-district-97537
11-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||Amid labour crunch, farmers begin paddy transplantation||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 10Paddy Transplantation Advanced By Five DaysTill now over 75,000 hectares of land have been covered under the DSR technique which was only 1,300 last year, stated GulatiFarmers in the district today began the manual sowing of paddy. Perturbed over the inflated labour cost, farmers claimed that due to shortage of farm labourers, they couldn’t cover much area on the first day and the sowing remained limited.Notably, the labour cost has increased from Rs 3,000 to Rs 5,000 per acre this year. As per the district agriculture department, only 180 hectares of the land was sown with on the first day of the traditional sowing method.Paddy is a major Kharif crop in the state and is expected to be sown under 1,68,000 hectares land, said, Naresh Gulati, Agriculture Officer, Jalandhar.Palwinder Singh, a farmer at Lidhran village tried to convince the labourers to reduce their charges. He said, “Ever since the labourers had moved back to their villages due to lockdown, it had become difficult for them to arrange more hands for timely sowing of paddy and the ones who were available, have hiked their prices. They are now asking to pay them Rs 4,000 for the fields that they sowed last year for Rs 2,500. This year we have also experimented with the DSR technique and if it gives expected yield we will shift to it from next year onwards as it takes only Rs 1,200 for sowing one acre land.”Similarly, Sandeep Singh, a farmer from Momandpur village in Bhogpur said, the sowing process remained dry today as he couldn’t fetch enough labourers. We are facing acute shortage of labour to transplant paddy saplings. Most of the labourers have left for their home states. Even as the date for the sowing has been shifted five days prior the sowing will continue for more than 20 days. We are yet to convince the labourers to cut down the labour cost,” added Sandeep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-labour-crunch-farmers-begin-paddy-transplantation-97538
11-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||Padho Punjab Padhao Punjab team launches mobile app||Jalandhar, June 10The district Padho Punjab Padhao Punjab (PPPP) team has come up with a mobile application, ‘PPPP Jalandhar’ to cater to the educational needs of students from Classes VI to X. The application has an additional column for Class X students, aspiring to crack meritorious school entrance test.The team has started instructing teachers to motivate students to download the app so that they can avail maximum benefit from it. It can be downloaded for free from the Google playstore.Chander Shekhar, district mentor, English, and social studies, said the app had been developed for all students from Classes VI to X. But it has a special feature for students of Class X aiming to clear the meritorious entrance exam and wants to prepare for the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) and the State Talent Search Examination (STSE).“The app contains maths, science and English e-content as well as multimedia videos. The feature of weekly test has also been added to the app,” he said, adding that students these days were making much use of technology and were searching various websites, videos, etc, to prepare for upcoming competitive exams. Thus, to help them in their preparations, the Padho Punjab district team had come up with the idea of the ‘PPPP Jalandhar’ app.He said through the app, the PPP team would provide free coaching to students.“We have uploaded academic syllabus of all classes, old question papers and frequently asked questions in the app so that students do not have to make notes and can revise any topic by just clicking on it,” he said.He said as many as 650 students had already enrolled themselves and downloaded the app. Shekhar said the app had interactive content and students could also take quizzes on the app. “One can also join the quiz room and compete with other students simultaneously. Various topics are provided in maths, science, social studies and English subjects, which students can go through any time they want. There are nearly 15 to 30 elements in each subject,” he added.“After one month, we will organise a mock test of meritorious entrance exam and all students will participate via app only. Besides, it has many academic activities too through which students can enhance vocabulary and learn grammar,” he added.How to registerStudents of Classes VI to X need to register themselves under the ‘student’s corner’ option and those willing to register for free coaching for meritorious entrance, have to click on the ‘Online coaching’ option and fill their details such as name, school, phone number, e-mail and language.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/padho-punjab-padhao-punjab-team-launches-mobile-app-97539
11-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Awareness quiz on Covid-19 launched||Hoshiarpur, June 10Under Mission Fateh, the district administration endeavoured to spread awareness regarding Covid-19. Under this initiative, an online quiz has been prepared by the youth services department of the district, in collaboration with the Public Relations Department, Hoshiarpur. The awareness poster and the link of the quiz were released by Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyat on Wednesday.Assistant Director Youth Services Department Preet Kohli said 20 questions would have to be answered using the online link and all these questions are related to Covid-19. He said the e-certificate would be sent online through email to the person answering 60 per cent or more correct answers. He said this link could be seen on the Facebook page of the District Public Relations Office. District Public Relations Officer Hakam Thapar were also present.Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyat said awareness was the only weapon to fight the battle of Covid-19, so every platform was being used by the district administration to spread awareness. She said in the Internet era, online quiz would prove to be a milestone in spreading awareness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/awareness-quiz-on-covid-19-launched-97540
11-06-2020||Our Correspondent||106 selected for private sector jobs during lockdown||Phagwara, June 10Continuing the ‘Mission Fateh’, launched by the state government to defeat the Covid-19 panedemic, the District Bureau of Employment and Trade under the leadership of Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal, selected 106 youth for private sector jobs during the lockdown. Appointment letters were handed over to them by the Deputy Commissioner recently.She also distributed certificates among 134 candidates who had completed the soft skills course from the bureau during the lockdown. The DC said due to the closure of all educational institutions during the lockdown, time of students was being wasted. Candidates who wanted to enhance their knowledge and skills were given the course by the bureau in which they were given online training on interview skills, communication skills and personality development.The DC encouraged candidates to achieve a higher position in life by preparing for competitive examinations. Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Surinder Pal Angra, District Employment Generation and Training Officer Neelam Mahe, placement officers and career counsellors were among others who were present. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/106-selected-for-private-sector-jobs-during-lockdown-97541
11-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Blind murder case solved, three alleged killers held||Phagwara, June 10In a major breakthrough, the Nakodar police headed by DSP Navdeep Singh Mahal on Wednesday traced a blind murder case and arrested three persons, allegedly involved in the case, under Sections 307, 324, 323 and 34 of the IPC.Senior Superintendent of the Police(Rural) Navjot Singh Mahal said the arrested suspects were identified as Bhupinder Singh, alias Bhinda of Sanghe Khalsa village, Deepa and Mandeep Kumar, both residents of Nat village under Nurmahal police station.Mahal said the police had recovered one sword, one iron rod, one dasta of spade, two motorcycles and one silver karha (male bangle) from the suspects.The SSP, while giving details, said Mohinder Pal, a resident of Nawanpind Shaukian village under Sadar Nakodar police station went to a doctor to fetch medicine for his wife on July 15 last year. When he was returning back, some unknown persons attacked upon and seriously injured him.The victim, Mahinder Pal, succumbed to his injuries on July 19 last year.The SSP said during interrogation suspect Bhupinder Singh revealed that Mohinder Pal was a self-styled godman and used to conduct evil spirit acts. He also conducted some evil spirited act near his house due to which his father fell ill and after two months, he died. The suspect said on three occasions the marriage match of his sister was also broken. The SSP said Bhupinder Singh was of the view that Mohinder Pal was responsible for all these mishaps occurred in his family and thus he kept vengeance with him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/blind-murder-case-solved-three-alleged-killers-held-97542
11-06-2020||Hoshiarpur||Four booked for violating home quarantine norms||The district police have booked four persons for violating the quarantine norms. These persons were home quarantined after they came to the district from other states. One of them has even returned to his workplace in Mohali.According to information, the Talwara police have booked Sanjeev Kumar of Amroh village under Sections 188, 269 and 271 of the IPC and Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act. He was quarantined on May 28 and his quarantine period was up to June 11. Yesterday when a police team reached his home, he was found absent. On being asked about his whereabouts, the family confirmed that he had gone to work on a crusher in Hadesran village of Lalru, Mohali, on June 6.In Tanda, Jasvir Singh of Kurala Kalan village was home quarantined till June 20 but during checking by the police on Tuesday, he was reportedly found roaming around violating the quarantine norms.Suraj, a resident of Refugee Mohalla, Jaja, was home quarantined on May 27 but he was also found absent from home. Separate FIRs have been lodged against the suspect . In Hajipur, Akash Koundal, who was home quarantined on June 1, was found roaming around violating the norms. He was booked by the police under various sections of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Disease Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-booked-for-violating-home-quarantine-norms-97543
11-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Woman booked for murdering son||Nakodar, June 10The Shahkot police on Tuesday booked a woman on the charge of murdering her six-year-old son.Surindar Kumar, SHO, said the accused had been identified as Kulwindar Kaur, a resident of Sohal village and mother of the deceased, Arashdip Singh.Avtar Singh, grandfather of Arashdip Singh, complained to the police that his son is in Italy and he is living with his wife, daughter-in-law and grandson in his house and sleep in different rooms.He said his daughter-in-law murdered his grandson on Monday night with a knife after fighting with his wife as child was more attached with his grandmother adding that such fight was a routine.He said after noise from her room he continuously knocked at the door which she opened after a long time adding that when he entered the room his grandson was profusely bleeding and he rushed Arashdip to Nakodar Civil Hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead. He said Kulwindar Kaur tried to attack him but somehow he managed to escape unhurt.Avtar Singh said after some time his daughter-in-law tried to commit suicide by jumping from rooftop and was seriously injured and his relatives rushed her to a Nakodar clinic. The SHO said a case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against the accused and further investigations were on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-booked-for-murdering-son-97544
11-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Flash fiction gaining popularity among readers, say writers||Hoshiarpur, June 10A webinar was held by the Chandigarh Literary Society (CLS) which was attended by writers and authors of the region. City-based writer Dr Rana Preet Gill stressed on the need to inculcate the habit of reading books since childhood. Dr Rana Preet Gill and Yuvika Grewal took part in an interaction moderated by Niharika Bhuwania.Dr Gill, working as a Veterinary Officer with Punjab Animal Husbandry Department, said she had been a diligent reader since schooldays, which she believes helped her in writing.The session revolved around varied themes, ranging from lockdown, writing as a catharsis, the changing face of publishing industry, importance of reading and self-publishing as an option, against traditional publishing. While Dr Gill considered social media to be an open platform, where everyone is free to voice its own opinion, Grewal emphasised reading as a learning experience.Both the writers believed that the times had changed and writing had evolved in the past few months. They elaborated upon how micro fiction and flash fiction had come up to the rescue of those who do not want to read full length novels. The imposition of lockdown has created a niche reading audience, which wants to read shorter pieces of fiction for instant gratification.Vivek Atray said the CLS had been very encouraging when it came to promoting writers of the region. It had been the constant endeavour of the society to encourage the upcoming talent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/flash-fiction-gaining-popularity-among-readers-say-writers-97545
11-06-2020||Jalandhar||Protest over massive fee hike at medical colleges||MBBS students from various medical colleges across the state organised a protest against a massive fee hike by the government.Jalandhar students also joined the protest and flooded the social media with hashtags #MSNPunjab, #DoctorsAgainstFeeHike, #MBBSForAll, and #EqualStipendForAll.Punjab, where medical education is already the most expensive, has further increased the fee in all colleges, making it impossible for those from economically weaker sections to get admission to medical colleges.The protest was held on various social media platforms in which interns, students as well as doctors in white coat and black badges condemned the fee hike. Tanveer Singh Dahiya, Ganeev Singh and Rakesh Koul led the protest and members from all medical colleges in the state participated. The issue of a meagre and non-uniform stipend was also raised. The students said the state had the highest fee for postgraduate courses. The IMA MSN said it opposes the 80 per cent fee hike. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/protest-over-massive-fee-hike-at-medical-colleges-97546
11-06-2020||---||696 teams to monitor people violating home quarantine norms||Jalandhar, June 10Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Singh Mahal said yesterday that 696 teams of the police and civil administration would keep a strict vigil on people violating the home quarantine norms. The officials said people coming from outside were put under home quarantine to check spread of Covid-19.They said 202 teams had been constituted at Shahkot, 232 in Phillaur, 150 in Nakodar, 41 in Jalandhar-I and 71 in Jalandhar-II. These teams had been directed to take strict action against those violating the orders. They also solicited support of people to keep an eye on any violation of home quarantine by people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/696-teams-to-monitor-people-violating-home-quarantine-norms-97547
11-06-2020||Nakodar||Woman held with 5 -kg poppy husk||No headway in murder caseNakodar: The city police have failed to make any headway in the murder case of a 70-year-old man even after three years. Harbans Lal was found murdered at his house in the Mohalla Rehmanpura locality on October 24, 2016. Harbans was residing alone and was employed as a daily wager. He was brutally murdered with a sharp weapon. The police had registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC against unidentified persons on a statement of Ranjit Singh, son of the deceased. Nakodar SHO Aman Saini said the investigation was on in the case. OCMan held with pistol, bulletsTanda Urmar: The CIA Dasuya police have arrested a youth and seized a pistol and 50 rounds of ammunition from him at a checkpoint on Tuesday. As per information, ASI Satwinder Singh, posted at the Dasuya CIA, has filed a complaint with the Tanda police. He has complained that on a secret information, a checkpoint was set up by the CIA team on the Giljian link road when a person riding a bike was signalled to stop for checking. During search, a 9 mm pistol, 50 bullets and a blank magazine were seized from the suspect. The suspect has been identified as Jasvir Singh, alias Momi, of Badi Miani. A case has been registered against him under the Arms Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-held-with-5-kg-poppy-husk-97554
11-06-2020||---||Teacher among 2 killed in mishap||Jalandhar, June 10Two persons were killed and another sustained injuries after an overspeeding oil tanker overturned on a car. The accident was reported around 7.30 am on Wednesday on the Jalandhar-Nakodar road, near Partappura village.The deceased persons include a school teacher of a private school, here, who along with the principal of the school, was going to duty in Mehatpur in Nakodar.Investigating officer ASI Mohinder Singh, Pratapura police station, said the oil tanker overturned on the car when the tanker driver in a bid to overtake the car lost control over his vehicle.The deceased were identified as Amit Kumar (28), the driver of the car, who was a resident of Narayan Colony, Surya Enclave, and Shelly (26), a resident of Sita Nagar, Basti Danishmanda. Principal Jyoti Sharma reportedly received fractures on both her legs and was out of danger. Driver of the oil tanker Rana Ranjit Singh also sustained injuries and was admitted to the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar. He told the police that he had come from Bhatinda and was heading towards Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teacher-among-2-killed-in-mishap-97555
11-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||These BTech grads get jobs amid lockdown||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 10At a time when most of the companies have been going for retrenchment of staff or cutting down of salaries, things have been going good for the two BTech pass-outs from the Regional Campus of Guru Nanak Dev University, Ladhewali.Unlike my friends, I had no plans to go to Canada. I had always dreamt of getting into a good company. I was doing C-DAC training when this opportunity came my way. Our e-boarding will start around May 15.Anmol VyasAll of 22 and having just completed their graduation in Computer Science Engineering, both Tirathpreet Singh Nijjar and Anmol Vyas have been selected by education technology company BYJU's at Business Development Associates on an annual package of Rs 10 lakh. Since campus placements or written tests were not possible at this juncture, the duo went through a set of three interviews - one telephonic and two online- via Zoom - before they finally secured a berth for themselves.Both of them said getting placed during this time mattered a lot to them. “The situation around has been grim. We were somehow confident that sooner or later, we will get into something good. But we never knew it would come that soon,” both of them shared.I had cleared my CDS examination and my interview was scheduled around mid-May in Allahabad. But it got cancelled owing to lockdown. I was a bit upset, but in the meantime, this opportunity came my way.Tirathpreet Singh NijjarNijjar, whose father has been serving as Colonel in the Army, mother is a government health officer and sister in the Indian Air Force, adds, “I had cleared my CDS examination and my interview was scheduled around mid-May at Allahabad. But it got cancelled owing to lockdown. I was a bit upset, but in the meantime, this opportunity came my way.”Vyas, whose father is working in an MNC, says “Unlike my friends around, I had no plans to go to Canada. I had always dreamt of getting into a good company. I was doing C-DAC training when this opportunity came my way. Our e-boarding will start around May 15.”The boys added, “Our company is based in Bengaluru and we were expecting training there. But may be we will be starting on with online training from our place. In between, we may have to visit the regional office of the company in Jalandhar. The training sessions will be of six to eight hours. Though we are not sure but if same conditions prevail, we may have to Work from Home for some days for the company. Initially, we will be expected to promote the digital application of the company and answer the queries of the users within 24 hours.”Both Nijjar and Vyas gave the credit for their success to their college faculty, “They trained us well for our placements and helped us prepare a good resume.” Nijjar says owing to frequent transfers of his parents, he got a chance to travel a lot, meet new friends and develop more confidence while getting accustomed to new surroundings. Vyas says that the discipline and mentoring by his grandfather, who retired as a DSP from the Punjab Police helped him develop the required skills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/these-btech-grads-get-jobs-amid-lockdown-97556
11-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||As demand for fresh flowers slumps, this florist shifts to artificial ones||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 10Post lockdown, fresh flowers have completely vanished from the shelves of most florists in the city. Known for their collection of fresh flowers and packaging, the owner of Meera Flower World has now been doing it all with artificial flowers.Be it a rose stick or a bouquet or car decoration work, almost everything is now being done with artificial flowers which have quite a semblance of real ones and have become more acceptable these days. “Since the Covid-19 outbreak, the demand for fresh flowers has come down to almost zero. No one wants to take anything that exchanges so many hands. Since artificial flowers are washable and have a longer shelf life, the demand has switched over to these from fresh flowers, say Harinder Singh, who runs the popular Meera Flower World in Lajpat Nagar Market here.“The quality of artificial flowers has increased so much that they look almost like real ones. The variety is also wide. One can go for small-potted plants, bushes, foliage, creepers, hangings, etc and have these packed in such a way that we normally do for the real plants. Roses, lilies, bougainvillea, palm, araucaria, ficus, etc, almost all varieties which are in demand in fresh collections,” says the owner.Asked about the supplies, he says: “These are all China-made items which were available in Delhi markets. But now supplies from China have stopped. So we are also not getting any more of these. In their place, we have displayed some gift items in our collection now — mugs, clocks, photo frames, teddy bears, etc. If not flowers, people can go in for gifts.”Harinder Singh had started his business with nursery many years ago, which he continues to run at the frontal portion of his showroom. Though he has helpers to look after his fresh foliage collection, he himself is not adding much of his personal touch as was the case earlier. “These days, I am more interested in going back to my old passion, that is oil paintings,” he says showing his collection at the showroom. “These are not for sale. I do it as these days, I am able to spare some time to revive my art. These will be kept at home or be taken by my son settled in the US,” he shared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/as-demand-for-fresh-flowers-slumps-this-florist-shifts-to-artificial-ones-97557
