14-06-2020||---||Jalandhar MC has failed to provide civic amenities, says Congress MLA||Jalandhar, June 13After Congress MLA Pargat Singh, it was party MLA Sushil Rinku who has openly lashed out against the working of his own party’s Mayor and the local bodies governance system, calling them completely useless.Visiting the sewage-clogged Basti Peer Daad road yesterday, the MLA also reprimanded the MC Commissioner and IAS officer Diprava Lakra publicly saying that his constituency was being completely ignored and people who trusted the Congress were being deprived of even basic amenities, including proper sewage, cleanliness and good roads.Rinku warned the Commissioner and Mayor Jagdish Raja and said: “If my constituency does not get due services and if sewage and road amenities are not improved, I will not let the city’s entire filth get dumped in Wariana. I want things to fall in line in two days or take it as a warning from my side. I will get a naka set up ahead of Wariana and not let garbage trucks pass to the dump. Take it as my last warning and I give you only two days to finish the tasks. My constituency is not dustbin that it will assimilate the entire city’s waste. You may then start looking for any alternative.”Wariana is the city’s garbage dumping site for years and falls in the Jalandhar West constituency represented by Rinku. Rinku even asked the Commissioner to ensure that he gets a proper share of infrastructure for his constituency.“I need proper number of trolleys and JCBs for my constituency. You will see my action only if my demands are not accepted. I feel that the Municipal Corporation has completely failed. People of the city are feeling cheated,” he said.Meanwhile, Commissioner Lakra told people, who gathered on the sewage water-filled road, that he would ensure that the problems were solved in two days’ time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-mc-has-failed-to-provide-civic-amenities-says-congress-mla-98875
14-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Paraplegic school teacher gets appreciation letter for e-lectures||Nawanshahr, June 13Pooja Sharma, a lecturer of English at Government Senior Secondary School, here, who is suffering from paraplegia with 80 per cent disability, has received an appreciation letter from the office of the District Education Officer for delivering e-lectures to students against all odds and preparing English workbooks for Classes XI and XII for 2020-21 academic session during the lockdown.District Education Officer (Secondary) Sushil Kumar Tuli, in the letter, appreciated the positive attitude and strong willpower of Pooja Sharma and said the way she organised virtual classes on TV, radio channels, YouTube and WhatsApp for students amid lockdown was commendable.I always wanted to educate the masses and for that teaching was the best career option. I never allowed my disability to become a hurdle in achieving my goals. I was honoured by Education Secretary Krishan Kumar in 2019 for achieving 100 per cent results in my subject in the board exams. Also, I received honour from the Chief Election Commissioner for motivating and bringing awareness among differently abled about their right to vote on January 25, 2020. —Pooja Sharma, lecturerHe said she was an inspiration for those who were battling with disability. Her recorded English lectures for Doaba Radio, All India Radio (Patiala) for Classes XI and XIII have been widely shared on social media platforms and have guided innumerable students. Besides, her video lectures being telecast on DD Free Dish, Swayam Prabha, DD Punjabi and other national channels, as per the schedule given by the state Education Department under the ‘Ghar Baithe Sikhya’ programme, had attracted a lot of viewers and were being highly appreciated, he added.Talking to The Tribune, Pooja Sharma said she was into teaching since 2001.“I always wanted to educate the masses and for that teaching was the best career option. I never allowed my disability to become a hurdle in achieving my goals. I was honoured by Education Secretary Krishan Kumar in 2019 for achieving 100 per cent results in my subject in the board exams. Also, I received honour from the Chief Election Commissioner for motivating and bringing awareness among differently abled about their right to vote on January 25, 2020,” she saidShe said she has been playing an important role in the state’s education team that prepares ‘Root Word of the Day’ for the senior classes since the past one year.“I had made sure that studies of students did not suffer during this lockdown. I thoroughly prepared all e-content and had made sure to deliver it in a way that’s easily understood by the students,” she said, adding that she was a leisure-time writer who had also penned articles on challenges of e-learning, aspects of education and social issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/paraplegic-school-teacher-gets-appreciation-letter-for-e-lectures-98876
14-06-2020||---||Six new Covid cases take count to 329 in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 13With six more persons tested positive today, the district tally has risen to 329.Those tested positive today include a woman and five men. Of the persons tested positive today one has a previous contact — a Tagore Nagar man who died of Covid a few days ago, the rest are all new cases.The cases include a 26-year-old woman from Tagore Nagar, a 24-year-old man from Kot Kishan Chand in Jalandhar, a 23-year-old man from Basheerpura, a 46-year-old man from Teachers’ Colony, Gopal Nagar, a 48-year-old man from Bhagat Singh Colony and a 40-year-old labourer from Lamma Pind.Lamma Pind patient goes missingAfter two men were found missing from their homes after they tested positive, another man who was tested positive today went missing.A 40-year-old labourer, who had listed himself as a resident of Lamma Pind, was found to have headed back to UP when health teams tried to trac him today. He had been advised home quarantine after his sample was taken on June 10 by the health authorities. He came out positive today.This is the third man who has been found to have left the district without intimating the health authorities after getting himself tested in the district.The two men who had previously gone missing were aged 18 and 45 years. They were found to have reached Gorakhpur when health teams tried to contact them and bring them to the isolation ward after their test samples came out positive.375 samples collectedHoshiarpur: As many as 375 samples of suspected Covid patients were taken in the district on Saturday. As many as samples of 385 reports were found to be negative.Dr Jasbir Singh, Civil Surgeon, Hoshiarpur, said 6,547 samples had been taken so far in the district of which 5,205 came out negative and 138 positive while reports of 1,180 samples are awaited. Twentyfour samples were found invalid and there are at present three active cases in the district.Appealing to people, Dr Singh said while going out of house, people should wear mask and follow the social distancing norms. Offenders would be fined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/six-new-covid-cases-take-count-to-329-in-jalandhar-98877
14-06-2020||---||Punjab roadways buses remain off road||Jalandhar, June 13A day after the announcement of complete lockdown on weekends by the Chief Minister, all Punjab Roadways and PRCTC buses remained off roads today.The bus stand wore a deserted look and all entrances were closed for passengers. Unaware of the shutdown on Saturdays and Sundays, a few daily passengers reached the bus stand in the morning. However, they were sent back by guards.Bus stand supervisor Tarsem Singh said as per the orders received from the Transport Department, the movement of buses was suspended since early morning hours. No booking was done today and passengers having bus passes for inter-district movement were informed that now onwards, buses won’t depart from the bus stand on weekends and tickets would be booked only on weekdays.“As many as 75 Punjab Roadways buses will remain off road on Saturdays and Sundays, causing huge losses to the department,” Singh said.A daily wage worker, who had reached the bus stand with his luggage from Mithapur, got upset after he was told that there was no bus to Ludhiana today.He said he had some medical emergency at his relatives’ home in the Industrial Area, Ludhiana, and he had to send some money to his village in Patna for his mother’s treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-roadways-buses-remain-off-road-98878
14-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Automatic sanitiser dispensers, thermal scanners at District Administrative Complex Jalandhar soon||Jalandhar, June 13In order to check the spread of Covid-19 pandemic in the district, Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma on Friday gave a green signal for installation of automatic sanitiser dispensers and thermal scanners at the District Administrative Complex (DAC).The DC has constituted a high-powered committee under Additional Deputy Commissioner Jasbir Singh with SDMs Rahul Sindhu and Dr Jai Inder Singh and Executive Engineer (Water Supply and Sanitation) Vijay Kumar as its members.He asked the committee to complete the formalities for installation of foot operating sanitiser dispensers/ automatic sanitiser dispensers along with thermal scanners at the entry points of the complex. Sharma said this would ensure proper medical screening of every visitor coming to the complex besides ensuring the safety of the employees.The DC also asked the committee to ensure that the social distancing norms were maintained in the complex during the working hours.He said in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic it was need of the hour to ensure that utmost care was being taken while doing work in the offices as hundreds of people come daily for their routine works here.Committee formedThe DC has constituted a high-powered committee to complete the formalities for installation of foot operating sanitiser dispensers and automatic sanitiser dispensers along with thermal scanners at entry points of the DAC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/automatic-sanitiser-dispensers-thermal-scanners-at-district-administrative-complex-jalandhar-soon-98879
14-06-2020||Our Correspondent||2 travel agents booked for duping four of Rs 45L||Nakodar, June 13The Lohian Khas police today booked two travel agents for allegedly duping four Lohian Khas village residents of Rs 45 lakh on the pretext of sending them abroad.SSP (Rural) Navjot Singh Mahal said the suspects had been identified as Rajindar Singh, a resident of Jalandhar, and Harjindar Singh, alias Mohit of Ward No. 4, near Namdhari Gurdwara Gaharridiwal.The SSP said Manjit Singh and Palwindar Singh, residents of Nawan Pind Donewal village, Manraj Singh a resident of Turna village, and Gurjindar Singh, a resident of Shindharr village, complained to the police that they paid Rs 45 lakh to the suspects for facilitating their migration abroad but they neither send them abroad and nor returned the money.A case under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC and Section 13 of the Punjab Travel Professionals’ Regulation Act has been registered against the suspects after a probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-travel-agents-booked-for-duping-four-of-rs-45l-98880
14-06-2020||Phillaur||13 held with Illicit liquor||The Bilga police on Friday arrested six persons on the charge of selling illicit liquor.SHO Surjit Singh Padda said 173 bottles of illicit country-made liquor were seized from Amarjit, Jasvir Singh, both residents of Sangowal village, Dhamindar Singh of Poadharra village, Chindar Pal, Jit Singh and Gabbar Singh of Burj Hassan village.Meanwhile, the Mehatpur police on Saturday arrested Surjit Singh of Gounsuwal and Jasvir Singh of Dharme Dian Chhana village with 16 bottles of illicit liquor.The Nakodar City and the Sadar police arrested Naridar of Mohalla Ravidass Pur, and Harprit, a resident of Dhaliwal village, with 18 bottles of illicit liquor. The Lohian Khas police on Saturday arrested Gurdip of Ismailpur with nine bottles of illicit liquor.The Shahkot police on Saturday arrested Kashmir Singh and Avtar of Budhannwal village and seized 12 bottles of liquor from them. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/13-held-with-illicit-liquor-98881
14-06-2020||Hoshiarpur||Woman dies in road accident||A woman was killed in a road accident, while her daughter sustained injuries when a tractor-trailer hit their scooter and ran over them. After the incident, the trailer driver fled the spot. Nirmal Kaur, wife of Kuldeep Singh and a resident of Bainsatani village, was going on her scooter along with her daughter Mandeep Kaur.When they reached Lajwanti Stadium, their scooter slipped and both fell on the road. A tractor-trailer coming behind ran over them. Nirmal died on the spot while her daughter received serious injuries. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-dies-in-road-accident-98882
14-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||Zoom app classes, contests help pupils continue studies||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 13While the lockdown caught students off guard, Zoom App proved to be a substitute to the conventional classroom. Students of MA Political Science at the Lyallpur Khalsa College for Jalandhar have been diligently attending their political science lessons on the Zoom App ever since the lockdown has been declared.Like many other students hit by network woes and internet glitches – WhatsApp has also proven to be a healthy alternative when live access was poor or unavailable at some areas.The college has been carrying out an array of activities to keep students engaged. In the beginning, the college also conducted several contests to keep up the spirits of students amid lockdown.Varjeet Kaur, a student of MA first year, said, “We participated in a lot of contests in the beginning. Essay writing, painting and debate contests were held online. Students submitted debate monologues and paintings on WhatsApp groups and then a Zoom session of joint judges and students was also held and winners were also picked. I myself participated in various sessions. In the beginning, classes were also held on the Zoom App. However, in June, there have been fewer classes and we are also not clear about when we have to join colleges back.”Varjeet, who wants to pursue PhD in political science eventually dreams of teaching herself.Manpreet Kaur, a teacher at the college, said, “We have covered much of the lessons on the Zoom App earlier. There are network problems and accessibility issues with many students from time to time but then, we are not just relying on the Zoom App. We are also holding online sessions and sending PDFs on WhatsApp relate to the curriculum, sharing doubts via call, holding special sessions for revision so that students’ each and every issue or doubt is cleared.”Manpreet said while revision sessions are currently on for senior classes from June 12 to June 30, their exams would be conducted from July 2, for which syllabus has already been covered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/zoom-app-classes-contests-help-pupils-continue-studies-98883
14-06-2020||Nakodar||Moving car catches fire||A moving car (HR-07-5702) was reduced to ashes when it caught fire accidently, near Rupewal bus stand, on Friday evening. Investigating officer Sanjivan Singh rushed to the spot. Car driver Sukhwindar Singh, a resident of Mor Kassuwala village in Ferozpur, along with local residents, tried to douse the fire.He said the inquiries revealed that the ill-fated car accidently caught fire and was burnt badly. Fire tenders reached the spot and doused the fire. Driver, his mother and sister were travelling in car, who managed to come out of it and escaped unhurt. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/moving-car-catches-fire-98884
14-06-2020||Kapurthala||Subhanpur lad becomes Army officer, joins Rajput Regiment||Hailing from Subhanpur in Kapurthala, Lieutenant Amandeep Singh Multani got commissioned in the Army via the Technical Entry Scheme.Lieutenant Amandeep matriculated from St Francis Convent School, Kartarpur, and passed his Class XII from MGN Public School, Jalandhar, in 2015. His father Dalip Singh retired as an audit officer form Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar, and his mother Kulwant Kaur is a government school teacher. He had joined Officers’ Training Academy (OTA), Gaya, in 2016.The parents, who could not attend their son’s passing out parade and pipping ceremony said, “Inspired from his grandfather, my son was keen on joining the Army since his childhood. His favourite toys had been tanks and guns.Today, it was the day he realised his dream and unfortunately we could not join him on his accomplishment. Owing to Covid-19, the ceremony could not be held at OTA, Gaya, and was held at College of Military Engineering, Pune.” Lieutenant Multani has been allotted 22nd Rajput Regiment. His elder brother is SDO in PWD. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/subhanpur-lad-becomes-army-officer-joins-rajput-regiment-98885
14-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Woman found dead in house||Hoshiarpur, June 13A woman was found dead in her house under mysterious circumstances in the Qila Barun village on Hoshiarpur-Una Road. The deceased has been identified as Nirmal Kaur (31).According to the information, Usha Rani, a panchayat member, told the police that Kaur was last seen by her neighbour outside her house in the morning.She asked her to have tea together. But when she did not come out to have tea, Usha Rani went inside her house and found Nirmal Kaur lying unconscious. Later, she was found to be dead.The villagers informed the police station Sadar police. The body has been taken to the Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur, for post-mortem.The villagers told that the deceased’s husband had gone to Qatar. Her daughter had also died a few days ago.Her husband did not return from abroad even after learning about his daughter’s death. Also, her parents and in-laws did not take care of her. Due to this, Nirmal Kaur was upset and she had sold her land a day before.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-found-dead-in-house-98886
14-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Rahul’s tweet on Army a threat to country: BJP||Hoshiarpur, June 13BJP national vice-president and former MP Avinash Rai Khanna has criticised MP Rahul Gandhi for questioning the government by tweeting about Ladakh. He said Rahul Gandhi’s tweet related to the Indian Army and China on the Ladakh issue, is an act which threatens the security of the country.Khanna said under the leadership of the Prime Minister Modi at the Centre, the Union Government was able to protect the country and the frontier of the country firmly. He said the Indian Army was giving a befitting reply to China and also to Pakistan in their language.He said under the leadership of the Prime Minister, the Indian Army is counted among the best in the world. Khanna said Rahul Gandhi was trying to pose a threat to the security of the country by repeatedly commenting on the forces and the security of the country through Twitter on social media. Rahul Gandhi should refrain from making such statements on the security of the country on social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rahuls-tweet-on-army-a-threat-to-country-bjp-98887
14-06-2020||---||BJP leaders seek action against erring councillors||Jalandhar, June 13BJP leaders, including Manoranjan Kalia, KD Bhandari, Sushil Sharma and Punjab spokesperson of the party Mahinder Bhagat, in a joint press conference today, accused the Municipal Corporation (MC) authorities of taking no action against illegal construction going on in the city under the shadow of Congress MLAs and councillors.Citing the recent statement of MLA Shushil Rinku, Kalia stated that Rinku had exposed the level of discontentment among the officials against the state government and MC leadership.He said Mayor Jagdish Raja had failed miserably in completing development works in the city. Most of the works that were there on the papers were yet to see a light of day.“Owing to the state government’s apathy in giving funds to the MC, workers of the civic body couldn’t receive their salary. The recent protest by the civic body workers against non-payment of dues is itself an example. Workers have been constantly protesting against the government but to no avail. Damaged roads, broken sewers, unavailability of drinking water in most of the residential areas, poor or negligible connectivity of streetlights in several streets and roads, poor water supply are some of the major grievances that have been reported by the residents every now and then, however the MC authorities have turned a blind eye towards them,” he said.Similarly, accusing the councillors and MLAs, KD Bhandari stated that the construction of illegal colonies goes unabated in the district. Due to the interference of some of the MLAs and area councilors, the public servants deployed in MC were also forced to stay silent on many issues. “Construction of commercial buildings without submission of maps and charges under change of land use, the MC leaders enjoying power are drowning in corruption. The demolition of illegal buildings is continuously halted due to the involvement of MLAs and it is causing huge losses to the MC. Time and again the contractors hired for repair tasks use poor quality concrete, but there is no check on them,” said Bhandari.“The involvement of MLAs in construction works is directly leading to a situation of conflict of interest, hence action under Section 353 of Indian Penal Code should be taken against all the erring councillors and MLA’S who are forcing the public servants from taking any action against the illegal constructionsm,” Kalia further added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-leaders-seek-action-against-erring-councillors-98888
14-06-2020||Ashok Kaura||NHM employees cry foul over pay disparity||Phagwara, June 13Employees working under the National Health Mission (NHM) have threatened to hold agitation if their pending demands are not met. The demands include formulation of job/regularisation policy, enhancement of wages of all categories and pay disparity between AMO and MO.Stating this, Dr Prabhjot Jabal District, president, NHM Employees Union, said they were risking their lives to serve the people as they continued to be at the forefront against Covid-19.She said NHM employees were being exploited by the government. They said they were rendering same duties as that of a regular employee of the Heath Department yet they were getting just 25 per cent of the salary of a regular employee.Dr Jabal said that despite government’s assurance given on April 28 regarding the fulfillment of their demands , nothing could be initiated till now.Dr Jabal said despite government's assurance given on April 28 regarding the fulfillment of their demands, no action has been initiated so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nhm-employees-cry-foul-over-pay-disparity-98889
14-06-2020||Saila Khurd||Woman duped of gold bangles||Home Guard jawan dies on dutyHoshiarpur: A Home Guard jawan, on duty at an emergency ward, died of heart attack at the Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur, on Friday night. According to information, Home Guard Joginder Singh told the police that Home Guard Kulwant Singh was on duty with him on Friday night. Kulwant was stationed at the Garhshankar police station and on duty at the emergency ward at the Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital since June 1. On Friday night, at around 3 am, Kulwant said he wanted to rest for some time. Later, when he tried to wake him up after some time, he did not get up and the doctors declared him dead. According to the doctors, the cause of the death was heart attack. OCMobile phone snatchedPhagwara: Four unidentified miscreants attacked a Kherra Road resident, Gaurav Bhalla, with sharp-edged weapons near Model Town on Friday night. The miscreants, who came on two motorcycles snatched a mobile phone from the victim. The injured was admitted to the Civil Hospital. The police have registered a case. OCElectronic items destroyed in fireNakodar: An electronic shop on the Post Office road was gutted in a fire that broke out on Saturday. The shop owner, Surindar Bansal, said the fire broke out on the third floor of the shop, which was caused by a shortcircuit, adding that electronic items worth over Rs 5 lakh was reduced to ashes in the fire which was controlled by fire tenders and residents later. OCRs 44K snatched from manPhagwara: Three unidentified miscreants snatched Rs 44,000 from a Ludhiana-based resident, Davinder Singh, on Phagwara-Palahai Road here on Saturday. The victim has been working as a supervisor at Abaad Hospital, Phagwara. The miscreants managed to flee the spot. The police have registered a case under Sections 37, 9-B and 34 of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-duped-of-gold-bangles-98892
14-06-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Allow private transporters to ply buses on stage carriage permit’||As the president of the Punjab Private Transport Association for the past 30 years, Avtar Henry feels that the current Covid-induced crisis is the worst ever to hit the transport sector. Former Congress minister and the owner of the Kartar Bus Service, Henry shares with Deepkamal Kaur the effect of the lockdown on the business. Excerpts:How is your transport business running amid the pandemic?Like all other private bus operators, we have kept 60-odd buses off roads. We have six to seven trucks engaged in delivery of LPG cylinders. As the business falls in the category of essential services, the trucks have been plying during the lockdown.In the absence of buses, people in villages, especially farmers, have been facing problems in travelling. They want to go to cities to make purchases as they usually do after selling their wheat crop. As purchases made by them contribute to the economic growth significantly, the travel facilities must be restored soon. —Avtar Henry, President, Punjab Private Transport AssociationThe state government allowed buses to operate from May 20. What is keeping you and other transporters off road?We cannot ply buses on conditions set by the government as it unviable. It is understandable to cap the occupancy at half the normal, but the government must allow us to run it on stage carriage permit under which our buses can halt at intermediate stops such as Phagwara, Goraya, Phillaur, Ludhiana, Doraha and Khanna on way to Patiala. Otherwise, no one would travel by buses. At present, if someone wants to go to Phagwara from Jalandhar, he would have to purchase a ticket for Patiala and pay charges accordingly. No one wants to pay the amount for a mere 22-km travel.Can you explain the economics of the business with reference to the present guidelines?Consider a bus going from Jalandhar to Hoshiarpur. The two-way travel to Hoshiarpur works out to be almost 100 km. Almost 25 litres of diesel gets consumed in one trip, costing the transporter from Rs1,600 to Rs1,700. If the bus has 40 seats, 20 persons can board it for one side, paying Rs1,200 as per the present ticket charge of Rs 60 for one person. For a two-way trip, operator will earn Rs2,400. If we take into account, wages of staff, sanitisation expenses and hefty road taxes, along with wear and tear, the transporter will end up incurring losses. Thus, it is better to keep the business shut for the time being and wait for favourable guidelines.How many private buses are off roads these days and what is the status of employees?There are about 7,000 to 8,000 private buses, including mini-buses. In all, nearly 1 lakh families, including those of drivers, conductors and cleaners, have been affected by stoppage of services. Most transporters have relieved their staff.Being a senior leader of the Congress and also the president of the Punjab Private Transport Association, what do you expect from the government?As I already said, we must be allowed to run on the stage carriage permit. This will make our business viable. Since it is only the poor who use non-AC buses, the government must waive off road taxes for six months so that they continue to enjoy cheap transport facilities. We will soon take up the matter with the CM. If the government feels it cannot give liberty to people to travel as has been done on weekends this time, we certainly need to be compensated for losses. Also, in the absence of buses, people in villages, especially farmers, have been facing problems in travelling. They want to go to cities to make purchases as they usually do after selling their wheat crop. As purchases by them contribute to the economic growth significantly, the travel facilities must be restored soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/allow-private-transporters-to-ply-buses-on-stage-carriage-permit-98897
14-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||Opening of city malls, restaurants brings cheer to veggie suppliers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 13The opening of malls, restaurants and religious places has brought cheer among the vegetable suppliers in the district. Their sinking business has finally started gaining pace after over two months of lockdown.With relaxations in lockdown and easing of some quarantine measures, the customer graph of the suppliers has started moving upwards. However, even as the business has started getting back on back on track, they are fearful of the fluctuating trends. Mohan Kant, a commission agent at the renowned ‘Jagdish Chandra and Gursharan Kumar Vegetable Distributors’ said their more than 50 per cent business has resumed after huge losses suffered during lockdown.We pack vegetables for sale in both wholesale and retail markets. Malls, shopping complexes, marts, restaurants and colleges are among our major customers and instead of selling all staple vegetables in the sabzi mandi, we prefer selling our major chunk of goods in malls only. —Mohan Kant, A commission agent “At our local store in Maqsudan Sabzi Mandi, we pack vegetables for sale in both wholesale and retail markets. Malls, shopping complexes, marts, restaurants and colleges are among our major customers and instead of selling all staple vegetables in the sabzi mandi, we prefer to sell our major chunk of goods in malls only. As per their demands, we stock our supplies accordingly so that there wouldn’t be any chance of compromising on the quality of the vegetables purchased by the customers. We pack the vegetables in special bags only and packing is done keeping in view the customer demand in malls,” added Kant, who is now waiting for resumption of their supplies in educational institutions.“Notably, the differently-packed vegetables fetches us money as we get buyers with good purchasing power for our vegetables and fruits at big stores in marts. Comparing the difference in profits in the sale in the local mandis and malls, there is a gap of over 10-15 per cent revenue,” he added.Rajkumar, who works for the same dealers, said, as per the directions of our owners, we make seperate packings of one kg, two kg and five kg. Post lockdown, we have again resumed this work. To sustain our business, we manage to keep our earning running by selling our goods to local vendors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/opening-of-city-malls-restaurants-brings-cheer-to-veggie-suppliers-98900
