16-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||Three cops among 14 fresh cases in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 15On Monday, 14 persons were found positive for Covid in the district.The new cases include three police personnel, two male and one female. Four cops were found positive on Sunday. Now, the total count of infected cops has risen to seven in the district.The other cases tested positve today include two from Kishanpura, two from Jaimal Nagar, one from Friends Colony, one from Nakodar, one each from Laddewali and Shekhe village, two women and one youth from Avtar Nagar were tested positive today.Bimal Kant, ACP (Headquarters), said till date around 450 police personnel had been tested, of them seven had been found positive. The infected police personnel include two from Police Division No.1, two from Division No. 4, one from Division No. 5, a CIA staff cop and a PCR official.“All cops are asymptomatic and are getting treatment at the Civil Hospital. The testing of all remaining cops is in progress,”added Kant.All close contacts of the Covid positive cops are being traced and their colleagues are also examined.Among the positive cases detected on Monday, two were from Division No. 4, said Rashpal Singh, SHO of the division. He said: “Entire premises of the police station has been disinfected and contact tracing is on. One PCR ASI and a constable working as a computer operator were found positive today. More police personnel will be tested on Tuesday.”There is a constant state of fear among the cops who have been working day and night fighting the coronavirus. “The Covid-19 pandemic is spreading rapidly and we don’t know how to approach local residents. We have been directed to take all Covid-related precautions while dealing with the public but still we fear of catching the virus,” said a traffic policeman, who was deployed at Jyoti Chowk.Five positive in Hoshiarpur, count reaches 145Hoshiarpur: After receiving the report of 381 samples from different labs on Monday evening, five new Covid-19 positive cases have been found in the district, of which two have been admitted to Jalandhar hospitals and were tested there.After this, the total number of positive cases in the district has increased to 145. On Monday, 595 samples of people with flu-like symptoms were taken in the district and the total number of samples collected so far has been 7,420. Out of this, 6,383 have been found negative, while 871 reports are awaited.A total of 24 samples have been found invalid and 5 patients have died while 9 are active cases. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh shared this information with the media late in the evening.He said out of the 5 patients found positive today, two were from the Dasuya subdivision and they had been reported from Jalandhar, adding that one of them is a police employee of Terkiana village. Another woman, belonging to Bassi Jalal, is a diabetes patient and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Jalandhar, where she has been found corona positive.Both these patients are admitted to the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar. Third patient is a resident of Dulehar in Himachal Pradesh. He is a police personnel posted at the Mahilpur police station. The fourth one is a resident of Changdwa village under the Health Center Hajipur. The said patient came from Gurgaon on June 11. His sample was collected on June 13, which has come positive today. The fifth patient is a resident of Seehwan village in Garhshankar. He had come from Delhi on June 12 and the sample was taken on June 13 which was found positive today. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-cops-among-14-fresh-cases-in-jalandhar-district-99823
16-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||MLA has no right to disrupt  garbage disposal, says Jalandhar Mayor||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 15Having given a two-day ultimatum to Mayor Jagdish Raja over not providing adequate civic amenities in his constituency, Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Rinku on Tuesday said he was still on a wait- and-watch mode.Rinku had on Friday warned that he would not let the city’s garbage enter the Wariana dump that falls in his constituency from Monday onwards if the problems of overflowing sewer and providing equitable distribution of machinery and manpower in his constituency were not resolved.Rinku said he had learnt that the sewer system was being overhauled which could take some days. “As of now, there will be no action from my side. Proper cleaning of all main sewer lines needs to be done. So, I am giving suitable time to the MC officials to get my issues resolved,” he said.After Rinku’s ultimatum, infighting has erupted within the Congress leadership. Even though Rinku and MLA Pargat Singh are not on the same page politically because of their diagonally opposite affiliations (Pargat is close to Navjot Sidhu while Rinku has publicly opposed him in the past), yet both of them have been taking the Mayor head-on. In this fight, Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri is fully supporting Mayor as Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry has yet not shown sides with one group specifically.MLA Pargat Singh too has reiterated, “There is no doubt about it that the Mayor has failed to deliver in the city. In his half tenure, he has not shown any leadership skills. Safai karamcharis need to be under the control of the Mayor, which is not the case. Being MLAs, we are only ex-officio members of the MC House. It is the Mayor who should have shown some good results but nothing has come out so far.”Like Rinku, Pargat too feels that his constituency has been ignored on some aspects, “Eleven villages of my constituency were included in the MC limit. But perhaps the Mayor does not want to give these villagers a feeling that they are now part of the city. It has taken one year for the MC to take over the sites which were part of the village common land. The water works have yet not been taken over by the MC.”On the entire controversy, Mayor Jagdish Raja says, “As an MLA, Rinku had every right to speak up for his people on sewage issue. It may take us another day or so to get it repaired. We are onto it. But Rinku has no prerogative to block the sewage or the garbage disposal system in the city as claimed by him in his ultimatum. This is his misconception.”On the allegations of non-equitable distribution of civic amenities, he said, “Let me give you the figures. B&R and O&M works to the tune of Rs 5.37 crore have already been completed in his constituency. MC funds to the tune of Rs 9.34 crore too have been used for more works. Projects worth Rs 5.49 crore are going on. One new tubewell has been installed and the process for four more tubewell installation works is on. Sewage desilting works have been done for Rs 52.7 lakh and more sewer works for Rs 1.35 crore have been commissioned. Approval of more works for Rs 70.9 lakh has been passed in the recent F&CC meeting. Smaller works worth Rs 40 lakh too have been done. What else does our MLA want?How have I been unkind or partial with him?”He warned the outspoken MLAs, “I hold more power than them in the MC House. The Mayor is supreme in the House, even the Chief Minister has already clarified to them earlier.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mla-has-no-right-to-disrupt-garbage-disposal-says-jalandhar-mayor-99824
16-06-2020||NON-COMPLIANCE OF CONSUMER FORUM ORDERS||Arrest warrant issued against JIT Chairman, Executive Officer||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 15The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has issued arrest warrant against the Executive Officer (EO) and the Chairman of the Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) over the non-compliance of orders given by the State Commission following the complaints filed by allottees of the Bibi Bhani Complex.President of the forum Karnail Singh and member Jyotsna in the previous hearing over the execution appeal have ordered the issuance of arrest warrant of the EO for July 13.The orders were issued after the forum found that the JIT had failed to follow the orders of the State Commission regarding the refund of the principal amount, along with interest to the allottees. The case pertained to complaints filed by six allottees against the JIT. The complainants are Navtej Singh Chahal, Gauri Shankar, Sukhdev Singh, Banwari Lal Khanna, Gopal Krishan, Raj Kumar and Kamal Dev. In June 2017, Chahal had got a complaint registered over the failure in the delivery of possession of LIG flat in the 51.5-acre scheme at Guru Amar Das Nagar. The plaintiff said he had got the allotment in a lucky draw in August 2009 and had paid the purchase price of Rs 5.27 lakh.He said he was told that the JIT would give the possession of the flat by July 2012. But, it did not deliver the possession of the flat on time. She said she waited for the possession till 2016 and made several requests to JIT officials. However, perturbed over the apathetic attitude of the authorities concerned, she filed a case in the consumer forum in 2017.Gauri Shankar said as per the forum orders, the JIT was to pay her the principal amount along with 12 per cent interest by June 2019, but the JIT instead of following the forum orders approached the State Commission to seek some relief in the interest rate. However, dismissing the JIT appeal, the state commission ordered the JIT to comply with the forum orders and make the payment to the allottee by August 9 along with an additional compensation of Rs 25,000. In her case, the warrant of arrest in the name of Chairman has been forwarded to the Commissioner of Police and it would again be issued for July 15.Talking to The Tribune, Darshan Ahuja, president, Bibi Bhani Residential Welfare Association, said 15 cases filed by the JIT in the State Commission had been dismissed.He said to delay the payments of the allottee, the JIT was approaching the State Commission.He said poor quality material had been used by the JIT in constructing the apartments. There was no provision of street lights, sewerage, electricity and water in the area so far. The JIT had failed to comply with the orders ofthe forum in many cases and had not given compensation to the allottees who had won cases recently.Failed to comply with orders in many casesThe Jalandhar Improvement Trust had failed to comply with the orders of the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum in many cases and had not given compensation to allottees who had won cases recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/arrest-warrant-issued-against-jit-chairman-executive-officer-99825
16-06-2020||Jalandhar||Stop illegal construction, Jalandhar Improvement Trust urged||Just for Justice, an NGO, and Shiromani Akali Dal leaders (SAD) on Monday alleged that illegal construction was on at KL Saigal Memorial which the Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) must get stopped immediately.President of NGO Sandeep Wadhwa and SAD spokesperson HS Walia said the memorial site was on lease and the 3 acre JIT site worth Rs 100 crore had been handed over to the KL Saigal Memorial Trust for promoting fine arts and public welfare projects. They said any construction activity for the purpose of commercial use should not be allowed. They said already a gym, marriage bureau and bank ATM had been set up at the site which was not permissible as per the lease conditions.Walia said the JIT and the MC had not initiated any coercive action to stop any construction activity. Trust chairman Daljeet S Ahluwalia had issued two notices to the KL Saigal Memorial Trust for stopping the construction. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stop-illegal-construction-jalandhar-improvement-trust-urged-99826
16-06-2020||---||Webinar on Indian Arbitration Act||Jalandhar, June 15The CT Institute of Law (CTIL), in collaboration with the Punjab Unaided Colleges Association (PUCA), organised a webinar on ‘Parameters and Limitations on Exercise of Jurisdiction under Section 9 of Indian Arbitration Act’.Renowned speakers for the event were Justice Anil R Dave, Former Judge, Supreme Court of India, New Delhi and Justice Jyoti Singh, Judge, Delhi High Court.Justice Anil R Dave enlightened the students about the major issues involved in relation to jurisdiction in arbitration cases. He shared, “Litigation is increasing every day, so work of judges is also increasing that way. I would like to recommend the budding youths to opt for this field.”He also gave an in-depth analysis of jurisdiction, about limitations of court, while exercising it in arbitration cases which is much better than going to courts other way.Justice Jyoti Singh shed light on various landmark judgments on arbitration and also discussed about ‘International Commercial Arbitration’. Such webinars were highly informative for the students as arbitration is an area the need of which is enhancing day by day, she said.CT Group Managing Director Manbir Singh and Dr Yugdeep Kaur, Principal CT Institute of Law encouraged the students to participate in such kind of events in the era of digital learning.Recommends youth to opt for this fieldJustice Jyoti Singh shed light on various landmark judgments on arbitration and also discussed about ‘International Commercial Arbitration’. She laid stress on organising such webinars as arbitration is a field which has been flourishing day by day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-indian-arbitration-act-99827
16-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Three held with 30 bottles of illicit liquor||Nakodar, June 15The Nakodar Sadar police on Sunday arrested a woman on the charge of selling illicit liquor. The police said nine bottles of country made liquor were seized from the possession of the suspect, identified as Kulwindar Kaur, alias Chhindo, a resident of Shankar village.In the second case, the Nurmahal police on Monday arrested Dev Raj, a resident of Kat Badal Khan village, and seized 12 bottles of illicit liquor from his possession, said the police.In the third case the Lohian Khas police, on Monday, seized nine bottles of illicit liquor from Sher Singh, a resident of Dhaka Basti, and arrested him. The police said cases under different Sections of the Excise Act had been registered against the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-held-with-30-bottles-of-illicit-liquor-99828
16-06-2020||Our Correspondent||26-yr-old dies of drug overdose, one booked||Mahilpur (Hoshiarpur), June 15A 26-year-old youth of Kheda village in the Mahilpur block died of drug overdose today. A case of culpable homicide has been registered against the one who supplied him drugs, on his father’s complaint.The deceased was the youngest of the three brothers and two of his elder brothers had also died of drug dose in the last four years.According to the information received, a young man was found lying dead on a road near Sainian Mohalla in Mahilpur on Monday. The residents of the area informed the police, who later took him to the Civil Hospital, Mahilpur, where the doctors declared him brought dead.The youth was identified as Harvinder Kumar, alias, Ravi (26). He is the son of Jiwan Lal, a resident of Kheda village in Mahilpur. Accusing Jasvir Kaur, alias, Faujan, of drug smuggling, and the main reason behind Ravi’s death, his family members demanded strict action against the accused. Ravi’s father Jiwan Lal said he had bought intoxicants from Javir Kaur and he died due to its overdose.The family alleged that the police were not ready to believe that Ravi had died due to drug overdose. They kept on insisting that the youth had died of heart attack.After some arguments and intervention of the in-charge of the Mahilpur police station, a case was registered under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the said woman on the statement of deceased’s father Jivan Lal. Investigating officer Sub Inspector Om Prakash said the police were still investigating the case.The caseThe youth was identified as Harvinder Kumar, alias, Ravi (26). He is the son of Jiwan Lal, a resident of Kheda village in Mahilpur. Accusing Jasvir Kaur, alias, Faujan, of drug smuggling, and the main reason behind Ravi's death, his family members demanded strict action against the accused. Ravi's father Jiwan Lal said Ravi had bought intoxicants from Javir Kaur and he died due to taking an overdose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/26-yr-old-dies-of-drug-overdose-one-booked-99829
16-06-2020||Jalandhar||100 attend free online video production course||The PG Department of Journalism & Mass Communication of KMV organised its second one week free online course on video production today. The course has received the participation of more than 100 persons from different age groups and profession from pan India, along with college and school students. The classes were conducted virtually.During the classes, students were taught various intricacies of video production, along with various stages of production and essentials of cinematography. Basics of video camera and basics of video editing were also explained by explaining the practical demonstration to the students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/100-attend-free-online-video-production-course-99830
16-06-2020||Hariana (Hoshiarpur)||Man held for running illicit liquor trade||The Hariana police said on Monday that they busted a large-scale illicit liquor trade and 2,97,000 ml was recovered.Lodging an FIR in this regard, the police have booked two persons for harming the public health and treasury of the government by selling the adulterated liquor. Surjit Singh Mangat, SHO, Hariana, said both were produced before the court and remanded in police custody for a day.The SHO said a tip-off regarding the large-scale illegal trade of liquor being carried out at a poultry farm in Niajian village was received. Subsequently, a team was then dispatched for investigation.When the officials reached the spot, the suspect, Prem Kumar, alias Gora, was loading liquor in his car. Thereafter, the police recovered the liquor from his possession and also impounded the car. During the preliminary probe, the suspect said he was indulged in liquor smuggling in association with Ashu, a resident of Hoshiarpur. The offender also revealed that he used to smuggle liquor from other states and mix water in it. The SHO said a case had been registered against the suspect. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-held-for-running-illicit-liquor-trade-99831
16-06-2020||Ashok Kaura||Activists demand law to check ‘fake’ SC category certificates||Phagwara, June 15Members of the Phule Ambedkari Gauravshali Aur Adarshwadi Muhim (PAGAAM), an NGO, on Sunday reitrerated their demands submitted before the Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh, to pass a law, on the pattern of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Odisha and Chhattisgarh, to check the use of bogus SC category status.The members, including SR Ladhar, ex-IAS officer; Surinder Kumar, ex-IPS officer; Gurdip Singh Warwal, ex-deputy ambassador, Germany; Amarjit Singh Ghag, ex-commissioner customs; Jagtar Singh, ex-principal commissioner IT; Ajaib Singh, a former officer; and DS Malwai, ex-district and sessions judge, have claimed that a large number of bogus SC certificates were being procured and issued by authorities in the state.On behalf of the PAGAAM, Ladhar said the Supreme Court, in a civil appeal No. 8928 of 2005, had observed that “Those who secure jobs and admission in educational institutes in the reserved category on the basis of fake caste certificate would lose them and be punished. It would amount to playingfraud with the constitutional goal of social justice and equality.”On March 18, the state Department of Social Justice and Empowerment has cancelled six bogus SC certificates, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/activists-demand-law-to-check-fake-sc-category-certificates-99833
16-06-2020||Nakodar||Gold jewellery, cash stolen from house||The Mehatpur police on Monday booked unidentified persons for allegedly stealing cash and jewellery from a house. In his complaint to the police, Sahib Singh, a resident of Pachharrian village, alleged that miscreants barged into his house on June 9 and decamped with cash and gold ornaments. A case has been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gold-jewellery-cash-stolen-from-house-99834
16-06-2020||Phagwara||Man booked for raping Minor||Burglars decamp with valuablesPhagwara: The house of Charanjit Singh was reportedly burgled in the Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar locality on Sunday night. Burglars entered the house after jumping over the boundary wall and breaking the locks. The miscreants decamped with valuables, including gold and silver ornaments worth Rs 4 lakh. The police have registered a case and are scanning the CCTV footage to trace the culprits. OCLockdown: Man held for violationNakodar: The Sadar police on Monday arrested a person on the charge of violating the lockdown orders. The police said the suspect had been identified as Surindar Singh, a resident of Nur Pur Rajputan village in Kapurthala. He was loitering around and violating the Deputy Commissioner‘s orders. A case under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC has been registered against the suspect. OCMobile snatched from womanAmritsar: Two persons snatched woman’s mobile phone when she was going to market for procuring curd.The victim, Sweety Sharma, a resident of Chhota Adarsh Nagar, stated to the police that she had marriage dispute with her husband and therefore she was living with her parents. The victim said she had gone to market to purchase curd and when returning two persons with covered faces came on scooter and snatched her mobile phone. She said while escaping their scooter got slipped and faces got uncovered. She said as she raised the alarm, the accused fled away. She said she could identify the accused if they came in front of her. A case has been registered. TNSProclaimed offender heldTarn Taran: A police team on Monday arrested a proclaimed offender, Sukhbaj Singh of Padhri Kalan village. SSP Dhaurv Dahiya told mediapersons that 1 kg of heroin was recovered from Sukhbaj, his father Narvinder Singh and brother Dilbag Singh. While Sukhbaj fled from the spot, his father and brother were arrested, he said. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-booked-for-raping-minor-99836
16-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||‘Don't go for status, get absorbed in any job’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 15Getting a job is already hard and the nationwide lockdown has made the situation more serious than ever. Loss of jobs coupled with unavailability of new openings is rendering the unemployed youngsters to depression and other mental setbacks. But, CT Institute’s Director Charanjit Singh Channi has a word of advice for the inflicted ones: “Just grab any placement chance and get stuck even if you think that it is a petty job according to your qualification and expectations.”Advising youth against falling prey to mental trauma, he had been telling his passout students not to miss any job opportunity on account of offer of less pay package or lesser status.Keep discussing your problems with parents, teachers, mentors and friends. Never sit quietly. Also, keep on taking more online courses and continue to improve your skills as thes will surely help you sooner or later.  —Charanjit Singh Channi, Director, CT Institutes “Finances are falling. Things are already bad and future is bleak. Do not sit idle and try to satisfy your needs with small earnings. These days, young ones are very conscious of the status but my one-liner for them to shun such thoughts is ‘Sabse bada rog, kya kahenge log’ (the biggest virus is what will the people say),” the director says.He wants the rising generation to always share their problems as it helps in easing the anxiety. “Keep discussing your problems with parents, teachers, mentors and friends. Never sit quietly. Also, keep on taking more online courses and continue to improve your skills as these will surely help you sooner or later”, he added.He shared, “Even as we will be inducting students in undergraduate and postgraduate courses this year, there will be no restrictions on their working, if they wish to so, along with the studies. We will provide them with all the help, like they will be allowed to leave the campus early and so on.”Channi is also thoughtful for the students. “For them, we can even hold extra sessions on weekends to cover up syllabus, take examinations and complete assignments. We have tried this model earlier for pharmacy and hotel management students and it worked,” he says.Channi added, “This year, we will also appoint 60-100 students as CT Ambassadors and will pay them Rs 6000 monthly throughout the year. We will expect them to act as guides for the newcomers.”With regard to the admissions, he said, “It is a wait and watch situation as of now. There is complete uncertainty on how and when admissions would be possible and when the classes shall begin.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dont-go-for-status-get-absorbed-in-any-job-99837
16-06-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Coercive methods for loan recovery not workable in times of pandemic’||THE recently elected vice-president of the National Federation of Urban Cooperative Banks and Credit Societies (NAFCUB), KK Sharma, says that 20 per cent loanees of the banks are not repaying the loans, citing financial trouble due to the lockdown. In an interview with Deepkamal Kaur, KK Sharma, who is also the chairman of Citizens Urban Cooperative Bank Limited, Jalandhar, shares issues affecting the banking sector these days. Excerpts:How is the bank business running?Since the government wants no coercive methods to be adopted, recoveries of loans have become difficult. The willful defaulters are having a gala time. So, in a way banks have become one of the worst-hit sectors in this ongoing lockdown period. We were in the process of improving our recoveries around mid-March when the lockdown happened.Our loanees are those who seek loans of Rs 1,000 or upwards. Petty shopkeepers, agriculturists and MSMEs - all seek loans from us. Any individual wanting to buy vehicles, plots, etc, or even doing construction work can take a loan. As of now, our biggest defaulters are schools. Since the schools claim that they are not able to collect full fee, they are not in a position to return loans to us. —KK Sharma, chairman, Citizens Urban Cooperative Bank Ltd, JalandharHow much is the outstanding loan?The outstanding loan amount is slightly more than Rs 300 crore. While 80 per cent of the loanees are repaying the amount, the remaining are defaulters. Thankfully, we are financially sound and have our own funds, so there is not much of a problem as of now.Do you think the moratorium offered by the government was a good step?It is nothing more than a good political statement. Ultimately, neither the loanee nor the loaner will benefit out of the three-month relief period announced by the government. Some regular Class IV government employees who are getting regular wages have also stopped paying their loan instalments.Who are your loanees? Which section is the biggest defaulter these days?Our loanees are those who seek loans of Rs 1,000 or upwards. Petty shopkeepers, agriculturists and MSMEs - all seek loans from us. Any individual wanting to buy vehicles, plots, etc, or even doing construction work can take a loan. As of now, our biggest defaulters are schools. Since the schools claim that they are not able to collect full fee, they are not in a position to return loans to us.Do you intend to adopt coercive methods for repayment of loans once the RBI lifts any such guideline?No, we won't take any harsh step against anyone at this stage. Anyone who is in dire need of finances and takes loans needs our sympathy. Also, even if we think of mortgaging his property that he pledged with us for making recovery, we will not be able to recover much. Further, even government officials, including those from the Revenue Department, who help us in recovering loans are busy these days with Covid-19 duties assigned by the administration.How many members does your bank have? What is the position of depositors?We have nearly 450 members of the bank. Since the rate of interest has been dropped by 2-2.5 per cent in sync with the policies for the nationalised banks, the depositors are somehow not approaching us these days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/coercive-methods-for-loan-recovery-not-workable-in-times-of-pandemic-99838
16-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||Dhobi finds it hard to iron out Covid blues||Jalandhar, June 15Ramesh Kanojia resides in a small rented accommodation that also houses his shop, in the Guru Nanak Pura locality. He is a washerman and stays with his wife and two kids. He was hopeful that once the curfew is lifted, his customers, whom he had been serving for the last 18 years, would soon return and help him replenish his earnings.However, after relaxations in the lockdown, his plight has not improved much. His regular customers have stopped giving him clothes for ironing and have asked him to come back only after the situation normalises.In my 20 years of stay here, I have not seen such a lull in this society. Residents are wary of opening doors for newspapers vendors, laundrymen and maids. They are scared of giving their clothes for ironing, but how should we make them understand that it’s our only source of livelihood. —Ramesh Kanojia, A washermanHe said the complete lockdown, which lasted for nearly two months, exhausted all his savings and he survived only by seeking free ration from the administration and NGOs and by borrowing some money from his neighbours.“In my 20 years of stay here, I have not seen such as a lull in this society. Residents have stopped opening the doors for newspapers vendors, laundrymen and maids. They are scared of giving their clothes for ironing, but how do we make them understand that it's our only source of livelihood,” said Kanojia, a native of Hardoi in UP, adding that his struggle is getting worse with each passing day and he is forced to depend on the mercy of others for a living.He also said he had not paid his house rent for the past three months, which costs him around Rs 7,200. “I charge around Rs 4 per garment and before the lockdown, I was earning Rs 300 to Rs 400 a day, after deducting the cost of coal. With such a meagre earning and with just Rs 1,500 salary of my son, who works at a spare parts shop here, we were unable to manage the family expenses. But now my earning has reduced to hardly Rs 50 a day and my son has started going to work just a week before, so we are simply struggling to make both ends meet,” he added.When asked if he tried going back to his hometown, he said he had no land or work there, so going back was out of question for him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dhobi-finds-it-hard-to-iron-out-covid-blues-99839
