17-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Ghanshyam Thori takes charge as Jalandhar DC||Jalandhar, June 16Newly appointed Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori while assuming the charge of his office here today said he would accord top priority to providing a clean, transparent and responsive administration to people along with making Jalandhar, a coronavirus-free district.Interacting with mediapersons, Thori, a 2010 batch officer of the Indian Administrative Service, said a transparent mechanism would be evolved for further streamlining the administrative functioning in the district. He said no stone would be left unturned to implement pro-people and development-oriented policies of the state government to benefit the masses.He said he would carry forward welfare programmes and policies of the state government to safeguard the interests of weaker and underprivileged sections of society, adding that due focus would be laid on revenue generation also. He said under the ‘Mission Fateh’, launched by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh a few days ago, a comprehensive road map would be prepared to save the district from the pandemic.“Strenuous efforts would be made to give a fillip to the socio-economic growth of the district, thereby ensuring the prosperity of its people,” he said. The DC said already a slew of activities were going on to generate maximum awareness among people against the virus which would be further accelerated. Augmentation of the infrastructure, if any needed, would be done to impart quality treatment to patients. Besides, strict enforcement of the social distancing norms would be ensured and after review, Executive Magistrates and sectoral officers would be told to issue challans to people violating the norms.He said weekly review would be held on every Saturday to assure guidelines were being properly implemented. The administration was duty-bound to ensure the well-being of residents of the district but this onerous task could not be completed without the support and cooperation of people.Earlier, the Deputy Commissioner was also given a guard of honour at the local Circuit House by a contingent of the Punjab Police. The DC was accompanied by his wife and Deputy Commissioner, Income Tax, Gagan Kundra Thori, Sudesh Kundra, Sushil Kumar Kundra and Pankaj Kundra.Shena takes over as Nawanshahr DC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ghanshyam-thori-takes-charge-as-jalandhar-dc-100369
17-06-2020||---||64-yr-old dies; 2-month-old among 31 fresh cases in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 16The district today reported one death and 31 Covid-positive cases, creating panic among residents. The positive count in the district now stands at 384 and the death toll has mounted to 12. The deceased has been identified as a 64-year-old woman from Rose Park.Those found infected included five personnel from the Punjab Armed Police (PAP) headquarters here. While three of them are from 7 IRB Battalion, the other two are from different battalions. All patients are in the 22-48 age group.Officials said these jawans had been doing field duties outside the PAP campus these days. “All jawans are asymptomatic. Their other colleagues will also be tested so as to contain the spread of the infection,” said a DIG serving on the campus.Besides, a two-month-old girl from Sheikhe village and a one-year-old boy from Industrial Area also tested positive. The girl’s family hails from UP. “We have no idea how our baby got the infection. She had fever and was shivering two days ago. We took her to the Civil Hospital. Doctors today told us that she is Covid-positive. My wife is with the child, but I am in the isolation ward here. My sample has also been taken,” said the father, who works in a steel welding factory.On the other hand, the one-year-old contracted the infection from his father, who is admitted at the IMA facility at Shahkot. The toddler, who is asymptomatic, has also been admitted there. The other family members have tested negative for the virus.Barring this case, all others have no contact history. All of them are from different localities, including Khamuwal village of Shahkot, Maharaja Ranjit S Avenue, Pachranga village, Raipur Rasoolpur village on the Bhogpur road, New Jawala Nagar, Santokhpura, Raja Garden, Gadaipur, Swaran Park, Hardev Nagar, Subhash Nagar, Sanjay Gandhi Nagar, Atari Bazar, Beas Pind, Deol Nagar, Aman Garden, New Jawahar Nagar and Vadda Saipur. Woman COP posted in shahkot tests positive||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/64-yr-old-dies-2-month-old-among-31-fresh-cases-in-jalandhar-100370
17-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||‘Time to teach kids to be self-reliant’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 16As schools are shut and children are engaged in online education from home, Romila Sharma, Principal of SPPS Convent School, Begowal, feels that it is time to teach some virtues to children like being self-reliant, family-oriented and being sensitive to the environment.Romila says like most other schools, her teachers too have been conducting online classes, sending videos of solved sums, sending assignments and taking assessments. At the same time, she is also asking her staff to train students in life skills, which would help them later in their life.“We have organised a number of activities for the Qstudents. These were aimed at building a strong character of the students. We tell them not to spoil their routine. They should develop the habit of going early to bed and rising up early in the morning. We have helped children maintain a good healthy routine even at home by giving them a time-table of tasks that they should perform in the day asking them to devote some time to physical activities in the mornings and evenings.“We tell our children to help their parents by hanging washed clothes, folding them after drying and keeping them back in the cupboard. We engage them by telling them about preparing dishes without use of fire. Recently, we did an activity of sowing seeds, feeding birds and keeping pots of water for them in the open,” says she.The principal said a daily activity she was asking her students to do was writing 10 current affair questions and answers in their copies. “They are told to daily check the news updates and make questions out of them. To develop intelligence, we are sending them riddles and puzzles daily that keep their minds engrossed. We have organised online competitions, including those on debates, declamations and poetry, so that they develop speaking skills,” she said.Romila gushes, “The best part during the conduct of online sessions has been that students have responded really well. As we have celebrated each day with them like Earth Day, Gurpurb, etc, we feel that their imagination has been widened. They have shown emotional intelligence in their tasks. Their relationships and bonding at home and with teachers has further strengthened. They have learnt the art of self-study. Needless to say, they have become technically sound. Even our teachers have had a new learning experience, have remained busy in preparing learning modules for the students and also attended webinars being organised off and on.”She adds, “Even though our school is located in a rural belt and most of the children (2,500) come from surrounding villages, it was not that difficult to transform schooling from centuries-old chalk-talk tradition to technology-based teaching. There is no child who does not have at least one smartphone at home. The problem surfaces if there are two siblings in a family and one mobile and both have to attend online classes simultaneously. In such cases, we have told parents not to worry. Tell the elder child to attend live classes. For the other one, we are sending recorded videos, solved answers and step-wise mathematical solutions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/time-to-teach-kids-to-be-self-reliant-100371
17-06-2020||Ajay Joshi---||Joblessness pushes many youths to sell fruits, veggies||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, June 16 Ravi Kumar, a resident of Ravidas Nagar, used to run a confectionery shop before the lockdown. From daily sales, he would earn enough to fulfill the needs of his family comprising four children and wife. However, when the curfew was imposed, his business came to a standstill. To eke out a living, he had switch to other trade and became a vegetable vendor.  Ravi is not only one who has been hit hard by the Covid-induced lockdown. Like him, there are many other traders and youths who lost their source of livelihood and had to take up odd jobs for survival and the sale of vegetables became the most sought-after source of earning.  “After the lockdown, I could not decide what to do. I realised sooner or later I’ll be out of savings. Initially,  I decided to sell sweets in my locality, but it didn’t work out as people were more interested in purchasing essential commodities. Later, one of my friends suggested me to sell vegetables. He helped me in buying a three-wheeler cart. I now go door to door and sell vegetables,” said Ravi. In the last over two months, there has been a surge in the number of vendors selling vegetables and fruits as essential items don’t fall under the restrictions. Sukhdeep Singh from the Mandi Market Committee, Maqsudan sabzi mandi, said they had issued nearly 3,000 passes to vendors during the lockdown.  Most of them who turned vegetable vendors included salesmen, marketing agents, daily wagers, auto-rickshaw drivers, transporters, fast food vendors and security guards. Karam Singh (29), a resident of Kabir Nagar, who used to work as a salesman at a private garment shop, said, initially, they thought it would be a matter of a few days, but it kept on extending.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/joblessness-pushes-many-youths-to-sell-fruits-veggies-100372
17-06-2020||---||Agriculture officials hold protest, submit memorandum to ADC||Jalandhar, June 16The Agriculture Technocrats Action Committee (ATAC), Jalandhar, held a protest outside the office of the District Agriculture Department today, demanding action against attack on agriculture officials in Ludhiana. Members of the committee, under the chairmanship of Surinder Singh, Chief Agriculture Officer-cum-District Convener, ATAC, submitted a memorandum in this regard to Additional Deputy Commissioner Jasbir Singh.The ATAC demanded a stringent action against those who attacked officials of the Agriculture Department in Ludhiana, near Sahnewal, earlier this week.Surinder said the accused were still at large and were roaming freely. “There is a feeling of discontentment among the Agriculture Department staff, including the Plant Doctors’ Service Association, Agricultural Officers Association, Agricultural Extension Officers Association, Agricultural Sub Inspectors Association, Agricultural Engineering Wing and the Statistics Wing,” added Surinder.Regional Seed Certification Officer Dr Kuldeep Singh said the officials were on government duty to stop the farmers from sowing paddy before the stipulated date, which was held on June 10. Instead of complying with the move, farmers attacked them.He said, “Even after fulfilling their duties, the agriculture officials remained neglected. Since no arrests have been made so far, members will intensify the protest if the action is not taken soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/agriculture-officials-hold-protest-submit-memorandum-to-adc-100373
17-06-2020||Saurabh Malik---||HC orders restoration of power, water connections to tannery||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 16 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered the restoration of electricity and water connections to a company for dry processing, which has paved the way for resumption of work by Jalandhar tanneries. The permission is subject to “clearance of all dues and fulfilment of formalities”. The directions by the Division Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash came on a petition filed against Punjab and another respondent by Lakshay International Private Limited through counsel Rohit Sud. The Bench was told that the petitioner, a private limited company, was engaged in the business of leather tanning by use of both wet and dry processing in its plant situated in Jalandhar. The petitioner’s premises was ordered to be sealed by the Punjab Pollution Control Board due to non-conforming to the norms laid down under the provisions of the Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986, and the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974. It was in compliance with a direction passed by a High Court Division Bench on October 29, 2019, while it was examining the violation of the norms by the tanneries operating at Jalandhar. Taking up the matter, the Bench observed the present writ petition was filed seeking directions for allowing the petitioner to operate its unit at least by use of the dry processing by restoring the electricity and water connections in terms of the consent granted by the Punjab Pollution Control Board vide letter dated May 22. The Bench added: “At the time of hearing, it is not in dispute that the petitioner in the light of the consent letter, dated May 22, would be entitled to restoration of the electric and water connections for operating its unit by use of dry processing only. Accordingly, the prayer to that limited account is accepted and the writ petition is disposed of accordingly. The authorities concerned will restore the electricity and water connections subject to the clearance of all dues and fulfilment of formalities at the earliest.” The High Court had earlier made it clear that the order of shutting down tanneries would remain in force till further orders and conformity to the Environment (Protection) Rules and the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act. It had subsequently ordered the construction of a Reinforced Cement Concrete dilution water tank to collect waste that is discharged. For the purpose, Punjab was to provide Rs 1.53 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hc-orders-restoration-of-power-water-connections-to-tannery-100374
17-06-2020||---||‘Unable to deliver, Cong MLAs, Mayor trade barbs’||Jalandhar, June 16 Taking a dig at the infighting between Congress MLAs and the Mayor over the non-execution of civic works in the city, former BJP Mayor Sunil Jyoti said today that it was pure desperation of party leaders over not being able to handle the administrative part of the Municipal Corporation. Jyoti while addressing mediapersons blamed the Congress-led MC House for making the city utterly shabby in the past two years. “This sounds strange that the government had to appoint an IAS officer, who was the Director of the Local Bodies Department of Punjab, as the Municipal Corporation Commissioner of a city. What will the Director do when local leaders of the party have no vision and thought about the city. Area MLAs have only been protesting over issues related to garbage dumping sites and demolition sites. Now, even the councillors have been squabbling over not allowing dumping yards to come in their wards. With everything going messy, it is all gloomy for city residents”, said the former Mayor. Jyoti said: “It is pure failure on the part of the Congress leaders to have not been able to deliver, especially when we left behind a basket full of Rs 4,500-crore grant for them to work on. Of the total amount, Rs 2,000 crore had already been allocated for the Smart City and Rs 2,500 crore under AMRUT scheme. But instead of using these grants and funds, the Congress leaders spent the funds in a haphazard way that the residents have not been able to see it positively. Even the leaders are now realising their mistakes and are putting blames on one another in the helpless situation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unable-to-deliver-cong-mlas-mayor-trade-barbs-100375
17-06-2020||SANIL Kapoor is the director of Sanil Chemicals Pvt Ltd||‘Covid taught businessmen to have backup plans, save for tough times’||One must always make the best out of every situation and never give up in adverse circumstances. These tough times brought up a lot of challenges for us, but we decided to take the crisis as an opportunity to bring in new business ideas and explore new markets for the future. — Sanil Kapoor, Director, Sanil Chemicals Pvt LtdHow has the lockdown impacted your business?Since we are a trading house, most of our operations are dependent on transportation and with the lockdown in place, we were almost out of every option. As we have been inoperative for quite a long time, we had to put on hold all our future projects.Do you expect any of your businesses to start running in the near future?A majority of our business activities require procurement of products from various industries. At present, we can say that we are slowly and steadily getting back to the normal working routine as the industries have started functioning. Keeping in view the tight liquidity in the market, all expansion plans have been put on hold.Have you released salaries of workers during the lockdown?During the lockdown, a lot of people suffered due to financial problems, but we made sure that our employees do not face such hardships. We released their salaries as per the company's policy.What is the share of online trading in your profession?We directly deal with companies and consumers. The share of online trading in our business is also negligible.What lessons, as a businessman, have you learnt from the lockdown?The most important lesson that I have learnt during the lockdown is that nothing is above Mother Nature and the only thing that is constant is change. One must, at all times, remain prepared with reserves and backup plans.Do you take the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?One must always make the best out of every situation and never give up in adverse circumstances. These tough times brought to us a lot of challenges, but we decided to take the crisis as an opportunity to bring in new business ideas and explore new markets of the future.What are your expectations from the government?We expect from the government to explore more opportunities for the industry and better economic situation. Given the current situation, we are quite hopeful that the policies implemented by the government will prove to be fruitful for the economy and the industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-taught-businessmen-to-have-backup-plans-save-for-tough-times-100387
17-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||Event enterprises stare at bleak future||Jalandhar, June 16As the sphere of outdoor entertainment has come to an absolute standstill amid the Covid-19 outbreak, event management companies have been witnessing a big blip in terms of revenue.With Covid-19 cases growing rapidly and community transmission being a real threat, there is uncertainty about when the business will get back on track. Also, companies we were working for are not ready to spend a single penny on online as well offline promotions. They have been citing the lockdown losses as the reason.— Gurjit Kaur, MD, N-10 Tainment Gurjit Kaur and Mandeep Minhas, MD of N-10 Tainment, an event management group, says they have been incurring huge losses as most of the events scheduled for summer months have either been postponed or cancelled for the time being.“With Covid-19 cases growing rapidly and community transmission being a real threat, there is uncertainty about when the business will get back on track. We are really clueless about our future as we have no clients at present. Also, the companies we were working for are not ready to spend a single penny on online as well offline promotions citing the lockdown losses as the reason,” said Gurjit Kaur.She said the current relaxations, too, were of no use to them as no events were possible without big crowds. “We get sponsorships on the basis of how many people will be visiting our event. Secondly, maintaining social distancing in events is really a tough task, so there is no scope of organising any programme in the next six to seven months,” she said.“We were looking after the promotions of many big brands, including Tata, TRDP Group, LIC India and Orra Jewellers. Besides, we were dealing in organising events such as wedding ceremonies, birthday parties and retirement celebrations. We also provide direct and indirect employment to a large number of people like caterers, stage and floor decorators, electricians, photographers, videographers, pandal operators, tailors, cab operators, makeup artistes, vegetable suppliers and others in the district,” said Gurjit.However, the Covid-19 had paralysed the industry and had affected jobs of all those who were dependent on such day-to-day events.On being asked if they are planning to shift online to stay afloat, Mandeep Minhas said, “We can have promotions online, but not events. The presence of film stars and singers in a particular event attracts not only a lot of visitors, but revenue for the companies too, which in case of online is not that successful. We have to wait for the situation to normalise and we hope that happens within the next six to seven months, otherwise it will be hard for us to survive”.He further said the Covid-19 had taught him a lesson for life that one must always have a plan B and should try a hand over other skills too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/event-enterprises-stare-at-bleak-future-100388
