18-06-2020||---||31 more +ve, district crosses 400 mark||Jalandhar, June 17 With 31 persons testing positive today, the district tally has reached 413. In the past less than fortnight, over 100 cases were reported. While the district hit the 300-mark on June 7, in the past 10 days, 113 more persons tested positive, which seems to be a clear indication of a community spread of Covid-19. However, the health authorities remain mum on whether there is a community spread yet. The 13th death in the district reported yesterday. The 31 persons include eight NRIs with travel history, six persons from Mahendru Nagar, six from Gopal Nagar and two from Kot Kishan Chand. While these are patients with previous histories, new cases include those from Noorpur Chatha (Nakodar), Guru Amar Das Nagar, Rurka Khurd,  Subhash Nagar, Fatehpur, Dharmiwal, Lambra, Raipur Raiyan, Teachers’ Colony, Partappura, Sangra Mohalla, Housing Board Colony, among others. The cases also include seven children — five below the age of 12 and two aged 17. Of the 31 persons, 21 are men. A 12-year-old boy from Teachers’ Colony, a 17-year-old boy from Gopal Nagar, a seven-year-old boy from Kot Kishan Chand, a three-year-old girl from Housing Board Colony, a six-year-old and a 17-year-old boy from Mohindru Mohalla and a five-year-old boy from Partappura include the children tested positive today. Of the eight NRIs tested positive today, two have returned from Delhi while the rest returned from Dubai and Abu Dhabi recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/31-more-ve-district-crosses-400-mark-100715
18-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||Fuel price hike: More  pain for auto-rickshaw drivers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 17The hike in fuel rates has given another jolt to auto-rickshaw operators in the city.They claimed that the lockdown restrictions had already reduced their earnings to more than half and the additional financial burden of fuel hike has left a dent in their pockets.Talking about a deceased auto-rickshaw driver, Manoj (40), who ended his life after jumping in front of a moving train on Sunday, Inderjit Singh, another driver, said: “The plight of auto-rickshaw operators remained unheard. After the two-passenger norm was introduced, the state government, instead of helping us, is forcing us to remain off road. Manoj was in debt and a challan of Rs 28,000 further added to his woes. He was ferrying more than two passengers due to which he was fined. Like him, we also don’t know how we will make a living now. We too will be forced to take such extreme steps. Before the lockdown, I was earning Rs 1,000-1,500 per day. After the government permitted the plying of auto-rickshaws on May 18, my earnings dropped to Rs 200-300. However, I was happy that I was earning something. But now, ferrying passengers is costing us dearer every day.”The petrol and diesel prices have been increased 4-5 times in the city in the past 10 days, said Manish, a worker at a local petrol pump. He said the prices of petrol and diesel were around Rs 72 and Rs 62, respectively, on June 7. However, the current prices of petrol and diesel stand at Rs 78.55 and 69.66, respectively.Ravinder Singh, who operates on the Pathankot bypass-railway station-bus stand route for the past over eight years, said: “The livelihood of auto-rickshaw drivers is at stake. The government’s apathy has left us nowhere. Most of the auto-rickshaw drivers are the sole breadwinners in their families and are finding it hard to earn enough to meet their basic needs. We urge the government to reduce the fuel prices.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fuel-price-hike-more-pain-for-auto-rickshaw-drivers-100716
18-06-2020||---||‘State diverted funds of SC scholarship scheme’||Jalandhar, June 17 SAD spokesperson Pawan Tinu today alleged that the state government had diverted funds of the SC Post Matric Scholarship Scheme towards arranging tickets of migrants who went home by Shramik Special trains. Tinu said the Centre had released a grant of Rs 309.21 crore to the state on March 19, just days before the lockdown. He claimed that the state also had Rs 250 crore from a previous grant in its kitty. He said the state had now used nearly Rs 550 crore of amount for train tickets, depriving the SC students of their long pending dues of the year 2015-16. Tinu, who is also an Adampur legislator, alleged that owing to the pending amount of scholarship, students were being denied degrees by their institutes. “Without degrees, they are unable to get good jobs, which may even get more difficult post lockdown.”  The SAD leader said Sadhu Singh Dharamsot had been saying it for the past three years that he was getting the financial audit of the scholarship scheme done and had found irregularities worth Rs 400 crore. Tinu questioned the minister by asking, “Has the audit work not been completed even in three years? If yes, what is the total amount calculated? Whether it has been recovered or not? How many financial institutions and their officials have been booked for the fraud? If there are still no results, he must reveal how much funds he has unearthed from the institutions, under the table.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/state-diverted-funds-of-sc-scholarship-scheme-100717
18-06-2020||Jalandhar||Expert throws light on need for self-love||Understanding the need of the hour, to talk, share, appreciate and to embrace oneself, during this never-before situation, where positive thinking and reflection is of the utmost importance for all, a webinar, ‘Fly-first love yourself’, was organised by Rachna Monga, principal, Sanskriti KMV School.  The webinar was addressed by Dr Shruti Shukla, state coordinator, Guidance Bureau and Counselling, SCERT, Education Department, Government of Punjab.  She focused on the key aspect of self-consideration, appreciation and expression. “In the times of invisible pressure and expectations from all directions, teachers have to balance their responsibilities, capabilities and wisdom in order to stand right. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/expert-throws-light-on-need-for-self-love-100718
18-06-2020||Phagwara||Interactive session on judicial reforms||Lovely Professional University (LPU) on Tuesday organised an online interaction and discussion on law and legislature. Joint Secretary GR Raghavender of the Department of Justice, Ministry of Law and Justice, forwarded relevant academic observations and views on the event named ‘Judicial reform: Issues, concerns and challenges’. Raghavendra commenced the session by saying that major changes have emerged in the judicial system during unprecedented times of the Covid-19 pandemic. The speaker also highlighted the reforms in the form of e-filing, virtual courts, special courts with emphasis laid on the role of the scheme ‘Gram Nayalaya’. He also familiarised participants with new methods of making justice accessible to the people in the form of ‘Nayaya Bandhu’ App.  The students and faculty made significant queries to the speaker about the ‘Nayaya Vikas’ scheme including online web portal monitoring. The law expert also discussed the ‘weightage disposal formula’, which helps in solving the case, and analysing the number of new judges and other posts required to provide justice to the people. He also said that a major part of the judiciary has now been computerised with web portals, databases of cases. He said all of these cases are now categorised in a system with their year-wise pendency details, including reasons for pendency along with the chronological adjournments. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/interactive-session-on-judicial-reforms-100719
18-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Anganwadi workers deliver Covid awareness message||Hoshiarpur, June 17Anganwadi workers on Tuesday went from door-to-door to spread awareness about the deadly coronavirus under the aegis of the ‘Mission Fateh’ programme launched by the state government. While 41 vehicles delivered the message to the district’s dwellers, around 1,880 anganwadi workers laid stress on the precautionary guidelines issued by the government.Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait had on Monday awarded the badges of the ‘Mission Fateh’ marking the campaign’s commencement, which will see them visit more than 1400 villages. She also said that the homes of the children coming to the Anganwadis were visited by the workers today. Rewarding the sarpanches of the villages with the ‘Mission Fateh’ badge, she said they would visit the villagers on Wednesday.Promotional vehicles would be used again the next day for campaigning in the district.The Deputy Commissioner said that the ‘Mission Fateh’ warriors are to be selected by the Punjab government who upload their photo on the Cova application and the list will then be sent to the district administration so that they can be encouraged through badges and T-shirts.She informed that the selection has been thrown open only through the application and those interested shall download it on their mobile.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/anganwadi-workers-deliver-covid-awareness-message-100720
18-06-2020||Tanda Urmar||Inter-state gang of robbers busted, 2 arrested||The district police claimed to have arrested two members of an inter-state gang of robbers, who were allegedly involved in several robbery incidents at gunpoint. Two countrymade pistols, a car, five cell phones and other items were recovered from them.SP (investigation) Raminder Singh said the robbers in a car tried to rob a farmer, father-son duo, at gun point. The victims were returning on tractor-trolley near Dhugga Kalan village after selling maize crop. Farmer’s son Amandeep said he was returning to village along with his father after selling maize crop, when a car stooped before their tractor blocking the road. Two persons came out of the car and fired at him but he escaped. The robbers snatched cash from his father and tried to flee. Meanwhile, his (Amandeep’s) cousin Gurvinder came there on his tractor. Both Amandeep and Gurvinder tried to chase the accused. The police reached the spot. Both accused tried to escape towards the fields but got stuck in barbed wire fencing and were arrested. The arrested accused have been identified as Sukhjit Singh Sukkha, alias Gainda, a resident of Jhingand and Kuldeep Singh, alias Waletiya, a resident of Moro village in Jalandhar.During interrogation, the accused confessed that they had robbed Rs 5,000 from a petrol pump in Phagwara, Rs 3,000 from money exchanger’s shop in Goraya (Jalandhar), a car and mobile phone from the area under Mullanpur police station and a car and mobiles from Saharanpur in UP. — OCMiscreants vandalise carJalandhar: High drama was witnessed in the Kishanpura area when a local liquor trader complained of a violent attack on a resident by some unknown youths. Liquor trader Karan Sharma alleged that even after appealing, the police personnel present on the spot didn’t take any action and the miscreants kept on attacking the resident and vandalised his car.Karan said the victim, Piyush Sharma, was going on his Innova car when some unknown persons started arguing with Piyush over the car parking issue. In no time they also took out their weapons and started attacking the victim. They also break his car. However, despite pleading for long the police didn’t intervene.A video of the incident was also circulated on social media. SHO Police Division No.8 said they had taken cognisance of the incident and a police team was send to nab the culprits. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/inter-state-gang-of-robbers-busted-2-arrested-100721
18-06-2020||Kapurthala||10-yr-old achieves Taekwondo feat||Five booked IN assault CASENakodar: The Shahkot police have booked five members of a family for allegedly assaulting Balkar Singh. The suspects have been identified as Pal Singh, a resident of Mulewal Arayian village, his wife Parkash Kaur, sons Gurwindar Singh and Ravindar Singh and daughter-in-law Harindar Kaur. In his complaint to the police, Balkar Singh, a resident of the same village, alleged that the suspect attacked him on June 13 while he was working in his fields. A case has been registered. OCWoman robbed of mobile phonePhagwara: Two unidentified motorcyclists snatched a mobile phone from a woman, Reena, near her house at Regency Town locality on Tuesday. The victim was standing in front of her house. The police have registered a case in this regard. OCBikers snatch phone, pursePhagwara: Two unidentified motorcyclists snatched a mobile phone and a purse from a money exchanger Surinderpal Singh at a pistol-point on the Goraya-Rurka Kalan road on Tuesday. The robbers managed to flee. A case has been registered. OCRs 5K snatched from manPhagwara: Two unidentified car-borne robbers struck at a petrol pump and snatched Rs 5,000, an ATM card, and a mobile phone from Harjinder Singh, a resident of Jagatpur-jattan village, on Tuesday evening. The victim came to get fuel for his bike. The miscreants managed to flee. A case has been registered. OCHouse burgled in PhagwaraPhagwara: The house of Surinder Kumar was reportedly burgled in the Satnampura locality on Tuesday night. The burglars entered the house after breaking the locks and decamped with two water coolers, one power inverter and several taps. A case has been registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-yr-old-achieves-taekwondo-feat-100722
18-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Bid to throw mobile phones in jail foiled||Hoshiarpur, June 17A bid to supply mobile phones to gangsters lodged in Hoshiarpur Central Jail was foiled this afternoon when at around 2.05 pm the packet containing five smart phones was recovered from outer side of the jail’s wall near tower no. 3, Jail Superintendent Lalit Kumar Kohli informed this evening. “The packet was intended to be thrown in the high security zone no. 13, which is adjacent to tower no. 3. There is only 20 feet distance from the outer wall to high security zone no. 13 wall and the said zone is meant for the gangsters lodged in Hoshiarpur jail. An unidentified man throwing the said packet was noticed by the sentry of tower no. 3 constable Dinesh Kumar. He immediately raised the alarm and on duty patrolling sentry constable Narinder Singh picked up the packet,”Kohli said. He intimated the incident to ASI Rakesh Kumar, incharge jail security, who chased the unidentified person who had thrown the packet, but he escaped. “The packet was opened in my presence in the office and it contained brand new five smart mobile phones and three chargers. A letter to take appropriate legal action against the unidentified person was sent to the city police station”, Kohli said. Gobinder Kumar, SHO, city, said a case had been registered against the unidentified accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bid-to-throw-mobile-phones-in-jail-foiled-100724
18-06-2020||  ||PNB branch sealed after guard tests +ve||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 17The health authorities today sealed the branch of Punjab National Bank on Railway Road after its security guard tested positive for Covid-19. The branch staff has been home-quarantined and all of them will be tested in a day or so. Employees of the bank said ever since the lockdown restrictions had been relaxed, visitors had stopped taking necessary precautions of maintaining social distancing and using sanitisers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pnb-branch-sealed-after-guard-tests-ve-100725
18-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||Without salary since January, teachers question donation to PM-CARES Fund||Jalandhar, June 17Teachers of as many as six DAV Colleges in the state have been awaiting their salaries and pending Provident Fund (PF) for the past four to five months. They alleged that they had been facing several financial problems and had to seek loans from their friends and family to manage their everyday expenses.However, with faculty members left in lurch, the DAV Management has, meanwhile, in April donated a hefty amount of Rs 5 crore to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-CARES) Fund. The teachers said the amount donated to the PM Cares Fund was collected from staff members where each employee contributed their one-day salary (basic + dearness allowance) in the month of March.Convenor DAV Co-ordination Committee Surinder Kaur has written a letter to President DAV College Managing Committee (DCMC), New Delhi, complaining about the non-release of the salaries and PF of teachers of six DAV Colleges, which include MMD DAV College — Gidderbaha, KRM DAV College — Nakodar, DAV College—Malout, DAV College For Women —Ferozepur, Gopi Chand College—Abohar and LR DAV College—Jagraon, for the last four to five months.In the letter, Surinder Kaur, said, “On the call of the DAV Management, all employees of the DAV Colleges have donated one-day salary for the PM Relief fund to fight the pandemic. But now, when employees of the organisation have been facing the resource crunch, the management has failed to address their grievances.”She said in the present situation, teachers had been finding it hard to manage their expenses. Also, the schools of their children have started demanding fee for three months, while they do not have enough money to meet their needs. “The deadly virus is spreading fast and there is uncertainty and chaos everywhere. The management must look into the matter and release the salaries of the employees at the earliest,” she added.Another, a teacher from KRM DAV College, Nakodar, said he had not received his salary since April. “It’s hard for me to run my family without salary. I am the sole bread earner and I also have to pay the EMIs of my house, fees of my kids and among other expenses to be paid,” he said.Meanwhile, HR Gandhar, Vice President, DAV College, Managing Committee, denied the allegations of non-release of salaries and said the management during this Covid-19 period had released Rs 250 crores as loan to different DAV Colleges in the state. He said despite grants and scholarships of SC students not being released by the state government, the college has managed to support its faculty members and students by providing every help possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/without-salary-since-january-teachers-question-donation-to-pm-cares-fund-100727
18-06-2020||Our Correspondent||49-year-old among four new cases in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, June 17Four persons were tested positive for Covid in the district on Wednesday.One of the cases is a 49-year-old woman from Mukerian. She was admitted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh, for the treatment of cancer. and she was tested positive there. The other patients include a 37-year-old woman from the Mand Pandher area and two patients in their thirties from Mukerian. With these four patuents, the number of positive cases in the district has increased to 149.District Civil Surgeon Jasvir Singh said samples of 404 persons with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken on Wednesday. The reports of 278 samples were received, of which four were found positive. As many as 8,445, samples have been taken so far in the district, of which 6,658 tested negative. The reports of 1,819 samples are awaited. Of the 149 positive cases in the district, 12 are active.He appealed to people to use masks while going out of their houses and follow the social distancing norms. If someone does not follow the same, they will be fined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/49-year-old-among-four-new-cases-in-hoshiarpur-100728
18-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||IK Gujral Punjab Technical University dealing with exam schedule queries||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 17As over a lakh students await the decision of the IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU) over the conduct of its online examination that it announced to be scheduled from July 1, the faculty at the campus these days is busy handling multiple queries of students throughout the day.Rajneesh Sharma, Public Relations Officer (PRO), says, “When we announced our decision to hold an online examination, our 14,000 students, who are natives of J&K, opposed to it and said they would not be able to take up the examination. The online examination was difficult for them as they only have access to weak 2G internet connection. They even said the offline examination was not possible for them as the inter-state travel was not possible at this stage owing to the Covid-19 restrictions.”He added, “Even as this confusion prevailed, it was at the same juncture that Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh announced that the Punjab universities and colleges will wait for instructions of the UGC and MHRD before taking a call on how and when to conduct the examination. The UGC is expected to make some announcements on June 22, after which we will be able to take the final call. At the same, we are now flooded with calls from the final year students that their examination be taken at the earliest as the companies with which they had got placed want them to furnish their final result for a quick absorption. So, currently, we are handling an overload of queries coming via various modes including phones, social media etc.”The varsity PRO shared, “Many students have been calling us and telling us not to take their examination and promote them on the basis of previous examination. We are telling them that such promotee students could face problems in the higher education and even placements as their prospective employers too could raise objections. Since most of the students making such suggestions are C grade holders with percentage in the bracket of 40-50 per cent, we are telling them to take this break as a golden opportunity. We are guiding them to work hard and score well so as to improve their overall grade to at least B or above 60 per cent for a better placement.”He added, “We sought a feedback from them asking them about their choice of examination – offline or online. This will help us decide on our future course of action.”For freshers, Sharma said, “We are guiding them to go for pre-registration now even though the admission process may be a little late as it had a number of advantages. Our staff, which is free nowadays, is preparing a database of applicants and even interacting with them. So, they can get guidance about various scholarship schemes of university and affiliated colleges. Secondly, the UGC is guiding students to take admission close to their native places for a quick reach in Covid times. So, they can explore colleges with better faculty and facilities around them in this time. Rest, there is ample time with students for their hobby exploration, skill enhancement and technological upgradation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ik-gujral-punjab-technical-university-dealing-with-exam-schedule-queries-100733
18-06-2020||------||Opened again, bus stand dhabas miss routine buzz||“There are hardly any passengers now. We are barely cooking half a kg rice for the whole day now. 'Bhaturas', snacks, coffee, cold drinks and juices are off the shelf as there are no takers. Earlier, the passengers used to be in a hurry and we had to keep our stuff ready to serve them as buses would leave off quickly. But now there is no such haste as buses remain stranded for two hours or even more waiting to be at least half occupied. ---Amandeep, owner of Punjabi Tadka dhaba-----Deepkamal KaurTribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 17Amandeep of Gopal Nagar reopened his Punjabi Tadka dhaba inside the food court of the Jaladhar bus stand this Monday after a gap of nearly three months.Having run the dhaba round the clock with his staff working in three shifts, he never had a problem paying a monthly rental of Rs 1.75 lakh to a Punbus contractor. But things have now completely changed.Opening in the morning, now his dhaba closes down at 4 pm as the bus stand goes completely deserted. While he earlier used to prepare 'bhatura chana', 'paranthas', 'samosas' and 'bread pakoras' for breakfast and had five dishes for the lunch and dinner, besides beverages, including tea, coffee, lassi, juices and cold drinks, most of his vessels remain empty now as he is preparing only a few items and that too in a limited quantity.“There are hardly any passengers now. We are barely cooking half a kilogram rice for the whole day now. 'Bhaturas', snacks, coffee, cold drinks and juices are off the shelf now as there are no takers. While earlier, the passengers used to be in a hurry and we had to keep our stuff ready to serve them as buses would leave off quickly. But now there is no such haste as buses remain stranded for two hours or even more waiting to be at least half occupied. So, we have ample time to ready their order and pack their meals. But the point here is that no one comes this side”, he rues.Amandeep adds, “There are no long distance buses from here. Earlier, buses used to ply inter-state and all those going to Delhi, Rajasthan and other states used to get down and have food at dhabas here in the food court. All of us used to have our hands full, but so far only two of us have opened and that too two days ago. We and our workers did not even have two minutes to spare to talk to anyone. Since there are no long route buses plying now and people are scared of having outside meals, they carry along their own food and water and are completely avoiding our meals.”The dhaba owner says, “Past midnight, when the entire city used to sleep earlier in normal days, it was only the bus stand area that remained abuzz with activity. We used to have good number of people for meals even at odd hours between 1 am and 4 am. The entire city knew that when all dhabas would be shut, the food court at the bus stand would remain open. But you can yourself see now. It is lunch time and we are without a single visitor.”Amandeep says he really does not know how he would manage the things. “Under the present terms of contract, we might not be able to go on. The contract amount needs to be revised at least for the time period till things come to normal”, he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/opened-again-bus-stand-dhabas-miss-routine-buzz-100734
18-06-2020||Industry and Lockdown||‘Blended learning can help institutes continue education’||Running a private university and 24 educational institutes, Apeejay Education Society (AES) has faced numerous challenges during the Covid-19-induced lockdown. The chairman of the society and president of Apeejay Stya and Svran Groups, Sushma Paul Berlia, discusses with Deepkamal Kaur various innovative changes brought in by the group in its business to tide over the tough times. Excerpts:How did your educational institutions face challenges posed by Covid-19 pandemic?The Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns are unprecedented events in the modern history. We are a diversified conglomerate with interests in various sectors. For AES that runs 24 institutions, including schools and higher education institutions, across the country and for Apeejay Stya University, the focus from Day 1 of the lockdown was on providing students with a safe and enriching virtual experience of learning that matched or exceeded classroom learning. It required a complete change of mindset. In a few days, we readied a timetable to complete the pending syllabus and shared it with students. There were mistakes made and several roadblocks faced, but we persisted in experimenting with new education techniques. Our long-term investments in technology and innovation helped us a lot. However, regular online learning was not something that everyone was comfortable with. In some cases, parents had to be counselled to let their wards study on a cell phone or computer. Activities like yoga, physical education, art and craft, music and dance had to be woven into a balanced time table. We also ensured that teachers and staff who worked relentlessly are paid on time. We also had to exercise control over spiralling costs due to technological upgrades.Did any of your institutions do differently in this period?At AES institutions, the focus is on adding value to everything we did. We used the present crisis as an opportunity to bring industry experts on board, organised virtual alumni meets and encouraged our students to engage in a gamut of creative pursuits, including dance, music, painting and photography. One of our achievements was that in a few weeks or so, we successfully conducted most of our examinations online with over 10,000 students logging on simultaneously. We are seeking to publish the best practices from all our institutions during the lockdown in the form of a monograph to help other institutions.How have your institutions helped the community in general?The Apeejay College of Fine Arts conducted a series of significant national and international webinars inviting experts, well-placed alumni and distinguished scholars from India and abroad to interact with the students and faculty. We have also been reaching out to villages to spread awareness about Covid-19. The institution has also garnered a lot of appreciation by offering free of cost skill development courses during the lockdown period. At Apeejay Institute of Management and Engineering, many of the students have got lucrative summer internship offers even in these trying times.What is the group doing to ensure that there are good admissions in colleges this year?We are providing online counselling to our aspirants. The entire admission process has been made online and the online user experience has been enhanced. We have also circulated important information about various institutions through various communication channels and social media platforms.What lessons have you learnt from the current situation?The pandemic taught us a number of lessons. First, it reinforced the importance of human capital over any other resource. We retrained and nurtured our people to enhance their productivity. The second key learning was about the criticality of innovation and flexibility to change. Everyone adapted to the change organically. Third, the importance of virtual education is here to stay, perhaps even after Covid-19. Blended learning using both online and offline modes of learning appears to be gaining momentum. However, the role of the teacher cannot be replaced even in the online mode of learning. Also it is important to 'mine the knowledge' and relevant enrichment from a plausible information overload. In technology, the need for a mass device at an affordable price has become the need of the hour.Have you done any philanthropic work during the pandemic?We extended monetary and non-monetary help to people in the battle against Covid-19. As an organisation, we contributed to government agencies and also made donations through chambers of commerce and other platforms. Besides, our employees contributed voluntarily. We extended help to the migrant labourers, gave masks, safety kits and food to our frontline healthcare warriors, including doctors and other medical staff. Taking the concept of 'Vidya daan' to the next level, we extended the gift of knowledge to even those who were not our students through networks and associations, social media platforms and channels, including YouTube.Would you like to share as to how you got stuck abroad when the lockdown happened?When the Covid-19 outbreak occured, I was abroad. All flights were being cancelled. But one has to deal with the situation as it emerges. With the grace of God, everything went fine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/blended-learning-can-help-institutes-continue-education-100739
