19-06-2020||---||14th Covid death in Jalandhar, four cops test positive||Jalandhar, June 18With the death of a 30-year-old woman, the number of Covid casualties in the district has risen to 14. The count of positive cases has reached 418.This is the third person in the age group of 30s to die of Covid in the district. A 30-year-old man died on May 6 and a 38-year-old woman died on June 11. The case of the woman who died today was reported at the Civil Hospital in Jalandhar. She was a resident of Pachranga (Bhogpur). A diabetic and a patient of chronic kidney disease, she had been admitted to the hospital on June 11 and her sample tested positive on June 16. She died in the wee hours of this morning. The victim was on a ventilator.Four persons, all police personnel, tested positive in the district today. While they are confirmed to be members of the CIA staff, one of them is a resident of Chugitti.Meanwhile, two persons tested positive in Kapurthala today. One of them is a resident of Jalandhar. They include a 35-year-old man, who came from Maharashtra and resides at Chakoki village in Kapurthala, and a 32-year-old woman from Gona Chak village in Jalandhar. Her sample was taken at the CHC, Kala Sanghian.Migrant woman among two new cases in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: Reports of 885 samples have been received on Thursday in the district, of which two persons have tested positive. These cases are from Hoshiarpur city and Hajipur. A migrant woman found positive in Tagore Nagar here is from Allahabad while the Hajipur woman has returned from Delhi.Civil Surgeon Jasvir Singh said 8,921 samples had been taken so far in the district. As many as 476 new samples were collected on Thursday.He said of the 8,921 samples taken so far, 7,266 tested negative and reports of 1,484 samples were awaited. The total positive cases in the district had reached 151, of which 14 were active and five patients have died.Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said so far, 132 Covid patients had been recovered in the district. — OCPhillaur ASI infectedPhillaur: An assistant sub-inspector (ASI), posted at the Phillaur police station, tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday. Senior Medical Officer Amandip Singh, Primary Health Centre, Shahkot, said the ASI, a resident of Thamuwal village, had been shifted to the Jalandhar Civil Hospital after he tested positive for Covid. The SMO said he was tested at Dosanjh Kalan recently, adding that his family members had been home quarantined. The policeman was transferred from Shahkot two weeks ago. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/14th-covid-death-in-jalandhar-four-cops-test-positive-101123
19-06-2020||Garhshankar||Youth found dead in temple||Mystery shrouds 65-yr-old’s deathPhillaur: A 65-year-old person was found dead under mysterious circumstances in Bilga canal. His body was fished out from the canal on Thursday. The police said the deceased has been identified as Gurchet Singh of Shahpur villag. The body of the victim has been sent for autopsy. Nirmal Singh, brother of the deceased, who said Gurchet Singh went to irrigate his fields on Wednesday evening, but did not return. A case has been registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-found-dead-in-temple-101124
19-06-2020||Aparna Banerji---||...deceased too had kidney disease||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, June 18 The deaths of young people in the district, who tested positive for Covid-19, emphasise the fact that people of all age groups are vulnerable to the disease. A 30-year-old woman with chronic kidney disease (CKD) and diabetes died here today is the 14th Covid death in the district. She is the third person in the district who died of Covid and the second person to die in her 30s and suffering from CKD. The first person who died in the 30s was a 30-year-old Qazi Mohalla man who breathed his last on May 6. He too had a CKD. On June 11, a 38-year-old Kot Sadiq woman also died after she tested positive. While the ruling discourse on Covid is that elderly and those with weak immunity need to be careful, the threat to those who have renal problems or chronic-kidney conditions, even among the young, has been missing from the government communications. With the lockdown restrictions relaxed, hundreds of people, especially youngsters, are out on streets and at market places. They are giving two hoots to the social distancing norms. Barring two persons aged 86 and 91, all deceased in the district were in the age group of 48 to 65. Most of them had comorbidities such as heart diseases, renal problems, kidney-related ailments, hypertension and diabetes. Dr Raghavendra Singh, a nephrologist at India Kidney Hospital, Jalandhar, said: “The majority of Covid mortalities, not only in the city or the state but also in the country, have underlying kidney conditions or infections. Among the deceased, Covid infection is either preceded or followed by a kidney infection or complications. Even before Covid, there was a dramatic rise in cases of kidney disease and for the past some years, every year there has been a 7 to 10 per cent rise in patients reported with kidney problems. In such a scenario, patients with kidney conditions need to be extra careful.” Dr Singh said kidney disease was common among people and 10 per cent of the population was bound to have a kidney condition and 50 per cent of the diabetics also have kidney problems. He said kidney-related ailments was divided in 10 groups — people with diabetes, stone diseases, genetic kidney conditions, those ailments caused due to consumption of fast food and excessive medicines and those who consume alcohol or drugs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/deceased-too-had-kidney-disease-101125
19-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||Foreign returnees allege poor facilities at quarantine centre||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 18A large number of Singapore, Malaysia and Dubai returnees, who have been quarantined for suspected Covid-19 infection at the National Institute of Jalandhar (NIT), Jalandhar, have been experiencing a harrowing time due to poor facilities, including inadequate food and hygiene.The videos that the inmates circulated on the social media, shows washrooms in an unclean state, water spilled around water coolers and pantry areas, littered food packets and water bottles disposed at a corner.Apart from alleging poor arrangements at the quarantine centre, the inmates said they were living under the fear of getting infected with Covid as the social distancing norms were not being followed at the centre.While circulating the video pointing towards administration’s apathy, a man who returned from Dubai claimed that the staff members appointed on duty hardly paid any attention towards maintaining cleanliness at the centre and they also remove their masks while distributing food and water.Suraj, a resident of Basti Bawa Khel, who had gone to Singapore on study visa, landed at Amritsar Airport on Tuesday. After experiencing an exhausting time at the airport, waiting to get screened, he was packed into a bus with other passengers, who had travelled abroad. He was then brought here at the Sports College where he and other returnees were further examined before being accommodated at the quarantine centre.Suraj said, “It’s been three days since I have been lodged here with other returnees. Though we have been kept here to recover, our health is completely at stake. The rooms are unclean, washrooms are dirty and Covid prevention measures have absolutely gone for a toss here. Most of the people are sharing common washrooms, which are dirty and the washing area hasn’t also been cleaned since we arrived here. If we stay here in such unhygienic conditions, we are bound to get infected as we don’t have any face masks and sanitisers here. However, even after pleading with the authorities, I wasn’t sent to a hotel, as I am ready to pay for my own expenses instead of living here.”Similarly, a Dubai returnee said, there is no timing for providing us food. We are forced to remain without food for hours. “We get our first meal between 7.30 to 8.30 am, followed by lunch around 2 pm and then dinner after 8.30. At times, the timings to supply food also gets delayed,” added the returnee.The authorities have kept nearly 80-100 oversees returnees at the NIT quarantine centre. Authority in-charge, Navneet Kaur Bal, Estate Officer, assured that she would verify the anomalies as all the facilities have been provided at the quarantine centre. Besides, she maintained that the foreign returnees have already been permitted to stay in hotels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/foreign-returnees-allege-poor-facilities-at-quarantine-centre-101126
19-06-2020||---||EPFO launches online claim facility||Jalandhar, June 18The Regional Provident Fund Commissioner, Sunil Kumar Yadav, on Wednesday said taking a big leap towards ensuring uniform standards of service delivery across the country and optimum utilisation of its workforce during Covid-19 pandemic, the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has recently launched a multi-location claim settlement facility.This facility will bring a paradigm shift by allowing EPFO offices to settle online claims from any of its regional offices across the country. All types of online claims i.e. provident fund, pension, partial withdrawal and claims and transfer claims can be processed under this novel initiative.Covid-19 crisis has affected 135 regional offices of EPFO with different levels of severity depending on their location. It was observed that though many offices operate with even less than skeletal staff, on account of Covid-19 pandemic, there has been a disproportionate increase in claim receipt due to recently introduced Covid-19 advance. Consequently, claim pendency in these offices rose to higher levels leading to delay in claim settlement cycle while other offices, working with 50 per cent workforce and with the help of recently introduced auto settlement mode could bring the claim settlement period down to three days for Covid-19 advances.To reduce delays by uniformly distributing the claim settlement related workload nationwide, the EPFO has moved away from the existing system of geographical jurisdiction for claim processing by rolling out multi-location claim settlement facility. This will allow offices with lesser workload to share the burden of offices that have accumulated a higher level of pendency, due to Covid restrictions. It enables fast-tracking of settlement process through most appropriate engagement of EPFO’s workforce in all its regional offices across the country.“The initiative aimed at enhancing the ease of living experience for its members, has been achieved in record time. The first batch of multi-location claims under this path-breaking project was settled for Gurugram Region on June 10. The claims of employees pertaining to the regional office of Gurugram Region were settled by EPFO staff deployed in Chandigarh, Ludhiana and Jalandhar offices. After settlement, the payment was made from the Gurugram office to the bank account of the individual member. Since its launch, claims pertaining to offices that fall in containment zones are being distributed to offices in other locations for expeditious processing. Further, the launch of multi-location claim settlement facility is a momentous step towards the larger objectives of ushering faceless claims processing thereby bringing greater levels of transparency, efficiency, reduction of member grievances and expeditious settlement of online claims in line with the Prime Minister’s vision of ‘Digital India’,” said Yadav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/epfo-launches-online-claim-facility-101127
19-06-2020||Jalandhar||‘Grants-in-aid, low strength  leading to delay in salaries’||The Covid-19 pandemic has badly affected the functioning of many prestigious institutes in the state. Majority of the colleges, especially those in the rural areas are currently in a state of financial crisis. The faculty members in these colleges have alleged that they have not received salaries for the past four to five months. Though the delay in grants-in-aid coming from the government and less strength of students in the colleges (owing to foreign dreams), were the major reasons behind the financial crisis, however, the Covid-19 pandemic has now further worsened the situation with college management, who are having a hard time paying salaries to the staff members.  It is learnt that many colleges in rural areas have just one to three students for subjects such as Punjabi, Hindi, Sanskrit and Mathematics. While the fee paid by such students ranges between Rs 20,000 to Rs 30,000 per annum, the monthly salary of the teachers is Rs 1.5 lakh. Hence, viability of courses and their rationalisation is currently what is being looked into by the College Management Committees.  Talking to The Tribune, on this issue and delay in salaries of the staff, Dr Raman Gaur, Director, DAV College Management Committee, said, “The higher education department of the state must pay attention towards the exodus of students abroad and take steps to retain them in the state for higher studies. Also, the grants-in-aid since February has not been released by the Punjab Government and all the benefits to the teaching and non-teaching employees such as leave encashment and gratuity are being paid by the college on their own,” he said. He added that the DAV College Managing Committee had given a sum of Rs 250 crores to various DAV Colleges of Punjab to disburse the salaries and has been supporting all its faculty members and students by providing them every possible help. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/grants-in-aid-low-strength-leading-to-delay-in-salaries-101128
19-06-2020||---||Youth Congress pays tributes to slain soldiers||Jalandhar, June 18 Members of the Youth Congress took out a candlelight march to pay homage to the Indian soldiers who lost their lives in a violent clash with Chinese army troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley. The march started from the Punjab State War Memorial near the bus stand. Rajinder Beri, MLA, Jalandhar Central, joined the march along with Angad Dutta, president, Youth Congress, Jalandhar (Urban). During the march, Rajinder Beri said though Army officers had been regularly apprising the government of alarming situation on the LAC, the government was more busy in its electoral battle and planning to topple Opposition government in states. “It seems the country is not Narendra Modi’s number one priority, but it is more concerned about how to rule all entire states of the country.” Angad Dutta said the incident was shocking and unacceptable and the Congress party stood by the Central Government on the issue of national security, but the Prime Minister should inform the countrymen how China occupied our land and how our 20 soldiers were martyred. He said it was time now for the Centre to take some stringent measures as each sign of weakness would make China’s reaction more “belligerent”. He also thanked Capt Amarinder Singh for deciding to give jobs to kin of the four martyrs who laid down their lives in the clash. He further said the event was held on the directions of PYC president Barinder Singh Dhillon. The candlemarch was being organised in all the constituencies of Jalandhar. Randeep Sandhu (president, AYC) Jalandhar Cantt, Jaskaran Sohi (general secretary, DYC) in Jalandhar (West), Parveen Kumar (president, AYC) in Jalandhar Central, Sunny Kumar (president, AYC) in Jalandhar North, Rocky Nahar in Jalandhar Cantt, Jai Abhishek Bhagat (general secretary, DYC) in Jalandhar also organised the candlemarch in their respective Assembly segments. Those who joined the protest in different areas were Abhishek Jain, Rohit Pathak, Ram Dayal, Sunny Narula, Ashish Thakur, Jodha Minhas and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-congress-pays-tributes-to-slain-soldiers-101129
19-06-2020||---||SAD-BJP leaders stage protest, throw social distancing norms to the wind||Jalandhar, June 18SAD-BJP leaders took on the ruling Congress by organising district-level dharnas across Punjab today. They presented their memoranda to the respective Deputy Commissioners.Party leaders, including SAD MLAs Pawan Tinu, Gurpartap Wadala, ex-BJP minister Manorajan Kalia, ex-BJP CPS KD Bhandari, SAD district president Kulwant S Manan and BJP district president Sushil Sharma were also present on the occasion. The leaders said they had presented a memorandum earlier too, seeking inquiry into the mafias working in liquor, sand and fake seed business. They alleged that the mafias, under the patronage of Congress, had caused a loss of revenue of Rs 5,600 crore to the state exchequer.The leaders said while they ensured proper distribution of foodgrains to the poor in their ten-year tenure, the Congress removed many names from the list of beneficiaries from April 1 last year. He said the poor families, many of whom were without work for the past three months, owing to the Covid spread, were now unable cope with the situation.Strangely, even the senior party leaders chose not to maintain social distancing, hence flouting the Covid guidelines. More than 30 leaders of the alliance managed to enter the office of Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori to handover the memorandum, where also they violated all guidelines.Seek action against mafiasLeaders presented a memorandum seeking a probe into mafias working in liquor, sand and fake seed businesses. They alleged that the mafias, under the patronage of the Congress, had caused a loss of revenue of Rs5,600 crore to the state exchequer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sad-bjp-leaders-stage-protest-throw-social-distancing-norms-to-the-wind-101130
19-06-2020||Kapurthala||Social worker booked for ‘violating’ quarantine norms||A social worker of Khusropur village here has alleged that downloading and deleting Cova App of the state government cost him dearly. The district police have ‘wrongly’ lodged an FIR against him for violating the quarantine provisions by deleting the mobile application while he had no history of any international or domestic travel. Victim Surjit Singh said he had gone to Kala Sanghian recently to attend an awareness seminar on Covid where the health officials asked everyone present to download the Cova app for getting updated information. He said he downloaded the app on June 12 and deleted it the next day finding it to be of no use to him. “It only had messages of the Punjab CM which I did not feel important,” he said. He added, “The next day, while I was away, cops from Sadar police station came to my place with an FIR lodged against me. They told me that they had lodged an FIR, on the statement of the Civil Surgeon, for violating quarantine norms, deleting app. The FIR copy shows that I have been booked under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC. My family made me talk to the cops and we convinced them that we had no travel history or contact with any Covid positive patient and hence there was no reason for being quarantined.” Today, he said he met the Deputy Commissioner who assured him that the FIR would be cancelled after an inquiry in a day or so. He said the staff of the DC office told him that there had been similar complaints earlier too and many of them even ended up depositing Rs 200 as penalty for no fault of theirs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/social-worker-booked-for-violating-quarantine-norms-101131
19-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Man arrested for girl’s murder||Nakodar, June 18The Mehatpur police on Wednesday arrested a migrant brick-kiln worker on the charge of murdering a 21-year-old girl last month. The suspect has been identified as Shahyad, son of Mohammad Shahyad, a native of UP’s Muzaffarpur district and presently living at the KC brick-kiln, Bath Kalan, Mehatpur, said SSP Navjot Singh Mahal.On May 13, Sagira, mother of the deceased and a resident of Model Colony, Raho road, had complained to the police that Ruksal had gone to fetch water from near the quarters when the suspect followed her and attacked her with a sharp-edged weapon. She succumbed to injuries at the Civil Hospital on May 14.A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-arrested-for-girls-murder-101133
19-06-2020||Our Correspondent||PO arrested with pistol, 7 bullets||Hoshiarpur, June 18The city police have arrested a proclaimed offender, who was in involved in a firing case in September 2017 and 2018 and recovered a pistol and seven bullets from his possession. The suspect has been identified as Yashpal, a resident of Bahadurpur.In another case, the police seized 7 cases of liquor from a house on Wednesday.Inspector Gobinder Kumar, SHO in-charge of the city police station, said this evening, the city police have arrested Yashpal, a resident of Bahadurpur, during a special checking drive. The police have recovered a pistol and 7 cartridges from the suspect. Yashpal was a proclaimed offender in the case of firing near DAV school on September 8, 2017.Apart from this, he was wanted in the 2018 gunshot case of firing with gangstar Ravi Balachaurian on the Una Road.The city police recovered seven cases of liquor from the house of Pappu Sira, a resident of Mohalla Balmiki, and registered a case against the unknown person. The police are investigating that to whom the said liquor belongs to.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/po-arrested-with-pistol-7-bullets-101135
