20-06-2020||Jalandhar||Punjab reports 6 deaths, 120 COVID-19 positive cases; state toll at 98||Punjab reported six deaths and 120 coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the state's death toll to 98. The highest number of infections surfaced in Jalandhar.With 47 COVID-19 positive cases, the district tally crossed the 500-mark. The majority of the cases reported in Jalandhar came positive as a result of random sampling carried out in various areas by health teams.Notably, the district has also witnessed a rapid increase in cases since the lockdown was relaxed and containment zone norms revised.On the other hand, Amritsar recorded 21 COVID-19 infections, while Sangrur and SAS Nagar reported 14 and 11 cases respectively.   Both Ludhiana and Patiala recorded seven cases each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-reports-6-deaths-120-covid-19-positive-cases-state-toll-at-98-101867
20-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar sees biggest single-day spike of 82 cases, tally 489||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 19With 82 persons testing positive for Covid in the district today, the tally has reached 489 (from 418 yesterday).This is the single-largest spike in a district of the state during the pandemic. Jalandhar had been witnessing a dramatic rise in the Covid cases this month so far. Merely at 300 cases on June 7, the count reached 100 on June 17 when cases crossed 400 and within two days, several positive cases brought the tally to 489 today.The majority of the cases reported today came positive as a result of random sampling carried out in various areas by health teams.Experts said with several cases testing positive during random sampling, community spread of the virus was evident in the district.Notably, the district has also witnessed a rapid increase in cases since the lockdown was relaxed and containment zone norms revised.The new cases include those with travel history and a number of cases who are contacts of previous positive cases. The 82 patients include people from Kandola Khurd, Bilga Nagra, New Gobind Nagar, Surat Nagar, Maqsudan, Sainik Vihar, Buta Mandi, Kavya Colony, Pakka Bagh, Dharampura, Ranjit Nagar, Santokhpura, Talwandi Sanghera, DiwaIi village, Shahkot, Basti Sheikh, New Adarsh Nagar, Friends Colony and Phillaur.A Jalandhar-based school and a hospital have also been formally listed in addresses where people have tested positive. The district previously saw major spikes of 32 and 31 cases on Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively.Mystery over another Covid deathWhile a 30-year-old woman was the 14th casualty reported in the district, the Health Department has observed silence on another death of a 50-year-old man, who died of Covid few days ago. However, the department is not counting this as a Covid death formally since there is no formal intimation so far.Five fresh +ve cases take Hoshiarpur dist count to 156Five new Covid-19 positive cases have been detected in the district on Friday. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasbir Singh said out of these, 4 persons belonged to Health Block, Posi, under the Garhshankar subdivision, while one case was from Health Block, Hajipur. Of these, 3 cases were those who had returned from other states, while two were contacts of the patients who were found positive earlier.With this, the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district has become 156. With 516 samples collected in the district on Friday, the total number of samples collected in the district has become 9,437. Of these, 7,814 have been found negative, while the reports of 1,445 samples is awaited. A total of 26 samples have been found invalid, 5 patients have died and there are 17 active cases in the district.One dies, five new cases in KapurthalaKapurthala: Five new coronavirus cases were reported in Kapurthala on Friday. A woman died of Covid in the district. The five new cases are relatives of a Kapurthala patient, who died at the PGI, Chandigarh, on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-of-82-cases-tally-489-101670
20-06-2020||---||NIT, company tie up to make 3 lakh affordable face masks||Jalandhar, June 19 Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology (NIT) has tied up with a Ghaziabad-based company for the manufacturing of three lakh face masks in the next three months. For making cost-effective face masks under the brand name ‘Easy BreatheTM’ for community use, the technology has been transferred to Singla Engravures Private Limited, Ghaziabad, and Meditex Industries Private Limited (a start-up under Dr BR Ambedkar NIT, Jalandhar, Technology Business Incubator). A meeting for the same was held between director LK Awasthi and representatives of the company, inventors and dean research and consultancy professor SK Sinha. Last week, the NIT Jalandhar, transferred the technology to Air Purifier.  Prof Awasthi congratulated Prof Vinay Midha and Professor A Mukhopadhyay on their achievement and said the development was one of the several steps, in which NIT Jalandhar is taking to act as a responsible institute and contribute against Covid-19.  “The shape of the mask is similar to N95, which gives sufficient space for talking and breathing easily. The researchers have focused on the breathing aspect of the facemask. As the filtration efficiency of the facemask increases, the breathing becomes difficult. N95 masks, which meet the stringent requirements for protection against bacteria, are poor in breathing and are actually meant for doctors and healthcare professionals, who are exposed to different type of fluids at high pressures during various operations in the hospital. The masses are not working under similar conditions and therefore do not require the N95 masks”, said the researchers. At present there is no standard specification for the community mask. The common cloth masks and handkerchief being used by people actually do not provide any protection. The researchers have tried to optimise between the protection level against bacteria and breathing resistance of the masks, so that it can be worn by masses for a longer period of time. The institute has applied for a patent for the developed face mask.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nit-company-tie-up-to-make-3-lakh-affordable-face-masks-101671
20-06-2020||---||Micro-containment zones to check rising Covid cases in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 19In the wake of rising Covid cases in the district, the district administration has ordered the creation of micro-containment zones. Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, Ghanshyam Thori has directed the SDMs to set up micro-containment and containment zones in the localities where more than five Covid cases have surfaced to contain the spread of the infection.Chairing a meeting of civil, health and police officials to review the situation in the district, the Deputy Commissioner said the creation of such zones was aimed at containing the spread of the infection at the ground level. This would ensure better coordination among various departments to make plans at the microscopic level for saving the lives. The DC directed the officials to do micro management for identifying the localities from where the cases had been reported in the district.The micro and containment zones must be declared by the SDMs following a joint meeting with the ACPs and SMOs concerned. Thori said after the declaration of the containment zones, door-to-door surveys should be carried out by health workers.The Deputy Commissioner has also set up joint teams of the civil, health and police departments for supervising the activities in these zones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/micro-containment-zones-to-check-rising-covid-cases-in-jalandhar-101672
20-06-2020||Jalandhar||Drive against dengue: Larvae detected at three places||With the monsoon season almost set in, the Health Department organised a drive against dengue on Friday.The department carried out the drive against vector-borne diseases in various areas of the district.The dengue larvae were detected at three places in the district during the drive.Teams of the anti-larva cell of the Health Department, led by Epidemiologist Satish Kumar, detected the larvae at three places. Vijay, Vinod, Sarbjeet Kumar, Vinay Kumar, Karam Singh were among those who were part of the anti-larva cell . They conducted inspections at Jaswant Nagar, Garha and other nearby areas. The teams visited 80 houses and checked 39 air coolers as well as 166 waste containers.Dr Satish Kumar said they had detailed interaction with people during which they apprised them that these places could be a breeding ground for mosquitoes, which could spread diseases such as dengue and malaria. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/drive-against-dengue-larvae-detected-at-three-places-101673
20-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||Punjab Education Department begins capacity building webinars for teachers||Jalandhar, June 19To transform Covid-19 challenges into an opportunity, the Punjab Education Department, in another initiative, has launched a ‘Capacity Building’ programme for its officials and teaching staff. Under this, the department has started imparting training to the faculty members through webinars to equip them with the knowhow of the latest information technology applications.The first training webinar was conducted today. As many as 495 officials, including District Education Officers (Secondary and Primary), Deputy District Education Officers (Secondary and Primary), In-charges and members of the Zila Sikhiya Sudhar Teams, DIET Principals, District Mentors (DM) and Block Mentors of different subjects participated in the webinar.The resource persons for the webinar today were Karamjit Kaur, Principal, Government Senior Secondary School, Sahnewal (Ludhiana), Harmandeep Singh Mann, DM( Science, Sangrur), Jasvir Singh, DM( Science, Ludhiana), Gautam Gaurh, Acme Mittal and Gurmail Singh Saggu, who through their power point presentations made the participants aware about the features of the latest information technology applications like webinars, podcast, Zoom, Google forms etc.They also shared tips on how to make the best use of these applications to hold meetings, prepare video/audio lessons, holding online classes as well as conducting quizzes. Meanwhile, the department has deputed an additional resource person at the district level to impart training to the teachers in their respective districts. “Though the pandemic Covid-19 has forced the closure of schools, the Education Department has virtually transformed the unprecedented challenge into an opportunity to tap advanced sources of information technology. Our dedicated teachers have been doing commendable job in making the ‘Ghar Baithe Sikhiya Programme’ successful,” said Education Secretary, Krishan Kumar.“It is the need of the hour that all the officials and the teachers came out of their inhibitions regarding use of latest IT applications as the new innovative methodology would continue to be fruitful even after the pandemic is over,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-education-department-begins-capacity-building-webinars-for-teachers-101674
20-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Crusher owners, tipper drivers hold protest against Mining Department near Garhshankar||Garhshankar , June 19Crusher owners and tipper drivers carrying sand-gravel from bordering areas of Himachal Pradesh blocked the road for two hours at the Mining Department check-post on the Punjab-Himachal border, near Garhshankar. They alleged that hefty challans were being issued to them for overloading at the weighing scales set up by Mining Department on the Punjab-Himachal border adjoining Garhshankar.The protesters, shouting slogans, were accusing the Mining Department officials of acting like ‘goons’ and seeking money illegally from them.Getting information, DSP Garhshankar Satish Kumar,SHO Garhshankar Iqbal Singh, and police post Beenwal in-charge Satwinder Singh reached the spot and spoke to the protesters. They persuaded them to handover a memorandum to the SDM, Garhshankar.Some of the protesters, while talking to reporters, said in the area of Kot Maira village, extortion was being done by the Mining Department in the name of overloading from vehicle owners going to various cities of Punjab carrying sand-gravel from crushers located in Himachal Pradesh.They alleged that officials of the Mining Department deployed there charge arbitrary fines, adding that these officials take money from some drivers and allow them to go without weighing their vehicles. Residents of the surrounding villages said due to overloaded tippers, frequent accidents occurred in the area.All allegations are false: Mining inspectorsWhen asked about it by mediapersons, Mining Department Inspectors Ajay Pandey and Harminder Singh said the allegations that the crusher owners and tipper drivers were levelling, are baseless. They said the check post had been established according to the instructions of the government. The challans to overloaded vehicles were issued by the Regional Transport Authority and the allegations of letting the vehicles to go after accepting the money from the drivers, are completely false.An Assistant Sub Inspector on behalf of the Regional Transport Authority, said the tipper drivers and the crusher owners indulge themselves in hooliganism. He alleged that even today during the demonstration, they tried to attack officials of the Mining Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/crusher-owners-tipper-drivers-hold-protest-against-mining-department-near-garhshankar-101675
20-06-2020||---||Stray dog menace: Rail Coach Factory employees write to General Manager||Jalandhar, June 19Employees of the Rail Coach Factory on Friday wrote a letter to the general manager (GM) seeking his intervention to check the increasing menace of stray dogs.The incidences of dog biting are happening in routine as more than 1,500 stray dogs are roaming in the RCF township, including West Colony. Dog biting cases are being regularly registered in the casualty/emergency ward of LLR Hospital for treatment.State president of the Akhil Bhartiya Grahak Panchayat and senior section engineer of Rail Coach Factory, Brij Mohan, said in a recent incident a woman was attacked by eight to ten ferocious dogs while she was on a morning walk inside the campus.The responsibility of officials concerned should be fixed to create deterrent in future. Necessary directions may please also be issued to the authorities concerned so that such type of incidents should not occur in the RCF township. —RCF employees“She managed to save herself throwing stones and raising the alarm and getting help from people around. The dogs tore her dupatta”, said Brij Mohan. He has demanded from the RCF management that a policy needs to be framed for keeping pet animals. Many of the residents are keeping pet dogs without taking permission from the RCF administration. Some have kept pit bulls which are causing risk to neighbourers and other residents.“The responsibility of concerned officials should be fixed so as to create deterrent in future. Necessary directions may please also be issued to the authority concerned so that such type of incidences may not occur at all in the RCF township,” they mentioned in the letter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stray-dog-menace-rail-coach-factory-employees-write-to-general-manager-101676
20-06-2020||Jalandhar||IMA submits memo to Deputy Commissioner||Members of the IMA, Jalandhar chapter, today met Deputy Commisioner Ganshyam Thori at his office and presented him a memorandum against the Clinical Establishments Act and informed him about the future course of action.The IMA, Punjab chapter, had also been called for talks by the Health Minister on June 17. Members of the Joint Action Committee (JAC) had attended the meeting. The minister offered the IMA to make its own draft and submit the same.The emergency meeting of the JAC was also held here on June 18 in which members from various districts were present. It was unanimously decided that no draft would be submitted. Firstly, the government should withdraw/withhold the ordinance, regularise nursing homes and also withdraw fee hike for medical courses.The members also called for a complete shutdown on June 23. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ima-submits-memo-to-deputy-commissioner-101677
20-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Animal Husbandry Dept launches programme to safeguard employees||Hoshiarpur, June 19Animal Husbandry Department’s Deputy Director Dr Amarjeet Singh launched a programme to safeguard its employees and farmers against the Covid-19.He said public awareness was being raised through print and social media and awareness of farmers at field level was being done by entire veterinary officers of the district. The department was providing telephonic assistance to farmers and poultry owners. At district level phone numbers of all such poultry products suppliers were collected. They were called and inquired about any problems they faced in the sale of milk, eggs and chicken. Dr Rana Preet Gill, Veterinary Officer, Bajwara, necessitated the need during these times. Dairy animals and poultry do not suffer from the virus, public awareness regarding milk and milk products, eggs, poultry meat is very important. These consumable products do not spread coronavirus infection, rather consuming milk, eggs and properly cooked meat could be a good way of boosting immunity as these products are rich in essential nutrients. Dr Gill further added that artificial insemination services were being provided to farmers at their doorstep throughout the lockdown/curfew period. Gaushalas and cattle pounds all over the district had been looked after. Vets, para vets and other field staff were equipped to take precautionary measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and had been guiding the farmers against the disease. The veterinary hospitals have been provided with gloves, masks, sanitisers and floor cleaners to maintain the optimal level of hygiene.Vaccines like HS, BQ and swine fever were being administered throughout the district along with tagging of animals under INAPH. Animal health specialists working at RDDL, Jalandhar, have been given training for Covid-19 testing at Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/animal-husbandry-dept-launches-programme-to-safeguard-employees-101678
20-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner appreciates role of anganwadi workers||Phagwara, June 19Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal on Tuesday affixed badges of ‘corona warriors’ on the anganwadi workers at the District Administrative Complex under Punjab government’s ‘Mission Fateh’ campaign. Meanwhile, Assistant Commissioner Dr Shikha Bhagat was also given the badge.On the occasion, the anganwadi workers were lauded and asked to raise awareness about the Covid disease in the district. The Deputy Commissioner said they would pay a visit to the homes of the children at the Anganwadi Centers in their respective villages to motivate their families to take precautionary measures against the virus.She said ground activities were being conducted in the district from 15th to 21st June. On Monday, the district administration had awarded a badge of ‘Mission Fateh’ to the janitors, she added. Similarly, on Wednesday the sarpanchs of the villages would put up badges to sensitise the villagers and all would take selfies with masks and upload them on the Cova application.Following this, the Punjab Government would select the person / organisation uploading their photo on the application at the state level and the list would then be sent to the district administration. She appealed to the residents to download the application on their mobile phones for participation. The Deputy Commissioner also laid stress on the guidelines issued by the government and the health department to prevent the spread of the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-deputy-commissioner-appreciates-role-of-anganwadi-workers-101679
20-06-2020||Jalandhar||Covid awareness campaign held||Under the state government’s Mission Fateh programme, hundreds of volunteers from the Red Cross Society, Youth Services Department and NGOs on Friday took out an awareness campaign to apprise people of precautions to be taken for checking the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. It was held outside the Civil Hospital, Jyoti Chowk, Nakodar Chowk, Bhargo Camp, Boota Mandi, Paragpur and Jalandhar Cantonment localities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-awareness-campaign-held-101680
20-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||Prof helps students make lockdown count||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 19With uncertainty looming over the beginning of new academic session this year, Dr Namarata Joshi, head of department, journalism and mass communication, GNDU Regional Campus, Jalandhar, believes that even as the pandemic has exposed youngsters to some unexpected challenges, there shouldn't be any scope for not making the most of this time.She says, the college managements have been trying to execute every possible way out to maintain the academic continuity whether through online classes or online counsellings, therefore students seeking admissions in their fields of interest need not worry and should focus only on utilising this time judiciously.Extracting positivity from every unusual situation should be the prime concern of students as well as academicians. Going online during the lockdown has helped us adopt wider avenues of the education process, which we had never explored before. —Namarata Joshi, HOD, Journalism and Mass communicationConsidering the self-isolation period as the most precious time for students, she is of the view that keeping themselves informed and updated during lockdown, students can avail a large number of opportunities available on digital platforms. She advised Journalism students to build the 'attitude of acceptance' as when we embrace the situations as they are, we tend to grow more.Joshi, who herself is a well known expert in the field, said, "Whether it is media or any company, every organisation is shifting to digitisation to maintain their sustainability, hence for taking the practical knowledge of the subject, youngsters can easily get themselves acquainted with the subject. Digital media provides enough avenues to the aspirants to explore their own fields of interest. Media is going to last for long and with the short duration course such as digital marketing, content writing, creative writing, online film making and photography courses, students have the right time to make their CVs strong,” she said.“To provide the college-like atmosphere, e-competitions and contests such as creative writing, short movie making, documentaries are being organised by various institutions on a regular basis, which the students can easily be part of. This would not only help them in brushing their skills but would also keep them engaged. Besides the students having additional short term courses and academic degrees are preferred more during the placements,” she added.“Extracting positivity from every unusual situation should be the prime concern of students as well as academicians. Going online during the lockdown has helped us adopt wider avenues of the education process, which we had never explored before," added Joshi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/prof-helps-students-make-lockdown-count-101681
20-06-2020||Our Correspondent||LPU to give free  education to Covid warriors||Phagwara, June 19Lovely Professional University (LPU) today announced free education for frontline workers and their wards in case they catch Covid-19 while doing their job.LPU director Aman Mittal said, for the victims (whether survivors or deceased) and their wards, a 100 per cent tuition fee waiver will be offered as a token of gratitude for their commendable services toward the nation. The university also announced scholarships worth Rs 20 Crore to support them in fighting against the virus.LPU has come up with 13 categories for wards of country's Covid warriors and they can apply for scholarships under the scheme. The students looking to enrol this year can apply with necessary documents/certificates, on or before June 30, 2020.  —Ashok Mittal, chancellor, LPULPU fraternity has already been doing their bit by innovating things that can help the masses amid these hard times. Recently, a group of students developed an algae-based respirator which allows the victim to breathe easily, while also strengthening the protection from the novel coronavirus as well as pollution.To bring to light other innovations in March, Prabin Kumar Das, a BTech student at the university, along with his professors created a small pendant (kawach), designed to promote social distancing. Meanwhile, in April, Anant Kumar Rajput, under the guidance of assistant professor Mandeep Singh and project officer Ruhul Amin Choudhury, from Student Research and Project Cell, developed a UV light raquet to decontaminate surfaces and objects from the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lpu-to-give-free-education-to-covid-warriors-101682
20-06-2020||Phagwara||Robbery case solved, 2 held||Father–son duo held for assaultPhillaur: The Bilga police have arrested a man and his son on the charge of assaulting their relative on Wednesday. The police said the suspects had been identified as Dharam Pal, a resident of Kaliann Pur village, and his son Dharmindar, alias Bhinda. Hardip Keinth complained to the police that he came to his in-law’s village on June 13 to meet his wife and son when his father-in-law started abusing him and his brother–in-law, who was in an inebriated condition, started beating him. He said he raised an alarm and his friend rescued him and rushed him to the Bilga Civil Hospital. A case has been registered. ocDemand to Remove encroachmentsPhillaur: RTI activists Pawitra Singh and Lakhwinder Kaur have urged the Deputy Commissioner (DC), Jalandhar, and the SSP (Rural) to take steps to remove encroachments at several places in Phillaur. In two separate letters written to the officials here on Friday, both RTI activists have alleged that these encroachments are being made with the connivance of Municipal Committee, Phillaur, officers who are keeping their eyes closed on the encroachments. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/robbery-case-solved-2-held-101683
20-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||Event management firms hold virtual beauty pageants during pandemic||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 19With the Covid-19 pandemic, big, fat social gatherings and congregations of people have become a thing of the past. With not more than 50 persons allowed even at weddings, one of the businesses to take a major hit is that of the event management firms.However, thanks to the social media, some firms have even found a digital solution to it.Set up in 2015, the Raunak Events and Promotions was massively affected by the lockdown. However, come June and Raunak is already planning for its first virtual beauty pageant. Founder Shaina Kochar speaks about the complete changeover, which has been brought into the business during the pandemic.Kochar says, “Our business has suffered huge losses after the pandemic and still continues to do so. But the transition to online events has gone a long way to at least recover some costs.”Raunak Events had been holding social and corporate events, branding events and product launches.After lockdown, however, these big events had to be continued.Shaina says, “It was a huge setback initially. But we quickly adapted as have many others around us. Now everyone has started working online. And quite a few have even begun profiting from it. We hold online promotions, social media events, graphic promotions and web design for clients during the lockdown.I have managed with these. Though these don’t bring in the former dividends, they are still helping me recover substantial costs.” Shaina’s next online venture is an online beauty pageant.“One of the advantages of the lockdown is that people are bored. They need a change. Some are even depressed and suffer from mental health issues. Social media promotions play a huge role in that. Many housewives, women and other people at home want online content. The idea behind the beauty pageant is to provide people with much needed entertainment.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/event-management-firms-hold-virtual-beauty-pageants-during-pandemic-101684
