21-06-2020||As India and China are engaged in a stand-off in the Galwan Valley||‘China uses border issue as tool to build pressure on India’||China considers it opportune to push its agenda regarding disputed areas as the world is battling the Covid-19 pandemic. Further, President Xi Jinping is under pressure due to slowing down of the Chinese economy. Also, China does not want India to develop infrastructure in Ladakh. —Maj Gen GG Dwivedi (retd)Can you explain the difference between the LoC and the LAC?A: There is a tendency to compare the Line of Control (LoC) and the Line of Actual Control (LAC) but these are two distinct terms. We have International Border and LOC with Pakistan and LAC with China in Jammu and Kashmir. LoC is like a de facto border and manned by troops deployed on the either side. In contrast, LAC is neither delineated nor demarcated. It is based roughly on the positions held by both sides towards the end of 1962 war. As a result, both sides have their own interpretation. In the Ladakh region, it generally corresponds with the Chinese claim line as China captured most of the Aksai Chin area in the 1962 war. However, there are a number of contested points where the two sides have a varying perception. In the middle sector and eastern sector (Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh), the LAC is by and large aligned with the McMahon Line.Can you give a brief overview of the border issue between India and China?Though no official boundary has been negotiated between India and China, the Indian Government considers a line similar to the Johnson Line of 1865 as the boundary, according to which Aksai Chin is a part of India. The Chinese Government, however, considers a line similar to the McCartney-MacDonald Line of 1899 as the boundary which is well to the west of Johnson Line. The 1913-14 Shimla Convention between Great Britain, China and Tibet defined the boundary between Tibet and British India, which later came to be known as McMahon Line. But China declined to sign it. After China annexed Tibet in 1951, the two countries started sharing boundary. China initially did not raise the border issue as surreptitiously it was constructing a highway from Kashgarh in Xinjiang to Lhasa in Tibet in the 1950s which passed through Aksai Chin. When India learnt of this in 1959, it raised the matter with the People’s Republic of China (PRC). This is how the border problem started, ultimately leading to the 1962 Indo-China war. Incidentally, the opening shots of the war were fired from the Galwan Valley.Why do you think that the LAC has not been defined as yet?Chinese has kept dragging their feet on the issue as it is not in their interest to resolve the boundary imbroglio. The PRC has often used the border issue as a tool to build pressure on India.Why has China created the trouble amid the pandemic?China is known for creating problems when it is confronted with internal and external issues. At present, China considers it opportune to push its agenda regarding disputed areas with Taiwan, South China Sea and the LAC, as the world is battling the Covid-19 pandemic. Further, President Xi Jinping is under pressure due to slowing down of the Chinese economy and a global outcry holding China responsible for the pandemic. Also, China does not want India to develop infrastructure in Ladakh as presently they have a definite edge over us. The Galwan Valley is important because from there, China can dominate Durbuk- Daulat Beg Oldi (DBO) road that India constructed recently. China also has high stakes in the Pakistan-Occupied-Kashmir (POK), too, as the China Pakistan Economic Corridor traverses through the region. It has also invested in various projects in the POK, including the proposed $9 billion Daimer-Bhasha Dam.What are the options before India in present situation?Our aim is to restore the status quo ante that existed in April which implies that the PLA has to pull back. To ensure this, adequate pressure has to be built on China through various means, including military, political, diplomatic and economic.Why has not the Chinese media reported on casualties suffered by their troops?China has an authoritarian rule and a state-controlled media. The communist leadership employs media as an instrument to spread its propaganda and fight an information war.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/china-uses-border-issue-as-tool-to-build-pressure-on-india-102095
21-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Mission Fateh: 50-member team to spread awareness on dengue||Hoshiarpur, June 20A 50-member ‘Dengue investigation team’ has been formed by the district administration under the Mission Fateh that will conduct door-to-door awareness campaign to apprise residents of precautions to prevent the spread of dengue.The team of 50 volunteers was flagged off from the Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur, on Saturday by the Additional Deputy Commissioner (General), Amit Kumar Panchal.Panchal said in the fragile phase of pandemic, it is essential that besides Covid-19, people were made aware of prevention about dengue. For it, the volunteers of this dengue investigation team will go door-to-door to spread awareness and detect larvae. They will destroy the dengue larvae if found, so that the spread of dengue can be prevented.He said the volunteers would also motivate residents to adopt precautionary measures, like wearing masks, keep social distancing and frequent hand washing under the ‘Mission Fateh’, to prevent Covid-19 as well as dengue. He also instructed the volunteers to use masks and sanitisers while maintaining social distance during the drive.He said that every Friday, will be a ‘Dry Day’, under which the cleanliness of fridges and coolers would be done in the offices as well as houses. District Epidemiologist Dr Sailesh, SMO Dr Jaswinder Singh and other officials were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mission-fateh-50-member-team-to-spread-awareness-on-dengue-102096
21-06-2020||---||Now, tehsildars, BDPOs can challan violators of Covid norms||Jalandhar, June 20Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ghanshyam Thori on Saturday authorised all sector magistrates, tehsildars, naib tehsildars, BDPOs and Executive Officers of the Municipal Committees to levy challans for violations of guidelines issued under the Epidemic Disease Act.The government has set a fine of Rs500 for not wearing a mask, Rs2,000 for violating home quarantine orders, Rs500 for spitting in public places and Rs2,000 on owners of shops/ commercial places for violating social distancing norms. Owners of buses, cars and auto-rickshaws would be charged Rs3,000, Rs2,000 and Rs200, respectively, for flouting the distancing guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-tehsildars-bdpos-can-challan-violators-of-covid-norms-102097
21-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Toll plazas re-activated at Behram, Kathgarh||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 20Travelling from Jalandhar/ Phagwara to Chandigarh has become costlier once again as two toll barriers have got re-activated enroute to Behram (near Banga) and Kathgarh (near Balachaur).Since the toll barriers have come up at a time when the NHAI’s four-laning project is still incomplete, commuters are unhappy with the decision to levy toll much earlier. The flyover at Banga is still not ready and some of the pillars are still to be erected owing to which the commuters have to travel underneath it, through congested and broken service lanes to reach their destination. The Nawanshahr bypass too has not opened yet.The Phagwara-Ropar stretch was earlier a part of the state highway, but it got notified as 344 A National Highway, with the Centre currently investing Rs 1,500 crore on it. The toll barricades previously installed by the state government were removed about four years ago. Interestingly, as the toll plazas got re-activated yesterday, no provision has been made for exempted vehicles, including two-wheelers which have to pass through the same lanes as that for cars. Even the use of FASTags has not been made smooth and quick, which has been causing a lot of congestion at the toll plazas.For travelling between Phagwara and Nawanshahr through Behram toll plaza, a car or a jeep owner now has to now pay Rs 50 for a single trip and Rs 75 for a two-way trip. A light commercial/ goods vehicle/mini bus has to pay up Rs 80 for single and Rs 115 for a double trip. A bus/truck has to pay Rs 165 for a single and Rs 245 for a double trip.For passing between Nawanshahr and Ropar through Kathgarh toll plaza, a car or a jeep owner now has to pay Rs 55 for a single trip and Rs 80 for a two-way trip. A light commercial/goods vehicle/mini bus has to pay up Rs 85 for single and Rs 130 for a double trip. A bus/truck has to pay Rs 180 for a single and Rs 270 for a double trip.Owing to a higher cost being borne by the buses, the bus fare too has been enhanced since yesterday by Rs 5 for any commuter plying between Phagwara to Nawanshahr or Chandigarh to Nawanshahr.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/toll-plazas-re-activated-at-behram-kathgarh-102098
21-06-2020||---||20 cops among 45 new Covid cases, Jalandhar district tally reaches 536||Jalandhar, June 20With 45 more samples testing positive in Jalandhar, the district tally has today risen to 536. With only 300 cases on June 7 – in a span of little over a fortnight – Jalandhar tally has now reached a whopping 236 cases. The new cases today include 20 police personnel and 11 migrants who had arrived from Ghaziabad and Ooty.The police personnel at the PAP Hospital tested positive during the random screening, majority of these police personnel found positive are in their 20s. The tally today also includes several children aged, 6, 10 and 16. While the migrants were reported from Bilga, other areas from where cases have been reported include - Lubhana Bhatnura, Kartarpur, Model Estate Deep Nagar, Nurmahal, Bilga, Kandola, Mohalla, Bilga Bhupa and Dashmesh Nagar 3. Only two of the cases are contacts of previously positive persons, while the rest are all new cases.Cases pile up in localitiesWith micro containment zones set up in the district only yesterday – various areas have also seen a steady pile up of cases. While areas such as Rose Garden, Gopal Nagar, Lamma Pind, Basti areas, Bilga, Shahkot, Bhogpur Kartarpur etc, reported a plethora of cases, some of these localities had over six to eight cases. Yet, the district had not been formally declared micro containment zones until yesterday. Before this, the last declared cluster zones in the district were Lajpat Nagar, New Jawahar Nagar and the Industrial Area.Till date, the district administration or the health authorities in the district haven’t released a list of the number of Covid-infected persons from a given area. The common public has no idea about the number of Covid infected in their own areas. Health teams themselves say they are flooded with calls from panicked residents asking if their locality or neighbourhood has any cases.Nine more positive at KapurthalaMeanwhile, nine more positive cases were reported from Kapurthala today. An ASI working with the women cell in Kapurthala is among those tested positive. The 38-year-old woman ASI is a resident of the Shikhupur village in Kapurthala. Out of the total 9 new cases, six are from Phagwara and three from Kapurthala.6 cases in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: Six cases of Covid-19 were reported in the district on Saturday. The number of cases has risen to 162.Of them, five belong to the area under Posi PHC while one belongs to the locality under Hajipur PHC. Of them, three had come from Delhi, two from Bihar and one had come from UP. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/20-cops-among-45-new-covid-cases-jalandhar-district-tally-reaches-536-102099
21-06-2020||---||Watches donated by Akshay given to cops||Jalandhar, June 20At a function held at the Police Lines, the Commissioner of Police (CP), Gurpreet Singh Bhullar on Saturday started the distribution of 500 smart watches among police personnel deployed on Covid duty. The watches were recently donated to the Police Department by Bollywood actor Akshay Kumar.Around eight frontline cops, including women on Saturday were given the watches. The smart watches of Goqii company, of which the actor is the brand ambassador, are equipped with several features such as temperature checking, blood pressure monitoring device and others.CPBhullar said the health of the cops who would be wearing these watches would be monitored under an integrated control room. All watches would be connected with the devices at control room.Thanking Akshay Kumar, Bhullar said this would boost the morale of the policemen rendering duty amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/watches-donated-by-akshay-given-to-cops-102100
21-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||Maddi SamoseWala reopens but struggles to respond to Covid crisis||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 20Amid dwindling footfall, the city’s popular fast food restaurant ‘Maddi Samose Wala’ is facing a sustenance crisis.The restaurant has gained a wide popularity in the past few years. Owing to the lockdown, it is now staring at huge losses and it is for the first time when the usual buzz of students is missing at the restaurant.Located in the vicinity of five educational institutes, it would be hard to find anyone in the area who doesn’t know about ‘Maddi Ke Samose’ ——established around four decades ago.Hot and crispy ‘samosas’ fried in front of customers are also the most preferable substitute for any weekend meal. Besides, the availability of home delivery services by Zomato and Swiggy has helped the owner of the restaurant spread its popularity in the entire town.Rajat Rana, who runs the restaurant along with his father, is concerned about the post-lockdown sale as he believes the business will not bounce back anytime soon and people will socialise less in crowded restaurants and will only prefer to spend on essential commodities due to limited earnings.“We used to receive customers belonging to almost every section of society as samosas with chutney are afforded by anyone. But since the imposition of the lockdown, limited income is the major reason behind the customer slump, besides health issues. Masks, sanitisers and social distancing are the new normal at our shop and samosas are now prepared on demand only. Cash on delivery is being avoided by people and online orders have also reduced to almost 60 per .,” added Rajat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/maddi-samosewala-reopens-but-struggles-to-respond-to-covid-crisis-102102
21-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||International Yoga Day celebrations to go virtual||Jalandhar, June 20Since its inception in 2015 to upto last year, the International Yoga Day used to be a gala affair. People in large numbers used to participate in group activities to mark the day, however, this time, the Covid-19 guidelines have changed the way the event is being observed. This year, the theme for the day is ‘Yoga at home and Yoga with family’, reflecting the need to maintain social distancing.There will be no mass gathering in city or any of the public parks or at centralised places for group yoga. Various NGOs, political parties, schools, colleges among other organisations who used to celebrate the day with group activities on a large scale, have opted to go virtual and will be conducting live sessions via Zoom, Facebook and Microsoft team. Even they have asked people to use hashtags #YogaAtHome #YogaWithFamily #IDY2020 #YogaMyLife etc in their posts on social media.Talking to The Tribune, Dr Anoop Sharma, Principal, KRM DAV College, Nakodar, said, as per the guidelines received from the Ministry of Human Resource Development and state government, all schools and colleges will be celebrating the day virtually by conducting live yoga sessions and that too between 7 am to 8 am as there is an annular solar eclipse tomorrow beginning at 9 am onwards.“We have planned to conduct the yoga session via Zoom from college premises itself, while, the students and their parents would be joining it through the link and the meeting Id that has been forwarded to them via SMS and Whatsapp groups”, said Sharma, adding that special instructions in this regard has also been given by the NSS and NCC units which in coordination with the colleges would be supervising the activity.Meanwhile, BJP District President and councilor, Sushil Sharma said he and all his party workers would do ‘ghar pe yog’ on Sunday to mark the day. “We have also asked residents to make their videos or go live on Facebook will performing the art in order to send out a message globally that India never stops to celebrate its culture and traditions not even during the pandemic,” he added.Another Yogi Gurudev, who runs a renowned yoga centre, Aanand Sadhna Kendra, here, said, “Understanding the gravity of the situation, it is best if everyone performs yoga at their home. Although, I have been organising online yoga sessions for a long time now as when the lockdown was announced, I immediately shifted to virtual mode, but for tomorrow, I have decided to go live through my Facebook page, so that all those who want to practice the art may join me from their homes,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/international-yoga-day-celebrations-to-go-virtual-102103
21-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Once a student, Jabbal is now Principal of same college||Hoshiapur, June 20Principal Satnam Singh Jabbal has joined as the principal of the Government College, Hoshiarpur. He had been a student of the college and did his graduation and postgraduation in Fine Art from here from 1978 to 1983. He did his BEd from Government College of Education, Jalandhar, in 1984 and MA in History of Art in 1986. He was appointed as a lecturer in Fine Art in 1988 at Government College, Hoshiarpur, and served for 30 years.In 2018, he was promoted as a principal and served at Barijindra College, Faridkot. He has been serving as the principal of MBG Government College, Pojewal and has been assigned the additional charge of Government College, Hoshiarpur on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/once-a-student-jabbal-is-now-principal-of-same-college-102104
21-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Shopkeepers violate weekend lockdown||Phagwara, June 20The state government’s decision of allowing the shops to remain open till 7pm amid the weekend during the lockdown is being violated.There are strict orders from the government that shops shouldn’t be opened beyond the fixed timings. However, several shopkeepers, having contacts with government employees, including cops have been seen operating till 8pm to 8:30 pm.Not only this, several restaurants have been shuttered but hundreds of vendors were openly selling street food without following any norms here.Violation guidelines is not the only problem. Taking advantage of busy schedule of officers on duty amid the Covid pandemic, many youngsters were also witnessed riding vehicles without helmets, hence violating the traffic rules as well.Meanwhile, at several government offices, employees were seen allowing persons without masks, with no social distancing in place and sanitisation too.When contacted, Jalandhar Division Commissioner, Raj Kamal Chaudhary, Deputy Commissioner, Kapurthala, Deepti Uppal and SSP Satinder Singh, Kapurthala, assured to take the necessary steps to ensure the implementation of the lockdown restrictions. They have also instructed the ADC Rajeev Verma, SDM Pawitra Singh, Phagwara, and SP Manwinder Singh to follow the guidelines of the state government and take stern action against the violators.Police solve murder case in five hoursThe Goraya police have arrested two persons, identified as Sarabjit Singh, a resident of Toora village, and Gurpreet, a resident of Masani village, near Phillaur, within five hours after the murder of Sukhpreet Singh on Friday. The information was given by Senior Superintendent of the Police (Rural) Navjot Singh Mahal.He said the suspects murdered the youth with sharp-edged weapons only after minor money dispute.The victim had been identified as Sukhpreet Singh (27) was found murdered near the fields in Katana village, near Goraya on Friday morning. The police had registered a case under Sections 302, 201 and 34 of the IPC. The body has been handed over to the family after autopsy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shopkeepers-violate-weekend-lockdown-102105
21-06-2020||Phagwara||IMA flays Clinical Establishment Act||Urging the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to withdraw the imposition of the Punjab Clinical Establishment Act, former IMA Punjab president SSP Sooch on Tuesday threatened that if their demands were not met then around 10,000 doctors, belonging to the IMA, would quarantine themselves on June 23.He said the next course of action would be decided at a state-level meeting on June 28. In the first phase, all IMA members met and submitted memorandums to the MLAs, MPs, and ministers concerned, including their opposition candidates on Sunday.Dr Sooch said interaction with the media would be held on Thursday at all respective branches of the IMA to apprise the media of the Clinical Establishment Act.According to Dr Sooch, the declaration of the Act was notified through an ordinance even before the proposed draft was discussed at the joint committee constituted by the Health Minister. He said the IMA had failed to understand why the Principal Secretary (Health) was in a hurry for the ordinance at the time when the prevention of the Covid-19 and its treatment should be the prime priority. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ima-flays-clinical-establishment-act-102106
21-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Salon asked to pay Rs 5.41 lakh for power theft||Garhshankar, June 20Clamping down on power thefts, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has issued a notice to a salon in Garhshankar to pay Rs 5.41 for the offence.Deputy Chief Engineer (Enforcement) Jalandhar Rajat Sharma said on the basis of secret information, the commercial power connection of Split-End-Salon Garhshankar was checked by Enforcement Wing, Nawanshahr.PSPCL Engineer Bharat Bhushan informed that electricity was found to be stolen by the consumer by tampering the seals of the meter’s terminal block and making an aluminium loop. He said that apart from this, the approved load of the consumer was 9.67 kW but during checking, it was found that 20.75 kW load was in use.Taking strict action against the consumer, under Section 135 of the Electricity Theft Act, notice has been issued to the consumer to deposit Rs. 5.41 lakh, including compounding fee of Rs 50,000.A case of power theft has been registered against the him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/salon-asked-to-pay-rs-5-41-lakh-for-power-theft-102107
21-06-2020||Our Correspondent||3 involved in several criminal cases held||Hoshiarpur, June 20The district police have arrested three persons wanted in various cases. Three pistols, bullets and cash have been recovered from them. The police have been investigating their call details, after which some more cases are likely to be revealed. DSP (D) Prem Singh said this while addressing the press conference held at the Police Lines on Saturday evening.He said a police team, led by CIA Staff Hoshiarpur in-charge Balwinder Singh Bhullar and Dasuya in-charge Baljit Singh, arrested Jasdeepak Singh, alias, Deepu and recovered a pistol, a bullet and cash of Rs 1.09 lakh from him. The DSP said three cases were registered at the Sadar police station against the suspect.The police also arrested Sarbjit Singh, alias, Sethi, a resident of Bajwara and recovered a pistol and five bullets from him. Five cases have been registered against the arrested accused in the Sadar Police Station and Model Town. The police have also arrested another accused Tajinder Kumar, alias, Ajay, a resident of Mehatpur and recovered a .32 bore pistol from him.DSP Prem Singh said the remand had been obtained by presenting three accused in the court. Investigation revealed that the said accused had links with the drug smugglers and they also supplied drugs in the area. They also used to intimidate people. He said the call details of the three accused were being investigated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-involved-in-several-criminal-cases-held-102108
21-06-2020||Phagwara||One killed, five injured in fire||Mobile shop gutted in fireNakodar: A mobile and watch shop at Malarri Gate Bazar was gutted in a fire which broke out on Friday evening. Owner of the shop, Druv Arora, said the fire broke out in the shop by a short circuit. He said mobiles and watches worth more than Rs 7 lakh were reduced to ashes in the fire which was doused by residents and a fire tender. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-killed-five-injured-in-fire-102113
21-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||‘Virtual timetable, e-content a new normal’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 20While admissions are already waning due to exodus overseas, the lockdown has posed another challenge for cash-strapped colleges of the district.Amid the pandemic outbreak, BD Arya College, Jalandhar, is banking on a pre-lockdown timetable of online classes and various awareness programmes to keep students engaged. Online classes are being organised for students everyday from 9 am to 2 pm.Extracting positivity from every unusual situation should be the prime concern of students as well as academicians. Going online during the lockdown has helped us adopt wider avenues of the education process, which we had never explored before. —Sarita Verma, Principal, BD Arya Girls CollegePrincipal Sarita Verma says, “The lockdown has posed several difficulties. We have been running classes daily from 9 am to 2 pm. Teachers take lectures as per the set timetable. While theory classes are running smoothly online, difficulty is only being faced for practical classes such as fashion designing etc which can’t be held online.”The college is also holding online awareness sessions for the students. Sarita Verma says, “Teachers are also busy preparing e-content for students. We also held an awareness session for mask and poster making. A performance by our dance department was also circulated during the lockdown to keep the students cheerful.”On the issue of fee, the Principal says there are many students whose dues are pending and they are not in a position to come and clear the same.She says with exams for the final year courses expected to begin from July 1, preparations are afoot for the same.“Exams for the final classes are expected to start from July 1. Earlier, all students were supposed to appear, but now all outstation ones will be exempted. The latest guidelines from the university are also awaited, but we are expecting at least 75 per cent of our students to take the exams.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virtual-timetable-e-content-a-new-normal-102114
21-06-2020||---||‘Rising cases should not hit business policies of govt’||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWNAS some of the lockdown restrictions are still in force, Gurbax S Juneja, owner of Kartar Bath Fittings Pvt Ltd, says he is facing a number of problems related to their business. In an interview with Deepkamal Kaur, Gurbax, manufacturer of sanitary fittings, valves and faucets, says that bringing normalcy in lives even at a time when the numbers are soaring is the only solution ahead. Excerpts:The government needs to boost confidence in people. When most cases are asymptomatic, there should be no reason to feel scared and getting everything stopped or bringing under any restriction. The crisis in business will go only when people will get emboldened. The rise in number of cases should not in any way affect business policies of the government. —Gurbax S Juneja, owner of Kartar Bath Fittings Pvt LtdHow has the business been doing?We have almost come to half of where we left before the lockdown. For more than 45 days, our factory on the Kapurthala road was completely shut. When we re-started, we began to increase our production and send out our material and now we have reached to 50 per cent of our previous capacity.What items are you manufacturing?Basically, we make valves for firefighting equipment and water works. About 10 per cent of our business is related to sanitary parts and bathroom fittings. Now a private limited company, my brother started the business in 1972 with an annual turnover of just Rs 32,000. We started with normal taps used on water tanks.Who are your customers and dealers?For fire equipments and water works, most of our clients are government departments like municipal corporations, sewage boards, malls and big builders. Every sanitary ware shops and every household carrying out construction or renovation on a house is our customer. But we are selling all our items through our chain of distributors and dealers all across the country.Are you facing trouble in getting raw material?No. Our local dealers are getting all the raw material from markets in Ahmedabad and Jharkhand. Since the truck transport started soon after a brief lockdown period, there has been no issue on this front.What is the status of your labour?Nearly 50-60 per cent of our labour did not go back. About 2-4 per cent of the labourers who had left for their home towns have returned. Now, many of them have said that they are on way back and want to join at the earliest.How do you see the ongoing crisis panning out especially when the number of cases is on the rise?The government needs to boost confidence in people. When most cases are asymptomatic, there should be no reason to feel scared and getting everything stopped or bringing under any restriction. The crisis in business will go only when people will get emboldened. The rise in number of cases should not in any way affect business policies of the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rising-cases-should-not-hit-business-policies-of-govt-102115
21-06-2020||Jalandhar||Punjab farmers make officials squat over power cuts||Irked over erratic power supply in the ongoing paddy season, leaders of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Qadian, allegedly made two employees of the Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited (PSTCL) squat at their office in Kartarpur last evening.SP Sondhi, executive engineer, alleged: “Nearly 100 farmers went to a power house and made two employees, a sub-station attendant and an assistant lineman, squat. Later, a video of the incident went viral. We got an FIR lodged today.”In the video, the farmers, led by union president Jasbir Singh Littan, are reportedly seen threatening the PSTCL employees of dire consequences if they failed to ensure power supply for eight hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-farmers-make-officials-squat-over-power-cuts-101923
21-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Kapurthala Sainik School alumnus bags Chief of Air Staff Trophy at IAF Academy||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 20It was a yet another proud moment for Sainik School, Kapurthala, as its three former students passed out of the Indian Air Force (IAF) Academy, Dundigal (Telangana) on Saturday. What made the event special for the school was that two of the students also won trophies during the parade.While Jasnoor Singh got the Chief of Air Staff Trophy and was declared the ‘Best in Flying’, Jagdeep Singh was declared the ‘Best in Aerobatics’. The third cadet was Rishab Chandel. On Saturday last, seven ex-students from the school had passed out from the Indian Military Academy, Dehradun, with one cadet getting the coveted ‘Sword of Honour.Jasnoor’s mother Narinder Kaur, who teaches English at Sainik School, said, “I have been serving in the school for the past 25 years. My son was born and brought up here. Since his childhood, he dreamt of joining the IAF.”“Unfortunately, we could not attend the passing out parade. We saw it on the TV. For us, the biggest moment came when we got to know he had won the Chief of Air Staff Trophy and declared the ‘Best in Flying’ among the 123 cadets passing out today,” she said.She said, “Our son was not allowed to keep a mobile phone, but he got it today. We managed to talk to him. In a day or so, he will be leaving for Bidar to join duty.”Jagdeep’s father Subedar Jasbir Singh (retd) served the Army for 28 years. Talking on phone from the academy, Jagdeep said he was in the fighters’ fleet in the academy. “I owe my success to my training in Sainik School,” he said.Rishab’s father Sergeant Ravi Chandel (retd), who served the IAF for 20 years, said his son had today fulfilled his dream. “Since his childhood, I kept on telling him that becoming a pilot was always my dream. He got inspired from my stories and chose to join the Sainik School,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-sainik-school-alumnus-bags-chief-of-air-staff-trophy-at-iaf-academy-101917
