22-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||Mass testing begins in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 21On June 18, an order was issued in the Shahkot sub-division asking for mass testing of tehsil employees, veggie, fruit vendors and chemists. While the district has singularly piled up 288 cases already this month (on June 1 there were 255 cases – today, there were 543), the district authorities and the Health Department took time to declare containment zones in various areas.Even as the release of lockdown restrictions led to greater crowds and mass interactions and resultant spike in cases, it was only two days ago, that micro containment zones were declared in the district. To counter the spread of the disease, the district has now stepped up mass testing to detect more cases.A letter issued on June 18 directed people to “get tested for Covid-19 at the Shahkot and Lohian Civil Hospitals because they had direct contact with public”. The test of these categories is necessary. The list, names and mobile numbers of these persons be sent, it said.The mass testing of the local populace has started even as the authorities continue to maintain a studied silence over community spread. Meanwhile, tests for the MC and police officials have already been held in the district. Barring Shahkot, where chosen occupational groups of an entire sub-division have been asked to appear for tests, the health authorities have also stepped up testing at CHCs, health centres, and among high-risk groups in various sub-divisions. Even though there have been 10 cases from Shahkot, micro containment zones have not been declared so far.Sources said with over dozens testing positive in random testing at single area (20 police personnel tested positive at PAP hospital), the mass testing has been increased.Shahkot SDM Sanjeev Sharma said: “Directions have been issued to food and fruit vendors among others to appear for testing on their own. Mostly, they are co-operating. So far, 400 people have been tested in Shahkot and 10 have come out positive. On an average, 40 to 50 people are being tested per day.”On containment zones, the Shahkot SDM said: “The 10 cases in the sub-division are scattered. They are not from a single locality or area that is why containment zone hasn’t been declared.”Civil Surgeon, Dr Gurinder Kaur Chawla said: “There is no doubt that intermingling of people after the removal of lockdown restrictions led to more cases. However, I, singularly, cannot come to a conclusion whether there is community spread or not. There are various factors, which the ICMR has to consider for that. I cannot draw inference that there is community spread in Jalandhar yet. We declared micro-containment areas as soon as the guidelines were issued.” FACT FILE||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mass-testing-begins-in-jalandhar-102539
22-06-2020||---||Jalandhar wears a deserted look during weekend lockdown||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 21Roads and streets in the town wore a deserted look on the second weekend of stricter lockdown imposed by the government.Adhering to the guidelines, locals remained indoors. Only minimal movement of people was observed on the roads on Sunday.Nine more test +ve in district, count 543Cops on duty at various roundabouts said the movement of people was restricted to only e-pass holders throughout the day. Besides, as per the directions, only essential service providers, including medical stores, hospitals, dairies, etc., were open, while other shops had their shutters down on Sunday.Rashpal Singh, SHO, police division four, said: “No challans were issued at Jyoti Chowk on Sunday. It is one of the busiest roundabouts in the city. Travel by vehicles was allowed only to those persons who had e-passes. While some had already got their passes issued from the administration, others downloaded it through COVA app.”Rajesh Kumar SHO police division one, who was monitoring vehicular movement at Maqsudan Chowk, said, besides essential and emergency services, the movement of factory workers was also allowed, as industries were allowed to open.A factory worker who was on his way to the industrial area said his owner had issued him a document, so that he is not stopped by policemen at nakas.Notably, the decision to hold stricter lockdown on weekends was taken to stop the spread of coronavirus. A large number of residents are turning up Covid positive. Today, nine people, including salon workers, were found infected with the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-wears-a-deserted-look-during-weekend-lockdown-102540
22-06-2020||---||On International Yoga Day, city residents ‘breathe in, breathe out’||Our CorrespondentJalandhar, June 21City schools observed the International Day of Yoga here on Sunday with much enthusiasm and spirit giving away the message of yoga at home with family members.Sanskriti KMV SchoolAmid all precautionary measures against Covid-19, members of Sanskriti KMV School joined live yoga session with Principal Rachna Monga. students and parents also participated in the online mass yoga national campaign from their homes.In her message, she mentioned that despite busy schedules, physical fitness should always be the priority of one and all. She said: “Yoga is the best way to keep oneself physically and psychologically strong especially in the challenging situation of present times. It is indeed the need of the hour that we all must be more alert for the upkeep of our health as the healthy body is the abode of healthy mind”.Apeejay College of Fine ArtsThe NSS wing of Apeejay College of Fine Arts here celebrated International Yoga Day by performing art and discussing the benefits of the same through a webinar. The resource person of the day was Kriti Gupta.Kriti sharing her thoughts on the occasion of 6th International Yoga Day said during this lockdown it was not only mandatory for us to keep ourselves physically fit but also to take care of our mental health. She did the warm up and stretching exercises besides meditation tips for everyone to learn.She shared yoga focuses on the betterment of our body at every level i.e. physical, mental and spiritual. She shared the ideal time for doing yoga is morning but in evening with the gap of three hours of having food, yoga can be done. Principal Sucharita Sharma congratulated members of the NSS wing and appreciated Harman Deep for smoothly coordinating the webinar.DAV College, JalandharThe NCC wing of DAV College here along with NSS and Red Ribbon organised a webinar titled ‘Yog Mitaye Rog’ on Zoom app to mark the International Yoga Day. It was conducted by yog gurus Jai Mittal, Shailesh Jain and Dr Parminder Thind of the Yog Path Sansthan. About 150 participants performed various yoga aasans and did paranayaam.The resource persons motivated the participants to improve their physical and mental health by doing pranayamas. They further said the significance of International Day of Yoga was promotion of global health, harmony and peace. Brig Adivitya Madaan, Group Commander, NCC Group Headquarters, Jalandhar, applauded the efforts made by the NCC (Army wing) of DAV College and exhorted cadets to make yoga part of their daily life.Principal SK Arora said: “Yoga brings peace and purity in life”. He encouraged the students and other participants to do yoga in their daily routine.Innocent Hearts SchoolStudents of Innocent Hearts School (GMT, Loharan, CJR, Royal World and Kapurthala Road) participated in online activities scheduled on the occasion of International Yoga Day and shared their pictures on the official Facebook page of school.Numerous yoga activities were planned as per age groups. The students did yoga with their family. As per the guidelines of Fit India Movement, videos on breathing exercises, pranayam and yoga asanas were shared with the students to do postures correctly. Moreover, staff members of Innocent Hearts did yoga asanas at home.The chairman of Innocent Hearts Group, Dr Anup Bowry, disseminated a connotation that pranayam and yoga benefits in maintaining not only physical fitness but also mental resilience. Everyone should do yoga and make it a part of their routine, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/on-international-yoga-day-city-residents-breathe-in-breathe-out-102541
22-06-2020||Our Correspondent||In Phagwara, 7 test +ve, CID office sealed||Phagwara, June 21On the directions of SDM Pawitra Singh, the city police station here and the CID office situated on the premises of the city police station have been sealed as seven persons, including the city SHO, his gunman, driver and one constable, an industrialist of local Hargobind Nagar, another of local New Patel Nagar and a resident of Bhularai village tested positive for Covid on Saturday.ADC-cum-Municipal Corporation Commissioner Rajeev Verma said 42 policemen, including CID employees, besides all contacts of the positive patients including their family members have been quarantined and their samples are being taken. Four of the positive cases have been home quarantined while one industrialist has been sent to a Jalandhar hospital.He said samples of their close contacts were also taken and they were advised to self-quarantine.ADC Verma has also ordered immediate sanitisation of the police station, Hargobind Nagar locality, Bhularai village and New Patel Nagar.Phagwara SP Manwinder Singh, who rushed to the city police station for morale boosting of the cops, told this correspondent that SSP Kapurthala Satinder Singh has appointed Inspector Malkiat Ram, in-charge PCR Phagwara as officiating City police station SHO till the recovery of present SHO. The City police station would now be operational from PCR office at Phagwara-Banga road. Later, health authorities also advised SP Manwinder Singh for isolation.The medical examination and test of their close contacts and other policemen in the police station were also being taken. Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal has instructed all employees and officers of all departments to take preventive measures while performing their duties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-phagwara-7-test-ve-cid-office-sealed-102542
22-06-2020||Has the govt done right to impose a stricter lockdown on the weekend?||Weekend curbs may help check spiralling graph||Move will hit businessesThe weekend lockdown imposed by the Punjab Government has put people of the state in more trouble. Weekend is always an important part of all business activities. Everybody is annoyed with the government due to the decision. Eateries are open but people are not allowed to go outside. Everyone does not know how to use food apps. This is a ridiculous decision taken by the government. Either the government should impose a full lockdown or keep it open for all seven days. The pandemic will stay with us for one year or more. In such a situation, nobody can afford to bear huge losses as the two-month lockdown had already made a massive fall in businesses. There are apprehensions about various business activities. I would like to lay emphasis on the fact that the government should acknowledge the sufferings of people.Saahil HansNot a wise, planned decisionThe weekend lockdown order issued by the Punjab CM is not a wise and planned step. The previous decisions of opening specific shops on alternate days were good and should have been continued. There was no need to discontinue the same. The rise in Covid-19 cases in Punjab is due to migrant labourers and people coming from Delhi and other states. Those people should have been screened and quarantined to check its spread. There should have been more strictness on that count rather than repeating the weekend lockdown in the entire state. If there is a lockdown in the state, why industries and liquor vends open. The move will affect the business of small shopkeepers and also spread the virus.Dr JS WadhwaA laudable step to check Covid spreadThe state government’s order of imposing restrictions on inter-district travel on Saturdays and Sundays is a laudable step in view of the recent surge in coronavirus cases. To make the order more effective, all shops and establishments in the district providing non-essential services should also not to be allowed to open on the weekends. In week days, one hour extra during evening should be given to compensate the weekend restrictions. The purpose is to minimise avoidable public gatherings and unnecessary visits of people to various areas, including public places.Jagdish ChanderConstructive move to contain the virusAmid an alarming spurt in Covid cases in the state and fears of the pandemic reaching its peak in the coming months through community transmission, the imposition of partial lockdown on weekends and on public holidays by the Punjab Government is timely and well thought-out. Since a majority of people do not realise the severity of the crisis and behave irresponsibly, this decision has been taken with a view to continuing our desperate struggle for economic stability, ensuring livelihoods and protecting human lives. Besides shutting shops dealing in non-essential items and imposing strict curbs on people coming from Delhi and other states, restricting intra and inter-district movement of citizens without e-passes except for medical staff and essential service providers will certainly check the gathering of large crowds at various places and ward off the spread of Covid-19 for some time. In the absence of any therapeutic vaccine or drug, there is no ground for complacency. The government must ensure strict compliance with social distancing and other safety precautions. Early diagnosis of the virus, increased testing capacity, intense contact tracing, efficient containment zoning, monitoring densely-populated areas and urban slums, checking private hospitals from overcharging and revamping public healthcare infrastructure are constructive measures to arrest the growth of Covid. In the absence of these stringent measures, we might have to pay a heavy economic and healthcare price in the post-lockdown period.D S KangCurbs likely to restrict movement of peopleThe move of the state government to impose weekend lockdown is a welcome step as it will definitely assist in preventing acceleration of Covid-19. Given the present scenario, any laxity in basic requirements of lockdown will dilute the hard earned success in controlling the spread of deadly virus. Even the PM has appreciated state government for excellent results in managing the crisis at micro level. Further, all non-essential services have also been suspended at the weekend for strict compliance of lockdown.Shashi KiranLockdown not meant for entertainmentThe state government ordered weekend lockdown and put restrictions on the inter-district travel on Saturday and Sunday. This is a right decision because a number of people tend to come out on streets on weekends, doubling the chances of the spreading of the infection. At least, that can be foiled by weekend curfews. With the curfew in place, people will have to stay indoors. Being in a lockdown for about three months and now getting relaxations will provoke everyone to come out during weekends. Therefore, it is necessary to follow these orders. The government is only doing this for the safety of its people. People need to understand that lockdown has been eased for economic activities and not for social and entertainment purposes. Even if the lockdown is for one day, it will definitely help in checking the spread of Covid-19.Kalash VijNeed for joint efforts to fight coronavirusThe need of the hour is both government and people should come forward and work together to check the spread of the infection. I don’t condemn the Punjab model of breaking the Covid-19 chain. Even the Centre has acknowledged the efforts made by Punjab and appealed to other states to follow the same. However, I also believe that the weekend lockdown is temporary to serve any purpose. Collective efforts are required to save the humanity from the deadly virus. Our representatives should come up with more thoughtful and visionary ideas.Simranjeet Singh SainiDecision in right directionThe state government’s decision on the weekend lockdown will help check the spread of Covid-19. On other days too, when there are limited restrictions, people should follow precautions and maintain social distancing. Apart from announcing the lockdown on Sundays, the government has given discretionary powers to the district magistrates to consult market associations for the closure of non-essential shops across the state, especially in the red zones. Even for the inter and intra district movement, an e-pass is required for essential work, except medical emergencies. Further, the COVA app has been proactively developed by the state to disseminate preventive information and take precautionary steps to curb the spread. Therefore, the state government has rightly taken the decision to announce a complete lockdown on the weekends.Pahul SondReconsider order on opening liquor shopsThe government has put restrictions on the movement of people on weekends and public holidays, but liquor vends are open even after 8 pm on these days. The police question people going out for urgent work, but there is no check on those going out to purchase liquor. The rules should be the same for all. Everyone knows that if you really want to fight against this deadly virus then your immune system should be strong, but alcohol makes the immune system weak. What kind of government model is this by opening liquor shops even on weekends? The government should reconsider its order regarding the opening of liquor vends.SHAILJA THAKURQUESTIONThere has been a sudden surge in Covid cases across the country over the past few weeks. Do you think that in current scenario it will be safe to take pending examinations and entrance tests of school and college students?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (June 25).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/weekend-curbs-may-help-check-spiralling-graph-102544
22-06-2020||---||This govt school witnesses sharp rise in enrolment||Avneet KaurJalandhar, June 21Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Nehru Garden, during the lockdown, has witnessed a record increase in enrolment. The school in the last three months has managed to enroll as many as 921 students through video conferencing and Whatsapp groups.Principal of the school Gurinderjit Kaur said the hard work of the teachers during the unprecedented crisis has resulted in an increase in the number of students for the new session. “The day state government announced to shut down schools and colleges in view of Covid-19 outbreak, teachers in the school were directed to resort to the digital route and start taking classes through Zoom, YouTube and WhatsApp groups,” she said.Besides, special attention was given to the students who did not have smart phones or other gadgets with them. “We, on the very first day of the lockdown, prepared a list of students who didn’t have smart phones and access to the internet. We arranged books for them from our school book bank and got it delivered to their homes during the lockdown itself. Teachers also took classes of all these students via phone call and extended every help possible,” said Gurinderjit, adding that the school already has a name in the district for the best academic and competitive results.Divulging details about the activities that the school teachers organised online during lockdown, she said just as a coin has two sides, so online teaching also has also its pros and cons. “Such classes keep teachers engaged forever (specifically) in their curriculum - from preparing notes to the PowerPoint presentation, regular follow-up with students and parents, along with the daily reporting to the principal”.But on the flip side, there are various challenges to e-learning and the biggest challenge is the evaluation of students’ performance. “Online teaching for the time being is okay, but it can never replace classroom studies. The interactions between the students and teachers in the classroom help in instant clearing of doubts and understanding of concepts. Moreover, a teacher also keeps a vigil on the behaviour, attitude and aptitude of the student that in turn leads to all-round development of the personality of a student”, she added.Sharing her post-lockdown plans , Gurinderjit said, after subtracting the outgoing Class XII students and adding the new admissions, we now have a total strength of 2,645 students in the school. “Though there are no clear instructions yet when the schools will be opened, but amid this health crisis, the safety of students is our main,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-govt-school-witnesses-sharp-rise-in-enrolment-102545
22-06-2020||SUNDEEP Khosla||‘Economy can be revived by offering stimulus to MSMEs’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?The lockdown has badly affected my business. During the lockdown period, our entire plant remained locked while expenses continued. Now, the government has allowed industrial units to restart but my unit is running at 25 per cent capacity.When do you expect the resumption of your business?Considering the present situation we are in, I have decided not to start any new business.Have you released the salaries of your staff?I have given salaries to all my workers. Despite facing hurdles like no sales and no profit, I have given salaries during the lockdown period from working capital.What is the share of online trading in your profession?The share of online trading is very low in my profession. The lockdown has taught us that online trading is very important. So, I am getting prepared a website to enter the online trading.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown?As a businessman, I think one should diversify into other sector too because if one business of yours is not doing well, you can earn from others. One should start also the business of essential goods or services as essential goods always keep running no matter how is the situation.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?I take it as a challenge. During this period, many items associated with Covid-19 have been invented. For example, we prepared foot-operated hand sanitizer dispenser machines and now many industrial units have started making such machines.What are your expectations from the government?The government should help the industry at this critical juncture. First of all, interest should not be charged on working capital and loans as these are a huge burden on industrialists. The government should give direct benefits to industrialists. Postponing the EMIs is not beneficial if banks will charge interest on it. Interest should not be charged on the deferred EMIs. Industrialists need financial help from the government. So, it should give free electricity to industry for at least six months and also give relief in GST payments. On top of that, these fixed charges and interest on CC limits and term loans is a big problem for them. So, the government should not charge these from industrialists. These steps can help industrialists to recover their losses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/economy-can-be-revived-by-offering-stimulus-to-msmes-102546
22-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||This dhaba is missing its usual footfall||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 21Once entirely occupied by food lovers before the implementation of the Covid-induced lockdown, takeaway orders have become the new normal at ARK Vaishno Dhaba.The dhaba located near the Maqsudan bypass is missing out its usual footfall. Owners of the dhaba said almost 75 per cent of the business was down and they were trying to survive on the remaining business. Having a sitting capacity of around 100 persons, it was one of the most preferable places for most of the local residents during weekends and other celebrations.Rajesh Arora, one of the owners, said: "Though restaurants are fully functional in the city, we don't know when the business will be back on track.""As Covid cases are also increasing every passing day, our routine customers are also preferring to avoid outside food. It's uncertain to predict when we recover from the existing slump in the business. We had never imagined two months ago that the customers who we earlier used to ask to dine-in for enjoying meals would be told to give takeaway orders only, which has reduced the quantity of food sold. Post-relaxations in the lockdown, we are receiving both online as well as offline orders. Before the lockdown, we used to receive over 50 orders every day which have now reduced to around 20-25. Deliveries through Zomato and Swiggy have also reduced to 15-20, which used to be over 40 earlier," Arora said.Besides local customers, delivery boys could also be seen waiting for their orders outside the dhaba. Owing to it's proximity with Jalandhar-Amritsar highway, travellers used to satisfy their hunger here only and famous among transporters as vaishno dhaba, they used to get their meals here only.Arora said, we have kept two sanitizers for the customers, one at the enterance ad one at the cash counter. The customers are appealed to used them before making any deal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-dhaba-is-missing-its-usual-footfall-102547
22-06-2020||Nakodar||Anti-China protest||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/anti-china-protest-102548
22-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||Farmers yet to be paid for managing paddy stubble||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 21Even as paddy transplantation is in full swing in the state, the state government has failed to provide the compensation of Rs 2,500 per acre in the accounts of marginal farmers who didn’t burn paddy stubble last year.Avtar Singh (33), of Lohian block—who formed Sohal Khalsa Farmer Group—and purchased machines to dispose of paddy residue, said, “After the compensation was announced, I along with other famers purchased costly machines at subsidised rates and disposed of crop residue in our fields. We ensured that nobody indulged in stubble burning and got the forms filled from farmers to claim compensation. We have not received any payment to date.”In November 2019, following the guidelines of the Supreme Court, the Punjab Government announced to provide the compensation to those farmers whose landholdings do not exceed five acres, haven’t burnt paddy straw and grows non-basmati crop.For seeking the compensa tion, farmers were directed to submit a self- declaration form issued by the Agriculture Department. Lakhwinder Singh, a farmer from Khusropur village in Jalandhar (West), said, we had exhausted our savings to purchase costly machinery.“After announcing the compensation, subsidy on machines was reduced from Rs 8,00,000 to Rs 3,68,000. We purchased the machines by forming groups. Our only hope of recovering money through the compensation seems shattered. Around 600 litres of diesel is used to mix crop residue in five acres. Harjinder Singh—who formed the Dasmesh Agriculture Society— claimed that farmers of Punia village in Shahkot, didn’t even got the forms for seeking compensation.District Agriculture Officer (DAO) Surinder Singh said we didn’t received funds from the government to disburse the same among eligible farmers.Kahan Singh Pannu, Secretary, Agriculture Department, said he would verify the matter as some anomalies were found last year. He said the state government had released Rs 25 crore in 2019 for the management of paddy straw.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-yet-to-be-paid-for-managing-paddy-stubble-102443
