25-06-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Covid effect: Padho Punjab Padhao Punjab app catches fancy of students||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 24The Padho Punjab Padhao Punjab app has become a ‘new normal’ for city students. The app is a brain child of a mathematics teacher of Senior Secondary School, Nurpur, Deepak Kumar, who says the app has caught the fancy of students.Deepak, who is also the block mentor, said the app received appreciation from the Education Department and would soon be launched at the state level too. “Until now, the app was concentrated within the district, but now, it will be launched in every district,” he said.At present, the app is for students from Classes VI to XII but soon it would be introduced for pupils of primary to senior secondary classes. The material for six subjects — science, English, SST, Hindi, Punjabi, mathematics — is available in the app.When asked how he came up with the idea, the math master said earlier, the assignments were sent to the students via WhatsApp, but there was no continuity and they had to face problems owing to this. “This came as a trigger and I thought that there was a need for an app where the students can learn in a streamlined manner,” he said.Jaswinder Singh, District Mentor of Mathematics, said at first, it was a website, then it was developed into an app. “We have got a great response from other districts, too. Initially, it was difficult for us to help students with their studies, but with the app, everything has become systematic,” Singh said.Dharampal, who is posted at Government High School, Patara, is already running his YouTube channel with the name ‘Mathematics Lovers’. Dharampal is also the state resource person for mathematics.He uploads at least three lectures a week for Classes VI to X. “In the current scenario, it is important to reach out to students through YouTube. I have been getting a great response from students.SPEAKING OUTWe had started with mathematics first. After sending the links, we started getting requests from other subject teachers, too. This is how the app gained popularity. —Jaswinder Singh, district mentor mathematicsThe app is user-friendly as there is no username or password required. The idea was to make sure that the students get education without any hindrance amid the pandemic. —Deepak Kumar, block mentor mathematicsWe are asking students to download the app. Starting from ‘word of the day’ to ‘thought of the day’ activities, everything is available here in the app and would help pupils in the long run. —Dharampal, State resource person for mathematicsWe prepare lectures and then upload it on the app. It is helping the students a lot. Be it any lecture or topic, we prepare, make videos and then upload those. We also take feedback from the students. —Munish Kumar Sharma, science master||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-effect-padho-punjab-padhao-punjab-app-catches-fancy-of-students-103967
25-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Double whammy for Sachin lookalike: Loses job, tests +ve for Covid||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, June 24After spending 20 years in Mumbai entertaining people because of his stark resemblance with ace cricketer Sachin Tendulkar, Covid-19 has brought Balvir Chand (50) back to his native village Sahlon.In Mumbai, the Tendulkar’s doppelganger used to act in films, commercials, attend shows and perform mimicry and singing. He was also appointed as brand ambassador of a food chain but lost his job because of downsizing in the wake of the pandemic. “My elder son, too, lost his job and the younger one, who is a choreographer, was not getting assignments. Locked up in one room for five months, we had nothing to do and no income to pay rent. So as soon as the trains restarted, we decided to return to our village and spend time with our kin,” he shared, saying that he, his wife, two sons and a daughter started the journey homewards on June 10.The Hero group offered me a trip to England during the 1999 Cricket World Cup. There, Sunil Gavaskar called me to the commentary box, after which the media carried a lot many stories about a second Tendulkar. —Balvir ChandBut fate had something else in store for the family. “We boarded the Paschim Express and on reaching Ludhiana, we were tested for Covid. Since none of us had any symptoms and we had strictly observed all precautions, we were confident that we will not contract the disease. But on the third day of our home quarantine, we got to know that our reports have came up positive,” said Chand, adding that an ambulance took them to Guru Nanak Mission Hospital at Dhahan Kaleran. The family has been home quarantined till July 2.Chand shares that even though he was wearing a mask, a young patient at the hospital asked an attendant how come that Tendulkar was there at the hospital. He laughed and later narrated his life tales to the patient, “Son of a labourer, I had passed matriculation and had been working as a wardboy at DMC in Ludhiana since 1992. After I got married and had children, people started telling me that I resembled Tendulkar. Later, I began copying him. The Hero group in Ludhiana offered me a chance to work in a commercial. I accepted it and in exchange, they offered me a trip to England during the 1999 Cricket World Cup. There, Sunil Gavaskar called me to the commentary box, after which the media carried a lot many stories about a second Tendulkar. I stayed in England for three-and-a-half months and became popular as people used to take my autographs and click photos. When I returned, I learnt that I had lost my job at DMC due to absenteeism. That was the time when I told my family that I want to go to Mumbai and reap the benefits of my looks.”Chand says he worked hard, even accepting invitations to marriage functions as Tendulkar’s lookalike. As his substitute, I have worked in advertisements of Fevistick and Volkswagen, he says. “My first meeting was very interesting. When I asked him to sign some photographs, he did it thinking the photos were his. When I told him those were my photos, he was amazed. Later, he called me for a meeting. I met him as his duplicate in shooting for commercials. On the basis of my looks, I also got a chance to work in films including ‘Farari ki Swari’, ‘Bombay to Goa’, ‘Main Madhuri Dixit Banana Chahti Hoon’ and ‘Yeh Kaisi Mohabbat Hai’. I have written 16 songs on him. When he retired, I too thought that I must to stick to one job. But sadly, I have lost it even that now,” he said.Asked if he intended to work in Punjab, he simply refuses, saying, “I will definitely go back to Mumbai. If I remain here, I will be offered only petty jobs. I do not want to live in penury again. Surprisingly, one of my sons resembles Sachin’s son. We shared their pictures over the phone. My sons, too, have better opportunities in Mumbai. So, I will go back with them after few months and look for a new job.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/double-whammy-for-sachin-lookalike-loses-job-tests-ve-for-covid-103968
25-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||Choked sewers in Jalandhar remain a perennial problem for residents||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 24As the civic authorities failed miserably to address the issue of choked sewers, residents of several areas are having a hard time for the past several months. The continuous overflowing of filthy water has damaged the main roads and streets leading to residential colonies.Residents of the Aara Mohalla colony in Suranussi are among the worst affected. Despite repeated complaints, a choked and broken sewer on the Suranussi-Vidhipur- road has been lying unattended for the past two years. The road is located on the Jalandhar-Amritsar highway.Sam Sabharwal, who resides at Aara Mohalla, said, “The blockage of the main sewer has also contaminated the water supply. Owing to the apathy of the civic body, filthy water has been overflowing for the past over two years.”Shopkeepers and the area councillor said the road, which always remained inundated with water, was repaired temporarily once, however, the situation is still the same, exposing the ‘lackadaisical attitude’ of the civic authorities. “Pedestrians are forced to wade through the accumulated water. On many occasions, the water enters the residential colony and raises a stench. The foul smell emanating from the contaminated water forces us to remain indoors. The Municipal Corporation (MC) has been giving us a cold shoulder,” said Rohit, another resident.The area is usually occupied by migrants and labourers because of its proximity to several factories. The residents alleged that the civic authorities had failed to provide clean and hygienic surroundings to them. “Earlier, the MC officials had installed some drainage pumps, but the arrangement did not prove to be beneficial, said a dhaba owner, who demanded a permanent solution to the long-standing problem. Area councillor Deshraj Jassal said, “Sanitation workers have been regularly cleaning the sewer, but the line connected to the main drainage requires repair.”Preet Nagar Colony residents also echoed the same woes. They said the construction work had been hampered due to the lockdown.Pawan, an operator at MC complainant cell, said, “We have been receiving around 20-25 complaints related to sewers on a daily basis. This month, around 244 complaints related to damaged sewers and water supplies have already been received and 163 complaints are pending from the last month.”Satinder Kumar, MC Superintending Engineer, said the sewer problems had been resolved many times but owing to the inappropriate waste disposals, the sewers get clogged again. He assured that the MC sanitation staff would be sent to the affected areas to repair the broken drainage points. Meanwhile, Mayor Jagdish Raja said the issue would be resolved soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/choked-sewers-in-jalandhar-remain-a-perennial-problem-for-residents-103969
25-06-2020||---||10,287 challaned in Jalandhar for not wearing masks, fined Rs 44 lakh||Jalandhar, June 24Following the directions of the state government to implement “Mission Fateh”, the city police swung into action and took strict action against the violators of Covid-19 guidelines and traffic rules.Apart from issuing a large number of challans, hefty fines are also being imposed on the violators. As per the data collected by the City Police Commissionerate, as many as 10,626 challans have been issued since the implementation of Mission Fateh. A whopping worth Rs 45.99 lakh has been recovered from those violated traffic and Covid-related rules.Out of the total 10,626 challans issued, 10,287 people were fined for not wearing masks and Rs 44.89 lakh was recovered from them in fines. Besides, 40 persons were fined Rs 71,000 for violating home quarantine instructions, 299 persons were fined Rs 39,100 for spitting in public places and 115 residents were fined Rs 2 lakh for violating social distancing norms.Briefing about the traffic challans, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said a total of 36,942 challans had been issued so far to traffic violators and 2,014 vehicles impounded. Fortysix four-wheelers were fined Rs 83,000 for overloading and 23 auto-rickshaw drivers were fined Rs 11,500 for carrying more than the allowed number of passengers.In a separate data, Bhullar said on Wednesday that 243 traffic challans were issued and 278 persons without mask were challaned and they were fined Rs 1,39,000. “This drive would continue in the coming days and action will be taken against the violators to ensure that the Covid-19 guidelines are followed,” added the Commissioner of Police.Meanwhile, residents complained that though they were caught for flouting only one rule, multiple challans were issued to them. The worst-hit are the auto-rickshaw drivers who rue that they are not able to earn money by following the two-passenger norm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-287-challaned-in-jalandhar-for-not-wearing-masks-fined-rs-44-lakh-103970
25-06-2020||---||Firing in Phagwara Gate market: Two nabbed in Haryana Police search op||Jalandhar, June 24 High drama was witnessed at the Phagwara Gate on Wednesday after two gunshots were fired in order to stop a car. At around 2.30 pm, around three-four persons in an Innova tried to nab two occupants of a Skoda, outside the Chadha mobile house, at the Phagwara Gate.  In a bid to catch hold of the occupants of the Skoda car, those in the Innova opened fire at them and punctured the tyres of the car. After failing to drive the car, one of the occupants of the Skoda went inside the mobile showroom. He also reportedly had a gun. However, the other group of people managed to catch them.  Later, when the city police arrived at the spot, a different picture came to light, which earlier appeared as kidnapping. DCP investigation, Gurmeet Singh, revealed that it was a search operation of the Haryana Police and the Skoda riders were dreaded criminals wanted in several cases. The Kaithal police had laid a trap, said, Singh.  The suspects have been identified as Ajay Kumar, a resident of Kaithal and Karamjeet Singh, a resident of Jalandhar.  DCP added that while Ajay Kumar was wanted in parole jump and several other criminal cases, including murder and snatching, Karamjeet had given him shelter here. The CIA staff of Kaithal police said Ajay was hiding here, following which a trap was arranged to arrest him. The local police was not kept into loop while conducting the operation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/firing-in-phagwara-gate-market-two-nabbed-in-haryana-police-search-op-103971
25-06-2020||Jalandhar||Councillors apprise Mayor, Commissioner of residents’ problems||MLA Jalandhar Cantonment Pargat Singh, along with, all 11 Councillors of the Jalandhar Counstituency held a meeting on Wednesday with the MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma and Mayor Jagdish Raja.In the meeting, the issue of dilapidated roads, non- working street lights, sewer problem and non-availability of the required number of safai karamcharis was discussed. The meeting reportedly continued for more than 2 hours and every councillor was given the turn to speak on the problem of his ward.The MLA, along with the councillors, apprised the newly appointed MC Commissioner of the problems they have been facing for long.Rohan Sehgal, Councillor of Ward No. 26 said there were only 10 safai karamcharis in his ward instead of more than 20 more karamcharis. The councillors have been raising the issue of unequal distribution of safai karamcharis in 80 wards of the city for the past two years since the Congress-led MC took the charge.“Also, I raised the issue of the garbage dump at the Jyoti Nagar with the Commissioner where people throw the waste and foul smell emanates from the area because no proper lifting of the garbage is taking place. We are planning to shift the dump from here but for now I have asked the Commissioner to look at the spot himself,” he said.The councillors informed the commissioner that they were receiving plethora of complaints from the residents on non-working of street lights. One of the councillors also talked about no patch work on roads and road near the bus stand was in a poor condition. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/councillors-apprise-mayor-commissioner-of-residents-problems-103972
25-06-2020||---||‘Constitutional post of first citizen being undermined’||Jalandhar, June 24Even as there has been a dissent within the party over its recent decision to withdraw the powers of the Mayors to write Annual Confidential Report of their respective Municipal Corporation Commissioners, the decision has not gone down well even with an ex-Mayor of the BJP.Former Mayor Sunil Jyoti today said the recent decision of the state government to withdraw powers of Mayors is another example of the state government giving no importance to the democratic system and federalism. “The Congress party which boasts of being a strong supporter of the Panchayati Raj has made a mockery of the constitutional posts of the Mayors. Instead of making Mayors more powerful, the state government led by Capt Amarinder Singh is promoting the officers’ lobby to run the state affairs at its will and without questions being raised,” he commented.By taking this decision, the government has proved one thing that the present Mayors are inefficient and have been unable to deliver. It is a shame that such an irresponsible decision has been taken. —Sunil Jyoti, Former MayorHe added, “By taking this decision, the government has proved one thing that the present Mayors have proved inefficient and have been unable to deliver. It is a shame that such an irresponsible decision has been taken. In the last tenure of BJP SAD government, the Council of Mayors pressed upon the government to give more power to the Mayors to which the then CM Parkash Singh Badal and then Local Bodies Minister Anil Joshi fully agreed and did a lot to empower the Mayors.”“It is a matter of great concern that the sanctity of the constitutional post of the first citizen is being put under threat because of the non-performance of the present Mayors,” he said.Jyoti further said, “It is quite surprising to note that Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh was a part of the meetings of the Prime Minister with the Chief Ministers of the several states on Covid-19 regarding allowing the federal system and empowering of states to take decisions on their own. The CM first needs to withdraw his own baseless orders because such decisions will demolish the basic structure of the federal system.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/constitutional-post-of-first-citizen-being-undermined-103973
25-06-2020||Hoshiarpur||6 booked for murder of  NRI’s wife, daughter||The Sadar police have booked six persons, including three women, in a case of murder of a woman and her five-year-old daughter. The woman was found dead at her house in Qila Barun village.The police, on the basis of an email complaint sent by victim’s husband from Qatar, have registered a case against the victim’s father, her alleged paramour, mother, an aunt, an uncle and their daughter. The police have arrested the alleged paramour of the deceased.Amandeep Singh, husband of deceased Nirmal Kaur, said his wife was living in a rented house with daughter Gurleen Kaur (5) in Shalimar Nagar. On June 5, his wife told him over the phone that his daughter was in a critical condition and was admitted to DMC, Ludhiana.When he (Amardeep) inquired about the incident, he came to know that his daughter was not admitted to any hospital. He later came to know that his daughter had died on June 6 and was cremated.The complainant alleged that his wife Nirmal Kaur had illicit relations with Harpreet Singh. Amandeep said his wife’s body was found from his house in Qila Barun. Later, Amandeep came to know that his house in Qila Barun had been bought by some Sarabjit Kaur. The complainant alleged that his daughter and wife were killed for grabbing his property. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-booked-for-murder-of-nris-wife-daughter-103974
25-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur---||Highway eateries fare much better than city restaurants||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, June 24 The city restaurants and highway dhabas saw a mixed response of visitors as dine-in facilities opened after relaxation being announced by the state government. The popular Haveli on the Jalandhar-Phagwara Highway got maximum response with scores of commuters from Amritsar and Ludhiana halting here. The restaurant was opened to 50 per cent capacity and visitors had to wait for some time to be allowed to occupy a table.  Harsh, manager of Haveli, said, “We thermally screened all visitors. We then got their hands sanitised and let them in. In the hall, every other table was kept vacant. The vacant tables were used to place the orders which the customers picked and kept on their own tables. All our tables are sanitised once a customer leaves. All utensils are also being sanitised after use. All sanitised plates are delivered in wraps and the customers unwrap these plates on their own. So, we have been trying to exercise maximum restraint to keep the customers as well as the staff safe from any infection.” Haveli has so far kept all its food stalls outside shut.  While dhabas and highway restaurants attracted a good number of customers, the situation of restaurants in the city remained entirely different as most of them remained shut. Virasat- The Punjabi Haveli, a theme-based food junction in the city, has not opened despite government lifting its restrictions. Iqbal S Dhindsa, owner, said, “The city crowd is not yet prepared for fine dining. We are still on wait and watch mode. I also think it is not safe for us to open it as people will have to remove masksto have food.” Rajan Chopra, who owns three hotels in the city, says, “We have opened banquets for holding functions but not the restaurants. The 8 pm closing time is too early. We will need to close on weekends when we otherwise expect more people to turn up. We may open dining facility after July 1 depending upon the situation then. Our speciality restaurants offering Japanese delicacies cannot be opened for long as we need to get supplies of all our ingredients from Delhi. Also, most of our chefs are from HP and the residents over there have not been allowed to shuttle to other states.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/highway-eateries-fare-much-better-than-city-restaurants-103975
25-06-2020||Jalandhar||AAP launches Beopar Jan Sampark campaign||The trade and industry wing of Aam Aadmi Party is organising a state-level campaign called Beopar Jan Sampark Abhiyan. The campaign revolves around meeting people in the business and listen to their grievances amid the Covid pandemic.The volunteers are also seeking to highlight the state government’s inability to provide any kind of relief package. However, On Wednesday, the district team showcased posters highlighting the problems trade and industry class was facing. Those who attended the release function included Dr Sanjiv Sharma, state vice-president and Halka incharge central, Dr Shiv Dayal Mali, district president urban, Subash Sharma, district president trade and industry, Lakhbir Singh Lakha Halka incharge north, Kartar Singh (wrestler) observer Halka Cantt, Rajwinder Kaur Doaba women wing president , Balwant Bhatia SC wing incharge. Subash Parbhakar, Vikas Grover, Indervansh Singh Chadha, Ricci Manocha, Surinder Multani, Beasdev Rana among others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-launches-beopar-jan-sampark-campaign-103976
25-06-2020||---||With 43 new cases, Covid count jumps to 648 in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, June 24With 43 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, the district’s total case tally has reached 648.New cases were reported from New Upkar Nagar, PAP Complex, Gujral Nagar, Kalia Colony, Santokhpura, Raja Garden, Avtar Nagar, Ali Mohalla, Lamma Pind, Ekta Nagar, Chugitti, Mohalla Ramgarhia, Jandu Singha and Mohan Vihar localities.Earlier, it were the congested mohallas of the city which were under the grip of coronavirus, today patients from at least 12 villages of Jalandhar figured in the list, indicating more spread towards villages. While few villages of Shahkot and Phillaur were already affected, today’s list had names of villages from Adampur, Kartarpur and Nakodar too.Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday said to combat the Covid-19 pandemic more effectively, the district would further upgrade the health infrastructure at the local Civil Hospital by ensuring piped oxygen supply at all 350 beds of the hospital. He said 100 per cent piped oxygen supply would be ensured at the Covid Care Centre of the local Civil Hospital. Thori asked the Sub-Divisional Magistrate to visit the local Civil Hospital and make the necessary arrangements for completing the work.In a major sigh of relief for six police personnel from the Jalandhar Police Commissionerate, who were tested positive of coronavirus, were discharged on Wednesday from the local Civil Hospital. The discharged police personnel, including Assistant Sub-Inspectors Raj Kumar (Division No. 5), Devinder Singh (Drill staff Police Lines), Des Raj (PCR Jalandhar) and Raghuvir Singh (CIA staff), constable Gurlal Singh (Division No.4) and Varinder Singh (CIA staff) were admitted to the local Civil Hospital after they were found positive and had undergone treatment under a dedicated team of doctors led by Senior Medical Officer Dr Kashmiri Lal. Besides, eight more asymptomatic patients were discharged on Wednesday from the Civil Hospital. 2 cops test positiveHoshiarpur: Two police personnel tested positive for Covid on Wednesday. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasvir Singh said one is identified as a 27-year-old man from Kaluchakk village of Mukerian block and another is a 52-year-old from Umar Tanda village, Moonak. Both have been isolated in Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-43-new-cases-covid-count-jumps-to-648-in-jalandhar-district-103978
25-06-2020||---||Bio-mining project will be completed in six months: MC||Jalandhar, June 24A day after the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) imposed a fine of Rs 25 lakh on the Municipal Corporation for failing to start a bio-mining project at the Wariana dump which should have been completed till June 30, officials of the MC on Tuesday said they would demand six months to complete the project. As per the information received, the officials had never thought that they would be fined.Health officer Shri Krishan Sharma said due to the pandemic, the work could not be continued and hence it could not be completed on time. He said during the lockdown, all the works had come to a halt, so this work was also affected and could not be completed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bio-mining-project-will-be-completed-in-six-months-mc-103979
25-06-2020||Hoshiarpur||Vet awarded for exemplary work||property dispute: MAN kills selfPhagwara: Harjinder Singh (45), a resident of Bhagatpura locality, reportedly committed suicide by consuming some poisonous tablets at his residence on Tuesday. SHO Usha Rani said stress was said to be the cause behind taking the extreme step. Sarabjit Kaur, wife of the deceased, told the police here on Wednesday that Balbir Singh, father of the deceased, refused to give the share of the property to the deceased, who took the extreme step after feeling humiliated over it . The police have registered a case under Section 306 of the IPC against Balbir Singh who is at large. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vet-awarded-for-exemplary-work-103981
25-06-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Govt must reduce GST on ghee from 12% to 5% for better sales’||EVEN though dairy business falls under essential services and supplies of dairy products were never curtailed during the lockdown period, those into this business say they too have been partly affected. In an interview with Deepkamal Kaur, Ajit Singh, owner of popular dairy company Metro Milk Pvt Ltd, says his business is dependent on hotels. These days hotels are closed, so there is a sharp dip in the sale of our products. Excerpts:How is your business doing post lockdown?Even though dairy production and supplies falls under essential services and we were allowed to carry out business throughout the lockdown period, still we feel our business has come down to 50 per cent of what we were doing earlier.We have employed 150 labourers and been providing lodging facility to nearly 90 per cent of them. Since the day the curfew was imposed on March 23, I have been providing meals, tea and refreshment to my labourers. I had hired a cook for them who too stays with us. —Ajit Singh, Owner of metro milk private LtdWhy are you seeing a dip in the sale of dairy products?A: Since 80 per cent of our business is related to selling curd that too in commercial matka packings for hotels and restaurants, our market has fallen. Our commercial packing is from 5 kg to 15 kg, which has had maximum sales. Since restaurant and hotel business has fallen, our business too has been affected. Since we are also into making dry milk powder, we are using our surplus milk for the purpose which we can be preserved and used later.What is your product range and how has it changed during the lockdown period?We are selling milk pouches, curd matkas and ghee. We are in the process of setting up a plant for the manufacturing of paneer. Our product which has seen a surge in demand during the lockdown period has been our special ultra heat temperature (UHT) milk pouches with a 90-day shelf life. The price of this milk pouch is only slightly higher than the normal milk pouch (Rs 28 for half litre and Rs 56 for 1 litre pouches) and people preferred it since they did not want to go out daily to fetch milk and risk their lives. Many families bought these milk packets and stored them for weeks, opening and using them as and when required.When did you start your business and how did it evolve?We are into the business of pasteurised milk packets since 1993. We have our plant in Surgical Complex. Our business saw many ups and downs till 2009. After that as we introduced our small curd matkas and then commercial curd packings which were liked very much in the market. People found our curd so tasty that many of them told me that their children only preferred our company’s curd.Where are you procuring milk from? How are you ensuring safety?We are procuring milk largely from 8,000 farmers spread across Moga, Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Sangrur. On an average, we are procuring 60,000 litres of milk daily. We are not procuring milk from Jalandhar-based dairy farmers as milk is already in short supply here as compared to the overall demand. We have put up computerised testing plants for milk in every collection centre of these districts. All our vehicles are sanitised repeatedly.Where are your supplies going? Were they affected during the lockdown days?We supply our products in Jalandhar, Pathankot, Ludhiana, Delhi, J&K, Hamirpur and Dharamsala. No, we faced no problem. The administration ensured that there was no problem in supplying milk and dairy products anywhere in the region.How many labourers have you engaged and how are you keeping them safe?We have employed 150 labourers and been providing lodging facility to nearly 90 per cent of them. Since the day the curfew was imposed on March 23, I have been providing meals, tea and refreshment to my labourers. I had hired a cook for them who too stays with us.What is your message for the people?My message to them is to work hard and do not get scared at any time. When my labourers, dealers and dairy farmers were scared of continuing supplies, I remained in touch with everyone asking them not to fall weak and stay back at home. I myself worked harder and made everyone do a little more effort and told everyone to continue to strive. This has paid.What do you expect from the government?We have been pressing for reducing GST on ghee. While it is 12 per cent at the moment, we want it to be slashed to 5 per cent for increasing sales and income of those into this business. This will also help us pay remunerative rates to dairy farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-must-reduce-gst-on-ghee-from-12-to-5-for-better-sales-103986
