26-06-2020||---||1 more succumbs, death count reaches 19 in  Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 25With the death of a 65-year-old man, the number of Covid casualties in the district has risen to 19. Deceased Mastaik Ahmad (65), a resident of Gur Mandi, succumbed to Covid-19 at the DMCH in Ludhiana. He was tested positive for the virus last week, after which he was admitted to the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar.However, considering his illness, he was transferred to the DMCH, Ludhiana, where he breathed his last this morning. Ahmad was reportedly a heart patient and had a high blood pressure. He complained of shortness of breath after testing positive for the virus.Meanwhile, 25 fresh cases of Covid were reported in the district today. The count of positive cases is 623. The new cases include six from Bhargo Camp, four from street number 13 of Avtar Nagar and the remaining are from Raja Garden, GTB Nagar, Sarabha Nagar, Shahkot, Sarabha Nagar and others.Moreover, six cops who were found infected with the virus earlier have recovered from it. The infected cops were getting their treatment from the Civil Hospital. Those who have been sent home include ASI Raj Kumar of police division 5, Davinder Singh from drill staff at police lines, PCR cop Desh Raj, Raghuvir Singh of CIA staff, Gurlal Singh from police division 4 and Varinder Singh of the CIA staff. Phagwara reports two more +ve casesTwo more persons including a cop and an industrialist were tested positive for coronavirus here on Thursday. Senior Medical Officer, Phagwara, Dr Kamal Kishore, said the 90-year-old industrialist and the cop have been shifted to a covid centre in Jalandhar district. The SMO said 128 samples were sent for testing from Phagwara on Wednesday and Thursday. Of these, two persons came Covid positive. Of the two, one person is the contact of the already declared positive case from the Police Department and one is a family member of already declared positive case. Contact tracing is under way. OC 2 positive in Hoshiarpur, toll rises to 169 A lab report of 438 samples was received on Wednesday, of which two samples were found positive. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district has increased to 169. While sharing this information with the media Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasbir Singh, said: “One patient is a 51-year-old resident of Rampur village, under Health Centre, Paladi, while the other is a woman aged 62 from Badyal village, under Health Centre, Harta Badla. So far, 11,447 samples have been collected in the district, of which 10,571 are negative and the report of 690 samples is still awaited. The number of positive patients is 169. A total of 27 samples are invalid and 5 have died. The district currently has 13 active cases and 151 patients have recovered and gone home.” OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-more-succumbs-death-count-reaches-19-in-jalandhar-104699
26-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Good Samaritans on job to strengthen Dhussi Bundh along Sutlej||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 25After over 7,500 farmers from Shahkot, Nakodar and Phillaur villages got affected by floods, that ravaged the entire belt during the monsoon last year, it has been an uninterrupted year-long work that has been going on along the Sutlej.But more than the government, it has been the efforts of the affected villagers themselves and the volunteers of Balbir S Seechewal, an environmentalist, who has been working here without any break. As many as 45-50 trolleys and tippers have worked each day to carry sand and earth to the site for raising the height and width of the Dhussi Bundh.Starting from the most affected Janian Chahal village in Lohian sub-tehsil, the volunteers worked tirelessly to strengthen the 55-km of the bundh along the mighty river.“We have not just covered Jalandhar, but the entire length of the bundh in two more districts including Moga and Ferozepur,” said Gurvinder Boparai, one of the volunteers.After it was assessed that the main cause of floods last year was a break coming in the flow of the river under a railway track at Lohian, the volunteers last month started work at the site removing 12-feet silt along the pillars of the bridge. However, this work got stalled as 20,000 cusecs of water was released at that time.“There are some 10 pillars left, where work is yet to be done. We are waiting for the water level to fall. Also, the tippers have to take a longer route to reach the other side of the river bank to do the same work,” said Boparai.XEN of the Drainage Department Ajit Singh said: “We, too, are in the process of piling up studs along the edges of the river to strengthen certain weak points. We are also in the process of releasing tenders for filling up some trenches that got developed along the bundh during floods last year. But our work will primarily start after the volunteer teams’ work will conclude.”Likewise, work has started along the affected sites of Puari and Selkiana villages in Phillaur, too! Simranjit Singh of Puari village said: “In August last year, farmers of our village were badly affected. About 12 acres of paddy had got washed off and fields got covered with layers of sand. We kept persuading the government to strengthen the bundh, the width of which had got reduced from 20 feet to just 10 feet. Just about a week ago, the department got the work started. Sacks of sands are being filled and stacked along the bundh. We just hope that we remain safe this time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/good-samaritans-on-job-to-strengthen-dhussi-bundh-along-sutlej-104700
26-06-2020||---||City youth wanting to get hitched to Pak girl urges PM to grant her visa||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 25A city-based youth, who is engaged to a girl from Lahore and was planning to marry her around this time, has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow her visa application, so that she can come to India.Based at Basti Bawa Khel here, Kamal Kalyan said he knows his fiancée Sumaila for the past few years owing to their family relations and he expressed his desire to marry her. “The girl agreed. My parents also agreed immediately. There was little apprehension from her parents’ side. But as my father tried to convince them, they, too, agreed. We began to exchange messages and do video calls and became convinced to choose one another as our life partners,” he said.The couple got engaged through an online ceremony held in January 2018. Kamal’s father Om Parkash said: “Sumaila is my maternal cousin’s daughter. My maternal aunt lived in Lahore. She had two daughters and one is settled in Lahore. We have been maintaining good relations with them. Sumaila is the daughter of my cousin in Lahore. Initially, she had little apprehensions about marriage since both countries have had hostile relations. But I convinced him saying that when our children have no problem and we know each other so well, we should go ahead. She agreed to the proposal.”Kamal, too, has his fingers crossed now. “A similar wedding happened in Jalandhar and a Pakistani girl was allowed visa even during the time when India-Pak relations became very strained during Pulwama attack. If a permission for marriage could be granted at that time, it should be relatively easier for the wedding to happen now,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/city-youth-wanting-to-get-hitched-to-pak-girl-urges-pm-to-grant-her-visa-104701
26-06-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Farmers go  out of way to lure labourers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 25Amid labour shortage due to the Covid-induced migration, farmers in the district have been adopting various means to bring back farm hands.Besides paying high rates for paddy transplantation, farmers have also been acceding to other demands of the labourers. While some have arranged for train tickets for them, some others have gone to receive the labourers at the railway station. Some even had to go to their villages in UP and Bihar on their vehicles to bring them.Davinder Singh, a farmer from Nawanshahr, had arranged tickets for eight labourers who reached here around five days ago.“I went to the Phagwara railway station to receive the labourers. I had never booked tickets for them ealier. But the present situation is so grave that nobody wants to leave any stone unturned to woo the farm hands,” said Singh.Kirpal Singh from the Shahkot area said he had convinced labourers who had arrived here during the sugarcane season in November to stay. “I had no other option but to convince them to stay here because I knew if they move back to their native places, the work would stop here,” he said, adding that to convince the farm hands to stay here was not an easy task.Some farmers have also been going on tempo travellers to UP to get farm labourers for paddy transplantation. “This is the only option left with us to ensure that the work of sowing paddy doesn’t get stopped,” said a one such farmer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-go-out-of-way-to-lure-labourers-104702
26-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Night rides unsafe: Non-functional lights plunge Jalandhar roads into darkness||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 25As the Sun sets and almost everyone is in during this lockdown period, moving out, especially at night in an emergency, is not safe at all these days. Not just because there are fewer people out on roads, but also because many streetlight points in the city are non-operational.The problem exists not just in the Municipal Corporation areas but even those smaller pockets that fall under the Punjab Urban Development Authority (PUDA). The PUDA market, in which the PUDA office falls and which is right in front of the tehsil complex and Police Commissionerate office, is the most affected.A majority of the lamps in the market area are missing and hence, a part of the market plunges into complete darkness. The market has some offices, where women work in large numbers. Anjana, who works with an insurance company, said: "We try and go home on time. On days when we get late, it becomes really scary to even go out in the parking lot and drive out even in your own car. Those three to four minutes make me lose my mental peace. Complaints have never yielded any result."In almost every ward, there are 100-300 streetlights that are not functional. Mandeep Jassal, Congress councillor of Ward No. 10, said: "During lockdown, we had 300 points of streetlights that went out of order. We kept on complaining and calling the contractor, but he was too slow with the work. The biggest trouble area in my ward is the much frequented Dhilwan Road, where most part of the road remains dark. Other areas including Dhanowali and Sainik Vihar, too, have 20-30 streetlight points that do not function."Another Congress councillor Rohan Sehgal said: "There are many sections in my ward where darkness prevails once the Sun is down. It is difficult getting out at night especially for those coming via Pholariwal Road. Several people have encountered snatching incidents on the stretch. The road that leads to Cambridge School from PPR Mall is also a sensitive spot where no light works. The section from Johal Market to Urban Estate is also not properly lit, nor is the area near Little Blossoms School. Residents say they keep complaining, but the contractor is not at all bothered.”The councillors said even though there was a provision of charging penalty in the maintenance agreement with the streetlight contractor of Rs40 per point per day if he fails to repair a point after 72 hours, no action was being taken against him.“No official of the O&M Department is maintaining any such record of imposing penalty against the contractor and have been doling out crores of rupees to him under the maintenance contract despite poor functioning,” the councillors said.MC officials said: "We were in the process of signing a new agreement for LED streetlight installation and maintenance. Now that a Gurgaon-based company has agreed to work with us, the process of replacing mercury lamps with LED lamps will start soon.”As per the contract, 65,000 LED lamps are to be installed in the city. Councillor Sehgal said: “A Gurgaon-based company has agreed to work for Rs44.7 crore, while the contract was being previously signed for Rs274 crore, after which we created a lot of hue and cry. It is a big saving for the MC and we are happy that our stand has been vindicated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/night-rides-unsafe-non-functional-lights-plunge-jalandhar-roads-into-darkness-104703
26-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||With restrictions in place, health conscious residents take to cycling||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 25As lockdown has not been relaxed completely, roads become deserted in the evening, especially on the weekend when the stricter restrictions come into force. Amid this, an unusual craze for cycling is being noticed in the city.People are choosing cycling over walk or exercise in parks as there is no risk of transmission of coronavirus in this form of physical exercise. It is a common sight to note children, youngsters, men, women and even elderly wearing their headgears and gloves and riding through the city roads in the evening, especially on Sunday.Cycling clubs, too, have seen a rise in membership in the past three months. Cyclists say that it has become a part of their routine to ride from the city to Beas, Raiyya or Phagwara in groups and return in two-three hours. Taking all precautions and carrying their own water or juice bottles, fruits, candies, etc, they say they feel they have become more fit and have strengthened their immunity.Rohit Sharma, who runs Hawk Riders Club, says; “Many new members are joining us on a daily basis and we have been regularly organising events for them. On June 21, we organised an event ‘Longest day, longest ride’ and one of our members, Honey Bhinder, rode 375 km that day and bagged the top position. I also cycle from home to work.”Ramanpreet Singh (34), a member of the club, who works in a pharmaceutical company, says: “Amid the cool breeze and rain this morning, I enjoyed a solo ride to Beas. Though I am a marathoner, I am trying to build more stamina these days by cycling. It is my routine to get up at 3:30 am and do physical training.”Likewise, the Jalandhar Biking Club has been motivating many city residents to take to cycling. A passionate cyclist, Parveer Mann, says: “I have gone to Noida on a cycle and returned in 34 hours. I have a record of riding for 56,000 km in the past five years. There are many passionate cyclists in the city, including a 73-year-old man who has bicycled 1.27 lakh km.”A girls’ cycling club is on the anvil, says Disha Sachdeva, a student of Guru Nanak Dev University College, Ladowali Road. “We are a group of nine friends and have formed a cycling group in the city. Now we are in the process of converting it into a registered club, which might get done in the next two weeks or so. We have cycled from the city to the Kanjli Wetland. Last month, we cycled to Raiyya.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-restrictions-in-place-health-conscious-residents-take-to-cycling-104704
26-06-2020||AFTER the state government allowed the manufacturing of bricks at kilns post lockdown||‘Brick-kiln industry might take years to recoup’||How has the Covid-19 lockdown affected the brick-kiln industry?The brick-kiln owners have lost all of their financial resources as a result of Covid-19 lockdown. With construction work stalled, there was no demand for bricks and the labour migration further added to the woes of the owners as the industry is completely dependent on manual labour and not machine tools.How has the manufacturing capacity been hit after the lockdown?If before the lockdown, we produced one crore bricks in a season, the capacity has sharply declined to just 10 lakh bricks today. Without the required number of labour, we have to make do with the local labour, which limits our output. Also, since most of the brick-kiln owners had to support their units during lockdown, the finances required for increased manufacturing is also not available. Another factor is that there is no demand in market which hits us beyond repair.What impact have the changed weather conditions had on the industry?The winter season this year had unpredicted rainfall and all through summers, the rains did not allow the industry to function to its capacity. Running the kilns without labour, with such unpredictable weather pattern and Covid 19 risk has been a very expensive deal for all.What do you have to say about the future of the industry?The brick-kiln industry might take at least two to three years to be back on track as the amount of financial losses incurred by the owners are huge. Banks are not supportive and restructuring of loans will further add to the debt of owners. People who have made huge investments in setting up kilns have already lost all their surplus resources and are looking to just survive post lockdown. The situation might only improve with the increase in liquidity among masses as it would boost the construction works that can bring in the demand for bricks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/brick-kiln-industry-might-take-years-to-recoup-104706
26-06-2020||---||Five arrested in woman, daughter murder case||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur,June 25On a complaint by an NRI from Qatar, the district police have arrested five persons, including three women, in a case of murder of a five-year-old girl and her mother in Qila Barun. The father of the deceased woman allegedly involved in the killings is still absconding. The suspects were produced in a court, which sent them to a two-day police remand.SP (Headquarters) Parminder Singh informed at a press conference this evening that on June 12 in Qila Barun village, the body of Nirmal Kaur (31), wife of Amandeep Singh, was found in her house. At that time, proceedings under Section 174 were initiated on the basis of a statement by Bassi Aladin resident Karamjit Singh, the father of the deceased. During investigation, the police came to know that the said woman’s five-year-old daughter Gurleen Kaur had also died on June 5.The SP said the statements given to the police by Karamjit Singh were not digested. Later, deceased’s husband Amandeep Singh also filed a complaint with the police, expressing apprehension over murder of his wife and daughter. A special team was formed under the leadership of DSP Jagdish Raj Attri and DSP Gurpreet Singh (including Satwinder Singh, SHO, in-charge of Sadar police station) to investigate the case.The investigation team analysed footage of CCTV cameras installed in the village and found that on the day of the incident (June 12), Harpreet Singh, alias Goldi, his mother Nirmal Kaur, aunt Sarabjot Kaur, uncle Surjit Singh and cousin Kirandeep Kaur, all residents of Moga village in Jalandhar district, had come to Qila Barun.During investigation, it was also found that Nirmal Kaur had extramarital relationship with Harpreet Singh. The police immediately arrested Harpreet Singh and during interrogation, he confessed his relationship with Nirmal Kaur and that she was ready to marry him, but her five-year-old daughter was the main obstacle in it, the SP said.Both of them gave her an overdose of medicine and then took her to a hospital in Chabbewal where doctors declared her dead. Thereafter, Nirmal Kaur, along with her father, carried the body from the hospital to the cremation ground, where they cremated Gurleen. Goldi then got the property of Nirmal Kaur transferred in the name of his aunt Sarbjeet.The suspects hid around her house in the village and then Goldi strangled Nirmal Kaur and fled. Goldi had given Nimral Kaur an overdose of drugs before strangling her. The SP said five persons, including Goldi, his mother, aunt, uncle, and cousin, had been arrested. Karamjit is on the run.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-arrested-in-woman-daughter-murder-case-104707
26-06-2020||---||Mayor inspects sewerage work||Jalandhar, June 25After being apprised of several complaints regarding sewerage, Mayor Jagdish Raja along with Pawan Kumar, chairman of water supply and sewerage disposal ad hoc committee, councillor Bunty Neelkanth, Xen Harmesh Lal and other officers visited different wards in the north constituency to assess the conditions.The chairman asked the Operation and Maintenance (O&M) branch officials to show the machinery and equipments used for cleaning sewers in the city.In Sarabha Nagar and Santokhpura, the members accompanied by area councillor Reena Kaur checked on desilting being done with a new machine. Meanwhile, they also visited Bhagat Singh Colony along with councillors Deepak Sharda and Vicky Kalia.However, a faulty sewer was found upon a visit to Saipur road and Kali Mata Mandir road in the industrial area. Following this, the officers were directed to prepare an estimate for laying a sewer line there. Also, a decision to prepare an estimate for laying sewer lines in different areas was also taken. “O&M branch officers have been instructed to be in touch with the ward councillors on a daily basis and will promptly act on complaints of sewers in different areas of the city,” Kumar was quoted as saying.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mayor-inspects-sewerage-work-104708
26-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||NIT develops UV-based surface cleaners, gives patent to UCOMAX||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 25Having already transferred technology for the launch of anti-microbe washable masks and low-cost air purifiers, the Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar, has transferred another technology for safe surface cleaning in the isolation wards of hospitals, trains, railway stations, airports, shopping malls and offices. Priced between Rs 9,500 & Rs 15,000The patent titled ‘An apparatus for ultraviolet sterilisation of the surface’ was handed over to Vadodara-based UCOMAX, which has already devised testing models and will launch the product in the market in the next fortnight or so.“Normally, when any UV-based equipment is to be used, a person cannot enter the room, but there are no such issues with this machine as there will be no exposure for the user. It is completely safe and can even be kept on the berths of trains. Three UV tubes of 11 watt have been fitted on its base and the gadget can be slowly rolled on surfaces as it has tyres fitted underneath”, said Dr KS Nagla, Associate Professor, Department of Instrumentation and Control Engineering.He said, “The machine can be used even on porous surfaces that cannot be mopped such as carpeted floors, where the ordinary chemical-based disinfecting systems are ineffective. The portable apparatus can kill microorganisms such as coronavirus and other bacteria while moving over the surface. The apparatus is adjustable and compact in size and can be used in narrow passages also.”Dr Nagla said priced between Rs 9,500 and Rs 15,000, the company would be launching two models —- on-board battery operated and wire-operated. The cost of the wire-operated model was less. The product would also be available online.The Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology has already transferred two technologies in the recent past to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.Dr Lalit Kumar Awasthi, Director of the institute, said the institute faculty and staff members were working hard to develop new technologies.Dr SK Sinha, Dean R&C, Dr SK Mishra, Registrar of the institute, and Dr R Singla, Head, ICE department, congratulated the team on the successful launch of the technology in the market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nit-develops-uv-based-surface-cleaners-gives-patent-to-ucomax-104709
26-06-2020||Ajay Joshi||Told to visit colleges, pupils flay authorities||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 25Students of the affiliated colleges of GNDU have flayed the authorities for asking them to visit the college for clearance of dues.Students have opposed their decision to conduct two exams in a day. Circulating an official letter issued by the GNDU, students stated that it won’t be possible for them to come to the college early in the morning due to limited public transportation. The most affected are the students residing in different cities and districts including, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Phagwara, Pathankot, Nawanshar and Faridkot.#Studentslivesmatter has been trending widely on the social media as pupils are of the opinion that although the lockdown restrictions have been eased, the number of Covid cases haven’t gone down yet, hence colleges need to find an alternative to conduct exams.Ridhima Soni, while writing her opinion on a Facebook page, said, “We have been forced by the college authorities on several issues. I am a final year student of a private college (affiliated to GNDU) and the authorities have uploaded the date sheet of the examinations on their website, which says that the exams would begin from July 1 onwards. However, the management has also clarified that they would make us sign an undertaking mentioning that the students will solely be responsible if anything happens to them during or after the examinations. Firstly, the authorities have been compelling us to travel a long distance to reach college and then they are also not willing to take any responsibility for our safety.”Akash Bakri, a student of the Lyallpur Khalsa College said, “Being a final year student, it’s quite compelling for me to travel a distance of over 50 km to reach college for giving exams, moreover it’s hard to reach college on time because the scheduled time for reaching examination hall is 8 am, and public transport becomes operational after 8 am.”Diksha Ranaut, a final year student of Computer Science said, she was presently residing in Himachal Pradesh and visiting the college amid irregular public transport would be impossible for her. Meanwhile, Gurpinder Singh Samra, Principal, Lyallpur Khalsa College said, “Students have been given the option of clearing the pending dues through online transactions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/told-to-visit-colleges-pupils-flay-authorities-104710
26-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Students welcome decision to cancel CBSE Class XII exams||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 25Though the students have welcomed the decision of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to cancel Class X and XII examinations, they are doubtful as to how the admissions to colleges would be conducted.Most students of medical and non-medical streams were done with all their examinations, except for those who had taken IP as their additional subject. All commerce students, however, had to appear for their ‘Business Studies’ examination. Some of the commerce students had two papers left of Business Studies as well as IP.Geetanjli, a student of Cambridge International School, says: “Who still had two papers pending. I am, of course, relieved as the examinations are not being held at a time when the coronavirus is spreading. But I am little apprehensive about the assessment plan that the CBSE may adopt for calculation of results of both subjects. In any case, I can now focus on my college admissions. I will surely appear for both examinations whenever the Board decides to conducts these.”Meanwhile, the school authorities are now awaiting further instructions from the CBSE regarding evaluation of the result of the students on the basis of their examination. While some feel that it could be on the basis of three internal assessments that the school had taken in the subjects round the year, others are of the view that pre-board examination too could be the basis of evaluation. The students, however, are expecting some calculation in a way that they get grace marks since their final results would certainly have been better than internal assessments owing to longer period of preparation.TP Kaur, Principal, Swami Sant Dass School, says, “We have welcomed the decision of the CBSE as clearly the life of the student is more important than their performance. Though we would have managed the conduct of the examination in our school here but CBSE has to see the overall situation pan India and accordingly take decision at such a crucial juncture that decides the fate of the students”.Asked about the general reaction of students coming to her after today’s decision, Rashmi Vij of Police DAV Public School said, “They certainly had a feeling that at least uncertainty was over and that they could keep their books aside for the time being and focus on admission. The CBSE will surely evolve an equalisation formula for preparing results in coming days. But I am also little worried that the students might have to appear in multiple entrance tests that the colleges might take now because of no CBSE examination.”So far, there has been no word on the conduct of NEET and JEE examination, which keeps the aspirants in lurch even still.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-welcome-decision-to-cancel-cbse-class-xii-exams-104711
