27-06-2020||---||Woman duped  of Rs2.17 lakh||Nakodar: On a complaint lodged by Surinder Kaur, a resident of Sharkpur village, the Nakodar city police have booked a travel agent, identified as Dilbag Singh, a resident of Goindwal Sahib, near Taran Taran, under Sections 420 and 406 of the IPC on the charges of allegedly duping a Nakodar village woman of Rs2.17 lakh on the pretext of sending her abroad. Senior Superintendent of Police ( Rural ) Navjot Singh Mahal said the victim said she paid Rs2.17 lakh to the suspect to facilitate her to migrate her abroad but the suspect neither could send her abroad nor he returned her money. OCGoods worth lakhs destroyed in firePhagwara: Scrap worth lakhs of rupees was destroyed in a devastating fire, which broke out in a scrap store near Haweli Dhabha on the Phagwara-Jalandhar road in the wee hours on Friday. A total of 15 fire tenders put hard efforts of several hours to douse the flames. Two young relatives of the owner of the store, who were sleeping inside, sustained serious burn injuries. They were admitted to the Civil Hospital. Short circuit in the power lines was said to be the cause behind the incident. OCHouse burgled in NakodarNakodar: The house of Balwinder Singh, a resident of Dhandowal village, was reportedly burgled on Thursday night. The burglars barged into the house and decamped with cash, Pounds and gold jewellery. The police have registered a case under Sections 457 and 380 of the Indian Penal Code. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-duped-of-rs2-17-lakh-105183
27-06-2020||Hoshiarpur||Administration launches QR code for employment  in Hoshiarpur||An innovative initiative has been taken by the district administration by launching a Quick Response (QR) code under the Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yojana of the Punjab Government, to provide maximum employment.With this, Hoshiarpur has become the first district in the state to issue QR Code for employment. Launching the QR Code in the District Administrative Complex, the Deputy Commissioner, Apneet Riyait said all employers, from small shopkeepers to big entrepreneurs, will be able to provide the demand of the employees required, by scanning the QR Code just from their mobile.On scanning the bar code will automatically open the link on which the demand for the required employees can be filled. She said the employers would be provided QR Code stickers and by instructed the departments concerned to ensure the smooth distribution of stickers. District Employment and Business Bureau can be contacted on the mobile numbers 81466-22501 and 78883-29053. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/administration-launches-qr-code-for-employment-in-hoshiarpur-105182
27-06-2020||---||Helpline to combat drug menace launched||Jalandhar, June 26Just a day before the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illegal Trafficking, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori launched a helpline number 85569-18229 for people to share any sort of information related to drugs and illicit liquor smuggling.The DC said any person who had any information regarding drug supply network or liquor smuggling could share it on this helpline for quick action. This would help them the tighten noose around the menace of drugs and illicit liquor, he said.He said the identity of any person giving information on drugs and liquor would not be revealed to anybody. Thori said the helpline number would be operational round-the-clock in service of people.Soliciting support and cooperation from people in this regard, he said the prime motive of the helpline was to eliminate the chain of drugs and illicit liquor. He categorically said as per the commitment of the state government to make Punjab a drug-free state, the administration would ensure that this target was achieved soon with the active support and cooperation of the general public.60,000 from five states participate in webinarSetting a world record, 60,000 students of 130 schools of the Akal Academies today participated in a webinar to mark the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking.60,000 students across five states of North India (Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh) logged in to participate in the webinar organised by The Kalgidhar Trust Baru Sahib on the ‘Role of Children and Youth in making India Drug-Free’. This is the highest global participation in a webinar, and has been noted as such in the ‘World Book of Records, UK’.Renowned Psychiatrists and Counselors, Dr Col Rajinder Singh (MD, DPM Psychiatry, Director- Akal Drug De-Addiction Centers, Baru Sahib and Sangrur), Dr NL Gupta (PhD (Psychology), MPhil Senior Psychologist at the Akal Drug De-Addiction Center, Baru Sahib) were the key speakers at the event. They addressed the 60,000 children and youth participants, and emphasised the hazards of drug-addiction and illegal trafficking.The webinar lasted for 45 minutes. It took place in real time on YouTube and Facebook Live. In Jalandhar, where seven Akal Academies (Akal Academy Bilga, Akal Academy Dhanal Kalan, Akal Academy Boparai kalan, Akal Academy Chak Deesraj, Akal Academy Kakra Kalan, Akal Academy Ghugg, Akal Academy Cholang, Akal Academy Khichipur) have been running, 3,100 students participated out of total 60,000 Akal Academy students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/helpline-to-combat-drug-menace-launched-105181
27-06-2020||---||4 get Canadian scholarship||Jalandhar, June 26Four students of St Soldier Institute of International Studies have been awarded with a scholarship worth 20,000 Canadian dollars by the University of Fraser Valley. The scholarship was announced for the outstanding performance of students of Bachelor in Computer Information System on the basis of their online classes and assessment.Pro-Chairman of the group Prince Chopra said four students Sneh Bhatia, Pallavi Sehgal, Lalit Kumar, Talvinder Singh have received the scholarships of 5,000 Canadian Dollars each, the total amount being a sum of 20,000 Canadian Dollars. The students have termed this scholarship as a big incentive for their dedication and hard work.Chopra said the scholarship has highly encouraged more students to take admissions in programmes such as Bachelor of Arts in Global Tourism Management, Bachelor of Business Administration in Business and Sustainability and Bachelor of Arts in International Hotel Management.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-get-canadian-scholarship-105180
27-06-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Class XII students give mixed response||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 26As the CBSE shared its assessment scheme regarding the calculation of subject marks of Class XII students a day after its decision to cancel the pending board examination, the students here expressed a mixed response.Since a majority of students had their business studies paper or informatics practices (IP) pending, there was a varied response from them. The students who still had IP examination left said they would be at loss if an average score method of already given examination is taken to assign marks to them.Charanpreet Kaur, whose daughter had two papers of IP and Business Studies pending, said, “Since both papers are more scoring than those which have already been conducted, my daughter feels that she is at loss. She was happy with yesterday’s likely decision that the board could consider an average of three internal examination of the subject concerned. Since she had nearly 100 per cent average, she was happy yesterday but today she is again upset. She was fully prepared even for the Business Studies paper. Now, she is upset as she feels that her admission prospects in Delhi University might get hurt.”In contrast, most students who had only Business Studies paper left are happy with the decision of the board as they said an average of the best three out of four subjects would help them score an overall good result. “Even if our accountancy paper which did not go well is not considered, an average of our score in English, economics and the optional subject would be fine,” they said.Regarding their plans on whether they would want to appear in the examination to be held later as Covid situation improves, most students said they would like to take the chance. “But an uncertainty as to when it would happen is a big question. If admission to the college of our choice is done prior to that, we may not go for this chance,” said Palak, a commerce student.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/class-xii-students-give-mixed-response-105179
27-06-2020||Jalandhar||Open schools, DTF appeals to DC||The Jalandhar team of Democratic Teachers Front, Punjab, today handed over a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, in the name of CM Captain Amarinder Singh and said the online classes were making students mentally and physically week. He said the online classes had to be stopped and schools must be reopened keeping in view the safety of students.Members of the front said online coaching was not in favour of the students and thus the schools must be started in a systematic manner. Kulwinder Singh, district president of the front said apart from this, there were other demands too. “Contractual employees under various categories such as district special educators, mid-day meal block managers, official staff, etc should be regularised,” members said. The members also demanded to give pending books to the students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-schools-dtf-appeals-to-dc-105178
27-06-2020||Lockdown has affected the business set up of Lotus Bawa group that includes its shoe manufacturing units and the realty and hospitality business. Amarjit Bawa||‘Markets open but there are hardly any buyers for shoes’||How is the business doing?It is in a bad shape. Though domestic markets have opened, there are hardly any buyers for shoes. So, till the time the old stock is consumed, there is no point producing more. Though we have started production, it is almost negligible.What is the status of your exports?There is no export happening at the moment. We are not very hopeful for the European markets to open to the same capacity anytime soon. So, as of now no production is being done for export business too. Also due to the sealing of our drums and units by the Punjab Pollution Control Board since October last, our entire business is in topsy turvy. While other businesses are shut for three months, we have been facing closure for eight months now.What is the status of your labour?The tannery and footwear labour is almost entirely local. So, they did not migrate anywhere. Only a few people here were from Kanpur or other parts of UP. As of now, we are calling only 10-15 per cent labour. Owing to the fact that majority of them are from Bhargo Camp, which is much affected area due to Covid in Jalandhar now, we are not calling these people to work.Have you opened restaurant and banquet at Prithvi’s Planet?Though we got orders to open three days back, we have opened the banquet and restaurant today following proper guidelines. But owing to restrictions to close early in the evening and orders of the state government to keep it shut on the weekends, we are not very hopeful. We have opened with a little staff only as our chefs and employees in the restaurants were from Himachal Pradesh where the government is not allowing inter-state shuttling of their people.What is the status of your under-construction mall?We were in the process of selling it out and were just about to sign the deal with an investor from Mumbai when Covid spread. Our staff member was to go to Mumbai in March beginning for okaying the deal but he chose to put it off at that time saying that it was little unsafe to travel and that he would go little later but things have gone bad to worse since then.Any philanthropy projects that you have been doing these days?We are continuing to take care of about 400 inmates at Pingla Ghar that our group manages. We also are running a senior citizen home on no profit-no loss basis. It is just that we have become more cautious in handling people at both places. We are not allowing donors to go inside and meet inmates. We are sanitising the premises on regular basis. We have asked most of our staff to stay inside the campus for safety and less contact outside. Even the doctors and nursing staff working with us have been asked to exercise maximum restraint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/markets-open-but-there-are-hardly-any-buyers-for-shoes-105177
27-06-2020||Jalandhar||War heroes’ memory fading in despair||If you have not visited the Punjab State War Memorial in the past seven years, its present condition is likely to leave you in a state of shock. Its dilapidated state presents a stark contrast to how it was a few years ago.Built in memory of war heroes hailing from Punjab who got martyred since Independence, the place has not been preserved with as much sanctity as it deserves. The items on display on the showcases inside the ‘Punjab Hall of Fame’ in the basement of the memorial are devoid of any descriptions and the employees at the site have no information to share about the importance of the exhibits, including models of tanks, busts of soldiers, various insignias and momentos kept there.The details of valour of the brave Army officials, including Param Vir Chakra awardees, those of Flying Officer NS Sekhon, Subedar Joginder Singh and Capt Gurbachan S Salaria, which are there on metal pieces below their portraits, are also fading away and are illegible for the visitors. But none of the past District Sainik Welfare Officers have paid heed to spruce up the premises, add new exhibits and make them more presentable. Even the fancy lights which were there earlier are nowhere to be seen now.None of the visitors to the museum fail to reminisce the contribution of Lt Col Manmohan Singh (retd) (now 88) to the museum. He served here for 26 years (from 1987 to 2013) and made sure that every inch of it was well-kept. The memoirs were kept very nicely and he used to himself escort teams inside the gallery to explain to the visiting students from National Defence College, NCC cadets, bureaucrats and the Army personnel the importance of each souvenir. He got 19 extensions during the tenure of all CMs starting from the tenure of Beant Singh. Such was his passion towards the maintenance of the museum that for the past seven years or so, he only took Rs 1 honorarium per month to serve the post.But no dignitary has paid heed to the gallery. As Jalandhar MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh and Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri visited War Memorial today for their protest against China, they just went down the gallery and signed on the visitor’s book paying no heed to its condition.Asked how he was managing to run the War Memorial, Lt Col Manmohan Singh quipped, “I used to organise functions there and then request the visiting GOCs to donate something for the welfare of the memorial. They used to dole out grants of upto Rs 5 lakh and it helped us maintain the memorial well.”District Sainik Welfare Officer Col Dalvinder Singh said, “It has been just three months that I have been posted here. I will take stock of the issues related to the War Memorial.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/war-heroes-memory-fading-in-despair-105176
27-06-2020||Jalandhar||Sanitised workplace, limited labour to ensure ‘Covid proof’ working of units||Hand sanitisers, thermal scanning and proper disinfection of workplace have become the new normal for the industry now. Carrying out operations with limited capacity in the factories has also become the need of the hour.Manufacturers and traders feel that working with full capacity is not easy amid crisis, but they are taking every precaution to prevent themselves from contracting the disease. Notably, to address the problem of migrant labourers and prevent their exodus from the state amid the Covid-19 crisis, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh in March asked all industrial units and brick-kilns in the state to commence operations if they had adequate provisions to accommodate them safely within the premises.He had asked them to take all precautions in such industrial facilities for workers, adding that the owners should also make soap and water freely available for use for workers and regularly sanitise the common facilities. Hand wash facilities and sanitisers should be placed prominently at strategic points. At that time, several industry owners had opposed the move of the government. But now, the work has been resumed, with limited capacity because of the dearth of the labour. But the manufacturers and traders said sanitisation of the factories and offices had become a routine and would remain like this for long.Gursharan Singh, hand tool manufacturer and the president of the Federation of Jalandhar Industrial and Traders’ Association, said that proper guidelines of the government were being followed.President, Rubber Association Punjab, HS. Chitkara said sanitisation would become a part of industry culture now. “We are planning to follow physical distancing, sanitisation as it is beneficial for us only,” he said, adding that he had been approaching professionals to sanitise the workplace with proper machinery.Speaking out Sanitisation has become inseparable now. We have made several arrangements for sanitisation. Thermal scanning of workers is also done. We will continue with this norm in future. — Alok Sharma, a traderNorms are being followed but there is no help from any govt department and it is also an extra burden on industrialists. We have approached the departments several times, but to no avail. — Suba Singh, President, Industrial Estate Extension Welfare SocietyWe have installed pumps and when anybody enters, they sanitise themselves and are not allowed to enter without it. If any of my staff members goes out, he will have to sanitise himself again. — HS Chitkara, President, Rubber Association, PunjabI feel that proper sanitisation has become an integral part, not only for the workforce but in our homes too. The sanitisation of my office and factory is an essential norm now and it will be continued for long. — Gursharan Singh, President, industrial and Traders’ Association||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sanitised-workplace-limited-labour-to-ensure-covid-proof-working-of-units-105175
27-06-2020||---||14-year-old boy  drowns in canal||Nawanshahr, June 26The body of a 14-year-old boy, who drowned in a canal near Asron town two days ago, was recovered by the police on Friday. Victim Raman Kumar was a native of Bihar. He was presently residing at Prem Nagar. Raman along with his two friends reportedly went to take bath on Wednesday afternoon when he slipped into the deeper part of the canal.Victim’s father Davinder Prasad searched for two days, but to no avail. The Kathgarh police deployed divers for the purpose and the teenager’s body was found floating in the canal this afternoon. SI Parminder Singh, SHO of the Kathgarh police station, said the body had been handed over to family members for last rites.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/14-year-old-boy-drowns-in-canal-105142
27-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Administration ready to tackle flood emergency: DC||Phillaur June 26Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Friday said the administration was ready to tackle any emergency in the flood-prone areas of the district.The DC, who inspected the ongoing flood protection arrangements in Phillaur subdivision, said elaborate arrangements had been made by the administration to deal with any situation. Thori visited the Mau Sahib Meowal Complex, where the work of strengthening the Dhussi Bundh was being carried out by the department. He inspected the work to assess the ground situation in the wake of the release of excess water.The DC asked the officers to ensure that the further work required for this purpose was also completed at the earliest. He asked the officers of the Drainage Department to remain vigilant. Thori assured villagers that the administration had made elaborate arrangements to meet any urgency.The DC also asked the officers to make necessary arrangements in terms of sand refill bags and hiring of heavy machinery to deal with any situation. He reiterated that the administration had already made all necessary arrangements for flood control in the district and no stone would be left unturned to facilitate people in the hour of crisis. Thori said the district administration has already made adequate arrangements to meet any situation in the wake of rainy season.The DC said the contingent plan was prepared by every department and they were fully equipped to tackle any situation. Thori said evacuation plan, in case of flood, had already been finalised and sensitive places been identified along with the safe places where the residents of flood-prone areas would be shifted, if required. He also deputed District Revenue Officer Jashanjit Singh to oversee arrangements at Motipur village and DDPO Iqbalpreet Singh to Lasaada village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/administration-ready-to-tackle-flood-emergency-dc-105141
27-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||Govt school students no less, speaking the Queen’s language with élan||Jalandhar, June 26To brush up spoken English of students, the Education Department has started another activity-based learning concept named ‘Let’s practice English speaking’.In this, audio clips having English conversations are being sent to students to build their confidence in understanding and speaking the Queen’s language and shed their inhibitions.The department has directed the school heads and teachers to ask students to make a video of 3 to 4 minutes of them speaking in English on any topic, so as to make them comfortable with the language.English has been a phobia for most of the students studying in government schools of Punjab, so the Education Department officials believe that improving the standard of English, especially spoken English, in government schools would increase enrolment too.Meanwhile, this activity has already started in government schools and students have been actively participating in making videos and delivering their thoughts.“The video of students have been receiving a great response on social media. To encourage students, we have been regularly posting their videos on the official Facebook page of the Education Department and other government school pages,” said district mentor, English and social studies, Chander Shekhar.He said the activity was open for students of all classes; however, special attention was being paid on students from Classes VI to XII. “Utilising the lockdown period to strengthen students’ speaking competence and to overcome their language shyness and anxiety, the department has taken this initiative to share audio clips of English speaking (situational) along with the pdf of the same on alternate days. With this, students can practice and learn the simple sentences of English based on different situations to improve their speaking skills,” he said.Meanwhile, Education Secretary, Krishan Kumar, said: “It’s been over three months that students have been following a monotonous routine at their homes. Thus, to bring a change in their routine and engage them in activities that improve their academics as well over-all personality is the main focus of the Education Department during this lockdown.”“The performance of students in English speaking videos is commendable. It seems they have outsmarted private schools in the state. Teachers have been working really hard in organising all these activities, taking online classes and preparing e-content among other activities,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-school-students-no-less-speaking-the-queens-language-with-%C3%A9lan-105140
27-06-2020||Jalandhar||No plan to test samples of Amritsar-based lab again||It’s been over three weeks since the last Jalandhar samples were tested from the Tuli Lab, but the Health Department, currently, has no plans to get these tested again. At least one deceased and a total of over 20 patients, including members of an affluent family, had their samples tested positive from Tuli Lab.The Amritsar-based lab courted controversy two days ago, when following a Vigilance raid, five doctors and a hospital owner were booked after being accused of issuing “wrong” Covid reports.Of the 671 samples tested positive in Jalandhar so far, as many as 50 have been tested by private collection centres. Of the private samples, over 20 have been tested from the Tuli Lab in Amritsar.Jalandhar district itself has got samples tested from government testing labs in Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot from time to time. At present, samples of those reported positive at the Civil Hospital (or other government establishments) are going to Faridkot for testing.Meanwhile, the only private testing labs (acting as collection centres) in Jalandhar are the Lal Path Lab, SRL Lab and Oncquest Lab. These, too, are collection centres and none of the samples are being tested here.Nodal officer, Covid Jalandhar, Dr TP Singh said: “It has been over three weeks since the last sample from the Tuli Lab was tested. Since then, a majority of our samples are being tested at government labs. Currently, we have no plans to retest any of the samples that were tested positive from the Tuli Lab since it has been a long time and patients have been cured. Very few are coming in from private centres. In the past two to three days, only three samples have come from private labs. None of the government samples are going for testing at any private lab. Only private hospitals have been sending their samples to private labs. We have also given private hospitals the option to get their samples tested from us at a cost of Rs1,000 per sample.”No facility for Covid testing in district||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-plan-to-test-samples-of-amritsar-based-lab-again-105139
