29-06-2020||Our Correspondent||27 BSP activists who protested without masks in Hoshiarpur booked||Hoshiarpur, June 28The police booked 27 BSP activists for gathering outside the police station without wearing face masks on Sunday.BSP activists had held a sit-in outside the Mehtiana police station on Friday. They were demanding that Section 452 of the IPC and the SC/ST Act should also be included in the FIR registered in connection with the June 19 assault in Khanauda village. They also raised questions over the working of the police. A police party, led by the DSP, reached the spot and assured the protesters that action would be taken against the assaulters within the next two days.On the complaint of Sub-Inspector Neelam Kumari, the Mehtiana police have booked 27 BSP activists and several other unidentified persons under Sections 188, 149, 269 and 270 of the IPC, 51 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 3 of the Epidemic Act.Fuming over the police’s move of registering an FIR, BSP activists held a press conference on Saturday demanding cancellation of the FIR. They also demanded transfer of the SSP. The BSP activists said they would meet the Chief Minister and the Governor and apprise them of the issue. They said if they did not get justice, they would intensify the struggle. BSP’s district head Mahindra Singh Sandhar; Daljit Rai, secretary, BSP Punjab; Maninder Singh Sherpuri, Omkar Singh Jhammat, Sukhdev Singh Bitta and Palvinder held a press conference at Hotel Shiraz Regency on Sunday and alleged that the government had posted no officer under 22 per cent reservation in the state. Dinesh Pappu, Madan Bains, Yash Bhatti, Sunny Bhilowal, Jagmohan Sajana, Harjeet Ladi, Narinder Khanoda, Vijay Khanpuri, Kuljeet Bhatoa and Surjit Mehmi were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/27-bsp-activists-who-protested-without-masks-in-hoshiarpur-booked-105827
29-06-2020||---||Kingpins of illicit liquor trade arrested||Jalandhar, June 28Tightening the noose around the persons involved in the illicit liquor trade, the Commissionernate Police arrested two kingpins of the trade on Sunday and seized liquor and an Activa with fake registration number. The accused have been identified as Arwinder Singh, alias, Sonu Thutha of Aman Nagar, Anil Kumar, alias Sonu Gas Wala of Kamal Vihar and Lakhbir Singh of Pannu Vihar.Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said Sonu Thutha and Sonu Gas vala were the bigwigs in the illicit liquor trade. He said Sonu Thutha was held under preventive charges (110 Section of the CrPC two days ago) and was facing 18 criminal cases of narcotics smuggling. There are more than 12 criminal cases against Sonu Gas Wala. Bhullar said the special operation unit of Commissionerate Police nabbed Sonu Gas Wala and his accomplice Lakhbir when they were going to smuggle three boxes of liquor on the Activa bearing registration number, (PB-65-B-1468) which was later found to be fake.The CP said a case under Sections 482, 465,467, 471 of the IPC and the Excise Act was registered against them. Bhullar revealed that since April 1, the Commissionerate Police have registered 290 cases related to smuggling of illicit liquor, arrested 311 accused and seized 98.98 lakh ml illicit liquor. Bhullar said the directions had already been issued to police officers to wipe out the illicit liquor trade from the region.Two held for illicit liquor saleNakodar: The Sadar police on Saturday arrested a villager for selling illicit liquor. The police said 20 bottles of illicit liquor were seized from the suspect identified as Sukhdev Singh, alias Kala, of Bir Pind village. A case under Sections 61,1, and14 of the Punjab Excise Act was registered. Meanwhile, the Shahkot police arrested Gaganpal Singh of Barra Jagir village with nine bottles of illicit liquor. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kingpins-of-illicit-liquor-trade-arrested-105828
29-06-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Farmers to get online training on paddy cultivation without pesticides||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 28Under the Pesticides Free Punjab Campaign, NGO Dr Surender Dalal Keet Saksharta Mission will be holding an online farm field class on cultivation of paddy without spraying pesticides which will be held on Tuesday, ie, June 30.The class will be held from 6pm - 7pm live, that too from the fields. It will be organised on the Google Meet app, which the farmers have been advised to download on their mobile phones. Ashok Kumar, Punjab coordinator of the NGO said it would be for the first time that an online class would be held for farmers. “A link to attend class has also been given to the farmers and they can join the class by just clicking on it,” he said. Ashok Kumar also held a practice session of 10 minutes at 7 pm today so that the farmers get accustomed to the procedure.The mission has to its credit another first too. In a first-of-its kind, since three years, this NGO named ‘Dr Surinder Dalal Keet Saksharta Mission’, will not teach farmers in classes or in closed rooms, but in the fields and their farms to practically tell them why they do not need pesticides in their farms. The society selects those farms which are near the main road as it is convenient for participants to reach and participate.The NGO is named after a Haryana-based scientist, Dr Surinder Dalal, who died in 2003 and gave a theory to farmers that the amount of fertilisers and pesticides that they were using in the fields was not required.Dr Dalal’s TheoryAfter research, Dr Dalal told farmers about the integrated pest management (IPM) and said they should not spray pesticides in the fields. He said it was important to know the insect before killing it.Though it is a Haryana-based NGO, farmers of the state, after getting impressed by thoughts started giving education to fellow farmers.The training has been started under the ‘Pesticide-Free Punjab Campaign’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-to-get-online-training-on-paddy-cultivation-without-pesticides-105829
29-06-2020||Industry & Lockdown||‘Incentive schemes on import substitutes will keep biz afloat’||PURNIMA BERI, chairperson and managing director of Leader Valves Limited, shares the adverse impact of the lockdown on industries banking on Chinese manufacturers. At the same time, she underlines the need for incentive schemes on import substitutes and the various projects which have sustained her industry even during the global pandemic. In an interview with Aparna Banerji, she lays stress on taking steps to rescue vulnerable industries from an impending crisis. Excerpts:What was the first challenge the lockdown posed?The labour issue was the first problem. And the death of people due to Covid-19 is another challenge that we have to learn to live with. Generally, the pitiable conditions people live in and their attitude towards this serious disease poses challenges. We have sanitization pumps and stands at the factory and we screen people when they reach and leave the premises. However, no one can monitor them 24x7.Did your factory face the labour issue during the lockdown period?We are lucky to have workers most of whom hail from Punjab and among the few migrants there were many Bihari natives and they got stranded here. We have largely been lucky in retaining our essential workforce. Some left work, though ration and help were extended to them. The government asked already overburdened and work-less industries to pay workers during the lockdown and we expected some incentives to alleviate our burden.Covid impacted deeply the supply chain of businesses. How has your industry fared?We have had no trouble in getting our raw material. The dispatch of products is also on as transport has also started. The affect of the pandemic has been that many have not been able to pay their pending dues to us. Our dispatches have also been reduced to 30 per cent and our strength is 60 to 65 per cent. So, while work has taken a hit, we are still carrying on with business. We have survived the bad phase due to returns from government projects. So even as elsewhere payments are stuck due to the lockdown, government projects still go on at refineries, power stations, etc. This keeps us going because we have at least some work to bank upon. We are tiding over the pandemic this way.How long will it take for things to get back to normal?As far as normalcy is concerned, we still have a long way to go. It might take six or eight months or maybe a year. No one knows. We already believe this year is gone and forgotten.What are the key issues facing industry? How can the government help fix them?There is a need for assessment of the industry scenario. How can substitutes or incentives be created for people whose supply chain or imports have been hit. The government needs to assess the country’s requirements and work out costs. We hear about a big supplier who might take a hit. Several companies, which are heavily dependent on Chinese manufacturers and imports, find themselves in a precarious situation. Unless the Centre provides some incentives on imported products the going shall be difficult for them. The government has recently revised rules on MSMEs which were antiquated. It’s a welcome decision. It should also declare some incentive scheme on import substitute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/incentive-schemes-on-import-substitutes-will-keep-biz-afloat-105832
29-06-2020||Nakodar||Two booked for abetting suicide||Quarantine rules violated, 4 bookedNurmahal: The Nurmahal police booked four members of a family for violating restriction orders issued by the Jalandhar DC. The police said Khukhwindar Sharma of Mohalla Passian, Nurmahal, his wife Vandna Sharma and sons Ishant Sharma and Nishe Sharma, violated home quarantine norms and left for Delhi. A case under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act was registered. OCTwo held with banned tabletsPhagwara: The Goraya police arrested two persons identified as Parveen Kumar of Kartarpur and Vinod Singh of Chack Hussain village, and seized 340 intoxicant tablets from them. The police have also impounded their Zen car (PB-08Z-3515) in which both suspects were travelling. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-booked-for-abetting-suicide-105833
29-06-2020||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Made to drink contaminated water, residents suffer health hazards||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 28Problem of limited and contaminated water supply in some areas of the city has been troubling the city residents. They complained of lack of proper water supply. Not only this, the water being supplied is also black in colour, they said. Residents of Mohalla Chaar Marla in the Model House of Ward Number 38 have been suffering a lot because of contaminated water supply.Navin Soni, a resident, said the problem had been prevailing for the past one month, but for the last three-four days, the quality of water became worse. “Earlier also, water supplied was not clean as it was contaminated with dust particles. But for the past 3-4 days, the situation is grave. Several residents reported having suffered water-borne diseases,” Soni said.Tarsem Lal, another resident, said they had approached the officials several times last month, but no avail. “This is what we are forced to consume and use,” he rued.Onkar Tikka, councillor of the ward said several households of the area were affected and people were complaining to him. “However, the MC staff has been trying to look into the problem and we have been assured that problem would be resolved by tomorrow,” he said.Gursharan Saini, SDO, said this problem would be resolved on a priority basis. “New tubewell had been started and there was problem with scaling which led to this problem but we would certainly look into it,” he said.Satinder Kumar, Superintendent Engineer, said the matter was in his notice and the work was being done at the site. Councillor of ward number 2, Sushil Kumar and ward number 78, Jagdish Samrai also claimed that the areas such as Salempur Musalmana and Shiv Nagar in their wards complained of contaminated water supply.Deputy Mayor Harsimranjit Singh Bunty said, “The problems should be resolved on a priority basis. I have asked the Superintending Engineers to visit the areas of the city and send me the report,” he said.“New water pipes would be installed soon in the areas where these problems are persistent,” the deputy mayor further added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/made-to-drink-contaminated-water-residents-suffer-health-hazards-105835
29-06-2020||Open House||Not safe to hold exams, but exercising caution crucial||Lives matter more than examsOwing to the surge in Covid cases, it will not be prudent to conduct the exams and put their lives in danger. Though wearing masks, using sanitisers and maintaining social distance should be made mandatory, there would be chaos and bedlam all around. Otherwise also, youngsters and the elderly are more vulnerable and susceptible to Covid infection. Students are already under mental stress and some have committed suicide. Precious lives of children and young adults are more important than exams. Exams can be postponed or even cancelled. Students can be promoted on the basis of internal assessment and previous tests. Similarly, the entrance tests of schools and colleges can be postponed or even cancelled to be put to the next session.Dr JS WadhwaDon’t postpone exams, kids already burnt outThe exams should not be postponed as students are already burnt out. They are studying for more than two months now at a stretch. There is no point in postponing the exams, as it will lead to further problems for students. Covid is here to stay, so exams should be conducted by taking all precautions such as wearing masks, using sanitisers and observing social distancing. It’s good that the number of centres is being sought to be doubled to maintain social distancing. Parents are overwhelmed by the growing number of Covid patients and the death toll. This is the reason they don’t want their children to take the exam. The government should project only current active cases and deaths, and not the total cases in media.Saahil HansStudents already late to take examsThe examination authority should conduct exams because students are already too late to take the exams due to Covid. One can’t ignore exams, as it is vital from all perspectives. Most of the parents and students are expecting that the universities should pass students of final semester without taking any exam. If the exams are not conducted then how will we come to know whether a student is capable or not? College and universities should be responsible for ensuring physical distancing norms. Students should carry their own sanitiser bottles and cover their face with mask. The government has requested the universities to ensure proper cleanliness at all exam centres with all hygiene protocols during exams.Shailja ThakurAllow exams to be conducted onlineThere was a swift shoot in the number of Covid-19 positive cases on June 21 alone enumerating 217 in Punjab and 3,000 fresh cases in New Delhi. Speculations of the World Health Organisation (WHO), hint at the months of October-November, 2020, to see the highest surge in the number of cases and mass deaths. When such a rise of positive cases is speculated, schools and colleges must not conduct physical entrance exams and pending examinations for intermediate students. This should be done to ensure safety of the younger generation as students act recklessly negligent, when not under able guidance of parents in such institutions. However, it is recommended to conduct online exams, keeping in view the norms laid down by the state on social distancing. Online exams help students to take tests via online platforms such as “Mettl”, from the comfort of their homes. Such platforms are created and especially tailored to facilitate the same with an option of typing and alternatively by first writing and then scanning to upload the same. There is also a facility of proctoring to ensure minimal chances of cheating or other malpractices during the course of exam. Hence, it provides the security of not contracting the disease and at the same time helps to maintain the academic rigour across schools and colleges. However, one concern is that funds are running dry in many schools and colleges, especially government institutions. Hence, the cost of such heavy infrastructure may not be affordable to many. The state government must initiate a Bill in the Parliament to request the allocation of funds in the education sector, under the Ministry of Human Resource Development, as there is no specific ministry for catering to the education sector.Pahul SondTake exams amid precautionsCovid spread has posed many challenges to people worldwide. Unlock 1:0 has opened the vista of economic activity and now, the education sector should also be opened up in a graded manner to make for the loss of studies in the past few months. By now, even the students and young aspiring candidates are aware of the precautions to be taken to remain safe from the deadly virus. Exams are a uniform platform for the fair assessment of students. The tests should be conducted without any further delay, after ensuring all safety measures. This would help in saving a productive and crucial year of students . Any further delay in conducting these examinations would only give rise to stress and anxiety among the aspirants, which might further lead to frustration and depression among them.Rupinder KaurCannot compromise safety of studentsThe government must defer exams keeping in view how Covid-19 has been wreaking havoc to the nation. Amid sudden surge in cases across the nation, the move of asking students to take up exams is ill-conceived and is fraught with a life-threatening risk as the stringent compliance of regulatory norms and the principal of social distancing will not be meticulously followed by the students. Life and health of the students are more important than anything else in the world. Meanwhile, the option of conducting online examination can also be explored. Required preparation for this exercise will have to be made in advance as most of the students still lack the required technological facilities.Shashi KiranEnsuring safety would be an uphill taskDespite a worrisome increase in Covid cases, the decision of the CBSE, the CICSE and several other boards to conduct pending board examinations for Classes X and XII and several entrance tests scheduled from July onwards is not just. Earlier, all educational institutions including schools, colleges, universities and premier IIT institutes were closed and the exams were postponed to contain the spread of virus. Distressed parents have expressed a great concern over the safety of their wards and educational facilities, the distressed parents launched an online campaign against these arbitrary notifications and filed a petition in the apex court for quashing them. There is no doubt that ensuring HRD ministry’s safety directives will be an uphill task, both on the part of the students and the authorities. Moreover, most buildings of these academic institutions are being used for various relief works for Covid-19. As there are remote chances of the contagion subsiding in the near future, several state governments have expressed their reluctance to hold the remaining exams. These academic boards should evolve some alternate grading system to evaluate the overall performance of students either on the average of previous exams or the practicals and an internal assessment, and also defer all competitive tests for professional courses.D S KangAssess on the basis of past performanceGiven the current situation, it is not advisable to hold pending academic examinations and entrance tests for admission to various professional institutions. The situation may be reviewed after a minimum of two months and in case there is a substantial improvement, the rest of the exams can be held under strict compliance of social distancing norms by the end of current year and the time lost may be compensated/ adjusted over the next two academic sessions. Another viable solution might be to assess them on the basis of average rating in the previous examination and scoring of in-house periodical tests. Holding examinations and entrance tests at this stage is fraught with unimaginable risks and will be devoid of natural justice.Jagdish ChanderQUESTIONThere has been a sudden surge in Covid cases across the country over the past few weeks and the state government has allowed buses to run at full seating capacity.Do you think the decision is justified?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (July 2).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/not-safe-to-hold-exams-but-exercising-caution-crucial-105838
29-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||Schools closed, students take to activity-based learning, e-content||Jalandhar, June 28With schools, colleges and coaching centres closed, educational experts are of the opinion that online classes and activity-based learning could become a reality in post-Covid-19 India.Amid this pandemic, the structure of schooling and learning, including teaching and assessment methodologies, has been changed completely. Thus, teaching and learning through Zoom, Microsoft Team, YouTube channels, e-content, powerpoint presentations and among other educational apps is acting as a saviour for teachers and students alike.Also, to make this online teaching-learning process more interesting and effective, teachers have been working hard by preparing various fun activities that improve both academic performance as well the overall personality of students.While some teachers are uploading content on YouTube through their channels, others are making learning fun by using apps such as Tik-Tok, Facebook or Instagram, which appeals to the young generation, thereby creating an altogether new paradigm shift.All stakeholders — be it parents, students or teachers — are unanimous on this new learning process and online learning has become a part of the new normal.SPEAKING OUTThe post-Covid scenario will be more technology-oriented and will create an altogether new paradigm of education. Learning alone from books will not be enough. Students will have to make use of apps, YouTube channels for better understanding of concepts. Chander Shekhar, District mentor, English & Social StudiesActivity-based education is a very effective method of teaching and learning. It is attractive, interesting and participative process of education. What students learn through demonstration of activity remains imprinted in their minds throughout life. Jatinder Kumar Sharma, District mentor, Mathematics, NawanshahrOnline learning has become the new normal. I, too, have started my own YouTube channel for delivering maths classes. Not just my own school students, but students from across the state have subscribed to my channel, as they found my method of teaching simple and easy. Rajwinder Singh Bahra, Math Master from GSSS, MusapurA majority of children are active users of Tik-Tok, WhatsApp, Facebook and Instagram, I have made an effective use of all these apps. I make videos in a storytelling way and use graphics that attract students. I feel, teachers have to be creative with their methodologies as e-learning is vast and varied across all spectrums. Seema Jassal, Teacher at GSSS, Bassowal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/schools-closed-students-take-to-activity-based-learning-e-content-105839
29-06-2020||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar district’s Covid graph up from 255 to 707 in June||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 28With 17 more positive cases, the Covid tally crossed the 700 mark in the district. It reached 707 on Sunday. In June itself, the district tally has risen by 452 cases.With the death of a 73-year-old woman of Lamma Pind, the toll in the district reached 21. New cases include four children aged 4, 12, 8 and 6 years. They include patients from areas, including Lamma Pind, Sant Nagar, Kalia Colony, Gopal Nagar, Avtar Nagar, Basti Sheikh, Raja Garden Nagra among other areas.Of the 17 new cases reported today, 14 are contacts of previous patients and three new cases. Another patient has been reported from outside the district. Those tested positive also includes a health worker from PIMS, originally a resident of Amritsar.With the steady rise in Jalandhar cases, the number of active cases in the district has risen to 323. While the addition of level-2 covid facilities in the district has also been mulled over, currently there are 63 active patients admitted to the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar; eight at Shahkot IMA centre and 56 have been kept in home isolation.A whopping 195 patients are currently in the isolation centre at Meritorious School.Dr TP Singh, district nodal officer for Covid, said: “The Civil Hospital at present is able to retain all Covid patients. We have received at least two Covid positive patients from PIMS as well. Level-2 Covid centres are being considered in urban CHCs to accommodate more patients.”Notably, Jalandhar DC Ghanshyam Thori also visited PIMS some days ago to take stock of the situation.Despite the 350-bed facility at the Jalandhar Civil Hospital, most of the well-to-do patients prefer going to the IMA facility at Shahkot for treatment. 12 test positive in Nawanshahr As many as 12 positive cases were reported from Nawanshahr district on Sunday. These include nine persons who had returned from abroad and three had come from other states. Five people were also discharged from Nawanshahr on Sunday. Civil surgeon Rajendra Prasad said, of the 12 positive persons, nine have been kept under isolation at KC College, whereas a man who had come from Delhi and another who had come from Bihar had also been placed under isolation. There are 19 active cases in Nanwshahr district. So far 9,643 samples have been taken in the district, of which 9,010 were found negative. The total positive cases in the district are 142, while 22 cases are from outside the district. As many as 230 new samples were taken on Sunday and the results of 191 were awaited. TNS3 new cases in HoshiarpurWith three fresh cases, the total number of patients inflicted with the coronavirus disease has increased to 177 in the district. Civil Surgeon Jasvir Singh said the positive patients were: 30-year-old woman of Tanda Ram Sahay village under the Budabar Health Centre; 40-year-old woman of Dalwali village under the Hajipur Health Centre; and the third patient was from Mohalla Vijay Nagar. He had come from Panipat. 2 new cases in Phagwara An employee of the Police Saanjh Kendra and a girl computer operator deputed with the Phagwara Police tested positive for Covid-19 here on Saturday. With the two cases, the number of cops inflicted with the disease has risen to 10 so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-districts-covid-graph-up-from-255-to-707-in-june-105822
29-06-2020||Avneet Kaur||Traders question Punjab government’s move to run buses at full seating capacity||Jalandhar, June 28The recent move of the Captain Amarinder-led Congress government to lift restrictions on the passenger capacity in all buses, including mini-buses, has not gone well with residents, especially traders, it seems.Raising objections, they said the decision was uncalled for and it would further spread the virus. They said on the one hand the government was issuing Rs 2,000 challans to those owners of shops and commercial places who have been violating social-distancing norm and on the other it had given ago ahead to ferry passengers on its full capacity. They said the risk of contracting the virus in buses was all-time high.“Everyone is bearing the brunt of Covid-19 and increase in fuel prices, but that doesn’t mean a particular sector is bound to get relief, as it’s not the transporters who are suffering financial losses alone. Rather, each and every person has been going through the same situation,” said, Nitin Arora, who owns a gift shop near Goal Market.He said if the government’s statement of wearing mask — that it can reduce the spread of Covid-19 by 70 per cent — is to be believed, then the 50 per cent capacity bar that has been implied on hotels and restaurants should also be lifted.Another resident, Kanwarpreet, a media professional said: “We have been adhering to all steps of the government after unlock 0.1. However, if we take notice of government’s move, it seems they have already given up giving a clear indication that people are responsible for their health now.”Moreover, if lifting restrictions would improve someone’s financial situation, then educational institutions, too, should be allowed to start functioning with students joining back and adhering to precautionary measures from the respective institute’s end. Also, when you can go to a restaurant and shop anywhere as most of the busiest markets are open now, then schools, colleges, malls and gyms among other things should also be opened, he said.Jagdeep Singh, who owns a readymade garments store in Rainak Bazaar, said: “We have been facing a huge financial loss due to this lockdown. And now, when shops were allowed to open, there are a lot of restrictions on people travelling by two-wheelers or cars, due to which customers are avoiding visiting shops.” He said lately, a shop owner close to his shop was challaned for allowing four persons to his shop at the same time.Ajay Wadwa of Wadwa Collections said: “The question is when the government has now permitted bus travel with full occupancy, then why is money being minted by issuing challans to innocent people? Let it be clear that no social distancing is required and only wearing face masks is mandatory. It seems the government is really confused.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/traders-question-punjab-governments-move-to-run-buses-at-full-seating-capacity-105823
