01-05-2021||Other||Lucknow records 3,125 fresh Covid-19 cases, 34 more deaths||The daily case count in the state capital dropped below 3,500 on Saturday with 3,125 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in the past 24 hours during which there were 34 more deaths, including that of a senior official of the National Health Mission.Lucknow’s death toll has reached 1,834 since the start of the pandemic in March last year. As many as 6189 patients recovered during the day.On April 9, there were over 2,900 fresh cases here and the number of daily new cases had gone past 4,000 the next day.“Lucknow has reported a total of 2,07,909 Covid cases till now, of which 1,65,003 have recovered and the recovery rate is 79.36%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Surgeons.Medicine traders seek assurance of medical careMedicine traders have written a letter to the district administration for help. They said they won’t be able to carry out the sale of medicine for long without assurance of medical care.Office bearers of the Lucknow Chemist Association (LCA), a body of wholesale and retail chemists in the city, demanded that the district administration ensure beds were available for medicine traders if they got infected with Covid-19 and needed hospitalisation.The association said traders were getting infected and deaths were being reported from among them and their family members.Harish Shah, president of LCA, wrote a letter to the district magistrate on the issue. A spokesperson Mayank Rastogi said medicine traders were at risk but they were not considered corona warriors.“Almost every day, news about death from among the traders or their family members is coming. That is the reason why we shall not be able to work for long without the support of the administration,” said Suresh Kumar of the association.New oxygen plantAn oxygen generating plant with the capacity 125 cylinders per day started at the Vivekananda Polyclinic that runs a 93-bed Covid facility. The hospital already had an oxygen plant with a capacity of 175 cylinders per day. The total capacity has now become 300 cylinders per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-records-3-125-fresh-covid-19-cases-34-more-deaths-101619893793998.html
01-05-2021||Other||UP begins giving jabs to 18+ in seven districts||Uttar Pradesh began the Covid-19 vaccination drive for people in the 18-44 age group in seven districts with chief minister Yogi Adityanath launching the programme from Veerangana Avantibai Hospital in the state capital.At the launch, the chief minister said the state government had decided to vaccinate people aged between 18 and 44 years free of cost.“We have decided to give free vaccines to people between 18-44 years of age. People above 45 years of age are being given free vaccine by the central government,” he added.On April 20, the Uttar Pradesh cabinet had decided on free Covid-19 vaccination for those above 18 years of age among the poor even in private hospitals in the state. The vaccination in government hospitals is already free. On Saturday, the chief minister also said the vaccine would be given to those above 18 years at 85 centres in seven districts for the next five days. Thereafter, the drive for those above 18 years will be launched in all the districts.The seven districts — Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagraj, Meerut, Gorakhpur, Bareilly, and Varanasi — have been chosen as they have a high active caseload.In Lucknow, 2,704 beneficiaries took the Covid vaccine on Saturday and about 500 people did not turn up despite registering for it.A total of 3,200 doses were arranged to start the drive in Lucknow where several enthusiastic youths reached vaccination centres as early as 9am.Among those who took the vaccine in the state capital, 1,641 were male and 1,063 female. Only those who had done the pre-registration were given the doses.“We vaccinated 255 beneficiaries between the age of 18 and 45,” said Dr SC Sundariyal, director of Civil Hospital.The other vaccination centres in Lucknow for the 18-plus age group included King George’s Medical University, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences, Sanjay Gandhi PGI, Lok Bandhu Raj Narain hospital, Rani Laxmibai Hospital, Jhalkaribai hospital, Avantibai hospital, Balrampur hospital and BRD hospital. Each vaccination centre was given 300 doses of Covaxin.Also, the vaccination drive for people above 45 years is being organised at 2,500 centers across the state.The chief minister said the state government was committed to zero wastage of the vaccines.“The scientists of our country have provided us with ‘swadeshi’ vaccine. The state government is procuring Covid vaccines directly from the manufacturers to give jabs to people above 18 years,” he added.The state government has decided to float global tenders to procure five crore vaccine doses and has already placed orders for one crore doses.“The vaccination drive will be expedited across the state to protect the people from infection. The health workers are doing exemplary work in giving jabs. People should respect the health workers and corona warriors. Teamwork will help UP in fighting the pandemic,” he said.Yogi called upon people to follow the Covid protocol — wear facemask and maintain social distancing after taking the jab.“It has been observed that recovery from infection is fast among people who have taken the vaccine dose. At the vaccination centre, protocol has been implemented at the waiting areas and observation areas set up for the beneficiaries,” he said.Earlier on Friday, the chief minister monitored the supply of doses to vaccination centres in seven districts.State plane brings vials from HyderabadOn his direction, the state plane was sent to Hyderabad to transport vials from Hyderabad- based Bharat Biotech International Limited that manufactures Covaxin. The vaccine doses were supplied to the vaccination centres in the seven districts, said a state government officer.“The seven districts where the vaccination drive was launched for beneficiaries above 18 years included Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagraj, Meerut, Gorakhpur, Bareilly, and Varanasi. Here, the active cases are high. Hence, we begin from these districts and more districts will get the benefit later,” said additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad.In Varanasi, the vaccination of beneficiaries above 18 years against Covid-19, began at 17 centres.In Prayagraj, 2,410 individuals aged between 18 and 44 years were vaccinated against Covid-19 at 10 vaccinations centres in Prayagraj, on Saturday.District nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination RS Thakur said that 3,000 doses of Covaxin had been received by Prayagraj for the vaccination of individuals aged between 18 and 44.In Meerut, 2450 beneficiaries turned up at 10 vaccination booths to receive the jabs. The overall vaccination percentage was 81.4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-begins-giving-jabs-to-18-in-seven-districts-101619893615077.html
01-05-2021||Other||Punjab roadways’ Batala GM among four staffers held for graft||The vigilance bureau on Saturday arrested four employees of Punjab Roadways, including the Batala depot general manager, for taking bribe from private bus operators in lieu of undue favours and causing loss to the state exchequer. The private bus operators were allowed to flout the time table, and also permitted to park for extra time at bus counters so that they could get more passengers. Senior superintendent of police (vigilance-Amritsar range) Parampal Singh said, “We had a tip-off that some officials were defrauding the state government by facilitating unauthorised movement of private buses across the state.”He added, “After monitoring activities of suspicious employees, the department arrested general manager Arvind Sharma, inspector Iqbal Singh, sub-inspector, Rana Gurwinder Singh Uppal and conductor Sukhchain Singh. They have been booked under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act.”The SSP added that they had also booked deputy director state transport Parneet Singh; station supervisor Satnam Singh; inspectors Tarsem Singh, Jasbir Singh and inspector (retd) Punjab Roadways Raj Kumar Raju, but all of them were absconding.“Our investigation shows that Uppal, who was a member of central flying squad that checked violations by private buses, was taking money from bus stand in-charges, drivers and conductors of Punjab Roadways. This staff gave favours to private bus operators. Uppal acted as the middle-man between lower-rung employees and senior staffers. We have found that such malpractice is prevalent across the state.”He claimed that the vigilance had issued strict warning to officials of the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-roadways-batala-gm-among-four-staffers-held-for-graft-101619892781207.html
01-05-2021||Other||Get IIT-K to analyse Covid curve in all UP districts: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday asked officials to engage Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur (IIT-K) for rigorous analysis of the Covid curve in all the 75 districts of the state. Such analysis would help in pandemic management. “In view of the Covid peak, experts all over the country have been coming up with analysis. Coordinate with IIT-K for district-wise rigorous analysis of UP,” he said while reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state. Explaining the chief minister’s directive, a senior state government official said that various experts had been doing analysis using technology and mathematics to indicate how and when the Covid infection or recovery graph would rise and fall. The IIT-K already has been doing such analysis and has made them public. It would do more as and when the state government asked it to do so. Professor Abhay Karandikar, director of IIT-K, said: “This is a part of a national super model where along with leading experts, doctors, and IIT-K Prof Manindra Agrawal have been working on predicting the peak. The prediction of peak done district wise has shown remarkable fit with observed data and hence reliable estimates can be done. This will help plan the medical emergencies. However, this is just a model and we need to be prepared for the worst-case scenario.” The chief minister also asked officials to ensure adherence to Covid-19 norms during the counting of panchayat election votes on Sunday. “Make all arrangements for smooth and Covid-safe counting process. Ensure that all the counting centres have rapid antigen test (for quick testing of Covid) right outside the centres. The health department must make all related arrangements for this,” he said. “The counting process must happen following all Covid safety protocols. Appoint a separate senior police officer for each of the districts with regard to the counting of votes for the panchayat polls,” he said. Yogi said the state was now also getting oxygen from Jamnagar (Gujarat), Durgapur and Barjora (West Bengal) and Rourkela (Odisha) to augment supply. Create a manpower bank Retired doctors, retired army personnel, experienced paramedics, and final year students of medical and paramedical courses should be engaged as there would be the need for trained human resource in hospitals in view of the fast-changing scenario, he said. “It would be better if we have a manpower bank in the state so that we can deploy people as and when they are needed,” he said. He asked the medical education minister to work on the idea. In the last 24 hours, the number of recoveries (38,826) was higher than the number of fresh Covid-19 cases (30,317), the chief minister said. He also said that the state 2,66,326 conducted tests of which nearly half were RT-PCR tests in the past 24 hours. Medical help for pregnant women The chief minister also asked for creating a system for ensuring medical attention to pregnant women in the state. They should get ambulance and medical help immediately when required, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/get-iit-k-to-analyse-covid-curve-in-all-up-districts-yogi-101619892593913.html
01-05-2021||Other||400th birth anniversary of 9th Sikh guru: Accept farmers’ demands to mark historic day, Akal Takht to Centre||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Saturday said in view of the 400th birth anniversary of ninth Sikh master Guru Tegh Bahadur that fell on Saturday, the Centre must meet all demands of farmers protesting at the borders of Delhi, including the repeal of the three farm laws. “Governments usually do such tasks in the wake of this kind of historic centenary, like releasing prisoners from jail. As we mark the 400th Parkash Gurpurb, the union government should meet all demands of farmers. This will ensure they return home safely, as the covid-19 pandemic has taken a turn for the worse,” said the jathedar. He was addressing a gathering at a function at the Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in the Golden Temple complex. Even as a lockdown is in force across Punjab, devotees thronged the gurdwara in numbers, with most not wearing masks. There was no social distancing. Kar Sewa organisations and Damdami Taksal had made special langar arrangements.When queried on the large gathering of devotees at the function, he said, “When love with the Guru outdoes fear of covid-19, we cannot stop devotees from gathering in gurdwaras. Everyone should take precautions, while paying obeisance. Getting frightened by the disease is not the right approach.” Taking on the Union government on the issue of oxygen shortage, he said, “If people are dying of covid-19 amid oxygen shortage, the Centre is responsible for it.”Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur said a documentary depicting the journey of the ninth Guru from his birth to martyrdom will be commissioned. “Biographies of contemporary pupils of the guru will also be circulated through documentaries. The bani (hymns) of the guru will be translated into five other languages,” she said.“A chair will be set up in the name of Guru Tegh Bahadur at Sri Guru Granth Sahib World University, Fatehgarh Sahib. Houses would be set up in the name of Sikhs associated with him, and research will be done,” she added. SGPC held another function at the guru’s birthplace Gurdwara Guru Ke Mehal, where the bhog ceremony of the Akhand Path concluded early in the morning. Sikh religious personalities and preachers addressed the gathering, after which a gurbani kirtan was performed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/400th-birth-anniversary-of-9th-sikh-guru-accept-farmers-demands-to-mark-historic-day-akal-takht-to-centre-101619892114494.html
01-05-2021||Other||People struggling to get beds, oxygen and medicines in Haryana||As Covid-19 cases continue to surge in Haryana, people are struggling to get hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, ICU beds and medicines, especially in Rohtak, Sonepat, Jhajjar and other NCR districts.An army personnel of a village in Jhajjar said that he and his wife tried to get an oxygen bed for his 48-year-old mother, whose Covid report tested negative but CT scan confirmed 60% lung damage.They managed to get a temporary oxygen bed at a private hospital in Rohtak at 5.30pm. His wife said they made several calls to PGIMS officials, private hospitals, helpline numbers, etc and at last, PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Puspha Dahiya assured them of providing an oxygen bed.A Kathura resident said that he tried for three days to get an oxygen bed for his father, who is a retired army personnel.“Despite all efforts, we did not get a bed in Rohtak, Jhajjar and Sonepat. Finally, my mother’s friends helped in getting a bed at army hospital, Ambala, where he is undergoing treatment,” he added.Similar is the story of hundreds of patients who are failing to get oxygen beds in Rohtak, Sonepat, Jhajjar, Hisar and Jind.HT team spoke to many district health officials and private hospital staff in these districts and they said that oxygen beds, cylinders and ICU beds are unavailable.Dr Arvind Dahiya, head of Kainos Hospital in Rohtak, said that they have no ICU beds and they are helpless.Jhajjar civil surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya said all ICU and oxygen beds in district are occupied and they are getting hundreds of calls every second with people seeking help.Senior functionaries of PGIMS admitted that they don’t have vacant oxygen and ICU beds and many patients have to go back due to this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/people-struggling-to-get-beds-oxygen-and-medicines-in-haryana-101619891399271.html
01-05-2021||Other||No infection spread at protest sites, agitation will continue: Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait addressed a ‘Kisan-Mazdoor Mahapanchat’ in Ambala’s Dhurali village and interacted with the media in Kurukshetra on Saturday.He said that there is no spread of Covid at farmers’ protest sites adding that the agitation will continue. “We have gheraoed Delhi from all sides and there is no plan to vacate the dharna sites,” Tikait said.“Government is eager to end the agitation in the name of Covid and we are constructing concrete houses at the site to continue the protest. We’ve started a second war and it will continue till November/December. However, we’ve deferred the march to Parliament due to the risk of infection spreading further and the hot weather,” he said.“Dharna spots are like our villages and colonies, but if the government imposes lockdown, we will follow it like people follow government guidelines in their villages and cities,” he added.Most attendees at the rally were seen flouting the social distancing norms. Except for Tikait and the union’s state president Rattan Mann, no one was seen wearing a mask.On organising mahapanchayats at this hour and recent cases for flouting norms in Bhiwani, Tikait said, “This wasn’t a rally, farmers just gathered here and I informed them about the infection and the state of the agitation.”On supply of oxygen, medical services and movement of ambulances being affected due to farmers’ protest, Tikait said, “It is a rumour being spread by the government to defame farmers. Farmers are providing all support to Covid patients by arranging oxygen and ambulances for them. Farmers have not stopped any emergency vehicles, essential services and school vans in the past five months,” Tikait said.“When there is a good response from the public, the government registers cases. But what about BJP-JJP leaders? Who’ll book them?” he added.He alleged that the Modi government has failed to provide healthcare services and oxygen supply to patients and that he should resign.He refuted the allegations of rift with farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni and said, “He is a senior leader of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha and we are working together.”ORDERED PUNITIVE ACTION AGAINST THEM: SSP AKHTARThe mahapanchayat took place while the government has enforced Section 144 of the CrPC in Haryana which prohibits gathering of four or more people at a place without permission.SSP Hamid Akhtar said an FIR has been ordered against the organisers and leaders for flouting orders issued by the state government.“On Friday, we asked them to defer the programme, but they still organised it by flouting Section 144,” Akhtar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-infection-spread-at-protest-sites-agitation-will-continue-tikait-101619891154567.html
01-05-2021||Other||Illegal mining racket busted in Amritsar, two arrested; area SHO suspended||Police unearthed an illegal sand mining racket near Kassowal village of Ajnala sub-division along the Ravi river on Saturday after conducting a raid. Two persons have been arrested with the recovery of nine trucks, four tractor trailers, a JCB and other machines. The raiding team found large mounds of sand at the river banks and in the hinterland area nearby. The station house officer (SHO) of the area has been suspended for negligence in effectively curbing illegal mining operations in the area. Senior superintendent of police (SSP-rural) Dhruv Dahiya said the newly-formed Enforcement Directorate on mining had written to his office on authorised mining sites in the area and conditions set down for mining operations, including the requirement of physical demarcation of sites.“We had information that large-scale illegal mining racket was being run along the banks of Ravi river in the area of Kassowal village. A raid was conducted and we noticed serious procedural compliance failures with no physical demarcation at all. The contractor also failed to produce any government permission,” the SSP added. The arrested men are Ranjit Singh, of Teja village in Gurdaspur, and Daljit Singh, of Bahadurgarh Jandiya village in Bathinda. Police have also booked nearly a dozen unidentified persons involved in the racket and raids are on to nab them. A case under Sections 379 (theft), 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery for cheating), 471 (fraudulent use of electronic document), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 21 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, and Section 26 of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) Act has been registered at the Ramdas police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/illegal-mining-racket-busted-in-amritsar-two-arrested-area-sho-suspended-101619891094449.html
01-05-2021||Other||100 villagers in Odisha’s Malkangiri fall sick after consuming lassi||At least 100 people, including children, fell ill after consuming lassi at a market in Odisha’s Malkangiri district on Friday, officials said.People of Kurti village under Padia block of Malkangiri had gone to weekly Kurti hat (fair) on Friday when they consumed lassi from a shop to beat the scorching heat. However, after returning home, most of them complained of severe stomach ache and started vomiting, the officials said.“Around 60 of them turned serious around midnight and were immediately rushed to the nearby hospital in critical conditions. We suspect either the lassi was spurious or the lassi seller put something in the beverage that contaminated it,” said Prafulla Nanda, Malkangiri chief district medical officer. “We have sent the sample of the beverage to a laboratory for tests,” he added.The CDMO said after receiving the information, a medical team reached the area and took stock of the situation. A fire service team has also been pressed into service to move the critical patients to the hospital.“The condition of most of the patients is stable now. They were admitted to the hospital in time and provided quality treatment,” said a doctor.Locals said some poisonous insect may have fallen into the drink while it was being prepared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/100-villagers-in-odisha-s-malkangiri-fall-sick-after-consuming-lassi-101619888334170.html
01-05-2021||Other||NCB raids Goa cafe, seizes narcotics as part of multicity operation||A raid by sleuths of the Narcotics Control Bureau at a cafe at the Arambol beach in Goa has yielded a significant haul of narcotic drugs and the arrest of one person while the hunt is on for another, officials said.Narcotics Control Bureau officials raided one Negi Café, opposite Arambol Beach in North Goa and seized 58 grams of Amphetamine (commercial quantity), 15 blots of LSD (commercial quantity), cocaine, mephedrone, heroin and ecstasy/MDMA in intermediate quantity.The main accused, a Nigerian national identified as one Mustafa and also known as Tiger, is believed to be behind the stash of narcotics. He is missing while efforts are on to trace him.“Mustafa is a notorious drug trafficker of North Goa area. He was running his drug trade from Negi Café. Efforts are on to intercept and nab him,” Sameer Wankhede, zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau, who supervised the raid, said.The raids were part of a multi-city operation under which searches were also conducted in Mumbai. One Irfan Ansari, 24, was intercepted at Lokhandwala Circle, Andheri (W) and 56 tablets of ecstasy/MDMA (commercial quantity) were seized on the midnight of 30.04.2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ncb-raids-goa-cafe-seizes-narcotics-as-part-of-multicity-operation-101619878673995.html
01-05-2021||Other||Cleaning of road gullies begins in Mohali’s Sectors 67 and 68||The mayor of Mohali, Amarjit Singh Sidhu, on Friday inaugurated the work of cleaning of road gullies in Sectors 67 and 68.Sidhu said that ₹33 lakh would be spent on cleaning and repairing of road gullies, and new road gullies would be constructed wherever needed.The mayor further said similar work would be started immediately in Sectors 66 to 69 and 76 to 80 on priority.Meanwhile, the cleaning of the nullah (N-choe) at the rear side of NIPER and clearing of the wild grass had already been started, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cleaning-of-road-gullies-begins-in-mohali-s-sectors-67-and-68-101619817349927.html
01-05-2021||Other||Mohali admn hands over eight ventilators to two private hospitals||A day after Hindustan Times reported that eight ventilators were lying unused at the civil hospital in Phase 6, the health department handed them over to two private hospitals.Four units were given to Max Hospital in Phase 6 and the other four to Fortis Hospital in Phase 8.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said, “We have handed over the ventilators to private hospitals to use during Covid period. Once this is over, they will hand them back to us.”Member of parliament Manish Tewari said, “I took up the issue (after it was reported) with the deputy commissioner of Mohali and told him to either hand them (the ventilators) over to private hospitals in Mohali or to PGIMER in Chandigarh.”DC Girish Dayalan said that the ventilators were received under PM CARES, but were not used due to technical issues: “These ventilators were to be used in the Mohali Medical College; the process of human resource recruitment and infrastructure creation is on.”Abhijit Singh, zonal director of Fortis Hospital said the hospital will administer Covid vaccine at the hospital tomorrow the moment supplies were made available by the authorities.HT had reported how at a time when a Covid patient had died while waiting for an ICU bed at a private hospital in Mohali on Wednesday, eight ventilators were lying unused at the civil hospital for the last eight months in the absence of infrastructure and/or staff to operate them.The district has around 30 private hospitals with 256 ICU beds. None of the nine government facilities offers one, even as the Mohali assembly constituency is represented by the Punjab health minister.The civil surgeon said that the civil hospital needed permanent anaesthetic personnel besides other facilities, for which a request had been submitted with the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-admn-hands-over-eight-ventilators-to-two-private-hospitals-101619816812112.html
01-05-2021||Other||At 20, Ludhiana sees its highest ever single-day toll||With 20 Covid deaths in the last 24 hours, the district on Friday recorded its highest single-day toll since the outbreak last year. With this, the district’s cumulative tally has touched 1, 375 of which, as 75 deaths were reported in the last five days alone. Out of the 20 who died on Friday, 12 are men while eight are women, the youngest being a 32-year-old woman.The district also logged 792 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, taking the active cases count to 7, 790. The case tally now stands at 54,586.Amongst the men who died are a 79-year-old resident of Tibba Road, a 78-year-old resident of Guru Arjan Dev Nagar, two 65-year-old residents of Jammu Colony and Shakti Nagar, three 61- year-old residents of Dholewal, Bhamiyan Kalan and Bharat Nagar Chowk, a 57-year-old resident of Civil Lines, a 55-year-old resident of Shivpuri, a 56-year-old resident of Kitchlu Nagar, a 43-year-old resident of Kot Mangal Singh and a 41-year-old resident of Urban Estate.Among the women who succumbed to the virus are two city residents aged 86 and 80, apart from a 70-year-old from Karimpura, a 60-year-old resident of Baba Deep Singh Nagar, a 55-year-old resident of Dhandran, a 50-year-old Basti Jodhewal resident, a 42-year-old from Nim Wala Chowk and a 32-year-old residing near Sangeet Cinema.There are 1, 425 beds occupied in different private hospitals in the city while 143 beds are occupied in isolation wards in government hospitals.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all the safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently to save themselves and everyone around them.Administration fixes ambulance ratesAmid reports of private ambulances fleecing Covid-19 patients, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Friday fixed the rates for private ambulances in the district to regulate the maximum amount of fare that can be charged by ambulances. Divulging the details, the deputy commissioner said that the charges for ambulance vans applicable in the district are a minimum of ₹2,500 for the first 25km and an additional ₹12 per km for additional travel. Similarly, for Innova ambulance, minimum of ₹2,500 for the first 25km and an additional ₹12 per km for additional travel and for ambulance equipped with a ventilator, the fare will be ₹5,000 for the first 25km, and an additional ₹25 per km for additional travel. The rates will be applicable between these points. Sharma said strict action will be taken against those who charge more than the fixed prices from the Covid patients.RTA secretary Sandeep Garha said that anyone can contact the ambulance helpline number 7814363850 in case of any difficulty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-20-ludhiana-sees-its-highest-ever-single-day-toll-101619815849852.html
01-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana residents throng markets hours before weekend lockdown sets in||With shops closing at 5pm, an hour before the weekend lockdown came into effect at 6pm on Friday, unprecedented rush was witnessed at grocery, fruit and vegetable shops at markets all over the city from 4pm onwards.Residents thronged Ghumar Mandi, which resulted in traffic jams on the roads. Many of them parked haphazardly, leading to further chaos. Many customers were also seen hoarding essential items like vegetables, fruits, bread and butter.To handle the huge demand, many shopkeepers stocked up on items such as milk, curd, lassi and butter, which were sold out at many places by 5pm.Vegetable and fruit vendors also set up their stalls at 3pm. Usually, they reach the markets at 5pm. Here too, heavy rush was seen, and stock was sold out. The situation was the same at all markets like Model Town, Pakhowal Road, Jawahar Nagar, Sarabha Nagar and BRS Nagar. In Ghumar Mandi, several kiryana stores closed at 4pm, to avoid crowding.Sabun Di Hatti grocery store in Ghumar Mandi, which usually receives a footfall of around 50 customers everyday, saw 100 to 120 customers on Saturday. At Full Stop store on College Road, several shelves were found empty as shoppers purchased items in bulk. Even at the milk stores, stocks were sold out. Ram Gopal, owner of Krishna store, Civil Lines, said, “We opened our store at 8.30am and rush was witnessed between 10am and 3pm. I have five employees, but it was not enough to handle the heavy footfall. The government had given enough time to residents for shopping, but people are still visiting markets one to two hours before lockdown and violating social distancing norms.”At Mani Ram Balwant Rai departmental store, long queues were witnessed between 11am and 2pm and store owners asked all the customers to maintain physical distance.Sushil Kumar, a resident, said, “I prepared a list and went to market in the morning and found no rush at the grocery stores at 9am. At 4pm in the afternoon, when I was coming back from office, I found traffic snarls in the market near my house. It took me 20 minutes to cross the road while the market is just five minutes away from my home.”Vivek Kumar, who owns a grocery store, said, “I have supplied extra packets of milk to the customers for two days as the shop will remain closed on the weekend. Most customers have already bought the items they require.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-residents-throng-markets-hours-before-weekend-lockdown-sets-in-101619815550272.html
01-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana-based industrialist Dinesh Lakra succumbs to Covid||In yet another blow to industry in the city, Dinesh Lakra, 56, managing director of Lakra Industries, one of the leading textile and garment manufacturers in Ludhiana, succumbed to Covid during the wee hours of Friday.As per information, Lakra tested positive on April 25. Initially, he remained under home isolation and was admitted to SPS hospital on April 27, after he faced breathing difficulties.He is survived by his father Sudarshan Lakra, mother Chand Rani, wife Vandana Lakra and two sons- Anmol and Lohash. Dinesh was also national vice-president of Laghu Udyog Bharati and member of the governing body of Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC). Dinesh’s uncle and president of Ludhiana Knitters Association, Ajit Lakra, said, “It all happened in just five days after he (Dinesh) contracted the disease on April 25. He breathed his last at around 2.30am on Friday morning. Apart from the personal loss, the industry has lost an entrepreneur, who worked for the betterment of the sector.”President of Ludhiana Woollen Manufacturers Association and Knitwear Club, Darshan Dawar said, “It is a huge loss to the sector and it also reminds us of the alarming situation. People should follow all the guidelines and if possible, a self-imposed lockdown for a few days should be observed.” In September last year, Darshan Lal Sharma,72, managing director of Vardhman Yarns and Threads Limited and Tarsem Kumar Jain, 82, group chairman of the Jain Udhay group, had succumbed to Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianabased-industrialist-dinesh-lakra-succumbs-to-covid-101619815309787.html
01-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana defers vax drive for 18+ age group due to shortage||The Covid vaccination drive for the 18+ age group, which was scheduled to start nationwide on May 1, has been put on hold in the district. District epidemiologist Dr Puneet Juneja said they are yet to receive vaccines to inoculate the 18+ age group, due to which the commencement of the drive had to be deferred. He added that they are left with a limited stock of vaccines and fresh stock is expected to arrive in a couple of days.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar has confirmed that the vaccination campaign for the age group of 45 years and above will continue as per routine.Covidshield centres in the cityHe said that the first and second doses of Covidshield are being administered at the Ludhiana civil hospital, MCH Vardhman, Urban Primary Health Centre, Jawaddi; Urban Community Health Centre (CHC), civil surgeon’s office; Urban CHC, Subhash Nagar; Urban CHC, Shimlapuri; Urban Primary Health Centre, Dholewal; Urban Primary Health Centre, Dugri; Model Gram dispensary, Old Krishna Mandir; Urban Primary Health Centre, Bhagwan Nagar; ESI Model Hospital, Police Line; UPHS, Salem Tabri; UPHC, Sabji Mandi; UPHC Shivpuri and Haibowal dispensary.Covaxin centresThe first and second doses of Covaxin will be administered at Ludhiana civil hospital, MCH Vardhman, Urban Primary Health Centre, Model Town and Urban Primary Health Centre, Sunet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-defers-vax-drive-for-18-age-group-due-to-shortage-101619815129741.html
01-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana hospitals run full to capacity||The second wave of Covid-19 is literally choking the health infrastructure in the district with all government and private hospitals running full to capacity even as relatives of Covid-19 patients, who require critical care, are running from pillar to post in search of beds. Social media, including Facebook, Twitter and Whatsapp, are flooded with messages of patients’ kin who are looking for hospitals, more so with a ventilator support system available.Many are also claiming that they have lost their loved ones due to non-availability of Level- 3 (L3, critical) beds in Ludhiana. As per the data shared by the district administration, there are 481 beds earmarked for Level-3 Covid patients, out of which 454 are currently occupied. While these are official figures, the long queues of people waiting outside hospitals, waiting for a bed to fall vacant for their ailing kin, tell a different story. Family members of Kamini Garg, a 55-year-old from Barnala who had lost her battle to Covid on April 28, said that they were not able to secure a Level-3 bed for her even as her daughter and son-in-law are practising doctors. Yogesh Agrawal, a relative of the deceased, said that for three days, they kept going from one hospital to another looking for beds but had no luck. “We had even applied online at each hospital but to no avail. She was first admitted at a hospital in Moga and was rushed to Ludhiana when her condition deteriorated. She died in the isolation ward, waiting for a critical-care bed,” he said.The relatives of 50-year-old Gurmeet Singh are also going through a similar ordeal. Her niece Rashminder Kaur said, “I, along with my husband, am struggling to arrange a Level-3 bed for my aunt. She is currently undergoing treatment at a hospital on Ferozepur Road. The hospital authorities have told us that her condition is deteriorating and she needs to be shifted to an L3 facility but all hospitals are turning us away.” Dr Gaurav Sachdeva, the medical in-charge of the Covid unit of Arora Neuro centre, said the situation is grim and the patient load is phenomenal. “The seriousness of the situation can be gauged from the fact that for every four patients discharged from the hospital, there are eight others waiting to get admitted. We have 10 ICU beds and are adding three more beds,” said Dr Sachdeva. Burden of outsiders The health infrastructure of the district is also crippling due to the influx of patients from outside. As per information, around 41% of the hospitals in Ludhiana are occupied by outsiders. As the health system is bursting at seams, even nursing homes have no space. While the state government has not framed any policy and has said it will welcome patients from any part of the country in wake of this national crisis, hospitals have no option but to turn away the patients due to non-availability of bed. “My brother’s oxygen is falling below 80. He has been recommended ventilator support but we are not getting any in Delhi or Noida. We tried Ludhiana but all hospitals denied L3 facilities to us as we are not from the city,” said Pragati, a Noida resident, who also shared her ordeal on various Whatsapp groups in Ludhiana. As on April 28, there were 785 Ludhiana residents admitted in private hospitals across the district while the number of residents from outside the district stood at 325. At Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, as many as 90 patients are from Ludhiana while 110 are from outside the city. Similarly at Christian Medical College and Hospital, 120 patients are from city while 35 of those admitted are from outside. At Fortis hospital, 30 Covid patients belong to Ludhiana wile 20 are from outside. On Friday, police commissioner Rakesh Kumar Agrawal shared an advisory on Facebook, urging people to not to call their relatives to the district for treatment. “Please do not call your relatives and friends for Covid treatment in Ludhiana. This is choking our hospital infrastructure as beds are almost full,” he wrote. The hospitals are also battling severe staff crunch in these pressing times. “Nearly 80% of our staff is deployed on Covid duty. The doctors are hard pressed and working till long hours to save the lives of those suffering from ailment,” said Dr Baldeep of Deep hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-patients-kin-set-out-on-frantic-hunts-for-beds-as-ludhiana-hospitals-run-full-to-capacity-101619814890782.html
01-05-2021||Other||Bombay HC orders state to allot 20K Remdesivir vials to Nagpur, Akola, Bhandara||The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed the state to allot 20,000 Remdesivir vials to Nagpur, Akola and Bhandara by Saturday evening, in addition to their regular quota. The court also warned that any failure in providing the drug in adequate quantity would be considered a breach of Article 21 (Right to Life) and attract penal provisions against erring officials.HC’s directions came after these districts, in the past 10 days, had a backlog of the drug, used in the treatment of Covid-19 patients.With this order, Nagpur will get 15,000 additional vials of Remdesivir, while Bhandara and Akola will get 2,000 and 3,000 vials, respectively.A division bench of justice Sunil Shukre and justice Avinash Gharote, while hearing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL), passed the order after a five-hour marathon hearing.“If we do not rise to the occasion, it would lead to unmitigated disaster,” the court noted while asking the state to respect the right to life of all citizens and reminding it about the duty to provide all necessary health infrastructure to fight this pandemic.Senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Vijay Waghmare, who is the nodal officer for Remdesivir, informed the court that till Thursday, the state had received 308,000 vials, while another 34,000 vials are in transit, and 94,000 vials are expected in the next two days. HC asked the officer to finalise a district-wise plan and fix entitlement of each district by Friday night and disburse the Remdesivir received as per Centre’s revised allotment letter, dated April 24. HC expressed dismay to note that despite repeated orders, such entitlement order has not been passed so far. Amicus curiae (friend of court) Shreerang Bhandarkar and Indian Medical Association’s counsel advocate Bhanudas Kulkarni informed HC that From April 21-30 (barring April 28-29), Nagpur had received 23,198 vials, with a shortfall of 25,479 vials, as per the Centre’s allotment formula based on active patient load.The senior officers present during the hearing informed that around 3,500 vials are being received and later allotted around 4,423 vials for Nagpur. At Akola, the daily requirement of Remdesivir vials is 900, while there is a deficit of 300-500 vials per day. Similarly, Bhandara requires 1,110 vials per day but receives only 200. Similar shortfalls are reported from all districts. HC noted that the entire state is reeling under acute shortage of Remdesivir, but considering the number of serious patients admitted in these districts, at least additional 25,000 vials are required for Vidarbha districts, and they must be supplied by the state. HC asked the state to discontinue the private purchases of Remdesivir, as it is leading to more confusion. The state can invoke powers under Disaster Management Act to go for direct purchase by discarding tender process and get it from private manufacturer for the price finalised by the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority. HC again reminded private hospitals and doctors to use Remdesivir judiciously and stop its indiscriminate prescription. The World Health Organization (WHO) and medical experts have described it only as an investigational drug. But some of the doctors are not paying any heed to WHO guidelines and expert opinion, HC lamented. It directed private hospitals to not give direct prescription to patient or relatives to procure Remdesivir on their own and avoid prevailing chaos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-orders-state-to-allot-20k-remdesivir-vials-to-nagpur-akola-bhandara-101619813809121.html
01-05-2021||Other||Mumbai resident arrested for raping 19-year-old||Wadala police arrested a man for allegedly repeatedly raping a 19-year-old woman from his neighbourhood last May when she had visited his home to watch television.The 41-year-old has been arrested for rape, molestation, threats and other relevant sections of the Protection Of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso). The police have also booked the accused’s wife, as after learning about the incident, she allegedly circulated the survivor’s mobile number on social media, claiming her to be a call girl.The accused’s left for work on a merchant ship, while his wife went to their native town in Kerala.“He came to Mumbai a few days ago and was arrested him, based on the survivor’s statement. His wife is still in Kerala and we have not arrested her yet,” said senior inspector Shahji Shinde from Wadala police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wadala-resident-arrested-for-raping-19yearold-101619810988850.html
01-05-2021||Other||Maharashtra hospital fire: Vasai court rejects bail pleas of CEO, director||Vasai sessions court judge Aditi Kadam on Friday rejected the bail pleas of Vijay Vallabh Hospital’s chief executive officer (CEO) Dr Dilip Bastimal Shah, 56, and director Dr Shailesh Dharamdev Pathak, 47. The duo has been arrested for culpable homicide in connection to the April 23 fire that had killed 15 Covid-19 patients at the Virar hospital.Dr Shah and Dr Pathak are lodged in Thane jail, said additional public prosecutor Jaiprakash Patil, who appeared for the state. Opposing Dr Shah and Dr Pathak’s bail pleas, Patil said before the court that only six fire extinguishers were in working condition when the blaze broke out, while 14 extinguishers were non-functional and their operational validity had expired. Patil also submitted that the hospital management had ignored the renewal of the working permits of extinguishers.He further argued that the hospital had not applied for a fire audit to obtain the mandatory no objection certificate (NOC) from the Vasai civic body. Patil also said that the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) in its report said that the hospital “under-used” the sanctioned power supply and was not running on optimum power. On these grounds, the hospital is liable for negligence, Patil submitted.Defence counsel Siddhesh Naik said the fire was caused by the excess presence of oxygen in the ICU and hence the duo should be tried for death due to negligence not amounting to culpable homicide and that it would be unfair to keep them inside the Thane jail during the Covid-19 pandemic. But the court rejected the bail pleas of the two accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-hospital-fire-vasai-court-rejects-bail-pleas-of-ceo-director-101619810868912.html
01-05-2021||Other||Pharmacy student held for raping six-year-old in Mumbai||Oshiwara police have arrested a final-year pharmacy student for allegedly raping a six-year-old girl on Thursday evening. According to the police, the girl’s and her parents stay on a rented house owned by the accused’s father at Jogeshwari West. On Thursday evening, when the 23-year-old accused was alone, he lured the girl to watch television at his house and raped her. He threatened her against revealing the incident. However, when the girl’s mother returned from work, the survivor revealed the incident. The girl’s mother then approached the police and registered a case against the accused, following which the man was arrested for rape under the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012. “He will be presented before the court on Saturday,” said an officer from Oshiwara police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pharmacy-student-held-for-raping-six-year-old-in-mumbai-101619810508877.html
01-05-2021||Other||This April was cooler than usual for Mumbai, says IMD||The city saw a cooler-than-usual April this year, according to the India Meteorological Department. Though officials did not provide comparative numbers for previous years, they confirmed that temperatures have been lower during the ongoing pre-monsoon season and unlike last year, the state also did not see any heat waves. They attributed this largely to the consistent present of rain-bearing weather systems over parts of central India (including parts of western and central Maharashtra). The minimum temperature remained slightly higher, with an average of 25.21 degrees Celsius for April (up from a normal of 24.2 degrees Celisus), as per the IMD’s automatic weather station in Santacruz. The average maximum temperature reading of 33.8 degrees Celsius for the month was just above the normal reading of 33.2 degrees Celsius. “A persistent low level wind discontinuity over the state has also brought in moisture from the Arabian Sea, which is one of the factors why Mumbai in particular has not seen above normal temperatures. Even Pune has seen a cooler-than-usual April due to thunderstorms and frequent precipitation,” said a spokesperson at IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai. While the highest daytime reading last month stood at 35.8 degrees Celsius on April 7, it remained at just above 33 degrees Celsius on most other days, settling around 34 degrees Celsius only in the past week. On Friday, the mercury in Mumbai dipped to 33.4 degrees Celsius, but it is expected to climb to about 35 degrees Celsius by May 5. Partly cloudy sky with possibility of thunder lightning has been predicted for Saturday and Sunday. There are no predictions of a heatwave at present, though officials have warned that temperatures will rise sharply this month once the influencing weather systems dissipate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/this-april-was-cooler-than-usual-for-mumbai-says-imd-101619810269979.html
01-05-2021||Other||Allegations against ex-Maharashtra min: CBI submits interim probe report to court||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday filed an interim report of investigation into the corruption allegations against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.A senior CBI officer, confirming the development, said the report was filed based on the evidence collected so far during various search operations and after recording the statements of several witnesses.An application was moved by the central agency on Friday before the special CBI court, seeking permission to submit the report. The court allowed the plea and accepted the report filed in a sealed cover.On April 21, the central agency has registered an offence against Deshmukh under sections 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and 120B of the Indian Penal Code for allegedly attempting to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty.The first information report (FIR), based on former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh’s allegations, was registered against Deshmukh following preliminary enquiry ordered by the Bombay high court on April 5, after a bunch of petitions, including those filed by filed by lawyer Jaishri Patil and Singh, called for probe against the former home minister.In his March 20 letter addressed to the Governor and the chief minister, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh intermittently summoned Mumbai Police officers, especially Sachin Vaze – who has been suspended since his arrest in the Antilia explosives scare and trader Mansukh Hiran’s murder cases – and two other officers of the enforcement branch. Singh claimed Deshmukh had instructed the officers to extort ₹100 crore for him from establishments like dance bars, bars and restaurants, and hookah bars in Mumbai every month.In the FIR, CBI claimed, “The preliminary enquiry prima facie revealed that a cognisable offence was made out in the matter, wherein the then home minister of Maharashtra Shri Anil Deshmukh and unknown others have attempted to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of their public duty.”“The enquiry has also revealed that Shri Sachin Vaze, assistant police inspector, Mumbai Police, had been reinstated into the police force after being out of the service for more than 15 years. The enquiry further revealed that Shri Vaze was entrusted with most of the sensational and important cases of Mumbai Police and at the then home minister’s knowledge,” read the FIR. It also mentioned the allegations made by Singh against Deshmukh.A day after registering the FIR, CBI had conducted searches at Deshmukh’s premises in Mumbai and his hometown Nagpur. CBI had also obtained records of investigation and evidence gathered from Vaze by National Investigation Agency (NIA) which is probing the Antilia and Hiran’s murder cases. The agency has so far recorded statement of several people, including of Deshmukh, his personal assistant, secretary and some police officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allegations-against-ex-maharashtra-min-cbi-submits-interim-probe-report-to-court-101619810089984.html
01-05-2021||Other||Allahabad University, constituent colleges to remain closed till July 4||The Allahabad University has decided to prepone the summer vacations by 10 days which would now begin from May 4 instead of May 15 and end on July 5, said a varsity official.The preponing of the vacation has been done in view of the fact that the university was seeing a rising number of fatalities among the teaching and non teaching staff due to Covid and the families of almost all the university employees were affected by Covid-19, said AU public relation officer (PRO) Jaya Kapoor. Over 100 staff and teachers of AU and colleges have been infected with the virus so far.Earlier this month, owing to the pandemic and many of the teaching and non-teaching staff members being infected with coronavirus, the varsity had decided to close the main campus and constituent colleges till April 20. Later, when the cases continued to rise in the city and more staff members were infected, authorities extended the duration of closure of AU till April 30.According to Kapoor, an online meeting of the all the deans of the university was convened by the vice chancellor, on Monday. “It was decided in the meeting to prepone the summer vacations from the scheduled May 15 to May 4. It will reopen on July 5, 2021,” she said. The varsity authorities had begun its annual exams for undergraduate and postgraduate courses from April 3 through online mode. However, after a few days when the campus of AU and its constituent colleges were closed till April 20 the exams were postponed. Later, the controller of examination had said the exams would be held from April 30 but soon that decision was withdrawn.In terms of examinations, the PRO said the meeting of the examination committee will be held shortly and the decision would be conveyed to the stakeholders via appropriate mediums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-university-constituent-colleges-to-remain-closed-till-july-4-101619809368843.html
01-05-2021||Other||Delhi civic bodies offer to convert their buildings to bolster city’s health infra||New DelhiWith health care facilities across the national capital burdened by the unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases and citizens complaining of difficulties in finding hospital beds, the three civic bodies -- east, north, and south -- have written to the Delhi government, offering to convert their schools and community centres into Covid care hospitals and isolation centres.The second wave of Covid-19 across the country — and the fourth wave in Delhi — has turned out to be the deadliest one yet in terms of cases and fatalities. Delhi is currently recording at least 25,000 new Covid cases and over 300 deaths every day.At present, Delhi has 21,199 beds for Covid-19 patients, of which 5,032 are ICU beds. Besides, there are over 5,000 beds in dedicated Covid care centres and 204 in dedicated healthcare centres.The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Thursday sent a list of 20 schools and six community centres to the Delhi government that could be converted into Covid isolation centres. Officials said each school can have 50 beds. The civic body runs around 360 primary schools.East civic body mayor Nirmal Jain said that they have told the Delhi government that these spaces can be immediately used for Covid patients. “We are ready to give these spaces at the earliest. We have assured that we will arrange water, electricity and sanitation facilities. The government can set up beds and other medical infrastructure. We will help in that as well,” he said.Similarly, the North MCD has also offered its primary schools to the Delhi government to convert these into Covid-19 hospitals, isolation, and care centers. The north civic body runs 714 primary schools.North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash on Friday said that the municipality had written to the Delhi government on April 19, offering to convert their schools, community centres, and polyclinics into dedicated Covid facilities. He said that around 7,000 beds can be added by letting the government use the municipality-owned buildings, including nearly 5,000 beds at its primary schools. “We have assured the government that we will provide every possible help from our side to fight this pandemic. We all know that citizens are running from pillar to post to find hospital beds and any addition at this time will only help save lives,” he said.He said that they have sent a list of 100 schools where beds can be set up. “In each school building, at least 50 beds can be set up,” he said.Meanwhile, the south Delhi municipal corporation officials also said that they have offered all available resources to strengthen the public health infrastructure in the city. “We are also working with our officials to identify which schools can be offered as dedicated Covid facilities. We will be releasing the list for the government in the coming days,” said south Delhi mayor Anamika Mithilesh Singh. The south corporation runs around 580 primary schools.A Delhi government official, who wished not to be named, said, “The government is keen on expanding the healthcare infrastructure as much as possible. In case these schools and community centres (offered by MCDs) are required, the government will make use of them. Some isolation centres are already operating in MCD schools in Delhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-civic-bodies-offer-to-convert-their-buildings-to-bolster-city-s-health-infra-101619808168770.html
01-05-2021||Other||Distress calls on Delhi’s child helpline surge amid rise in Covid-19 cases||New Delhi: After losing their parents to Covid-19 on Friday, two siblings, aged 20 and 18, attempted to take their lives on the same day but the timely intervention of the neighbours, who alerted police, saved them. They were later rescued from south Delhi. A day earlier, the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) helped a 15-year-old boy, who was struggling to take care of his mother alone after she tested positive for Covid-19.Amid a rise in both Covid-19 cases and fatalities, authorities, including the DCPCR, the Delhi Police, and several NGOs, are now working to ensure children of deceased patients and those who are ill are getting all the assistance they need. Officials said the child distress helpline are receiving many calls from children seeking help.The DCPCR has also launched a helpline +91-9311551393 to address the needs of children who have lost parents or whose parents are hospitalised or are in any distress.Anurag Kundu, chairperson of DCPCR, said he will ensure that the calls pouring into the helpline are looked into within 24 hours.“Children are the most vulnerable in these testing times as they remain dependent on others to provide for them. The helpline is receiving numerous cases wherein a child has lost all sources of support and is in need of immediate care. The Commission is committed to resolving all such cases in less than 24 hours,” said Kundu. For instance, after two children lost both their parents within a day, the commission coordinated with NGOs, following which local staff interacted with the duo and counselled them. “The relatives and neighbours are taking care of the children now. The Commission has been checking in on them everyday,” read a statement released by the commission. The commission said citizens could call the new helpline number and inform about children in distress. Sonal Kapoor, founder of Protsahan, said the most important thing is to work on closure for such children. “We aren’t taught how to deal with emotions involving grief, trauma, and death. A lot of adults, including caregivers and NGOs, are also in denial and children too struggle to process these emotions. The challenge is to establish a routine in the child’s life. While government agencies can put children in shelter homes and provide essentials, the focus should also be on psycho-social needs on grief and trauma healing,” she said.In another case, the DCPCR also facilitated the process of cremation for two children who lost their father and provided medical assistance, along with Covid tests, to them while their relatives arrived in a few hours.Last week, in Rohini, three children aged below 10 were living with their grandmother after their father died of Covid-19 and their mother was hospitalized with the infection. Volunteer groups provided essential supplies like fruits, milk, and bread after seeing the SOS call on social media. However, they pointed out that their grandmother was “very old to feed and manage them.”Kundu responded to the SOS asking his team to “make sure the children have all medical help, food and to daily check in on them at least for the next 15 days. Also, see if the children can talk to their mother over the phone.”In another case, a 14-year-old lost all his family members to Covid-19 and has been in home isolation after testing positive for the infection with no one to look after him. After receiving SOS messages on social media, the commission provided assistance to the child.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/distress-calls-on-delhi-s-child-helpline-surge-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-101619808109444.html
01-05-2021||Other||‘Shooter Dadi’ Chandro Tomar succumbs to Covid-19||Chandro Tomar, popular as ‘Shooter Dadi’, succumbed to complications arising from a Covid-19 infection, in a hospital, here, on Friday afternoon. She was 89.Her niece, Seema Tomar, who is also aninternational shooter, confirmed the death of her aunt. She was admitted on April 26 to aprivate hospital in Meerut for other health problems but later, she was diagnosed as Covid-19-positive. Chandro Tomar shot into limelight after she picked up a gun at the shooting range in her Johri village of district Bagpat as a senior citizen and won many medals in competitions. She then became popular as ‘Shooter Dadi’ and was quite active on Twitter and used to tweet in support of ongoing farmers’ movement.Bollywood paid tribute by making a film ‘Saand ki Aankh’ on Chandro and her sister-in-law (husband’s younger brother’s wife) as both were famous and popular for their passion of shooting.Believed to be the oldest woman competitive shooter, Chandro was also an inspiration to rural girls in the region who also picked up shooting as a sport after seeing grandmothers in typical rural attire shooting at a range and winning laurels for the country. Shooter Dadi won many awards in the senior citizen category including Stri Shakti Samman presented by the President himself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shooter-dadi-chandro-tomar-succumbs-to-covid19-101619808108810.html
01-05-2021||Other||In trying times, how the young wielded social media to provide succour||As anguished relatives searched for hospital beds, oxygen and medicines in these troubled times, social media platforms came alive with youngsters taking the responsibility of helping them. In Kanpur, where chaos prevailed in the third week of this month, countless people were helped. The youngsters kept tabs on availability of beds in Covid-19 hospitals. They helped with the admission of people, reached out to people who could help with procuring/refilling oxygen cylinders, arranged for medicines like Fabiflu, which had disappeared from pharmacies, and even found plasma and blood donors. Their network helped in different cities of Uttar Pradesh constantly passing on leads to each other. “People were desperately looking for genuine information and help; along with others, I built resources calling hospitals and Covid command centres about availability of beds,” said Harsh Chauhan, a law student and blogger from South Kanpur. “We check and cross-check the information, which we share on our accounts,” said Mudit Sapra, who is Covid-19 positive but continues with the work. “The biggest problem was finding ICU beds or beds with ventilators. But I will continue to work day and night till as long as this phase lasts,” he said. Punit Bhatia, working with a private firm in Alwar, Rajasthan, got help for his sinking father-in-law, and moved from Chunar to Varanasi, after he got support from one such group. He was not being admitted in any hospital, he was alone with his wife in a car with SPO2 level critically low at 60. “My friend shared the information on Twitter, and in less than an hour, a girl called Anushka Tulsyan contacted us and got a bed in the district hospital. Now, he is recovering. I can’t thank her enough and her friends,” said Punit, who is from Kanpur. Tulsyan was contacted and appraised of Bhatia’s situation by a Kanpur poet. In his 20s, he doesn’t want his identity to be known. This young poet is part of a bigger network comprising students of Tata Institute of Social Sciences, IIT Kanpur, Delhi, Jamia Milia and other institutes. Apart from beds, this group extended help with oxygen cylinders, referral letters of chief medical officer (CMO) need for hospitalisation, and medicines. They created a limited database of plasma donors whom they cajoled to donate. “The toughest part was the oxygen; looking for resources was tedious. Everyone worked tirelessly to keep sharing information about its availability. We put up doubly verified information, complete with location and phone numbers, for people to avail,” he said. Like them, Sharad Tripathi used multipleplatforms to reach out to people to help. “At a point, I was getting 200-250calls in a day for help. The number of calls had gone down now. I used mycontacts and developed resources. I think I could help one person out of 15-20people, but even that is very satisfying,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-trying-times-how-the-young-wielded-social-media-to-provide-succour-101619807929455.html
01-05-2021||Other||5 lab staff held for issuing fake Covid reports||New Delhi: Five employees of a medical diagnostics laboratory were arrested for allegedly giving out fake Covid test reports, Delhi Police said on Friday. According to Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south), the arrested suspects handed out 400 such fake reports -- both positive and negative -- since April 23.The company, Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, said that the reports were not generated by the lab, and added that they informed police about the wrongdoing of their employees as soon as they noticed it. The company stressed that while some of their staff were involved in the crime, the laboratory had no role to play. It added that all authentic reports have QR codes, which can be easily be used to distinguish them from the fake reports that were being handed out.Police said the probe started after 45 members of a large, extended family in south Delhi’s Khirki Extension said they received false results from Genestrings Diagnostic Centre in Sarvodaya Enclave.The family members was reportedly tested by two technicians of the lab over a few days, and some of them were declared positive for Covid-19, said DCP Thakur. One of them, Rishab Shukla, said he was given a positive result on Monday. “But Shukla didn’t have any symptoms, and decided to get himself tested at another lab again on Wednesday. This time his result was negative,” said the DCP.Shukla then went to Genestrings Diagnostics, and was shocked to learn that his name was not in their records, and that his sample had never reached them.He contacted the police, which registered a case of cheating and criminal conspiracy at Malviya Nagar police station. The five people arrested are application scientist Manish Kumar Singh, his two colleagues Satender and Nikhil, and two lab assistants, Pragyanand Sharma and Himanshu Sharma.Police said that initially the technicians planned to have doctors test the samples, and share the results without entering the details in the laboratory’s records. They would use the lab’s letterhead to print out a the report, and pocket the money paid by clients of for the tests. “But as the load of the samples increased, the suspects began dishing out fake results without even testing them,” the DCP said. “On being approached by a few patients to authenticate reports bearing our lab’s name, we found out that they were not issued by us, nor tested at our lab. We immediately called the local police station in-charge to investigate what seemed to be a fake report issue,” said Chetan Kohli, COO of Genestrings Diagnostic Centre.“Five of our employees were identified to be a party to this crime without the knowledge of lab management or the lab head,” he added. “All our reports have QR codes which can be easily used to check the authenticity of reports.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-lab-staff-held-for-issuing-fake-covid-reports-101619807930134.html
01-05-2021||Other||Hiran murder: Arrested Mumbai cops, bookie part of Vaze’s larger conspiracy, says NIA||Mumbai Police officers Sunil Mane and Riyazuddin Kazi, former cop Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Gor were part of main accused Sachin Vaze’s alleged larger conspiracy to eliminate Thane auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has claimed. The federal agency made the claim while opposing Gor’s bail plea on Friday and stated that the SIM cards used by Vaze were provided by the bookie. Also, the mobile phone through which Hiran was called was purchased by Vaze and the SIM in it was provided by Gor, said NIA. The federal agency further claimed that if released, Gor may jump the bail and tamper with the evidence. Gor has approached the special NIA court for bail, claiming that he was never contacted by Vaze, an assistant Mumbai Police inspector, who is under suspension. Gor in his bail plea filed through law firm, Diamondwala & Co, has claimed that he has been made a scapegoat by the investigating agency at the instance of Vaze. He has also claimed that he was not aware of any conspiracy or the purpose for which the SIM cards were going to be used. The 31-year-old cricket bookie was arrested by the Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad on March 21, when it was investigating Hiran’s murder case. Later, his custody was handed over to NIA, as the federal agency took over the case from ATS. According to NIA, Hiran’s murder was linked to the explosive-laden Scorpio found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence Antilia. On February 25, the Scorpio was found abandoned near Antilia with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note, and a case was registered with Gamdevi police station on the same day. Vaze was originally investigating the case, but was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV and had reported it stolen on February 17. Hiran was found dead in a creek on March 5. It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the car in November and returned it on February 5. NIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and Vaze was arrested on March 13. The federal agency took over the murder case on March 24 and Vaze was named the main accused in both the cases. To contain the damage, the Maharashtra government transferred police commissioner Param Bir Singh for his alleged management of the case. He subsequently wrote a letter to the chief minister alleging that the then home minister Anil Deshmukh had instructed Vaze and some other Mumbai Police officers to extort ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants, hookah parlours. When no action was forthcoming, Singh approached the courts. The Bombay high court eventually asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary enquiry into the matter, prompting Deshmukh’s resignation. Accordingly, CBI conducted an inquiry and registered an offence against Deshmukh on April 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mansukh-hiran-murder-arrested-mumbai-cops-bookie-part-of-sachin-vaze-s-larger-conspiracy-says-nia-101619787287739.html
