02-05-2021||Other||Mumbai: School teacher helps 600 Covid-19 patients get plasma||A 47-year-old sports teacher has been trying his best to save the lives of many Covid-19 patients by arranging for plasma and blood. Kiran Thorat, who teaches sports at the Dandekar College for the past decade, has conducted over 15 blood donation camps since March 2020.He arranged blood and plasma with the help of WhatsApp and Facebook group which has 25,000 members from all over the state.“So far, around 300 patients have received blood through our social media group and over 600 citizens have received plasma donations,” said Thorat. “The majority of the patients are from Mumbai, Pune, Nashik and elsewhere in the state. We have helped them by providing blood and plasma and thus managed to lives,” said Thorat. Thorat has so far donated blood 89 times.He said his father Gajanan Thorat is the motivation behind the campaign. “My father was a government ambulance driver, and I would witness him ferrying patients to hospitals. He passed away in 2019.”He stays with his mother Mangala, who receives a government monthly pension, wife and two children at Siddharth Nagar, Wada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-school-teacher-helps-600-covid-19-patients-get-plasma-101619979477657.html
02-05-2021||Other||Gas leak: 5 hurt in 2 incidents in Thane||Two different incidents of gas leakage were reported in the city on Saturday. In the first incident, a family of five from Badlapur suffered injuries after a cylinder exploded in their home in Rameshwadi. The fire brigade officer of Badlapur, said, “The family had called a private mechanic to fix the leakage. However, a lot of gas had already leaked. While repairing, when the mechanic tried to start the gas it blasted. The three adults have sustained serious injuries and two children have sustained minor injuries. They are undergoing treatment at a private hospital.”While in another incident, leakage of two sulfur dioxide cylinders was reported at Chikanipada in Bhiwandi. The fire brigade and regional disaster management cell (RDMC) team resolved the issue and no one was injured in the incident.RDMC officer, Santosh Kadam said, “There were 16 cylinders containing sulphur dioxide kept in an open area in Chiknipada area of Khuni village. We reached the spot and took immediate action.”The fire brigade team has sent notices to the companies in the area for negligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gas-leak-5-hurt-in-2-incidents-in-thane-101619979237632.html
02-05-2021||Other||IIM-L student develops web portal for Covid-hit people||Lucknow A software engineer and student of the Indian Institute of Management- Lucknow, Amrita Singh has developed a web portal containing a list of initiatives that may provide relief or information to Covid-hit people. It has links for plasma requirement, oxygen suppliers, health services, relief and rehabilitation, meals and other initiatives that cover multiple aspects. Centralisation and ease of access is the theme here. People of the state capital can access state wise guides, links to regional resources and also countrywide initiatives for help, according to Amrita. In short, all authentic information that was hitherto scattered has been incorporated in this portal. “ I saw Instagram flooded with people sharing initiatives, a lot of which would be helpful, but it is very easy for someone looking out for help to get lost in that heap of data,” she said. “Also, I thought a website would be an ideal way to pass on these links to someone in need so that they can use any device to access them,” she said. “So, to sort out the chaos, I sat down one week ago and wrote a LinkedIn post penning down the idea and published the web app having few resources that I was aware of. To my surprise, people bombarded me with resources everyday, telling me about the ones that were helpful. And so the list grew tremendously,” she said. “I saw the chaos in the slack channels in my workplace meant to discuss Covid resources available and shared this there. It inspired people there to put together a list of resources meant for employees internally and sort out information effectively,” Amrita said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iiml-student-develops-web-portal-for-covid-hit-people-101619977857594.html
02-05-2021||Other||3 farmers electrocuted, CM orders compensation||Agra Three farmers, including two brothers, were electrocuted when a live over head wire fell on them on Sunday morning. The incident took place in a village of Kasganj district. Chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath expressed grief over the tragedy and declared compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to each affected family. These three farmers were working on their farm land in Magthara village under Sidhpura police station of Kasganj district on Sunday morning. They were identified as Krishna Kumar and Manvendra Singh, brothers and Pawan Singh from the same village. “A live over head electricity line passing over the farm land suddenly broke and fell on these three farmers on Sunday morning. The three made all efforts to save themselves but in vain,: revealed a local from the village. Police at Sidhpura police station and officials of the electricity department were informed. The bodies were sent to the district hospital in Kasganj for post mortem examination. Chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath expressed grief and condoled the deaths. The district magistrate and other officials were directed to visit the spot and conduct relief work. “The electricity department shall pay ₹5 lakh as financial assistance to family members of each of the deceased,” ordered the chief minister and directed additional chief secretary (energy) to conduct an enquiry into the incident. Caption ::: Police interacting with villagers after death of three farmers in Kasganj district on Sunday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-farmers-electrocuted-cm-orders-compensation-101619977677619.html
02-05-2021||Other||11,669 fresh Covid cases, 65 deaths on Sunday in Pune||PUNE Pune district recorded a spike on Sunday, with 11,669 fresh Covid positive cases in 24 hours as per the state health department. A total of 65 Covid-related deaths were reported in the district in the last 24 hours. Of the 65 deaths reported in the district, nine were reported in Pune rural, 53 in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and three in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), in the last 24 hours.PMC has so far reported 4,39,420 Covid cases and 5,663 deaths till Sunday. Whereas PCMC has reported 2,10,087 cases so far, and a total of 1,526 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural reported 2,15,392 total cases so far and 2,518 deaths due to Covid. In the Pune district, there are a total of 8,64,899 Covid cases. Of this, 7,45,881 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 9,764 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 1,09,254 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 51,356 patients were discharged on Sunday in Maharashtra, taking the total to 39,81,658. The recovery rate in the state is 84.31%.The case fatality rate in the state is 1.49%.Currently 39,96,946 people are in home quarantine and 27,735 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11669-fresh-covid-cases-65-deaths-on-sunday-in-pune-101619971857415.html
02-05-2021||Other||Pune rural police seal Lonavala dhaba for violating Covid norms||PUNE The Pune rural police fined a restaurant and sealed it until the state government lifts its curbs, for violating restrictions implemented in order to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Identified as Babbi Da Punjabi Dhaba, the restaurant is located along the old Mumbai-Pune Highway in Naygaon, Lonavla.“ ₹10,000 fine has been taken and It has been sealed,” said Navneet Kanwat, sub-divisional officer of Lonavla division, in a text message.The restaurant was found operating after midnight which violates the Covid-19 regulations that require restaurants and public places to shut by 8pm. The restaurant had allegedly failed to maintain social distancing, control the number of people seated, or provide sanitisers, according to police.The owner was identified as Karamjit Bakarsingh Multani (27), who lives on the restaurant premises. Along with Multani, Vinorramshankar Yadav, Jainarayan Sudama Shah, Butasingh alias Happysingh Mukhtyarsingh Multani, Ranjit Darasingh Bhati, Gorakh Shantaram Moduley, and Sajansingh Satnamsingh Malle, all residing in the same place, have also been booked.This action came one day after a family was fined for ₹50,000 for holding a wedding ceremony with more than allowed number of people in presence.A fine of ₹50,000 was levied on Kumar Parswani, while the venue owner, Hemant Sukheja (42), was booked under Sections 188 and 269 of the Indian Penal Code. Among the 74 people in attendance, 14 were fined and a total of ₹14,000 was levied upon them for not following social distancing, according to inspector Dilip Pawar of Lonavala city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-rural-police-seal-lonavala-dhaba-for-violating-covid-norms-101619970417302.html
02-05-2021||Other||Vaccination-on-wheels service aims to immunise 0.1 million residents in PMC areas||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation has signed a PPP (public-private partnership) agreement with VaccineOnWheels (VOW), a doctor-based mobile vaccination clinic, for on-ground Covid-19 vaccination. VaccineOnWheels and PMC together will provide vaccination services to adults and elderly people by setting up vaccination booths near communities with the aim of increasing immunisation penetration. The vaccination clinic will deploy 15 units, wherein each unit will administer 150 doses of Covid vaccines a day, once supply of doses resumes. As part of the protocol, every vaccination booth will have a qualified doctor, nurses and healthcare support staff, along with one ambulance on standby for any emergency support required in case of AEFI (adverse event following immunisation). Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner, PMC, said, “Currently, the best remedy available is to get everybody vaccinated at the earliest. With this new initiative, we aim to accelerate the immunisation rate for PMC, and Maharashtra.”According to Agarwal, the firm will supply 15 VOW vehicles. “We will deploy them for vaccination at workplaces. Once government allows, then we will use them in all slums on a priority basis. Everything will be free,” she said. VaccineOnWheels, in partnership with Rotary Club of Pune Central, will bring together NGOs and CSR partners to fund various resources required to deploy 15 mobile vaccination units to immunise 0.1 million people in a month, within the Pune Municipal Corporation area. Its unique PPP model will undertake a complex orchestration of multiple activities – from procurement to deployment, awareness to mobilisation, and registration to inoculation, with support of multiple stakeholders. The organization aims to immunize one million Indians in a span of eight to 12 months, in partnerships with various state governments. Jignesh Patel, founder and CEO, VaccineonWheels, said, “We are happy to serve Maharashtra and India with our doctor-based mobile vaccination clinic service, especially in these times when the state is among the worst hit with second wave of Covid. Our PPP model will enable stakeholder collaboration across industries, government, and NGOs at the grassroots level.” A similar drive has already been launched in PCMC VaccineOnWheels is introducing five units and the first unit was rolled out on April 17. This unit has immunised 2,000 people at an average of 200 immunisations per day||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccinationonwheels-service-aims-to-immunise-0-1-million-residents-in-pmc-areas-101619969217330.html
02-05-2021||Other||In a first, Kashmir teacher dismissed in ‘interest of security of state’||The Jammu and Kashmir government dismissed a teacher of north Kashmir’s Kupwara in the ‘interest of the security of the state’ in a first of its kind move, officials said.The general administration department issued an order on Friday stating that Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, after considering the facts and circumstances of the case, observed that the activities of Idrees Jan, a teacher of Government Middle School, Kupwara, are such as to warrant his dismissal from service.“The Lieutenant Governor is satisfied under sub-clause (c) of the proviso to clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution of India that in the interest of the security of the State, it is not expedient to hold an inquiry in the case of Mr. Idrees Jan, Teacher, Government Middle School, Kralpora, Kupwara,” the order read.“Accordingly, the L-G hereby dismisses Idrees Jan from service with immediate effect,” it said.The dismissal comes after the government on April 21 set up a Special Task Force to identify and scrutinise the cases of employees involved in any case related to posing a threat to the country’s security or anti-national activities.The order, however, has not gone down well with employees and union leaders. Former employee union leader and chairman of Jammu and Kashmir Civil Society Forum (JKCSF), Abdul Qayoom Wani expressed resentment over the dismissal calling it a jab on the employees’ integrity.“The dismissal of Idrees Ahmad, teacher of a Kupwara school, and other two employees came as a strange shiver to the whole Kashmir society under the shade of Article 311 and neglecting all other disciplinary service rules that govern the employees’ performance and conduct of his service career,” Wani said.“This type of dismissal from government service remains ambiguous until facts are made public and/or subjected to the judicial system for legal proceedings,” he said.The JKCSF has demanded that the decision must be revoked and reviewed judiciously under the service norms so that justice can prevail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-a-first-kashmir-teacher-dismissed-in-interest-of-security-of-state-101619966578163.html
02-05-2021||Other||Govt orders probe, forms 3-member panel after 4 Covid-19 patients die at Jammu hospital||After the death of four Covid-19 patients, allegedly due to shortage of oxygen, at Acharya Shri Chander College of Medical Sciences and Hospital (ASCOMS), popularly known as Batra Hospital, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has ordered a probe into the incident, officials said.Four people, including a woman, undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at ASCOMS hospital, died on Saturday morning. Their kin alleged that the deaths were caused due to shortage of oxygen, a claim strongly denied by the administration as well as the hospital management. Financial commissioner, health and medical education department, Atal Dulloo appointed divisional commissioner, Jammu Dr Raghav Langer, as the inquiry officer and asked him to probe the circumstances leading to the deaths at the hospital. Consequently, Langer constituted a three-member committee, comprising director health services (Jammu), director industries and commerce (Jammu), and superintendent engineer, mechanical engineering department, Jammu, the officials said. One among them is also a member of a panel constituted last month to ensure an adequate and timely supply of medical oxygen to hospitals. The three-member committee was formed to assist the inquiry officer during the proceedings of the probe, they said. Following the death of the four patients, their family members created a ruckus and accused hospital management of negligence that led to the death of their loved ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-orders-probe-forms-3-member-panel-after-4-covid-19-patients-die-at-jammu-hospital-101619963817742.html
02-05-2021||Other||Meghalaya to set up 9 oxygen plants to tide over Covid-19 crisis||Meghalaya will soon set up dedicated Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generation plants at three hospitals in the state capital Shillong. Director of Health Services (MI) Dr Aman War said the plants are ready for installation.“The plants will be installed at RP Chest Hospital, Shillong Civil Hospital and Ganesh Das Hospital,” Dr War said, adding “Everything is ready, they just have to come and install.”The state is also getting funds from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) for setting up additional oxygen generation plants at three civil hospitals.“The one which comes from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) is for Tura Civil Hospital, Jowai Civil Hospital and Nongpoh Civil Hospital, the estimate and civil work for those three are yet to be completed,” Dr War said. “So the question of bringing the oxygen generator does not arise now, only after we have completed all these works… the engineering work, then only they will bring them,” he elaborated. “Yes, in total, we are planning for 6 plants in Meghalaya… three already finalised and other three are coming,” the top health official said.Meanwhile, in line with PM Modi’s direction of boosting the availability of oxygen to hospitals, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on Sunday has directed Meghalaya to set up three more Oxygen Generation Plants, one each in East Khasi Hills District, West Garo Hills District and West Jaintia Hills District. With this initiative, the state will be well equipped in oxygen generation with nine plants in all.These dedicated plants will be established at identified government hospitals in district headquarters across various states/UTs. The procurement will be done through the health ministry.Chief Minister Conrad Sangma, while thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said, “The allocation of funds to install 551 PSA #Oxygen Generation Plants in public health facilities across the country through #PMCares is a propitious decision to curb the oxygen crisis & help those in need especially during these times. Thank PM @narendramodi Ji for this decision.”The primary aim behind establishing PSA Oxygen Generation plants at government hospitals in the district headquarters is to further strengthen the public health system and ensure that each of these hospitals has a captive oxygen generation facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/meghalaya-to-set-up-9-oxygen-plants-to-tide-over-covid-19-crisis-101619956257758.html
02-05-2021||Other||Satish Jarkiholi makes strong gains against BJP’s Mala Suresh Angadi in Belagavi bypolls||Satish Jarkiholi, Congress candidate for the parliamentary bypolls in Karnataka’s Belagavi district, about 502 kilometres from Bengaluru, has managed to overcome the initial hurdles and is currently leading with 20,3945 votes as against Mala Suresh Angadi of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) who is trailing with 203074 votes, statistics from state election authorities show.Jarkiholi was initially trailing but has secured a lead of over 9,000 votes in recent rounds of counting, according to officials, living up to his reputation of being a master strategist. He is one of five powerful “Jarkiholi brothers” who wield significant influence over the border district and its politics.Belagavi bypoll was necessitated after the death of four-time parliamentarian Suresh Angadi in September last year.Two of Satish’s brothers, Ramesh and Balachandra, are legislators with the BJP.If the trends hold, the defeat would deal a big blow to Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa and is likely to open the floodgates of dissent that has been simmering for some time within his government and party.The Congress, if trends continue, appear to have wrested control of Maski assembly constituency with the imminent defeat of Pratapgouda Patil, one of the 17 legislators who defected to the BJP and helped Yediyurappa to power in 2019. Patil has 24,516 votes as against Basanagouda Turvihal of the Congress who has stormed away with 39,790 votes so far.“It appears that there is an anti-wave against me. I don’t know why since I had done enough developmental work for this constituency,” Patil told reporters in Raichur.A defeat for Patil would go against CM Yediyurappa, who benefitted from the former’s defection, as the latter had assured to reward the turncoats for their favour.Patil had won three times on a Congress ticket before he defected in 2019. However, he had won by just 213 votes in 2018 against Turvihal, who had then contested on a BJP ticket. The candidates switched parties this time around.The only reason for BJP and Yediyurappa to cheer came from Basavakalyana where its candidate Sharanu Salagar was leading with 15,052 votes against Congress’ Mala B Narayanarao who secured 7,900 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/satish-jarkiholi-makes-strong-gains-against-bjp-s-mala-suresh-angadi-in-belagavi-bypolls-101619948156958.html
02-05-2021||Other||Rajasthan bypolls: Ruling Congress ahead on two of three seats||The ruling Congress is leading on two assembly seats, while the BJP is ahead on the third, in the counting of votes for Rajasthan bypoll, Election Commission of India (ECI) statistics show.In the initial rounds of counting of votes for three assembly seats in Rajasthan, Congress looks comfortable on Sahara (Bhilwara) and Sujangarh (Churu), and BJP on Rajasamand. According to the EC statistics, BJP’s Deepti Maheshwari is leading on the Rajsamand seat with a margin of 4397 votes against rival Congress’ Tansukh Bohara. On Sahara and Sujangarh seats, Congress candidates Gayatri Trivedi and Manoj Kumar are leading with 18,088 and 14,676 vote margin respectively, leaving behind BJP’s Ratanlal Jat and RLP’s Sitaram Nayak. An EC spokesman said that 9/30 rounds in Sujangarh, 14/25 rounds in Rajsamand and 11/28 rounds in Sahara had been completed till noon. On April 17, the three seats went for bypoll and recorded a total of 60.37% voting. The polling percentage at Sujangarh in Churu district was recorded at 58.21%. Rajsamand registered 67.23% polling, and Sahara in Bhilwara district saw 56.60% polling. A total of 44,98,85 voters turned out for voting. In the 2018 assembly elections, the polling percentage of Sahara was 73.56%; Sujangarh recorded 70.68% polling, and Rajsamand was at 76.59%. The counting of votes for the bypolls to three assembly seats in the state started on Sunday morning. The results are expected by the evening. Meanwhile, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday appealed to people not to gather on the streets to celebrate poll victories in the wake of the raging Covid-19 pandemic. “The result of the bypolls for the three seats in the state will be announced. It is my appeal to not celebrate in the wake of the rising corona cases. Do not gather in crowds, do not burst firecrackers by making a gathering,” Gehlot tweeted. He also said leaders of political parties, workers, and those winning the elections and their supporters should maintain discipline and behave peacefully.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rajasthan-bypolls-ruling-congress-ahead-on-two-of-three-seats-101619942938035.html
02-05-2021||Other||40% of Mohali’s infections came in April||The district recorded 19,406 Covid-19 cases in April, an average of 647 cases a day. This is almost three times the March figure of 6,315 and 42% of the district’s total count of 46,570 cases till April 30. Over 9,100 patients are under treatment in the district, making up for 16% of Punjab’s active caseload.Of the 159 deaths in April, 95 persons were above 60 years of age, while 46 persons were between 46-60. Of the total cases, 95% (18,572) cases came from urban areas, while 834 cases were from rural areas.In terms of geography and localities, 40% cases were from Mohali urban, followed by 25% in Dhakoli, 15% in Kharar and 7% in Dera Bassi. Half of those infected (47%) were between the ages of 26 and 45; 20% were between 46-60 and 13% above the age of 60 were infected with the deadly virus.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the surge in cases was due to the UK variant of Covid-19. “This strain of the virus has a higher transmission rate and this is a serious concern for us. The urban areas are more affected and have a higher fatality rate as well.” Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said, “We were expecting this number due to the second surge. The infection is spreading fast, especially among youngsters. People need to exercise all precaution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/40-of-mohali-s-infections-came-in-april-101619908496638.html
02-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana tops state in enrolling private school kids in govt facilities||With 15, 398 students making the move from private to government schools in the last 30 days, Ludhiana has secured the top position among 22 districts in the state in enrolment of private school students. Since April 1, the district has admitted a total of 40,849 students in its government primary, middle, high and senior secondary schools. The maximum enrollments were seen in Class 10 with 2, 585 students followed by Class 5 with 2, 336 new students. This data was shared by the state education department during a virtual meeting with the district education officials and nodal officials appointed for enhancing enrolment in the state. As per the education department, teachers left no stone unturned to convince parents to send their wards to government schools. From going door-to-door to organising nukkad nataks, the teachers adopted novel methods to maximise enrolments. Special focus was laid on highlighting the facilities available at these government schools, besides the achievements of its existing students.At Government Senior Secondary School, Sekhewal, where 300 of the total 317 new students enrolled this year are from private schools, principal Naresh Kumar said the recent renovations at the school made a lot of difference. “Our school now has a new block with 10 classrooms. We organised special school visits for parents and showed them the latest additions to our facilities. We have comfortable benches for students, projectors in all rooms and many other facilities at par with private schools,” he said. At Government Senior Secondary School, Basti Jodhewal, 340 of the 357 new students are from private schools. The school’s strength has gone up to 1, 891 from 1, 534 last year. School staffers show the wayAs per the education department officials, around 206 teaching and non-teaching employees have led by personal example and got their own children admitted to government schools. The department has decided to reward them for their initiative.Pandemic effectTeachers say many students also shifted from private schools due to the financial troubles their families are facing due to the pandemic. Government schools offer free education up to Class-8 and charge a nominal fee from senior class students. ‘Will continue efforts’District education officer, secondary, Lakhvir Singh, said, “School principals and teachers have come up with innovative ways such as using the public address system and holding nukkad nattaks to make people aware of the improvement in school infrastructure and the quality of education offered in government schools. Principals have been instructed to provide textbooks to the newly enrolled students at the earliest.”Former district education officer, elementary, Rajinder Kaur, and DEO Jaswinder Kaur, said, “Our district has achieved this feat due to the hard work and team spirit of all officials, teachers and principals. We will continue with our efforts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-tops-state-in-enrolling-private-schools-kids-to-govt-facilities-101619901895073.html
02-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana teen succumbs to stab wounds inflicted by snatchers||A 17-year-old boy succumbed to his injuries, two days after he was stabbed by mobile snatchers in Giaspura area. The victim, identified as Amandeep Singh of Giaspura, a student of Class 11, was out for a walk with his friend on Thursday morning when the incident took place. His friend, Sunil Singh, said three bike-borne men waylaid them and tried to snatch Amandeep’s phone. “He resisted and tried to run away but the trio chased him on their bike and stabbed him in a bid to snatch the phone,” said Sunil. As the teen lay on the road bleeding profusely, another morning walker, Nanhi Bano, came forward to help and wrapped her dupatta around Amandeep’s waist to stop the bleeding. Sunil, meanwhile, rang up Amandeep’s parents who reached the spot and rushed him to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital. The teen was then referred to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, where he succumbed to his injuries on Saturday after fighting for life for two days. Following his death, the family lodged a police complaint. Cops are scanning the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in the area to trace the accused. Daba station house officer (SHO), sub-inspector Manjinder Kaur said the entire incident was captured on CCTV, but the miscreants’ faces were not visible. Police are now trying to read the number plate on their bike. The victim’s father Mukesh Kumar said he could not inform the police right after the incident as he was caught up with his son’s treatment. Police have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code against the unidentified miscreants. Confusion over jurisdiction between three police stations After being informed about the incident, police from three police stations – including Daba, Division number 6 and Sahnewal reached the spot. Cops of all three police stations claimed that the area where the boy was assaulted does not fall within their jurisdiction. Later, the Daba police lodged an FIR and initiated an investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teen-succumbs-to-stab-wounds-inflicted-by-mobile-snatchers-101619900875047.html
02-05-2021||Other||Dr Kiran Ahluwalia is Ludhiana civil surgeon||Dr Kiran Ahluwalia Gill on Saturday took charge as the civil surgeon of Ludhiana. She replaced Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar who attained superannuation on April 30, 2021.Dr Ahluwalia was earlier deputed as district immunisation officer (DIO) of Ludhiana and was recently promoted as deputy director in the department. Assuming charge amid the fast-spreading second wave of infections, Dr Ahluwalia urged the residents to follow the government’s safety guidelines so as to break the chain of transmission. She said, “If residents continue to cooperate with the department and follow the norms, we can soon move past this crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dr-kiran-ahluwalia-is-ludhiana-civil-surgeon-101619900695282.html
02-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana left with just 2, 200 doses for Sunday||The vaccination drive in the district continued to face hiccups due to the shortage of vaccines. A number of government centres had to stop the drive on Saturday afternoon as these ran out of the vaccine stock. Residents were asked to return and inquire again on Sunday. In all, 13, 085 eligible residents got jabbed on Saturday while 53,4,027 residents have been vaccinated in the district till now.As per the health department officials, they are left with only around 2, 200 doses of vaccine for Sunday and there is no certainty over the arrival of fresh stock. While the plans to vaccinate residents above the age of 18 have already been delayed due to shortage of vaccine doses, the administration is also struggling to meet the requirements for residents aged above 45. The vaccination drive will not take place in rural areas and sub-divisions, and will only be carried out at limited sites in the city areas on Sunday. Earlier on April 27 too, the department had run out of stock and only 2, 949 people got the jab against the daily target of vaccinating 18,000 residents. Due to shortage of both the vaccines, only the second dose of Covaxin will be administered at four government centres on Sunday, while Covishield will be administered at nine sites. Some of the vaccination sites for Sunday include Civil Hospital, civil surgeon’s office complex, Mother Child Hospital near Vardhman mills, Model Gram dispensary near old Krishna Mandir, urban primary health centres in Dugri and Jawaddi, Haibowal dispensary, among other points.Before the shortage disrupted operations, the district health department had been conducting the vaccination drive in over 300 government/centres/sites in the district. The shortage had forced the health department to suspend the supply of vaccines to private hospitals in mid-April. Residents visiting the government centres for vaccination have also been facing a harrowing time. Sumita, a resident of Model Town, said, “I went to inquire about the vaccination at Model Town dispensary for my father around 2:30pm on Saturday but the staff said they ran out of stock around 1:30pm. They asked us to come on Sunday. The administration has been encouraging residents to get vaccinated, but they have failed to make the required arrangements.”District immunisation officer Dr Puneet Juneja said, “The supply of vaccine was not received on Saturday. We have around 2, 200 doses for Sunday and are in contact with the state government for supply, but there is no certainty as of now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-left-with-just-2-200-doses-for-sunday-uncertainty-over-arrival-of-fresh-stock-101619900515451.html
02-05-2021||Other||High court orders hospitals in Delhi to submit details of all admissions, discharges after April 1||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Saturday directed all hospitals in the city to give the number of patients who have been admitted and discharged, including those admitted for over 10 days since April 1, to look into allegations of malpractices and choking of beds amid a huge strain on health care facilities due to the ongoing surge in Covid-19 cases.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said, “It appears that there is choking of beds.” It said that there should be maximum utilisation of beds as people were dying for the want of oxygen beds in the city. “Looking at the dearth and shortage of beds, particularly oxygen beds and ICU beds, we consider it necessary to have this aspect looked into as there are allegations of malpractice as patients are not being discharged despite having recovered from Covid -19,” the bench said.“We direct the medical superintendents/ owners/ doctors of all hospitals and nursing homes, including those of Delhi government, Centre and private, to place details of the number of Covid -19 patients admitted and discharged each day from April 1,” the bench said adding that the hospitals shall also give details of the number of patients who have remained hospitalised for 10 days or more and the type of bed occupied by them from April 1.The court noted that even though admissions are taking place on the 20,938 beds in all hospitals, (including Centre, Delhi government and private hospitals), patients are not getting discharged, resulting in scarcity of beds.“Looking into the aforesaid number, a substantial number of beds should become available for the other patients. That does not seem to be happening. People who require oxygen support should leave in eight to 10 days subject to the condition of the individual patient, unless the disease worsens,” it said adding “however, it appears that there is choking of beds.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that the government had issued an order to all the hospitals on the procedure to be followed for the discharge of the patients. However, the same is not being followed.He said he could not initiate action or raise this point because he does not have the data.“Our order is not being followed... We should have data because people are under fear...,” argued Mehra. The court noted that while 10% people fall severely ill after getting infected with the virus, only 1% is likely to require greater attention and ICU admission. It said that it isn’t clear as to whether the transition of patients from the ICU to oxygenated beds and further is taking place.The court asked the hospitals to give the data to the amicus curiae who would analyse it further and assist the court on May 6, the next date of hearing. It also asked the Delhi government to update its portal on the number of admissions and discharges every day without fail.It also said that the portal displaying the availability of beds should be updated by bifurcating the beds in the categories of oxygenated and ICU beds, with or without ventilators.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who along with several hospitals, had sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the city. During the proceedings, the bench also sought to know as to why the Delhi government was resisting the help from the Army when the situation had gone out of hand.“Do we say that you don’t want to? The Army has their own machinery, it works at its own level. They are also importing things from Germany.. They will help and take responsibility....Because looking at the past 10 days, we don’t know if (900+MT) would fructify,” said the bench adding “the augmentation could be a collaborative effort with the army so that resources are not wasted”. Mehra said the city government is not resisting the army aid and it is being considered at the highest level. The query was posed by the bench after senior advocate Krishnan Venugopal told the court that the Army can be brought to help the Capital amid the Covid-19 crisis.The bench also said that there is a need for the hospitals to set up their own oxygen plants after several of them came running in SOS conditions, citing shortage of oxygen. It said that even though none had contemplated such a situation, there is a need to have oxygen plants with the hospitals. The suggestion ensued after S Bankata, executive director of Batra Hospital, informed the court that his hospital had run out of oxygen supply for one and half hours and there has been loss of lives.“This is a lesson to be learnt that hospitals should set up their own oxygen plants. We know that everyone wants to keep their profits high, but these are essentials. Maybe you can have 10 rooms less but this is irresponsible,” the court said.Mehra also contended that there is leakage in the tankers being given by INOX, which could lead to loss of lives. However, advocate Aseem Chaturvedi, appearing for INOX, said that they do not have any more tankers.Mehra also informed the court that one Gandhi Hospital on Friday made a false statement about not receiving a single oxygen cylinder for the last 48 hours, despite getting one too many.The hospital’s owner submitted that there was some miscommunication between the management and their lawyer and that there was no intention to make a false statement. The court warned that such false claims shall not be made in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/high-court-orders-hospitals-in-delhi-to-submit-details-of-all-admissions-discharges-after-april-1-101619900394447.html
02-05-2021||Other||With 1,600 fresh cases in a day, Ludhiana hits grim new milestone||The district’s Covid-19 cases hit another grim record with as many as 1, 600 positive cases being reported in the last 24 hours even as 18 deaths took the district’s toll to 1, 393. Ludhiana has been seeing a steady rise in daily cases since April 19, when the single-day infection count crossed the 700-mark for the first time. In the last 10 days, the 1,000-mark has been breached thrice. The district has recorded 56,186 cases since the outbreak last year, of which 45, 594 have recovered. As many as 8, 839 patients are still fighting the infection.Of the 18 deaths recorded in the last 24 hours, majority were from rural areas. The dead include 14 men --an 80-year-old from Rajguru Nagar, a 79-year-old resident of Bilga village, a 74-year-old resident of Model Town, a 64-year-old of Dholewal, a 62-year-old from Jamalpur, a 61-year-old resident of Keher Singh Colony, a 58-year-old of Prem Nagar, a 55-year-old from Mehar Singh Nagar, a 50-year-old from Jamalpur Awana village, two residents of Mundian Kalan aged 59 and 39, a 46-year-old resident of Chandigarh road, a 47-year-old resident of Surjit Nagar, Giaspura, and a 45-year-old resident of Giaspura.The women who succumbed to the virus include a 64-year-old woman of Shimlapuri, two 62-year-old residents of Sangowal village and Harcharan Nagar and a 58-year-old resident of Barewal Awana.As of Saturday, there were 42 patients availing L3 facilities (critical care) in various government and private hospitals in the city. Apart from that 1, 416 patients were admitted in the isolation wards of various private hospitals in city which are running full to capacity, and 133 are in government hospitals. Gyms, bars, coaching centres closed till May 15 nowDeputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Saturday announced that bars, cinema halls, gyms, spas, coaching centres and sports complexes will continue to remain closed till May 15. The daily night curfew (6pm to 5am) and the weekend curfew beginning Fridays at 6 pm and continuing till 5am on Mondays will also remain in force till May 15. Only essential services will be allowed during the curfew period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-1-600-fresh-cases-in-day-ludhiana-hits-grim-new-milestone-101619900095065.html
02-05-2021||Other||Delhi Police helpline to now address cheating, harassment complaints||New Delhi: Taking cognisance of media reports and social media posts claiming that ambulance service providers are overcharging and cheating in the name of providing oxygen cylinders and life-saving drugs for treating Covid-19, the Delhi Police on Saturday said the Covid helpline launched by them a fortnight ago will now address calls and complaints regarding all such illegal activities.The city police have already registered two cases of overcharging by ambulance drivers. In one such case registered at Sarita Vihar police station in southeast district, a person was arrested and his ambulance seized on Saturday for allegedly charging ₹8,500, nearly ten times more than the actual rate, for shifting a patient to Holy Family hospital from Apollo hospital -- a distance of 3.5kms. Another case was registered at Sonia Vihar police station in northeast Delhi after a receipt of ₹10,000 charged by an ambulance service provider for a 4km journey was widely circulated on social media, said police. The Delhi Police helpline 011-23469900, which has 10 lines to facilitate the movement of people falling in the exempted categories and resolve issues related to issuance of e-passes, receives more than 500 calls every day.From Saturday onwards, it will also be responding to calls related to ambulances overcharging Covid patients or their relatives, harassment at cremation grounds and frauds offering help in getting beds in hospitals or Covid treatment, providing oxygen cylinders and life-saving injections such as remdesivir. People can also call on the helpline to report about other malpractices by unscrupulous elements. “Victims and informants can also call on the helpline to report about fake medicines and injections that are being sold to needy people as authentic life-saving drugs. Besides, complaints can also be made on black marketing and hoarding of oxygen cylinders, essential medicines, and equipment used in Covid treatment,” said spokesperson for Delhi Police Chinmoy Biswal.About the cheating case registered at at Sarita Vihar police station, deputy commissioner of police (southeast) R P Meena said on April 30, a man named Irshad filed a complaint and alleged that ambulance driver Pramod Kumar (30) was demanding ₹8,500 for shifting his relative, who contracted Covid-19, to Holy Family hospital from Apollo hospital.“A decoy customer contacted the driver for shifting a patient within a range of 5km, for which Kumar demanded ₹9,500. After bargaining, he agreed at ₹8,500. He was immediately arrested for extortion and cheating and his ambulance was also seized,” said the DCP adding that Kumar confessed that he wanted to make quick money by cashing in on the existing Covid-19 crisis. In the second case in which the police are yet to make any arrest, a case of extortion was registered after a man, identified as Satish, informed Sonia Vihar police on April 30 that he came across a tweet about a private ambulance service charging ₹10,000 for a 4km journey. DCP (northeast) Sanjay Kumar Sain said that to verify the allegation, Satish contacted the ambulance service and requested for an ambulance to shift a patient from Sonia Vihar to Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty hospital. “The person whom Satish contacted demanded ₹15,000. Thus, the allegations mentioned in the tweet turned out to be true. Satish approached police and provided a print of the tweet that he came across on Twitter,” said the DCP. “We registered a case on Satish’s complaint. The person who demanded an exorbitant rate for providing an ambulance was identified as Devender from Bhalswa Dairy. In view of prevailing situation and in public interest, the ambulance has not been seized but its photograph has been taken as a record,” he said. Police have also seized the bill book containing the original receipt, a copy of which was widely circulated on social media.With regard to black-marketing of remdesivir and overcharging by ambulances, Delhi chief minister Kejriwal responded, “I just want to say that had we received the oxygen supply and were able to create beds, then an official system could have been prepared. One could also have received the medicines prescribed by the doctors there.” “Now, anyone is laying their hands on whatever they are getting in front of them…The enforcement and police teams as well as teams of the Delhi Government are catching hold of all those engaged in black marketing. The only way to tackle this is by increasing the number of beds on a large scale, in particular, the oxygen beds,” said the chief minister. He added, “Whoever is falling ill due to Covid-19 needs oxygen in the first place… As soon as the oxygen levels of a patient reach 88-89 and oxygen is immediately provided to them, their lives can be saved. But people are unable to get oxygen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-helpline-to-now-address-cheating-harassment-complaints-101619899194406.html
02-05-2021||Other||Tarn Taran man held for killing friend over ₹2,000||A resident of Shaheed village, under Patti Tehsil of Tarn Taran, has been booked and arrested for killing his friend for refusing to loan ₹2,000. The deceased has been identified as Sukhwinder Singh, of the same village, and the accused is Mandeep Singh. In his police complaint, Fateh Singh, the victim’s brother said, “Mandeep demanded ₹2,000 from my brother Sukhwinder, but he refused. On Thursday night, Sukhwinder went out of the house for some work, where Mandeep hit him with a sharp-edged weapon. My brother received severe head injuries and died.” Patti Sadar SHO inspector Harwinder Singh said, “A case has been registered against the accused, Mandeep, under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tarn-taran-man-held-for-killing-friend-over-rs-2000-101619897394796.html
02-05-2021||Other||Punjab collects record ₹1,482-crore as GST in April||Punjab has collected around ₹1,482 crore in revenue from the Goods and Services Tax (GST) in April 2021, the highest amount under this head in any month, since the new system was introduced in the country in July 2017. A spokesperson of the taxation commissioner’s office said that the previous highest monthly revenue from GST was ₹1,216 crores in July 2019. GST revenue in April 2020, when the covid-19 outbreak had led to the first lockdown was a meagre ₹156 crore. The spokesperson added that in April 2019 (a normal year), the GST revenue was ₹1,088 crore and compared to this, Punjab has seen a growth of 36% with sectors like telecom, iron and steel, electronic goods, cement, petroleum products (which attract the GST) making important contribution to the revenue earned for the particular month. In addition to GST, Punjab also collects revenue from Value Added Tax (VAT) and Central Sales Tax (CST), with major contributors under this head being alcohol for human consumption and five petroleum products which are outside the ambit of GST. For April 2021, the total VAT and CST collection stands at ₹701 crore, whereas it was ₹431 crore for the same month in 2019, recording a growth of nearly 63%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-collects-record-rs-1-482-crore-as-gst-in-april-101619896795393.html
02-05-2021||Other||Elgar Parishad: Report citing proof was planted can’t be considered now, says NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has opposed the petition filed by Elgar Parishad accused Rona Wilson, seeking the quashing of the case against him on the basis of a report by US-based digital forensic analyst Arsenal Consultancy, which had stated that a crucial piece of evidence was planted on his computer. NIA contended that the report cannot be taken into consideration at this stage for quashing of the case against him. In an affidavit in reply to Wilson’s petition, the federal agency said that the report does not form part of the charge sheets which are filed by the respondent (NIA) and Pune Police. “It is settled position of law that documents which are not part of the charge sheet cannot be relied by the petitioner, and as such, there is no question of looking into the report of M/s. Arsenal Consultancy, and as such, the entire contention of the petitioner deserves to be rejected as the same are based on the report which does not find place in the present charge sheet,” the affidavit stated. NIA maintained that if at all the report can be considered, it can be done only during trial. “If at all the petitioner wants to rely upon the same [Arsenal report], the only avenue available to him is at the time of leading evidence. The petitioner can very well lead evidence in respect of the same and then prove their case [without admitting that the said case is genuine],” the affidavit stated. Wilson has moved HC in February for quashing of the case against him on the basis of the Arsenal report, which stated that the computer system of the accused was attacked with a malware and the attacker monitored the system for a period of about 22 months, starting from June 22, 2016. The attacker, according to the Arsenal report, had created a hidden folder on Wilson’s laptop on November 3, 2016, and last modified it on April 16, 2018. The pen-drive and other external devices connected to the laptop were also compromised and the malware had synchronised the same. On the basis of the report, commissioned by the American Bar Association, Wilson claimed that the attacker had control over the computer and used virtual proxy server (VPS), making it difficult to identify the exact internet protocol and identity of the attacker who had allegedly planted a letter on the laptop, which was being relied by NIA to build a case under provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Wilson has not only prayed that the FIR and charge sheet filed against him and other co-accused be quashed, but also sought an order to set up a special investigation team (SIT) headed by a retired Supreme Court or high court judge to conduct a forensic analysis of the of the electronic evidence, claimed to have been collected by police against them, and to compensate them for their wrongful detention in the case. NIA has denied the allegation that Wilson was falsely implicated in the case “by planting of false evidence” on his laptop. “There is no question of accepting the contention of the petitioner regarding planting of false evidence or fabricating of the evidence,” stated the affidavit. “Going by the case of the petitioner himself that the alleged attack had taken place even before the FIR (first information report) was lodged, it is for the petitioner to explain as to how this attack has taken place when the device was in his control. As such, the petitioner cannot blame some other person, leave aside independent agencies like the present respondent,” it the affidavit added. Wilson and others have been arrested in connection with the offence registered by Vishrambaug police station in Pune on January 8, 2018, on the basis of a complaint lodged by a local builder, Tushar Damgude. The builder had alleged that members of banned outfit Communist Party of India (Maoist) and Kabir Kala Manch spread hatred through provocative songs, plays and speeches during the Elgar Parishad conclave held at Shaniwar Wada on December 31, 2017. The provocation led to the violence at Bhima Koregaon in Pune district, Damgude had alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elgar-parishad-report-citing-proof-was-planted-can-t-be-considered-now-says-nia-101619896554342.html
02-05-2021||Other||Maharashtra prison authority sets up ‘two-tier protection’ to curb virus spread in jails||Amid the second wave, the prison authority, in a bid to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in state jails, has started building a ‘two-tier protection’ system. Along with temporary prisons (quarantine centres), that were set up last year across the state, this year the authority is also making arrangements for Covid care centres with the help of the local administration.Additional director general (prisons) Sunil Ramanand has directed all jail superintendents across the state to approach the respective district collectors and make arrangements for Covid care centres. So far, the prison authority has set up 21 quarantine centres and seven Covid care centres. “If a new prisoner is to be lodged in a jail, they will have to mandatorily undergo Covid testing and spend 14 days at a quarantine centre, irrespective of their test results. The prisoner will be admitted to a regular jail only if they show no symptoms after 14 days. If a prisoner shows any symptoms during their stay at the centre, then would be shifted to a Covid care centre for treatment. If their condition deteriorates, they would be hospitalised. “By this way, the confirmed cases and suspected ones will be separated. The two-layered protection will keep an effective check on the entry of infected prisoners in the jails, thereby preventing the further spread of the infectious disease in jails,” said a senior prison officer, adding that this will also prevent the entry of prisoners with false negative cases in the jail.Since last April, the prison authorities have conducted 65,340 Covid-19 tests across 44 prisons and jail administrative offices in the state. A total of 3,444 prisoners have tested positive for Covid-19, of which nine have succumbed to the infectious disease. Currently, there are 274 active cases in state jails. The maximum active Covid-19 prisoners have been registered in the Kolhapur and Kalyan prisons at 43 each, followed by Thane (25) and Mumbai’s Arthur Road Central prison (23), a jail officer said.Last year, 36 temporary prisons (quarantine centres) were set up across the state. The temporary prisons (mostly educational institutes which were shut due to lockdown) were discontinued last year as the Covid-19 cases went down. In view of the recent surge in cases this year, these temporary prisons are now being reopened, senior prison officials said.Prison officials believe that the principal reason for spread of the virus in jails is overcrowding, and in this backdrop, every district prison authority has been asked to work in close coordination with the respective under-trial review committees, which are headed by sessions judges, to enable the regular review of the decongestion of prisons, the senior prison officer said.Since March 25 last year, 10,803 prisoners have been released to reduce overcrowding in the prisons. However, some of the jails continue to be highly overcrowded, as the state prisons have accommodated 34,224 prisoners against the capacity of around 24,000.Maharashtra’s prisons have also seen a considerable number of cases among its staff. So far, 4,103 tests have been conducted on state’s prison staff. Of the 822 staffers who were detected positive for Covid-19, nine lost their lives. At present, there are 122 active Covid-19 cases among state’s prison staff. Of the total 3,818 staff in prisons across state, 3,207 have received the vaccine.Indrani Mukerjea tests negativeIndrani Mukerjea, an accused in the Sheena Bora murder case, who was earlier tested positive along with 38 other inmates at the Byculla women’s jail last month, has now tested negative for Covid-19. Fifteen other prisoners have also been tested negative. They would now be shifted back to the prison from the temporary set-up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-prison-authority-sets-up-two-tier-protection-to-curb-virus-spread-in-jails-101619896254173.html
02-05-2021||Other||Two arrested for black marketing remdesivir, 17 vials recovered||New Delhi Continuing its crackdown on hoarders and black marketeers of life-saving drugs, Delhi Police on Friday arrested two men and recovered 17 fake remdesivir vials that they were allegedly selling at inflated rates to Covid patients or their relatives. Police said the accused were allegedly selling each injection for ₹35,000.Deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said the accused, Anshuman (31) and Kartik (24), told police that they had allegedly procured the fake remdesivir injections from two persons, Akarshan from Noida and Anil from Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar. Police are on the lookout for the latter two suspects.According to the DCP, the accused allegedly procured each injection for around ₹9,000 and had already sold more than eight such fake medicines in Paschim Vihar, north Delhi and Rohini over the past few days.Around a fortnight ago, companies that manufacture remdesivir injections had lowered the price of the injections on the government’s request. As per the revised rates, the injection is available at price range of ₹899 to ₹3,490. However, as the demand for the injections soared due to the steep rise in Covid cases, people began hoarding remdesivir, leading to an acute shortage of the injections in the market. Currently, black marketeers are selling the injections to desperate Covid patients and their relatives for prices ranging from ₹25,000 to ₹40,000, senior police officers said.The Shahdara district police on Friday received information that Anshuman would come near Cross River Mall near Anand Vihar around 8 pm to deliver injections to a customer. Accordingly, a trap was laid and Anshuman was caught with an associate Kartik after they arrived in a Honda City car, said DCP Sathiyasundaram.“Anshuman was carrying 10 remdesivir injections in a polybag while Kartik had seven. After verification, all the injections were found fake as the company’s name mentioned on the vials does not exist,” said the DCP, adding that they were now looking for Anil and Akarshan.The crime branch had recently busted a syndicate manufacturing fake remdesivir vials in a factory in Uttarahand’s Kotdwar and selling them in black market through agents. Seven people, including the owner of the factory, were arrested between April 23 and April 29 from Delhi and Haridwar and a total of 198 fake remdesivir vials were seized from them.Police are currently probing if the fake medicines recovered on Friday are from the same manufacturing unit in Uttarakhand or are part of another syndicate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-arrested-for-black-marketing-remdesivir-17-vials-recovered-101619895594230.html
