03-05-2021||Other||Faridkot NGOs face probe for role in O2 cylinder black marketing||Three days after the arrest of two men in West Delhi’s Paschim Vihar for selling oxygen cylinders, procured from the district, at exorbitant rates on Friday, deputy commissioner Vimal Kumar Setia has sought record of NGOs that offer ambulance service in the district. Sources said seven NGOs are running ambulances in the district, and most are without permits from the transport department.Delhi Police have said that Vinay Kumar of Bihar and Kewal Singh of Faridkot used to procure oxygen cylinders from Faridkot and sell these at higher rates in the National Capital Region (NCR). Kewal Singh is a driver of an ambulance run by a Faridkot-based NGO.According to a police officials, both the accused were arrested and six oxygen cylinders were seized. “The duo used to charge between ₹28,000 and ₹35,000 for one oxygen cylinder,” the officer added.Police sources said during interrogation, Kewal has disclosed names of three more ambulance drivers who were also black-marketing oxygen cylinders in Delhi. “We have received information on this. I have asked for the record of all the NGOs working in the area. I will call a meeting to discuss details,” DC Setia added. Superintendent of police Kuldeep Singh Sohi said that the matter is under investigation of the Delhi Police. “We have not received any official communication so far,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/faridkot-ngos-face-probe-for-role-in-o2-cylinder-black-marketing-101620065470301.html
03-05-2021||Other||UP govt to set up panel of health experts on Covid management||LUCKNOW The state government will set up a panel of health experts drawn from premier medical institutes to advise Team-9 on Covid control in Uttar Pradesh. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath made the announcement at a Covid review meeting with Team-9 here.This will be the first time the state will have such a Covid-focused panel of health experts, said the state government on Monday. There was no such panel to assist Team-11 that was engaged in Covid management in the state during the first wave. The decision was taken on a day on which the state reported 29,192 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking its total case count to 13,42,413 while the death toll reached 13,447 with 288 more fatalities, according to official data.Reputed medical experts from SGPGIMS (Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences), KGMU (King George’s Medical University), Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University and RML Institute (Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences) will join the advisory panel, said a state government statement.Team-9, formed to deal with the second wave of Covid pandemic, is a restructured form of Team-11. It consists of the health minister, the medical education minister and several top bureaucrats in the state.At the meeting, Adityanath stressed the need for such an advisory panel for effective control and necessary strategy on Covid-19.He said the current strain of the coronavirus had constantly been mutating and was 30 to 50 times more infectious than it was in the first wave.“In some cases, it has been observed that Covid’s TrueNat, antigen or RT-PCR test rule out Covid even though CT scans (of the chest) show that a patient’s lungs are infected. Such a problem has also been observed in people without symptoms,” he added.He once again asked for setting up of teams like Team-9 at each of the 75 districts and these teams would report daily to the chief minister’s office.Yogi said that in last 24 hours a total of 38,687 had recovered. So far, 10.43 lakh people recovered from Covid since the first case last year.Regarding oxygen supply, Yogi said that rail, road, and air routes were being used to transport oxygen. Within two days, 40 tonnes of oxygen from Jamnagar (Gujarat) would come on an Oxygen Express train while a 10-tanker Oxygen Express from Jamshedpur had left for UP.Rural testing drive deferred by a dayThe chief minister asked Team-9 to launch an extensive Covid testing and tracing drive in the villages from May 5. Earlier, the chief minister had announced May 4 as the launch date for the drive. Owing to a delay in the conclusion of the vote count for the panchayat polls, the launch has been deferred by a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-to-set-up-panel-of-health-experts-on-covid-management-101620063189274.html
03-05-2021||Other||Rewari, Hisar deaths: Probe panels yet to submit reports||A week after nine Covid patients - four in Rewari and five in Hisar - succumbed after the oxygen supply at two private hospitals where they were undergoing treatment allegedly ran out, the magisterial-level inquiry committees set up to look into these deaths are yet to submits reports despite the 48-hour deadline to do so.On April 25, four people, including three residents of Rewari and a 48-year-old Delhi resident, had allegedly died because of low pressure of oxygen at Virat Hospital, Rewari.The next day, five Covid patients, including a 26-year-old man, two men over the age of 40 and two over 60 years of age succumbed after the oxygen supply at a private hospital, Soni Burns Hospital in Hisar allegedly ran out. Three of them hailed from Hisar, and one each from Delhi and Punjab.Mahendergarh deputy commissioner Ajay Kumar, who has additional charge of Rewari DC, had set up a committee under the supervision of Rewari ADC Rahul Hooda to investigate the case in which four people died at Virat Hospital and submit a report within 48 hours.Hisar DC Priyanka Soni had formed a medical negligence board to analyse the reasons behind five deaths that occurred at Soni Burns Hospital.The authorities of both hospitals blamed Rewari and Hisar district administrations for the incidents saying that they had intimidated the officials about shortage of oxygen supply but they failed to provide oxygen.Rewari DC Yashendra Singh, who has just returned after completing his training, said the inquiry report has been delayed because ADC Rahul Hooda, who was supervising the committee had tested positive for Covid and is in home isolation.“Inquiry will be initiated once Rahul joins work. Statements of hospital managements and doctors who were on duty at the time of the incident and district health officials will be recorded. The report is likely to be delayed by a week more,” the Rewari DC said.The Hisar DC said district health officials appeared before the medical negligence board and their statements have been recorded.“We have sought information from Dr Rajat Soni, head of the private hospital, to submit his reply on five deaths. He provided some information and we have sought more details from him. As he tested positive for Covid, we have asked him to appear before the board through an online medium. we are hoping that the board will submit its report within next two to three days after recording Soni’s statement ,” the DC added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rewari-hisar-deaths-probe-panels-yet-to-submit-reports-101620061389457.html
03-05-2021||Other||Arrival of wheat crosses target of 80 lakh MT in Haryana||Even as the procurement of wheat has already crossed Haryana government’s set target of 80 lakh MT, arrival in mandis continues.As per figures by the Haryana food and civil supplies department, the procurement agencies have procured 80.51 lakh MT wheat by May 1. Arrival in mandis is still going on as around 83.53 lakh MT wheat has reached the mandis in state.Expecting a bumper crop this year, the Haryana government had increased the target to procure 80 lakh MT against last year’s 74 lakh MT.But officials from the grain markets said that tonnes of wheat is still lying unprocured in mandis as commission agents have asked farmers to bring their produce without any schedule.“I unloaded wheat of 4 acre in the Ladwa grain market of Kurukshetra a week ago but as of now, my arhtiya has not given me the J-Form as he said that it will be generated after wheat is procured officially,” said farmer Krishan Kumar.There were reports that the arrival of wheat has reached over 125% than last year in many mandis of state as farmers from Uttar Pradesh had sold their produce in the portal of farmers of Haryana.For instance, in Karnal grain market, this year around 15 lakh quintals wheat has arrived against 12.40 lakh quintal of last year.“This year, the government had fixed per acre yield to 30 quintal, whereas the average yield remains at around 20-22 quintal per acre. This helped the arhtiyas make additional procurement of around 8-10 quintal behind registration of every acre with the help of local farmers,” said an official of Karnal grain market.Reacting over the development, additional chief secretary (food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department) Anurag Rastogi said, “The target of procuring 80 lakh MT wheat was fixed by the Union government but the actual procurement can be less or more than the target.”On whether the government has any plans to procure more wheat from Haryana as the crop is still arriving in the mandis and procurement has exceeded the target, he said, “No, the target does not change.”As per figures, total 4.99 lakh farmers have sold wheat in state mandis so far, total 9.15 lakh J-Forms have been generated, and ₹9,270 crore have been disbursed into bank accounts of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/arrival-of-wheat-crosses-target-of-80-lakh-mt-in-haryana-101620061278085.html
03-05-2021||Other||Haryana Police struggle to enforce fresh Covid lockdown||The first day of the week-long lockdown in Haryana received a mixed response in the state, where police struggled to keep people off the roads and markets while routine traffic continued on highways and link roads.The Haryana government had announced the lockdown to curb an alarming rise in Covid cases during the second wave of the virus in state.Despite closure of shops and other establishments, movement of private vehicles continued on Monday.Moreover, there was no major impact on movement of traffic on highways and city and link roads were also busy in Kurukshetra, Panipat, Rohtak, Hisar, Jhajjar, Ambala, Yamunanagar and Kaithal.State health and home minister Anil Vij appealed to residents to adhere to the curbs. “I never wanted to impose a lockdown, but people are not following Covid-appropriate behaviour,” Vij said.“People are not following the guidelines and coming out without any valid reason,” a cop deputed on NH-44 said.Another senior police officer said since the restrictions are limited to only a few places and people coming out in large numbers, police cannot stop every commuter.“We have deputed senior cops to monitor the situation and violators are being challaned for coming out without permission,” said Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia.He said that police checkposts are erected to enforce the lockdown and violators were being booked. Total 230 people were challaned and four FIRs were registered against the violators in Karnal by 5pm on Monday.Panipat SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said police are monitoring the situation closely and all educational institutions, malls, religious places, eateries and cinema halls were closed.Following reports that people are not following the lockdown guidelines, Kaithal SP Lokender Singh said police have been alerted for strict action against violators.Ambala DC Ashok Kumar Sharma, in an order, listed out exempted services and appointed duty magistrates for different areas. In Yamunanagar, migrant labourers were seen walking with luggage towards their hometowns.Though there were fewer vehicles on roads as prohibitory orders were imposed, police were seen taking rounds in Rohtak, asking shopkeepers except chemists to close their shops People were seen waiting around vegetable and fruit stalls near Jat Bhawan in Rohtak, flouting social distancing norms. But after 11am, police got cracking and the streets wore a deserted look.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-police-struggle-to-enforce-fresh-covid-lockdown-101620061149697.html
03-05-2021||Other||Lockdown necessary to break Covid chain: Khattar||The medical oxygen quota of Nalhar Medical College in Nuh will be increased in order to increase the number of beds to treat Covid-19 patients, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said.Khattar, who was on a whirlwind visit of the state to review Covid preparedness on Monday, said lockdown had become imperative.“We know that people have a problem with the decision of imposing a lockdown, but to break the infection chain it had become necessary to impose it,” he said.Urging people not to step out of their houses unless necessary, he said people should wear mask and follow Covid protocol. “At this hour of crisis, staying at home is the best way to safeguard ourselves from this deadly virus,” Khattar said.He presided over a meeting with officers of the health department and district administration at Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, Nalhar, Nuh.He said the government is constantly taking steps to ensure availability of oxygen at the medical college. For this, containers will be arranged so that oxygen can be stored.STATE RECORDS 12,885 COVID CASES, 140 FATALITIESAbout 54% of total 12,885 fresh Covid-19 cases in Haryana on Monday were detected in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Jhajjar, Rewari, Palwal and Nuh districts adjoining to Delhi.On the other hand, the caseload of fresh cases in Panchkula, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal, Panipat and Jind was about 23% of the total cases, according to the health bulletin.The state recorded 140 fatalities with the highest of 17 people succumbing to the virus in Hisar, 16 in Rohtak, 15 in Fatehabad, 11 each in Mahendergarh and Karnal, 10 each in Ambala and Gurugram, and nine each in Panipat and Kaithal.As many as 13,293 people recovered and the number of active patients rose to 1,04,722.Gurugram logged 3,037 fresh cases, Faridabad 1,805, Sonepat 1,185, Hisar 1,156, Ambala 379, Karnal 449, Panipat 652, Rohtak 411, Rewari 292, Panchkula 250, Kurukshetra 317, Yamunanagar 215, Sirsa 361, Mahendergarh 238, Bhiwani 467, Jhajjar 290, Palwal 127, Fatehabad 356, Kaithal 261, Jind 411, Nuh 193 and Charkhi Dadri 33.WILL HOME DELIVER MEDICAL OXYGEN: KARNAL DCAfter the oxygen on wheel initiative for emergency supply of oxygen to hospitals, Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said that the administration will also start home delivery of medical oxygen, if required.He said there is no shortage of oxygen in district. “Non-critical patients need not be admitted at hospital. We are ready for home delivery of oxygen to them so they should avoid coming out amid lockdown,” he added.He said block-level Covid hospitals will also be set up to help patients. There are 448 beds with oxygen support in district and 419 of them are occupied whereas all 219 ICU beds in district are occupied.STATE EDU MINISTER HOLDS REVIEW MEETINGState education minister Kanwar Pal and Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia held a meeting with officials of the district administration to review arrangements made for Covid patients.He said the storage capacity of oxygen plant at KCGMCH, Karnal is being reduced to 20,000kg. Moreover, an organisation has offered to set up a 15 tonne oxygen generation plant in Karnal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lockdown-necessary-to-break-covid-chain-khattar-101620060793006.html
03-05-2021||Other||Medical officer posts increased from 200 to 250 in Punjab; recruitment test on May 7||The Punjab government has increased the number of posts of medical officers (general), under the department of health and family welfare from 200 to 250 to help battle the second wave of the covid-19 infection. Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, will conduct the recruitment through a written test on May 7. BFUHS vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur said to fight the emerging situation arising out of the pandemic’s spread, the step was much needed. “The additional number will strengthen the health care system to tackle covid surge,” he said, adding that 21 centres will be set up at Faridkot, Amritsar, Jalandhar and Mohali to conduct the test. Around 2,000 aspirants have applied online for the recruitment exam.“We are going to set up examination centres in all the zones of Punjab. We are making centres at Faridkot, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Mohali, so aspirants don’t face any problem reaching their centres. Following covid-19 guidelines, a maximum of 100 students will be allowed at one centre,” said the V-C. The BFUHS has also announced that those appearing for the written test have to bring a rapid antigen covid-19 negative test report.“Those reporting at the examination centre without a negative rapid antigen covid report will not be allowed to appear for the test,” said Dr Ruhee Dugg, BFUHS, registrar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/medical-officer-posts-increased-from-200-to-250-in-punjab-recruitment-test-on-may-7-101620059828994.html
03-05-2021||Other||Bank manager, employee held for forging deceased customer’s signature, accessing funds||PUNE The manager of a bank is among two people remanded to the custody of Pune police on Monday, for forging a customer’s signature to gain access to his investment fund after his death.The arrested man has been identified as Juben Gandhi (35) a manager at the bank. The other accused is Ankita Ranjan (30), a relationship officer at the bank who was handling the affairs for the now-deceased man in his final days, according to police. The two are in police custody till May 6.“While he was alive, the woman was his relationship manager and had a good idea about his finances. She had gotten her number attached with his bank account while he was alive in order to keep track of his account activity. However, that information was later misused,” said senior inspector Gajanan Pawar of Vimantal police station.A complaint in the matter has been lodged by Chandrashekhar Rajagopalan (53), a resident of Vimannagar, whose father is the victim. Rajagopalan’s father passed away on March 10 after which he came in possession of his mobile phone.On March 22, an SMS arrived on the old man’s phone that claimed that a transaction request related to a mutual fund investment was declined due to a signature mismatch.The complainant went to his bank to check on his father’s bank account and found that a forged signature was used on March 24 to close a fixed deposit and funds worth ₹2,37,000 had gone missing. Moreover, money from his father’s bank account had also been moved, according to the complaint.A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for cheating), and 471 (using forged document of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Vimantal police station||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bank-manager-employee-held-for-forging-deceased-customer-s-signature-accessing-funds-101620058508062.html
03-05-2021||Other||CPI MLA survives bid on life||PATNAThe Samastipur police on Monday registered a case of attempt to murder against three persons in connection with the attack on the vehicle of CPI leader Ajay Kumar, the MLA from Bibhutipur, at Yogi Chowk under Ujiyarpur police station late Sunday night.Kumar said the incident took place when he was returning home after attending a wedding function. When he reached near Yogi Chowk, motorcycle-borne miscreants intercepted his vehicle, whipped out their firearms and tried to fire at him. However, the MLA’s bodyguards thwarted them and fired a few shots. The miscreants fled the spot, leaving behind their motorcycle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cpi-mla-survives-bid-on-life-101620057848013.html
03-05-2021||Other||4 wholesale veg markets to be relocated in Patna||PATNAThe Patna district administration has decided to relocate four wholesale vegetable markets to avoid crowding and help maintain Covid protocol, as the state capital continued to remain a hotspot, contributing 2,028 of the 11,407 new Covid-19 infections in the state during the last 24 hours on Monday. Patna also accounted for 24 of the 82 Covid-19 deaths in the state during this period, which takes the state’s cumulative casualties to 2,821 and cases to 5.09 lakh since the detection of the first Covid-19 case in the state on March 22 last year. Among those who died on Sunday were the registrar of the Veer Kuer Singh University Nanheshwar Prasad and Narvadeshwar Rai, principal of the Lokmanya Balgangadhar Tilak College, Buxar. The Patna district administration ordered shifting of the Mithapur wholesale vegetable market to Chitkohra ground and the Digha market to ITI Maidan, which were comparatively more spacious. It had also ordered shifting of the Kankerbagh and the Rajendra Nagar vegetable markets to Rainbow Maidan, Rajendra Nagar. Meanwhile, the health authorities have decided to add 112 oxygenated beds for Covid-19 patients at the Patliputra Sports Complex in Kankerbagh locality of Patna. “The system doesn’t show admission of patients at the Patliputra sports complex today. We are trying to make the facility functional as soon as possible,” said Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh. “From May 1, we have added 100 beds at the ESIC Bihta hospital and 115 at the Rajendra Nagar eye hospital. Eighty-four of the 115 beds at the Rajendra Nagar facility are oxygenated beds,” said Dr Singh. “We’re increasing beds in Patna as well as in other medical college hospitals. We’ve a continuous supply of oxygen and we’re allotting oxygen to hospitals as per their need. We’re also working on increasing the availability of oxygen,” said an ANI tweet, quoting Bihar’s health minister Mangal Pandey. Other than Patna, Vaishali district contributed to 1,035 new infections, Gaya 662, Muzaffarpur 653 and West Champaran 549 among others during the last 24 hours on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-wholesale-veg-markets-to-be-relocated-in-patna-101620057787949.html
03-05-2021||Other||IMA for lockdown to break Covid chain||PATNAThe Indian Medical Association (IMA) has demanded an immediate national lockdown to break the chain of coronavirus, after 13,534 new infections and 97 deaths during the last 24 hours on Sunday took Bihar’s cumulative Covid-19 tally to 4.97 lakh cases and 2,739 deaths. “We will appeal to the government to impose an immediate 15-day national lockdown to break the Covid-19 chain,” said Dr Sahajanand Prasad Singh, president-elect of the IMA. Dr Singh, who has been advocating for a national lockdown for around 15 days now, said it would ease the burden on heathcare facilities, which are already stressed. Dr Ajay Kumar, acting president of the IMA, Bihar chapter, said many senior doctors and heads of institutions were also in favour of a lockdown. “Many senior doctors, I spoke to, are in favour of an immediate lockdown. I have spoken to the directors of AIIMS-Patna, Dr PK Singh, and the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), Dr NR Biswas, besides the principal of the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) Dr Vidyapati Choudhary, superintendents of PMCH Dr IS Thakur, NMCH Dr Binod Kumar Singh and the Netaji Subhas Medical College and Hospital Dr Uday Kumar, and they are unanimous about a lockdown,” said Dr Kumar. “We are also trying to involve in our campaign for a lockdown the heads of medical units of BJP and JD(U), but they are yet to respond,” Dr Kumar said. He said the United Kingdom and China did well to contain the spread of virus by imposing lockdowns. “The United States of America, on the other hand, had to pay a heavy price for not imposing a lockdown,” Dr Kumar said. Talking about the lack of awareness in rural areas, he said there were still many people who came for consultation at his private clinic in Maner without wearing mask, and he ended up giving them one in order to sensitise them against the virus. Besides, six out of seven people, who come to my clinic with complaint of fever, still do not get themselves tested for Covid-19, roaming around freely, without masks, spreading the virus in the society,” recollected Dr Kumar. “Free movement of all such people will be curbed and the Covid-19 chain broken in case a lockdown is imposed, though some may argue that the country’s economy will suffer. Still, the risk is worth taking,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ima-for-lockdown-to-break-covid-chain-101620057728673.html
03-05-2021||Other||Bihar govt gripped in a state of indecision: HC||PATNAThe Patna High Court Monday said the state’s health department was fighting the Covid battle without of help of experts in their respective fields and the hospitals were struggling without adequate supply of oxygen, important drugs and manpower. “It is like complete failure, as infection seems to be unabated. The government seems to be gripped in a state of indecision,” it said.The court’s observation came after the director of the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), Patna, declared Covid hospital by the state government, said it had only 200 beds available, including 60 ICU beds, and it could not admit more patients due to irregular/short supply of oxygen cylinders and lack of required manpower. The bench of Justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh and Justice Mohit Kumar Shah observed that the situation was even worse at ESIC Hospital in Bihta after the authorities informed the court about the problems due to non-availability of medicines. “The doctors deputed there by the armed forces are virtually sitting idle. The government is not able to provide adequate support,” the court was informed. Upset over wrong facts submitted before the court that IGIMS was fully converted into Covid hospital and ESIC had 500 beds, the bench said that what the state government had furnished before the court in the name of a comprehensive action could “by no means be treated as an action plan, let alone a comprehensive action plan”. “We had directed the state government to prepare a comprehensive action plan for Covid management on April 15 and since then we have been reiterating during every hearing, but to no avail,” it observed. The court said that in the absence of an action plan, the system appeared to be moving aimlessly. “When the court wanted to know whether the state determined the quantity of oxygen it would require for treating Covid patients, it was informed that such determination is based on the number of patients in hospitals. This calculation is not displayed in the so-called action plan. We want a war room, comprising experts, to be developed to deal with the alarming situation,” it said. The bench also took note of the black marketing of essential drugs and oxygen and said it would hear all the aspects again on Tuesday, including the composition of an experts’ group. Advocate general Lalit Kishore, appearing for the state, told the court that if permitted, the state shall constitute a team of experts to advise the state government. Additional advocate general Anjani Kumar informed the court that against the allocated quota of 194 MT of oxygen by the Centre, Bihar had lifted 134 MT. “The state is facing unprecedented challenge, but a government hospital with less beds is raising demand for more oxygen, while others with more beds are struggling for it. The pace of RTPCR tests is also very slow and even slower is the supply of reports to the patients. The undertaking of the health department that the CT value will be displayed in all the RTPCR reports is also not fully honoured. It is a matter of serious concern for us, as it adversely affects treatment. The state must inform the court regarding development in this regard,” the court said. The court had last week expressed displeasure over lack of a strong information system and directed the state’s principal secretary (health) to ensure that the information regarding Covid care centres and hospitals, with their respective addresses and phone numbers, are put on the website of the health department by Friday so that the people in need may approach appropriate centers/hospitals for Covid treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-govt-gripped-in-a-state-of-indecision-hc-101620057727950.html
03-05-2021||Other||After hospitals, a dedicated crematorium for Covid patients||PATNAConsidering the rising number of Covid-19 deaths and long wait at crematoriums, the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to dedicate Bans Ghat crematorium for cremation of Covid-19 victims from Tuesday onwards, said PMC officials on Monday.The civic body has made an alternative arrangement at Patna City-based Nandgola ghat for performing last rites of those who have died of other ailments.Municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma said, “As crematoriums are witnessing long queues because of Covid-19 deaths, we have decided to dedicate Bans Ghat crematorium for the last rites of Covid-19 patients. Rest of the cremation sites, including Gulbi Ghat, Khajekalan Ghat and Nandgola Ghat, will continue the cremation of Covid and non-Covid patients. Like other crematoriums, Nandgola Ghat will also have CCTV camera installation and ‘May I help you’ desk for strict vigil and assistance of grieving families.”“To overcome shortage of wooden pyres at all crematoriums, we have procured the same from Bengal and Sikkim. We have provided 250 tonnes of wooden pyres at Khajekala Ghat and 20 tonnes at Gulbi ghat. Around 50 tonnes of wood will reach here on Tuesday,” he said.PMC provides electric and wooden cremation facilities of Covid-19 victims for free and fixed rates for non-Covid deaths at all three ghats under its jurisdiction. Sharma appealed to people to contact control rooms and provide prior information before visiting cremation sites.“People are requested to inform control rooms of crematoriums and enquire about time slot before taking the bodies of the deceased there. Prior information will help crematorium staff make advance preparations for last rites. This will minimise the time required for cremation and prevent gathering at ghats,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-hospitals-a-dedicated-crematorium-for-covid-patients-101620057667916.html
03-05-2021||Other||Rare butterfly species documented on Vetal tekdi by city research students||PUNE The Plains Blue Royal butterfly has been sighted for the first time in the Pune district on Vetal tekdi (hill) in 2020.This butterfly is one among findings on 87 butterflies on Vetal tekdi by five students from the city whose research has been published in the Journal of the Indian Ecological Society in April. Besides the Indian Plains Blue Royal, the students also found several seasonal butterflies like the Silverlines, Albatrosses, and Orange and Crimson Tips, as well as Pioneers and Gulls.The research paper is a collaboration between Rajat Joshi and Kalyani Bawa, students of environmental sciences in Fergusson College; and Advait Chaudhari and Atharva Bapat, data science students at MIT, Pune; and Swanand Oak, a student of hospitality sciences. The five began to document these butterfly species from 2017. “We traversed six different paths connected to the hill and documented the butterfly species using line transect methods in sunlight conditions on pleasant sunny days,” said Joshi.“Butterflies are amongst the most important creatures thriving in an ecosystem. These are sensitive to their habitat changes and we get to know the state of a particular habitat due to their presence. These are vital pollinating agents and an important food link in the intricate food chains,” said Joshi, who got interested in butterfly watching and photography in Fergusson College, due to a college assignment. “Vetal tekdi is in the heart of the Pune city and an attraction to various nature lovers due to the varied ecological forms here. Many people enjoy the proximity of the green woodland trees, grasslands and the stone quarry filled with water for most of the year. The hill is decorated with various life-forms prevailing on it,” said Kalyani Bawa.From being Sunday photographers of flora and fauna, the students aimed at protection of the butterfly species. “There has been construction planned on the hill premises which would prove dangerous for the local biodiversity to thrive. Thus, considering the ecological point of view, along with educating the people about the lesser known aspects of nature, we selected the hill,” said Joshi.“The most important thing is public participation. Linking the scientific knowledge with the citizens will develop awareness about the rare butterfly species. The awareness would lead to a people’s movement in protecting and conserving the butterflies, as well as the tekdi, from human disturbances,” added Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rare-butterfly-species-documented-on-vetal-tekdi-by-city-research-students-101620051546742.html
03-05-2021||Other||Jica, riverfront devp projects hinge on PMC ability to ensure all sewage generated is treated||PUNE Though, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to spend at least ₹1,000 crore to treat sewage water released into the Mula-Mutha river, the PMC still has to install an additional sewage treatment plant to its waste management portfolio.The PMC has begun work on two major projects which are inter-dependent. The Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica) funded pollution abatement of the Mula-Mutha river and the Mula-Mutha riverfront development project.Under the Jica project, the PMC will construct 11 new sewage treatment plants (STPs) in different parts of the city.Presently, the city generates 744 million litres per day (MLD) of sewage and treats 550 MLD. The project will create an additional treatment capacity of 396 MLD. This includes the laying down of 113.6km of sewage lines and renovation/rehabilitation of four existing intermediate pumping stations. When the Jica project is completed in 2025, it will process 850 MLD of sewage, whereas the sewage generation in the city then is expected to increase to 1,200 MLD.The riverfront development project aims to curb sewage flowing directly into Pune’s rivers by laying an interceptor sewer, which will curb and divert the sewage to the nearest STP. It therefore becomes essential to plan for infrastructure services in advance. The embankment will be so designed that it will house the interceptor sewer line.Vivek Velankar, convenor of the Sajag Nagrik Manch, said, “On the riverfront development project, the corporation is assuming that Jica will take care of all the sewage water. However, Jica will happen in 2025 and will treat only 860 MLD of sewage water, as mentioned in the project. By that time, there will be an increase of 350 MLD of sewage flowing into the river. The whole riverfront development project will be useless. Due to the merger of new villages, sewage will increase.”He added, “Jica and the riverfront projects are dependent on each other. If we cannot stop sewage and clean rivers, there is no use implementing a riverfront project. If all sewage released in the river is not treated, finally public money will be wasted.” Mashish Ghorpade, director and a member of Jeevitnadi, said, “Before implementing a riverfront development project, PMC should frame water quality norms. PMC should achieve a certain type of water quality. Otherwise, there is no point in spending crores of rupees on the project.Sarang Yadwadkar, environmentalist, said, “The river should be clean before implementing a riverfront development project. PMC has to give priority to cleaning the river rather than beautification of the riverfront.” Mangesh Dhighe, PMC’s environment officer said, “Water has to be treated. There is definitely a requirement of more sewage treatment plants because of the addition of villages. We will air mark the areas for new STPs. If Jica falls short, we definitely need more numbers of STPs.”Jagdish Khanore, project head of Jica, said, “The main purpose of Jica is to treat sewage water and release it in the river so that clean water will flow in the river. Jica has considered the project population of the existing city area. It has not considered the proposed merger of 23 villages in PMC limits. We will have to make another plan to treat sewage water generated in these villages. At present, we have made plans for the 11 merged villages worth ₹392 crore, to treat 107 MLD of sewage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jica-riverfront-devp-projects-hinge-on-pmc-ability-to-ensure-all-sewage-generated-is-treated-101620050406678.html
03-05-2021||Other||Karnataka bypolls gives hope for Congress revival in state||The Congress emerged victorious in one of the three bypolls in Karnataka and managed to make significant gains in Belagavi that infuses new hope into a party, which analysts said, appears to nurse the potential to reinvigorate its fledgling strategies and its chances in the 2023 assembly elections.Despite the poor outing of the Congress in other state elections, such as West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Kerala among other places, the results in Karnataka paint a picture of hope for a chance at power for the Congress. DK Shivakumar, the party’s state unit president, said that the results hint that the people were showing their confidence in the party.With just two years to go for the assembly polls, the Congress has an opportunity to capitalise on the internal bickering within the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the growing voices against chief minister BS Yediyurappa, they add.“If they (Congress) make their candidate choice strategically and carefully, they can fight the BJP,” A Narayana, political analyst and faculty at the Azim Premji University in Bengaluru said.Also Read | Karnataka deputy CM Ashwathnarayan appointed as chairman of Covid-19 task forceNayarayan adds that Satish Jarkiholi was a strong local face who was not “paradropped” by the high command, and has influence over the district which can help “stop the juggernaut” of the BJP. The BJP is a cadre-based party as opposed to the Congress that depends on mass support. The supporters of the BJP are more likely to vote for the party and Prime Minister Narendra Modi than the candidate but the same may not be true for the Congress.Analysts said that the Congress has gained in Karnataka by decentralising power, leaving more decision-making powers with the local units than with the high command. However, this has led to the creation of local chieftains like Siddharamaiah who refuse to cede control over party affairs to Shivakumar, who is party president in the state, analysts said. In the case of Belagavi, the party chose Satish Jarkiholi, a legislator known to be politically tactful, despite his well-known differences with Shivakumar, who is known to put the interests of the party over his personal gains. Jarkiholi lost Belagavi by just around 5,200 votes against Mangala Suresh Angadi. In comparison, the Congress candidate in 2019 lost to the late Suresh Angadi of the BJP in 2019 by a margin of nearly 400,000 votes.Though the BJP has made light of any talk on Congress revival in Karnataka, indicators such as local body elections, run on extremely hyper local issues, point to a potentially contrasting narrative.The Congress won six out of the 10 urban local body (ULB) elections across several districts in Karnataka, including pockets of Shivamogga, the home district of chief minister Yediyurappa.The results came as an embarrassment to the ruling BJP, which is yet to put its house in order despite being in power for two years in the state. With allegations of mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic situation, poor performance, cash crunch, running a parallel administration through his second son (BY Vijayendra) and simmering dissent, Yediyurappa has spent most of his time in office managing one crisis after another.The other factor, analysts said, that was helping the Congress was the gradual dilution of the former prime minister HD Deve Gowda and former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S).Analysts also said that the Congress has put Siddharamaiah and Shivakumar at the helm of affairs which gives them the best chance for a revival, if the two can manage to put their differences aside.“We have seen the gradual dilution of the JD(S), are increasingly getting marginalised and searching for a political identity for themselves. So that gives the Congress greater credibility in terms of revivalism in Karnataka politics,” Vinod MJ, a Bengaluru-based political analyst said.“This is a kind of revival that the BJP cannot ignore,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnataka-bypolls-gives-hope-for-congress-revival-in-state-101620046566380.html
03-05-2021||Other||Union minister Thawar Gehlot’s daughter succumbs to Covid in Indore||Union Social Justice and Empowerment minister Thawar Chand Gehlot’s daughter Yogita Solanki succumbed to Covid at the Medanta hospital in Indore, Madhya Pradesh, on Monday. The minister’s office said Solanki’s infection was detected about a fortnight ago.“She died this morning after suffering a heart attack. According to doctors, there was a blood clot which also caused a paralytic attack,” a statement by the minister’s office said.“Her RT-PCR test report was negative but there were symptoms,’’ said an aide to the minister. “When they got a HR-CT scan done, they found 90% damage to her lungs after which she was admitted to hospital.’’ Also Read | Covid-19 vaccination begins at Delhi’s 301 centres for 18-45 age groupInitially, the 44-year-old was taken to a hospital in Ujjain as the family is based there, but as her condition deteriorated, she was moved to Indore.The official said Solanki was a homemaker who was survived by her husband who works with the health department and two children, a 23-year-old daughter and a 20-year-old son. Gehlot left for Ujjain after attending the Prime Minister’s special meeting of the council of ministers last Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/union-minister-thawar-gehlot-s-daughter-succumbs-to-covid-in-indore-101620030660774.html
03-05-2021||Other||Bihar incentivises oxygen production amid shortage for Covid patients||The Bihar government has cleared Oxygen Production Policy 2021 pledging financial assistance for establishing oxygen manufacturing and related capacities in the state at a time when an acute shortage of the gas has taken lives of many Covid-19 patients across the country.“This policy has been introduced with an aim to leverage the opportunities in oxygen manufacturing and to make Bihar self-dependent in production of oxygen,” said state industry minister Shahnawaz Husain.Hospitals in Bihar are currently struggling to maintain adequate supply of medical oxygen due to its high demand among the record number of Covid-19 patients infected in the second wave of the disease since February. Many lives have been lost nationally with hospitals running out of oxygen, prompting a diversion of oxygen supplies to struggling states.Bihar added 13,534 new Covid cases and recorded 97 fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 497,640 and the death toll to 2,739 on Sunday. 40 of these deaths registered on Sunday were reported from capital Patna, where it was difficult to find hospital beds, both in public and private facilities. The state capital reported 2,748 new infections on Sunday- the most by any district.The minister said the oxygen production policy will support the efforts to contain the Covid-19 crisis and will promote, facilitate and incentivise investment in medical and industrial Oxygen manufacturing units in Bihar to lessen the dependence on other states. It will also help create local skilled manpower and employment opportunities in the oxygen manufacturing sector, he added.Underlining the efforts to augment the state’s oxygen generation capacity, the minister claimed that while at the beginning of the current month, Bihar had 11 oxygen refilling plants supplying 16 tonnes of LMO, it had now increased to 19 plants supplying 110 tonne of LMO.As on April 22, Bihar required 157.67 MT (metric tonne) of oxygen for oxygenated beds and 12.42 MT of oxygen for ICU beds, which totals to 170.09 MT. On April 25, Bihar had 156 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) followed by 119 tonnes on April 28 and 107 tonnes on April 29, suggesting an increase in shortfall of the life-saving gas.Supply of 194 MT medical oxygen per day from the Centre will fill the shortage of around 40-50 MT (approximately) that the state is facing, said an official, who wished not to be quoted. The Centre on Sunday increased Bihar’s oxygen quota to 214 MT.Under the new Oxygen Production Policy 2021, the state government will provide 30% capital subsidy for establishing plant and machinery with maximum assistance limit of ₹25 crore for cryogenic oxygen plants producing liquid medical oxygen (LMO); ₹0.25 crores for setting up oxygen storage tanks at existing hospitals, and a maximum of ₹75 crore for oxygen cylinder manufacturing.Investments from the underprivileged social groups of Scheduled Castes (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST), Extremely Backward Castes (EBC), women, differently-abled, war-widows, acid attack victims and the third gender, will get a capital incentive of 15.75%.“For availing incentives under this policy, the eligible units will be required to submit Stage-1 application and also apply for financial clearance latest by September 31. This policy will remain in operation till 31st March 2025,” said HusainNoted analyst and former director of the A N Sinha Institute of Social studies, D M Diwakar said the policy was introduced very late by the government.“This policy has come too late and speaks of the government’s insensitiveness towards common people. The proposal for plants, as per policy document, has to be submitted by September. How will the government cope with the requirement in-between? No work has been done in Bihar’s health system and people have been pushed to the wall,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-incentivises-oxygen-production-amid-shortage-for-covid-patients-101620022381189.html
03-05-2021||Other||BIT Sindri alumnus donates $1 million to PM Cares||KP Singh, an alumnus of Sindri’s Birsa Institute of Technology (BIT) and founder of a multinational nuclear company, has donated $1 million to PM Cares Fund for combating the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic in India, officials said on Sunday. Set up by the central government during the coronavirus outbreak last year, the PM Cares Fund is aimed at providing relief and financing research to fight the crisis.Confirming the same, BIT Sindri director Prof DK Singh said USA-based KP Singh, a 1967 batch alumnus, transferred the amount through BIT Sindri Alumnus Association of North America chapter. “ KP Singh , who belongs to Lakhisarai district of Bihar, besides donation of $ 1 million in PM Cares Fund, has also announced to set up a 100-bed hospital at a cost of $30 million at his native place of Barahiya town in Lakhisarai. The Government of Indian has directed Lakhisarai district administration to provide land in Barahiya for the ambitious project,” said the BIT director.BIT Sindri Alumnus Association has seven chapters abroad and 24 chapters in the country. KP Singh is founder of Holtec International , a supplier of nuclear energy equipment. At present, his company supplies equipment for a nuclear plant in Maharashtra. After completing his B.Tech from BIT Sindri in 1967, he completed MS in Engineering in 1969 and PhD in Mechanical Engineering in 1972 from University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia state of USA.Ghanshyam Rai, training and placement officer of BIT Sindri, while highly KP Singh’s initiative said the institution was thankful for his help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bit-sindri-alumnus-donates-1-million-to-pm-cares-101620017219691.html
03-05-2021||Other||Bihar reports 97 new deaths, 13500 cases in last 24 hours||PATNABihar on Sunday reported 97 coronavirus deaths, 30 of them in Patna, eve as the state added 13,534 new cases, taking the state’s cumulative cases to 4,97,640 and deaths 2,739. Patna, with 2,748 new infections during the last 24 hours, topped the districts with most number of cases as patients found it difficult to get hospitals beds, both in public and private facilities. Hospital beds were scarce as the AIIMS, the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), which has been designated as a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) and the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) were overwhelmed with patients in the state capital. The NMCH, which reported 11 deaths on Sunday, was treating 378 patients while 122 beds were still available there, according to a bulletin released by its nodal officer Dr Mukul Kumar Singh. Similarly, the PMCH had 102 patients out of around 135 beds available for Covid-19 patients. The hospital reported nine Covid deaths on Sunday, according to a bulletin released by its superintendent Dr IS Thakur. Among other leading districts, Vaishali accounted for 805 new infections, West Champaran 652, Nalanda 611, Begusarai 569 and Gaya 544, among others. Meanwhile, former deputy chief minister and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi lost his younger brother Ashok Kumar Modi to Covid-19 on Sunday. Former special secretary, ministry of home, JK Sinha, also lost the battle to Covid-19 on Sunday. The government came in for criticism amid reports that some ventilators, sent by the Centre under the PM-CARES, were lying unutilised in absence of trained manpower to operate them at a government isolation centre in Khagaria. The state faces acute shortage of trained anaesthesiologists and technicians to operate ventilators at its facilities. Barring AIIMS and the IGIMS, government facilities, ventilators were largely underutilised at many public facilities. The government, said sources, was considering to rent out ventilators to private facilities, which had the required infrastructure to operate them. In its vaccination drive, the state inoculated 62,402 people on May 1 against a daily target of over 2 lakh beneficiaries. The state had so far vaccinated 72,28,280 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-reports-97-new-deaths-13500-cases-in-last-24-hours-101620017099651.html
03-05-2021||Other||LJP leader’s body found three days after abduction||PURNIABody of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Anil Oraon was recovered on Sunday, three days after he was abducted from near his house in Purnia town, triggering violent protests by his kin and supporters. Oraon (38), a tribal leader and state president of LJP’s scheduled tribes (ST) cell, has unsuccessfully contested 2020 assembly elections from Manihari in Katihar.He was abducted Thursday last and his family had claimed to have received a ransom call for ₹10 lakh. While his sister Seema Devi had filed a missing report at Khazanchi Hat police station, his family claimed they also paid the ransom to kidnappers. “Though the family paid ₹10 lakh, the leader was killed,” said a person close to the family.“Oraon was killed due to a land dispute,” said LJP state general secretary, Shankar Jha, demanding immediate arrest of the culprits.The situation became tense on Sunday morning after the police recovered Oraon’s body from Dangraha village of Krtiyanand Nagar block in Purnia district, about 10 kms from his residence. The injuries on his body indicated he had been beaten mercilessly before being shot dead. Both his hands were also tied to each other, said a doctor at Purnia district hospital, where Oraon’s body was taken for autopsy.Later, hundreds of people went on a rampage, vandalising traffic barriers and attacking policemen. Station house officer of Khazanchi Hat police station, Sunil Kumar Mandal, claimed they had carried out raids and the case would soon be cracked.Three persons, including a woman, were earlier detained in the case. Police said Oraon’s body was recovered on the basis of information received from these detainees. A police officer aware of the developments in the case said land dispute was being looked at as a possible motive for the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ljp-leader-s-body-found-three-days-after-abduction-101620017039693.html
03-05-2021||Other||Chandigarh, Mohali set new records in daily Covid cases, Panchkula sees 55% dip||Daily Covid-19 cases in Mohali zoomed to a new high for the second in a row with 1,045 fresh infections on Sunday.Chandigarh, too, recorded its biggest single-day surge with 860 people testing positive, up from its previous high of 837 cases recorded on April 27. On Saturday, Mohali had seen its last peak of 936 cases.Panchkula, on the other hand, reported a 55% drop in its daily cases with 198 infections on Sunday against 446 the day before.Also, after 20+ deaths for five straight days, tricity’s daily toll dropped to 18, which included seven each in Chandigarh and Mohali, and four in Panchkula.With the decrease in cases, Panchkula’s daily positivity rate – percentage of samples testing positive – also dipped from Saturday’s 27% to 21%, but increased in Chandigarh from 20% to 21% and remained constant in Mohali at 19%.All deceased in Chandigarh, who were aged between 45 and 72, had comorbities.With the fresh cases, the city’s tally climbed to 44,306, of which 7,592 people are still fighting the virus and 496 have succumbed to it. The recoveries stand at 36,218 (81.74%), matching the national average.Mohali’s caseload surged to 48,551, including 9,233 active cases – highest in the tricity.The latest fatalities pushed its toll to 610, while with 975 patients getting discharged, the total recoveries reached 38,377 (79%).The maximum cases on Sunday were from Mohali city (355), followed by 224 in Dhakoli, 177 in Kharar, 147 in Dera Bassi, 69 in Gharuan, 25 in Boothgarh, 15 in Kurali and seven in Lalru. Panchkula’s tally reached 21,687, of which 2,383 people are still infected – lowest in the tricity, while 217 have died. The district’s recovery rate (88%) is the highest in the three cities with 19,087 recoveries.The youngest among those who died here was a 38-year-old woman from Amrawati Enclave, who also suffered from hypothyroidism. The other deceased were two women, aged 70 and 56, and a 65-year-old man, who all had other illnesses as well.The new cases were scattered around the sectors, Abheypur, Abdullapur, Alipur, Amrawati Enclave, Barwala, Beer Ghaggar, Kalka and Pinjore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chandigarh-mohali-set-new-records-in-daily-covid-cases-panchkula-sees-55-dip-101619986860648.html
03-05-2021||Other||3 held for overcharging people for Covid supplies amid crisis||New Delhi: A day after the Delhi Police made their Covid helpline number, launched a fortnight ago, available for addressing complaints of cheating and overcharging by medical service providers or any other unscrupulous elements amid the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, three more people were arrested for allegedly taking advantage of people in distress. On Saturday, police took note of media reports and social media posts claiming that ambulance service providers are overcharging and many people are cheating in the name of providing oxygen cylinders and life-saving drugs for treating Covid-19. The Delhi Police threw open their Covid helpline number 011-23469900 for receiving all such complaints of illegal activities. The helpline, launched on April 16, has 10 lines to facilitate movement of people falling under exempted categories and resolve issues related to issuance of e-passes. The helpline receives more than 500 calls every day, said police. While two of the three people arrested are ambulance drivers who were overcharging Covid-19 patients or their kin, the third is a chemist who was charging four times the MRP on medical equipment. On Saturday, two ambulance drivers were held for overcharging. The first of the three fresh arrests was that of ambulance driver Kandhi Lal, about whom police received a complaint of overcharging. “We sent a policeman as a decoy customer. He was asked to pay ₹14,000 to move a body from a hospital in north Delhi to Nigambodh Ghat, which is a 6km-journey,” said Guriqbal Singh Sidhu, additional deputy commissioner of police (north-west). The two other arrests were in south-east Delhi. Bablu, an ambulance driver, was arrested for allegedly demanding ₹9,000 for moving a patient from one hospital to another located 10kms away. “Sudhir Gahlot, a chemist, was arrested for charging four times the MRP on equipment, such as oxygen flow meters, oxygen pumps and water nozzles,” said R P Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east). In both these instances, the police used their personnel as decoys to verify the authenticity of the allegations levelled against them and subsequently, arrested them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-held-for-overcharging-people-for-covid-supplies-amid-crisis-101619986318673.html
03-05-2021||Other||Road rage: 3 held for killing, robbing man||New Delhi: Three men who robbed and killed a 25-year-old mason in South Delhi’s Sangam Vihar two weeks ago after his motorcycle brushed past one of them have been arrested, the police said. The victim, Azad Ahmad, lived with his family in Sangam Vihar and worked as a mason. The crime happened while he was returning on his motorcycle from his brother’s home in Tughlaqabad around 11.15pm on April 18. Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south), said as Ahmad rode past a school in Sangam Vihar, his motorcycle brushed past one of the suspects, who were drunk and were walking to buy cigarettes. “That led to a verbal altercation during which they thrashed Ahmad,” said the DCP. Ahmad, in his complaint to the police before his death, said he was pulled down from his motorcycle and thrashed with sticks and an iron rod. The DCP said as the trio thrashed him, they also decided to rob him as no one was around. “They robbed his mobile phone, ₹1,000 cash and some documents,” said Thakur adding that a case of causing hurt during robbery was registered. The victim succumbed to his injuries on April 25 after which police added murder charge in the FIR. Simultaneously, the police started screening CCTV footage and enquiring from locals to find the suspects. The suspects were arrested one by one over a period of several days until the last suspect was arrested on Saturday. The police have recovered the robbed phone and the documents which were dumped in a drain near the crime scene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/road-rage-3-held-for-killing-robbing-man-101619986138640.html
03-05-2021||Other||Langah’s son among five held with heroin during raid in Gurdaspur||Gurdaspur Police on Sunday arrested five persons, including Parkash Singh, son of former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) minister Sucha Singh Langah, after they were found inside a house in Dhariwal town with heroin on their person, during a raid. Parkash’s father, who also served as an SGPC member, was excommunicated by the Akal Takht after a video, purportedly showing him in an objectionable position with a woman, was circulated on social media in 2017. He has been seeking pardon over the past week, with his parents also submitting an application to the Takht. Gurdaspur SSP Dr Nanak Singh said they had a tip-off that some youngsters were coming to supply heroin to Rajesh Kumar at his house in Dhariwal town. The team conducted a raid at the house where they found five persons with heroin. Apart from Parkash and Kumar, the other accused are Aditya Mahajan, Kunal and Sudhir Singh, who belong to Dhariwal. “On checking, 8gm heroin was recovered from Mahajan, while 2.5gm heroin and 2gm heroin was recovered from Kunal and Sudhir, respectively. The other two were consuming heroin. A case has been registered against all these accused under relevant sections of the NDPS. The accused are being quizzed about their network of drug trade,” the SSP added.The former SAD minister said, “This is nothing, but a conspiracy of my rivals. They do not want me to be pardoned, and are afraid that as I am visiting the Sri Darbar Sahib for atonement, my prayer will be granted. My son is innocent. Police did not recover anything objectionable from him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/langahs-son-among-five-held-with-heroin-during-raid-in-gurdaspur-101619985299105.html
03-05-2021||Other||Migrant workers start leaving Amritsar in a trickle, for now||With covid-19 curbs affecting livelihood of majority of people in Punjab, bringing back bitter memories of last year when a sizeable period passed in lockdown, migrant labourers have started returning to their home towns and villages in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and other states by train. On Sunday, 50 migrant labourers, with their luggage, were seen at Amritsar Railway Station to board trains bound for UP and Bihar. They were carrying bags.People working as vendors, factory workers, construction workers and those employed with in hotels and restaurants have been hit. Most of them are migrant labourers and don’t have houses. “We have been left jobless due to covid-19 restrictions and have chosen to return home, instead of staying here. We will not return till normalcy returns,” one of them said; this was the common refrain. Manoj Kumar, of Chandoli village, in Banaras district of Uttar Pradesh (UP), said, “I have been living here for the past 15 years and work in a factory manufacturing fans in Amritsar. The unit has been non-operational for the last few days. What will I do here if the factory is lying defunct? I have decided to go back with five more people accompanying me.” He added, “The current lockdown has affected the factory owner severely. He has expressed inability to accommodate us anymore.”Another migrant Vinay Kumar, said, “I am a daily wager and have no work to do amid lockdown. I am going back home the second time due to lockdown as we had no work.”Workers who have not stepped out to go to their homes, also fear that the lockdown will be prolonged and that they will lose their source of livelihood and their housing.“Migrant labourers have started going home. The lockdown and night curfew have hit small businesses run by migrant and factories and factories have cut jobs. Unemployed workers are unable to pay rent. So, a section of the labourers has decided to go back home,” said Mahesh Verma, leader of migrant labourers, and president of the Shiromani Akali Dal’s Parwasi Wing.He added, “Travelling home is not affordable by everybody. Only those who have some money are going. A sizeable number of migrant workers are vendors, who start their work after 5pm. How can they run their livelihood in the new lockdown timings?”Notably, tourism, restaurants, hospitality, textile, handicraft, fan manufacturing, medicines, rice sheller etc are main fields of industries in Amritsar. Kamal Dalmia, chairman, Focal Point Industries Association, Amritsar, who runs a textile unit, said, “Most factory owners have reduced their shift to eight hours. New orders are rare and payment from customers is blocked. No factory owner can afford manufacturing of unsold goods for much time. Temporary workers are being asked to go for leave for 20 days or more.”3 buses from Barnala move to native states BARNALA Over a hundred migrant workers moved to their native states amid rumours of complete lockdown due to covid-19 and Ramadan by hiring special private buses from Barnala district on Sunday. Those going back claimed that they will return for work after a short period. Wheat crop harvest season has almost ended and paddy transplantation will start in the month of June in Punjab.The driver of the private bus, who did not want to be named, said the migrants had hired three buses, which would drop them at Purnia from Barnala and Sangrur districts. Mohammed Jaladeen, of Purnia district of Bihar, who boarded the bus from Dhanaula town, said, “We are going home for Ramadan. I want to celebrate the festival with family members. However, we will come back again for work,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/migrant-workers-start-leaving-amritsar-in-a-trickle-for-now-101619984939298.html
03-05-2021||Other||Bikru steps out of Vikas Dubey’s shadow, elects woman pradhan||Free from the electoral influence of gangster Vikas Dubey for the first time in 25 years, his native village Bikru in Kanpur elected its second woman village pradhan on Sunday.Winning a close contest, Madhu Devi defeated Bindu Kumar by 54 votes. In the last two decades, the village head’s post had been held solely either by Vikas Dubey or the people he supported in Bikru and the adjoining villages.In July 2020, Dubey made the national headlines when he and his men ambushed a raiding police team and killed eight policemen.Soon afterwards, the Uttar Pradesh police gunned down Dubey and five of his gang members in separate encounters.In his heyday, Vikas Dubey had constantly remained in control of the Bikru gram panchayat, allegedly rigging the polls in his favour or for those he supported.In the previous election, Bikru had chosen Dubey’s daughter-in-law Anjali Dubey for the pradhan’s post. His wife Richa had won as member of the zila panchayat.This time, people in Bikru village were happy with the freedom they had to cast their votes. Many youngsters saw candidates canvassing in their village for the first time and they participated wholeheartedly in the process. Bikru village has a total of 1,400 voters. After her victory, Madhu said she would work for the overall development of village and help the women through self-help groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bikru-steps-out-of-vikas-dubey-s-shadow-elects-woman-pradhan-101619984937916.html
03-05-2021||Other||Punjab left with 30,000 vaccine doses, awaiting fresh stock from Centre||The Punjab government on Sunday said that it is running short of Covid-19 vaccines. It is awaiting fresh stock from the Centre to continue with the inoculation of 45+ population at vaccination centres across the state. The state, which could not start the vaccination for 18-45 years category from May 1, due to non-availability of direct supply from the Serum Institute of India (SII), is left with just 30,000 vaccination doses. Director, health, Dr GB Singh said there were hardly any vaccine doses left with the state and vaccination would be carried out at very few centres. “The last batch of two lakh doses was received from the Centre on April 30. We have not got anything since,” he added. The Union ministry of health and family welfare has allocated 6.2 lakh doses, including 4.7 lakh Covishield and 1.5 lakh Covaxin, for the state during the first fortnight of this month for free vaccination of 45+ population. “They have confirmed this allocation, but no consignment has been received. We are waiting for fresh stock of vaccine to continue the inoculation drive,” Dr Singh added.Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, nodal officer for Covid-19, said that since the health department was left with just 30,000 doses, few vaccination sessions would be conducted on Monday. “The district authorities will decide on which hospitals will administer the jab,” he added. For 18-45 age group, the state government has placed an order for 30 lakh doses of Covishield with the SII. The Centre had confirmed that 3 lakh doses would be sent and the same were awaited, the health director added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-left-with-30-000-vaccine-doses-awaiting-fresh-stock-from-centre-101619984642205.html
03-05-2021||Other||SP chief unable to see govt’s work on Covid: UP minister||Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh on Sunday targeted Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav and said the SP leader was unable to acknowledge the “good work” done by the BJP government amid the pandemic.Singh said that the SP leader’s inability to see the work did not change the reality that the number of L-2 (Level-2) and L-3 (Level-3) hospital beds had increased three times in the state. He said 35,000 new beds were also being added. “Besides, medical kits have been distributed to 2.41 lakh patients in home isolation in the state, but the SP chief will not see this,” he said.The minister said under the Yogi government, the state aircraft were being used to bring people life-saving medicines.“The government is releasing data honestly on a daily basis on infection and recovery rates in the state,” he said.He also said the state government was working on several schemes to provide maximum benefits to the farmers. “Whether it was the issue of making payments to the sugarcane farmers or purchasing wheat from farmers, the Yogi government took appropriate decisions and steps well in time. The state government has made payments to 1.23 lakh sugarcane farmers while wheat procurement has been doubled since last year to about 1.2 metric tonnes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sp-chief-unable-to-see-govt-s-work-on-covid-up-minister-101619984458596.html
03-05-2021||Other||Wise Bengalis saw through Modi, claims J&K Cong chief||Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress president GA Mir said on Sunday that wise Bengalis had rejected the politics of opportunism and communalism by defeating the BJP in West Bengal elections. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah put the lives of 130 crore Indians to risk by ignoring a grave national health emergency, for the sake of winning the West Bengal state elections. The Bengalis saw through their designs,” Mir added. “Today, the country is paying the price of the failure of the Modi government to take timely steps to upgrade the facilities and resources to deal with second Covid wave which has gripped the entire country in its worst form,” he said, adding that the strategy of West Bengal voters and their commitment to keep the communal and divisive forces at bay against all sorts onslaughts would be a lesson for voters elsewhere in different parts of the country. He also congratulated Tamil Nadu and Kerala voters for rejecting the BJP and its political ambitions.‘COVID-19 CRISIS: JAIRAM SHOULD TAKE CHARGE OF HEALTH’CM Jairam Thakur should take command of the health department in his hands, as the severity of the covid-19 pandemic demanded it, the state Congress said on Sunday. He also added that speed of decision-making was important in such a scenario. Former Jubbal-Kotkhai legislator as well as ex-chief parliamentary secretary Rohit Thakur said, “In view of the devastating second wave of the Corona epidemic, the state must keep the option of limited lockdown open in public interest. To effectively tackle the pandemic, the government must fill 5,984 vacant posts of doctors and paramedics of the total 15,306 sanctioned.” Thakur added that AIIMS Bilaspur, which was under construction for the past six years, should be made functional as soon as possible.In a letter to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, CPIM legislator from Theog, Rakesh Singha, has questioned the state government’s strategy to deal with the Covid second wave. Citing data, Singha claimed that more than 50% deaths due to covid-19 were of referral cases. He said the major reason for this was a gap in the uninterrupted supply of oxygen to the patient.“These deaths can be minimised by preventing the repeated referral of the patient from one dedicated covid-19 hospital to another. The creation of several covid centres at this stage will only prove counterproductive,” he said.He said that analysis of the spread of the virus indicates the situation is going to become precarious in the days ahead and there are possibilities that the situation gets out of control. The reason for the same is there is qualitative difference in the nature of spread of the virus. “My suggestion to the government is to shift the OPD from IGMC, Shimla, to another institute and recruit more staff,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wise-bengalis-saw-through-modi-claims-j-k-cong-chief-101619984399570.html
03-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana railway station has no ambulance of its own||The Ludhiana railway station, which is the largest in Ferozepur division, has no ambulance of its own, forcing it to depend on city-based hospitals to provide the service.This often leads to loss of crucial time in providing medical assistance in emergency cases, as was seen in a mishap that took place on April 22. A ticket checker, identified as Narinder Kumar Meena, 37, had slipped while trying to board a moving train following which his right leg was caught between the platform and the train. Staff deputed at the railway station’s hospital provided him first-aid and called for an ambulance through the emergency number 108 but the ambulance took over an hour to arrive. Railway station employees said that even after the ambulance arrived, the ordeal was not over. The ambulance drivers refused to take the injured ticket checker to a private hospital and said that they are allowed to drop patients only to government hospitals. The railway staff later took the injured to the Fortis Hospital on Chandigarh road in a private car. The victim succumbed to his injuries on April 26. When contacted senior divisional medical officer Dr Chetna Kapoor confirmed that the railway station’s hospital does not have a designated ambulance. “We have tie-ups with various hospitals which send their ambulances to us in case of an emergency. We asked the ambulance driver to take the patient to the private hospital but they said they can only ferry patients to government facilities,” she said. According to railway employees, the railway hospital has not had an ambulance for the past 10 years and the sole ambulance driver at the station had retired two years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-railway-station-has-no-ambulance-of-its-own-101619984158449.html
03-05-2021||Other||J&K dismisses teacher in interest of state security||In a first-of-its-kind order, the Jammu and Kashmir government has dismissed a teacher in north Kashmir’s Kupwara in the interest of security of the state. The general administration department issued an order on Friday terminating the services of Idrees Jan, a teacher of Government Middle School, Kupwara. “The Lieutenant Governor is satisfied under sub-clause (c) of the proviso to clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution of India that in the interest of the security of the state, it is not expedient to hold an inquiry in the case of Idrees Jan, teacher, Government Middle School, Kralpora, Kupwara,” the order read.“Accordingly, the LG hereby dismisses Idrees Jan from service with immediate effect,” the order adds. The dismissal comes after the government, on April 21, set up a Special Task Force to identify and scrutinise employees involved in any case related to posing a threat to the country’s security or anti-national activities.The order has not gone down well with employees and union leaders. Former employee union leader and chairman of Jammu and Kashmir Civil Society Forum (JKCSF), Abdul Qayoom Wani expressed resentment over the dismissal, calling it an attack on employees’ integrity.“The dismissal of Idrees and two other employees comes as a strange shiver for the whole Kashmir society under the shade of Article 311. This also neglect all other disciplinary service rules that govern the employees performance and conduct of his service career,” Wani said, adding, “This type of dismissal from government service remains ambiguous until the facts are made public and/or subjected to the judicial system for legal proceedings.”JKCSF has demanded that the decision must be revoked and reviewed judiciously, under service norms, so that justice can prevail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-dismisses-teacher-in-interest-of-state-security-101619983918607.html
03-05-2021||Other||HP records 600% jump in Covid cases, 800% increase in deaths in April alone||Dharamshala There is no sign of the brutal second wave of Covid-19 that continues to ravage the country, dying down soon. Himachal’s caseload is also rocketing upwards, with the small hill state seeing more than 600% rise cases recorded in April; deaths have risen eight times over March. Himachal recorded 35,682 Covid-19 infections in April which was sevenfold of the 4,960 cases recorded March. This was also the record one month high in terms of cases reported since last year. The earlier record of one-month high was in November 2020 when 18,459 cases were reported in the state. There were 449 deaths in April, against 53 in March—almost 750% rise. Earlier, the state saw maximum 323 fatalities in November 2020. RECOVERY RATE DOWN TO BELOW 80%While new infections have shot up sharply recovery rate plummeted to below 80%. On February 28, the state had only 318 active cases. The second wave hit the state in February end led to exponential rise in active cases. By March 31 the active cases were once again climbed to around 3,000 and April to 18,425. April month saw fivefold increase in Active cases in the state resulting in large scale hospitalization and eventually shortage of beds. The government is once again ramping up the bed-capacity. Kangra, Solan and Shimla are the three worst hit by the second wave. Kangra, which is also the most populous districts in Himachal, has recorded maximum 8,207 cases in April. Its tally almost doubled from 9,578 in March to 17,785 in April. In March the district clocked 1,121 cases. Solan is the second on the list with 5,414 cases recorded in one month follow by Shimla which recorded 4,280 infections. In terms of the fatalities also, Kangra is the worst hit district. It recorded a total of 149 fatalities in April while only 18 deaths were reported in March. Shimla recorded 81 fatalities, Mandi and Una 51 each, Hamirpur 34 and Sirmaur 33. CASUAL APPROACH TO BE BLAMED: CM Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur has blamed the casual behaviour of people and large gatherings in social functions and weddings for the spike in Covid-19 infections and fatalities. “A large number of fairs, religious gatherings and public events were held in the state since January. People were not wearing masks or following covid-19 protocols, and this resulted in the spike,” chief minister had said. . On the other hand, people of the state allege that the political rallies during the elections to the Municipal Corporations and local bodies also contributed to the spurt. The state government has restricted the gatherings in marriages to 20 persons till May 10 and all the other social functions have been banned. The community feasts in marriages is also banned. The schools and colleges will also remain closed while the government offices are functioning five days a week with 50% staff on alternative days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hprecords-600-jump-in-covid-cases-800-increase-in-deaths-in-april-alone-101619983678547.html
03-05-2021||Other||Lockdown in city, movement of essential goods, workers allowed||Gurugram The Haryana government on Sunday decided to impose a week long lockdown in the state from Monday in order to curb the spread of Covid-19 infection, particularly in Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat districts, which have recorded almost half of the total Covid-19 cases in the state. On Sunday, Gurugram recorded 3,609 Covid 19 cases and nine deaths, taking the total number of active cases in the city to 39,256 and death toll to 497. As per the directions of state government, educational institutes, malls, theatres and restaurants will remain closed while industries outside municipal area and those producing essential goods will be allowed to operate. IT and IT-enabled services sector will be allowed to.operate with 50 percent strength. People going to work places and coming back will be allowed to move, the order said. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who held a review meeting in Gurugram on Sunday evening, said that the lockdown will be imposed in the state to curb the spread of infection. Khattar also reviewed the situation of oxygen supply and distribution in the city, availability of critical medicines required for treatment, assessed the situation of beds and also gave directions to officials to streamline operations. Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said that the issue of oxygen supply and distribution was discussed in detail, and the chief minister has assured that adequate amount of oxygen will be made available for the city. “It has also been decided to impose the lockdown in the city as per directions of state government. I appeal to the city residents to follow lockdown guidelines so that the chain of infection is broken,” said Garg. As per the directions of the state government, Garg said all educational institutions, training and coaching institutes shall remain closed. All cinema halls, shopping malls, shopping complexes, gymnasiums, sport complexes, swimming pools, entertainment parks, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will remain closed while social gatherings, parties, meetings will be allowed only as per permission granted by deputy commissioners. All religious places shall remain closed and religious congregations are not allowed. Takeaways from hotels and restaurants, including those in malls, are allowed till 10.30 pm. Roadside dhabas, food stalls and fruit vendors are allowed to operate but only for takeaways. All marriage functions for which permission has been taken from SDM shall be allowed with a ceiling of 30 people indoors and 50 people outdoors. However, most activities are curbed in in containment zones where only home delivery of food is allowed, said the order. The order also said that people going to work in industries will be allowed to move in their personal vehicles while movement of maids, cooks, drivers, personal attendants, health care workers shall be allowed during the lockdown period. Transport of essential goods and infrastructure projects like roads, buildings and bridges are allowed. Also construction work at real estate sites, where labour is available on site, will be allowed. While industries outside municipal limits are allowed to function, those producing essential goods, auto parts, medical equipments and export units will also be allowed to operate. Industries can obtain passes from Saral Haryana portal. “We will be enforcing the lockdown strictly but ensure that economic activities, which are exempted, are allowed to function smoothly,” said Garg. The chief minister during the review meeting also asked the district administration to ensure that remdesivir injections and other critical medicines required for treatment of Covid 19 are available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lockdown-in-city-movement-of-essential-goods-workers-allowed-101619983618509.html
03-05-2021||Other||Rural Ggm better off than urban areas: Health dept||Gurugram Health department officials on Sunday said that Covid cases are controlled in rural areas when compared to urban areas of the district. Dr Jai Prakash, Integrated Disease Surveillance Program’s district surveillance officer in Gurugram, said, “Covid-19 situation in rural areas of Gurugram, especially in places like Sohna, Bhondsi and Pataudi, is better off and controlled as compared to urban areas. This is mainly because of lesser population density, which makes it possible for people to follow social distancing. Another possible reason is that people do not go out much in rural areas, except for work, which will also be curtailed now due to the lockdown.” He was, however, unable to provide a break-up of the number of cases in rural and urban areas.Meanwhile, Sohna residents said that cases are increasing in rural areas, with four deaths reported from different villages over past one week. “Cases are regularly increasing in rural areas near Sohna. In the past one week, four people died from different villages here, but those were not recorded in official figures. There is neither any focus on testing or vaccination in these areas and people have been left on their own. If the situation in rural areas becomes like how it is in Gurugram city, then there is no way to control it,” said a resident of Sohna, who did not wish to be named. With new cases rising daily, officials from the district health department said that they are focusing on testing, and that centres will be increased in both urban and rural areas. Dr Virendra Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “Our district is conducting the maximum tests in the state, and in the coming days, we will be increasing testing capacities further. We have decided to set up 250 testing centres across the district over the 15 days. Cases are being reported from across the district and we are focusing on testing now, despite our health infrastructure being saturated.” The chief medical officer further said that a minimum of 18 testing camps are functional in the district on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rural-ggm-better-off-than-urban-areas-health-dept-101619983617887.html
03-05-2021||Other||Confirming worst spread, total Covid cases doubled in a month in Ggm||Gurugram Gurugram recorded more coronavirus cases between April 1 and May 1 than the entire 12 months of the pandemic put together, data from the daily health bulletin issued by the district administration shows.Gurugram recorded its first coronavirus case on March 17 last year, which was also the first case in Haryana, and till March 31 this year, the district had seen 63,313 cases. On May 1 this year, the figure rose to 127,033, an increase of 63,720 cases in a month-long period.Data from the district health bulletin also gives perspective on the surge of Covid-19 cases in the city, especially over the last three weeks. Since April 11, daily cases in the city has continuously broken the previous single-day record -- 964 on November 8 -- with Thursday’s figure of 5,042 cases the highest now. The surge in cases has also had an effect on the infrastructure, with Gurugram having scant or no available Intensive Care Unit (ICU), ventilator, or oxygen beds for Covid-19 patients over the last three weeks.Of the city’s 2,347 beds across 43 Covid-19 hospitals, only 2 ventilator beds, 14 oxygen beds, and no ICU beds were available on Sunday evening, according to Gurugram Covid Combat Companion (GC3), a real-time portal managed by the district administration. Of the 2,347 total Covid-19 beds, 1,848 are isolation beds, 499 are ICU beds, and 255 are ventilator beds.Meanwhile, studies suggest the situation is not expected to improve any time soon.As per a State Bank of India (SBI) research report, the second wave of Covid-19 is likely to reach its peak by mid-May in India while a CLSA, foreign brokerage, report pegs it in June. The three-member national Covid-19 supermodel committee, formed by the central government to make projections regarding the spread of the pandemic and follow its trajectory, has also pegged the second wave to peak in mid-May.“The second wave of Covid-19 is unprecedented not just in Gurugram but across the country. We have carried out various measures to ramp up the existing infrastructure by adding more Covid-19 beds, regulating the supply of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) both on the part of procurement as well as the distribution within the city, to mitigate the situation. We are working continuously on various aspects that can lead to the addition of infrastructure, LMO supply, and other such measures that can provide more medical aid to those in need as well as curb the spread of the virus,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner.Last week, the district administration released a statement of various tie-ups with corporate companies and government agencies that will lead to the addition of around 1,200 Covid-19 beds across the city within this month.The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh also issued an order stating that only hospitals and nursing homes registered with the administration will be provided LMO from the city’s three oxygen refilling stations and no such establishment outside the district will be able to access the plants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/confirming-worst-spread-total-covid-cases-doubled-in-a-month-in-ggm-101619983558506.html
03-05-2021||Other||Hospital booked, three held for selling remdesivir for ₹45,000/vial||Gurugram: Three people, including two hospital staff, were arrested for black marketing remdesivir--a broad-spectrum antiviral medication, and charging ₹45,000 per vial amid the shortage of the medicine in the market. Five vials of remdesivir were also recovered from the suspects, said police. A case has also been registered against Narayana Hospital in DLF Phase 3 for cheating and negligence after the suspects revealed they used to steal injection and sold them at premium rates, said police. In a joint raid conducted by the chief minister’s flying squad, the crime investigation agency of Sector-40 and district drug controller on Sunday, a decoy customer was sent to buy the injection at Sector 52 and the suspects were arrested while handing over the vials, said police. Amandeep Chauhan, district drug controller, said he received a secret information that a nexus of hospital staff is engaged in black marketing and hoarding of remdesivir, which they were selling for ₹45,000 per injection. The informer provided the contact number of the suspects on the condition that his identity remains confidential. “A head constable was asked to make a call as a decoy customer. It was decided that the injections will be delivered at gate no 2 of Ardee ity at 10pm on Saturday,” said Chauhan. The suspect asked the decoy to receive the injection from the T-point of gate 2 and told him he will come on a scooty. The suspects also asked him to pay ₹45,000 for a remdesivir injection and agreed to deliver five injections for ₹2,25,000 in Sector 52. Chauhan said two teams kept a distance from the decoy customer and followed him in plain clothes. “After 15 minutes, one person came at the decided spot and informed the decoy that the injections are reaching in five minutes. A woman came, handed over the injections to the suspect and went away. While one staff member followed her, our teams caught the suspect while he was handing over the injections to our decoy and asking for money,” he said. The suspect was identified as Chetan Kapoor, a resident of Punjab working as a senior security assistant at Max Hospital, Gurugram. Meanwhile, police followed the woman up to a house on the ground floor and asked her to come out. Police said around 11.10pm Chetan got a call on his mobile. He informed the person that police had apprehended him and now, his wife will also be arrested. Chauhan said the caller was identified as Nitin Jose, a resident of Kerala who works as a nursing staff supervisor at Narayana Hospital, and was told to reach the spot in 10 minutes. “The woman was identified as Lima Oomen. She disclosed that her husband Jose gave her those injections and usually asked her to hand them over to prospective buyers,” he said. When asked from where he procured the remdesivir injections, Jose said he got the injections from Narayana Hospital. Instead of administering the injection to the patients, he made entries that he had injected the vials and later stole them, said police. Inderjeet Yadav, deputy superintendent of police, crime investigation department (CID), said families were paying for the injection, which the suspects never injected. “These injections are further sold by him through his network in the black market. He was working with Chetan at Max Hospital in Gurugram earlier. It is a major flaw on the part of Narayana Hospital to allow this pilferage.” Chauhan said they are investigating if the patients who paid for the injection survived or died. “This is a matter of investigation. It is a heinous crime that someone, who was to be administered this injection, did not get the dose,” he said. The teams suspect more people from these hospitals are involved in this nexus. However, the suspects have not given any names so far, said police. The Narayan Hospital is responsible for this negligence and carelessness, which is a criminal act and breach of trust, said police. Harish Budhiraja, inspector, chief minister’s flying squad, said they conducted a recce of the house into which the woman had entered. “We knew there are more people involved in black marketing, so we followed the woman. She entered a house in Housing board colony in Sector 52, which we raided and then arrested her,” he said.  Police said they are yet to verify details as to from where the injection was supplied to the private hospital and how the suspects stole them. The number of vials and the persons who bought them are also being ascertained. A case was registered at Sector 53 police station under Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, Sections 27(2) and 27-D of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act,1940, and Sections 420 (cheating ),120B (conspiracy) of the IPC. In a statement released on Sunday, the spokesperson of Max Healthcare said, “We have been informed by the police regarding an incident involving one of our staff. We have checked our stock of remdesivir and have not found anything amiss. We are supporting the authorities in their investigation”.Narayana hospital did not respond to messages and calls despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hospital-booked-three-held-for-selling-remdesivir-for-rs-45000vial-101619983557957.html
03-05-2021||Other||Families left fuming as pvt ambulances charge a bomb to transport Covid patients||Gurugram The surge in Covid cases in Gurugram and the subsequent rise in demand for private ambulances has left relatives of many Covid patients fuming as they find themselves paying exorbitant fares to operators to transport their loved ones. The families have demanded capping ambulance fares and asked the district administration to take steps to stop the fleecing.According to relatives, private ambulance drivers are allegedly demanding ₹20,000 to ₹30,000 to shift a patient from a house to a private hospital, within a 5 km radius. For outstation transport, the drivers are allegedly demanding between ₹70,000 and ₹1.5 lakh. Many doctors at private hospitals also alleged that ambulance operators and drivers are making exorbitant demands to shift patients. With shortage of oxygen reported across the city on Saturday and Sunday, several families have taken steps to move patients to hospitals in their home towns.Nandkishore Deoli, whose brother-in-law was admitted in a Sector 56 hospital, said he decided to shift him to Dehradun but the ambulance driver asked him for ₹70,000 for the transport. When they finally agreed to the demand, the driver raised the fee to ₹1.50 lakh, claiming that he will have to return with an empty ambulance. “We took my brother-in-law in our private car as we didn’t have any other option,” he said. Amit Kumar, brother of a critical patient who was shifted to Jaipur on Sunday, alleged that they had to pay ₹80,000 to the ambulance driver. “We contacted six ambulances and their prices were almost the same. We had no choice, so we hired and shifted the patient to another hospital. There was no oxygen and by paying this amount, at least we have saved his life,” he said. Ashish Singla, chief medical officer (CMO), MCG, said they operate 35 ambulances. “We are providing these ambulances free of cost, but other private ambulances do not fall in our jurisdiction. These drivers do not come under our department and we do not have their details. Families should contact us on 18001801817 or 1950 helpline numbers after any home isolation death or to shift a patient from home to hospital,” he said. On the other hand, the regional transport authority (RTA) of Gurugram, said that they have provided 20 ambulances to MCG, capping the charges at ₹15/km. “We can only cap those whose requisitions are done through us. There are more than 200 private ambulances and we do not maintain their records and movements. We can only provide their registration details. They are private ambulances belonging to individuals and hospitals,” said Dhaarna Yadav, secretary, RTA, Gurgram. Yadav said they have not received any complaints so far but added that they will take action if anyone come forward and share details. “People should share videos, pictures, and details of the ambulance or drivers. We will take action as soon as we receive a complaint. People should come forward and hand over a complaint to us mentioning they had booked an ambulance from which area to which destination. If they want, we will not disclose their identity,” she said. A senior district official said that steps are underway to fix rate per kilometre to ensure people are not fleeced by drivers. (Police quote awaited)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/families-left-fuming-as-pvt-ambulances-charge-a-bomb-to-transport-covid-patients-101619983498421.html
03-05-2021||Other||Twenty session sites to vaccinate 18-45 years in the city today||Gurugram The third phase of Covid-19 vaccination for people aged between 18 and 45 years commenced formally in Gurugram and across the state, on Sunday. City health department officials said they held session sites at three centres -- Civil Hospital in Sector 10, government poly-clinic in sector 31 and at Fortis hospital. The vaccination outreach for city residents, aged between 18 and 45 years, would be expanded further on Monday, with the health department saying that they are planning to activate 20 session sites. “The third phase was launched on Sunday at three sites and we plan to hold vaccinations at 20 sites on Monday. As soon as fresh stock of vaccines is received, this outreach will be expanded further,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. Yadav said that 270 persons were given the first dose of the vaccine on Sunday while two were given the second dose. Overall, 4,79,375 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the city till Sunday evening. As per government data, about 1.1 crore people of the state fall between the age group of 18 to 45 years and registration for their vaccination had started from April 28. The state health minister Anil Vij on Sunday also said that vaccination for the third phase had commenced across the state and it will be done free of cost at all government hospitals and vaccination centres. “For this, 66 lakh doses of Covid vaccine have been sought and its first batch has been received. The vaccination has been started at about 200 centres across the state,” said Vij. Meanwhile, to offset the shortage of oxygen, the government has also decided to set up five oxygen plants in the state. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khatar said that the equipment and machinery required for setting up these plants have been received for five districts -- namely Karnal, Panchkula, Hisar, Sirsa and Faridabad. Professor Joginder Singh from Sonipat has been directed to make all these plants functional on similar lines of Sonipat district, he added. For commissioning these oxygen plants, they will get all the required material ahead of time by the district administration, for which necessary directions have been issued to the deputy commissioners, asserted the Chief Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/twenty-session-sites-to-vaccinate-18-45-years-in-the-city-today-101619983499033.html
03-05-2021||Other||Speeding BMW hits divider in DLF Phase 2, two died||Gurugram Two persons died after a speeding BMW car allegedly lost control and rammed into the underpass wall before crashing into a pillar near the underpass of DLF Phase 2 Rapid Metro Station on Golf Course Road, early on Sunday morning. Police identified the deceased as Gaurav Jindal (37) and Sawan Khanna (35), both residents of Sector 15. The incident occurred around 2.30 am and photographs of the damaged car were widely circulated on social media. Jindal, who was behind the wheels, is the younger son of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leader Pawan Jindal. The police control room was informed of the incident within minutes and police teams patrolling the area reached the spot and moved the car to the roadside. The vehicle was impounded by DLF Phase 2 police station which has also started an investigation in the matter. The vehicle was speeding, police said, adding that the impact was so high that one of the passengers was flung a few metres. Police said the vehicle was near the underpass exit, 50 metres away from DLF-2 rapid metro station towards cyber hub, when it overturned after colliding with a divider and a pillar. In his statement to police on Sunday morning, Saurav Jindal said his younger brother Gaurav and his friend Sawan had gone to meet one of their friends in DLF Phase 1, around 12.30 am. “We received a call from one of the passersby following which we rushed to the spot and took both of them to a private hospital in Sector 38 where doctors declared dead on arrival,” he said. Police said the bodies were handed over to the family members after the post mortem on Sunday morning. The families said they suspect no foul play in the accident. Dr Deepak Mathur, forensic expert, who conducted the autopsy, said that the cause of death was severe head injuries, adding that the bodies were almost crushed. “Both had multiple fractures, lungs torn and metal parts were found inside the body. They died die to head injury and excessive bleeding,” he said. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that no case was registered after preliminary investigation was conducted. “We have filed an inquest report under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) on Sunday. No other vehicle was involved in the accident and no one was hurt,” he said. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Home Minister Anil Vij took to social media to mourn the demise of Jindal. MP Sanjay Bhatia, BJP state president Om Prakash Dhankhar and Haryana minister Dr Banwari Lal reached the family’s residence in Sector 15 on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/speeding-bmw-hits-divider-in-dlf-phase-2-two-died-101619983497862.html
03-05-2021||Other||Many smaller, private hospitals shut operation due to lack of O2 supply||Gurugram A day after eight people died in a private hospital due to shortage of oxygen, at least six other smaller, private facilities have discharged all patients and shut their operations, claiming that the municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is not paying heed to their repeated requests for help.The MCG commissioner and his team are responsible for management of oxygen supply in the city.Swati Rathore, director of Kriti Hospital in Sector 56, said that they shut their operations and discharged 18 patients after they were not supplied oxygen on Saturday. “People easily blame hospital administration and doctors for their negligent approach but how can we run operations without oxygen. The MCG commissioner does not reply to messages or attend calls. The deputy commissioner has helped us arrange 20 cylinders and is trying to support us, but we need oxygen regularly to run operations, so we have stopped our operations,” she said.Asha Devi, director of Mamta Hospital, said they have stopped taking fresh admissions as they have not received a single oxygen cylinder for the last four days. “There has been mismanagement at refilling stations with people with connections getting supplies out of turn while others are waiting for more than eight hours to get oxygen cylinders. We have stopped taking Covid-19 patients as we can’t save lives without oxygen,” she said.In the absence of continuous oxygen supply, many doctors said they had to turn away new patients and ask families of existing patients to arrange for oxygen cylinders to continue treatment.Some hospitals have put up notices announcing no new Covid admissions at their centres.Dr Prithvi Raj Aryan, director of Aryan Hospital on Old Railway Road, said that the hospital is not in a position to take new admissions. “We have placed a notice that there is no out-patient department, no beds and no oxygen on Saturday. Since Thursday I have been requesting officials to provide me with oxygen for my patients, but we have not received a single cylinder until now. The situation is getting out of control, families create havoc and staff have to run away to save themselves,” he said, adding that the hospital, which has 70 beds, is occupied by Covid patients.Umkal hospital in DLF Phase 2 said its staff members were standing in queue for the last 12 hours but were yet to receive any oxygen. They said their requests to the MCG have also gone unanswered.Around 10.13 am on Sunday, Park group of hospitals said the liquid oxygen allocated to Park Hospital in Gurugram was hijacked by some other hospital. “More than 140 patients’ lives are in danger,” it tweeted, asking for help.At 10.43 am, the hospital tweeted saying that they have received about less than one tonne of oxygen. “What happens after this? We are always under huge stress. Administration is constantly pressuring us to admit patients, but oxygen supply remains erratic,” it said.Other hospitals such as Signature Hospital in Sector 37 D, Center of Diabetes and Allied Sciences (CDAS) in Sector 47 and Sethi Hospital in Model Town have also stopped fresh Covid admissions due to non-availability of oxygen.Amandeep Chauhan, district drugs controller, said there is adequate oxygen supply now and they have ensured all hospitals have received their share on Sunday. “We have received 14 metric tonnes (MT) from Panipat and 20 MT from Bhiwadi on Sunday and more is expected by tonight. The situation is improvising and will be streamlined this week,” he said.Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG, said a counter was placed at the refilling stations in Manesar for refilling oxygen cylinders. “Covid-positive patients, carrying test reports, will be given oxygen cylinders,” Singh said.Meanwhile, a few hospitals have also demanded extra security after staff and doctors of a hospital were assaulted and premises vandalised after the death of eight patients at the facility in Sector 56 on Friday night.Dr Aryan said his hospital has requested for protection to prevent any untoward incidents.On Sunday, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said he held a meeting with the deputy commissioner and the MCG commissioner and directed them to ensure a smooth oxygen supply to all the hospitals in the district. “Oxygen allocation will be made strictly for institutions that have filled up and submitted Google forms. Incomplete forms will be rejected. In case of doubts, they can drop a message with their contact numbers at covid19gurugram@gmail.com, and the district administration will reply... There are 160 oxygen concentrators in the city hospitals,” he said, adding that the situation in the city has improved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/many-smaller-private-hospitals-shut-operation-due-to-lack-of-o2-supply-101619983437866.html
03-05-2021||Other||J&K forms five-member Covid crisis management committee||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha reviewed the covid situation in UT on Saturday late evening and formed a five-member crisis management panel for effective management of the deadly disease. He also ordered an immediate oxygen audit in every hospital to ensure optimal availability. The five-member Crisis Management Group, comprises the chief secretary; financial commissioners, finance, and health and medical education; home secretary and principal secretary to the government, public works (R&B) department. The PS to LG will be a special invitee. It will interact with other officers and medical specialists as necessary.On Saturday, the UT recorded its highest single-day death toll this year, at 47; 30 in Jammu and 17 in Kashmir. The 47 includes four patients, who died allegedly due to low oxygen at ASCOMS hospital. The administration maintains they died of other medical reasons, and not due to shortage of oxygen.In view of spike in Covid cases, corona curfew, which has to end at 7am on Monday, May 3 stands extended till 7am on Thursday, May 6 in four districts of , Srinagar, Baramulla, Budgam and Jammu. A re-assessment will be done on May 6. Atal Dulloo, financial commissioner, health and medical education, said that a DRDO team had arrived in the UT to set up 500-bed Covid facility, one each in Srinagar and Jammu. It was informed that 1,50,000 doses of vaccination for people falling between the age of 18-45 years. PROBE ORDERED INTO FOUR DEATHS AT BATRA HOSPITAL Jammu Following the death of four covid patients, allegedly due to shortage of oxygen at Acharya Shri Chander College of Medical Sciences and Hospital, popularly called Batra Hospital, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has ordered a probe. Those dead were Prof Irshad Ahmad Hamal, Haider Ali, Manjeet Singh and Bitta Kumari Kher. Their kin alleged that the deaths were caused due to shortage of oxygen, a claim strongly denied by the administration as well as the hospital management. Financial Commissioner, Health and Medical Education department, Atal Dulloo has appointed Divisional Commissioner, Jammu Dr Raghav Langer as inquiry officer and asked him to probe into the circumstances leading to the deaths at Acharya Shri Chander College of Medical Sciences (ASCOMS) and hospital. Consequently, Langer has constituted a three-member committee comprising director health services (Jammu), Director Industries and Commerce (Jammu), who is also member of a panel constituted last month to ensure adequate and timely supply of medical oxygen to hospitals, and Superintendent Engineer Mechanical Engineering department Jammu, the officials said. WEEKEND LOCKDOWN WILL STAY,EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTES CLOSED TILL MAY 31 JAMMU The Jammu and Kashmir government Sunday announced that there shall be complete “Corona curfew (night curfew)” every weekend in all 20 districts from 7 pm each Friday till 7 am each Monday. The government has also announced that the closure of educational institutions has been extended till May 31. Only 50% shops will be allowed to open on a day while traffic shall ply with half of the sitting capacity till May 31. All paid public parks in J&K shall remain closed for visitors till May 31. Existing guidelines and SoPs in place for compulsory testing of all incoming passengers and travellers to J&K shall be strictly enforced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-forms-five-member-covid-crisis-management-committee-101619983383378.html
03-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s hosiery, textile industry go on 3-day self-imposed lockdown||Keeping in view the rising Covid-19 cases, the hosiery and textile industry on Sunday announced that they will be observing a voluntary lockdown from Monday to Wednesday this week and from Saturday to Wednesday next week onwards.Darshan Dawar, president, Knitwear Club, said, “The hosiery and textile industry has decided to go on a voluntary lockdown from Monday to Wednesday this week and from Saturday to Wednesday next week onwards. It is our contribution to stop the spread of coronavirus in the city.”Bahadurke Textile and Knitwear Association president Tarun Jain Bawa said that the situation is worsening day by day and it can be controlled by imposing a lockdown in the city. The government should impose a complete lockdown and should not allow any industry and shop to operate for at least seven days. This would bring down the number of cases and the government would get time for the preparation to fight against Covid., he added.The associations said that they would also discharge their social duty and would take care of their workers and their families.Vipan Vinayak, president of Knit and Fab Hosiery Association, said that at least 38 associations had decided to observe a voluntary lockdown.Industrial associations demand imposition of complete lockdownAs Covid deaths are rising exponentially, the demand for imposing a lockdown in the city is getting louder. The death of Dinesh Lakra, 56, a city-based industrialist and vice-president of Laghu Udyog Bharati and member of the governing body of Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC), who had succumbed to Covid-19 on April 30, triggered panic among the industrialists.This is the first time that the industry and traders are asking the government to impose a lockdown.Darshan Dawar said that they had demanded a complete lockdown for at least one week in the city to control the spread of the virus. The representatives of the association also met cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu to discuss the same.He added that if needed the government should extend the lockdown for another week.“We have sent at least 10 letters to chief minister Captain Amrinder Singh and Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking for a complete lockdown in Punjab or at least in the city as Ludhiana has the maximum number of Covid cases and deaths in the state,” said Badish Jindal, president of Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association.“The city hospitals are already struggling to meet the need for oxygen and beds. The lockdown will break the chain of Covid infection,” he added.Gurmeet Kular, president of the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation, claimed that they were the first to request the government to impose a complete lockdown in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-hosiery-textile-industry-go-on-3-day-self-imposed-lockdown-101619983318429.html
03-05-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Youths create website providing details of medical facilities for Covid patients||With the sole motive to save lives of Covid patients across the country, a group of young technocrats have created a website on which data of the available resources are uploaded continuously. The Covid patients or their attendants may keep an eye on the availability of resources which include beds at hospitals, oxygen cylinders and medicines through the website which started functioning four days back.Although created recently, the website has helped hundreds of patients in getting oxygen, ambulances and medicines in many cities of the country including Delhi, Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Pune, Prayagraj and even smaller cities. With hundreds of volunteers now working to gather data, the website is now being continuously visited by the Covid patients and their attendants where they can search for the nearest medical facilities.The founder member of the website Pratapgarh resident Yogi Saksham, a first year BTech student said he and his friends decided to take the initiative after watching unbearable scenes of people dying due to lack of oxygen, medicines and other medical facilities.Saksham’s friends Jayant Dalmia of Prayagraj, Shreyas Gupta and Vedic Jhawar of Noida along with two of their friends started www.covidmuktbharat.in with help of a Noida-based IT company.Yogi Saksham informed that their classmates and friends in different cities of Uttar Pradesh are volunteering to collect data on the availability of hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, their refilling, food supply, plasma donors along with their blood group, ventilators, ambulances and other medical facilities. Once received, the data is verified by the core members of the group and then uploaded on the website.“Our motive is to provide reliable and accurate data of medical facilities to Covid patients. The data is collected by volunteers through different sources which include government websites, private agencies, doctors at different hospitals, CMO offices, medical staff etc. The received information is first verified properly and then uploaded on the site. The contact number of the concerned person is also mentioned so that patients may get immediate help. Anyone is free to volunteer for the site and may send information about the availability of medical facilities around them. We are receiving data from across the country which we are updating every hour on the site. It is our mission to connect to every corner of the country so that immediate help is provided to Covid patients and save their lives,” said Yogi Saksham.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/youths-create-website-providing-details-of-medical-facilities-for-covid-patients-101619983018526.html
03-05-2021||Other||Mumbai coastal road project work leaves fisherfolk in uncharted waters||Despite two Covid-related lockdowns in the last year, work on the city’s Coastal Road has continued at a swift pace. At least 217 acres of land has so far been reclaimed from the Arabian Sea for the project, with an additional 50-odd acres yet to be created. Officials estimate that about 30 percent of the work has been completed. The ‘Mavala’ underground tunnel boring machine (TBM) also continues to excavate earth from under Malabar Hill, at a pace of 7 metres (m) every day. About 330m of tunnelling has been finished presently. While the project is at least two years away from completion, land reclamation along the Worli coast has already begun impacting the livelihoods of fisherfolk, with women and small fishermen’s incomes being the first to be hit. For decades, these groups within the broader fishing community have conducted their trade almost entirely along the rocky shore between Nepean Sea Road and Worli.They largely include the Kolis, but also consist of members of the Agri and Christian communities who practice artisanal fishing. Boat owners, labourers, migrant workers, daily-wage or subsistence fishers, net-menders, oyster pickers and other vocations tied to the artisanal fishing trade have all been affected by the loss of these coastal commons, HT learnt through interviews and ground reporting. Since construction work on the coastal road began in late 2018, about 5-6km of the rocky intertidal zone between Priyadarshini Park and Worli sea face have been reclaimed, two officials involved with the project estimated. As a result, productive fishing grounds near Priyadarshini Park, Amarsons Garden, Breach Candy, Shree Mahalaxmi Temple, Worli Dairy and a significant portion of Haji Ali have been completely wiped out, fisherfolk said. Crucially, the space for women, who pick oysters and shellfish by hand, as well as small-scale fishermen who use non-motorised ‘tony’ boats, gill nets, cast nets, drift nets or simple fishing rods in shallow waters, has been reduced to a small patch of rocky shore outside Haji Ali. This area, popularly called Lotus Jetty, is set to shrink further once a connecting bridge is built across the waterfront. ‘Dol ka dhandha’, or the more lucrative practice of fishing in deeper waters at depths of over 20-25 feet, with larger ‘dol (bag nets)’, is reserved for certain families or groups of fishermen from Worli Koliwada. As per a March 2019 report by advocacy group Collective for Spatial Alternatives (CSA), their customary fishing grounds extend from Malabar Hill to Mount Mary. “For small fishermen, many of whom do not even have boats or official IDs, the shore is where you make a living. I have myself been doing it for decades. My family does not have permission to do dol fishing,” said 48-year-old fisherman Lawrence Fernandes, from Worli. During low tide, if one peers across the Lotus Jetty pier, one can see dozens of women, hunched over jagged rocks with tochas (ice pick) in hand, picking oysters, or scraping for shellfish in the muddy substrate with khupris (spade). They speak without pausing work, attempting to gather as much as possible before the tide returns. “There are more women coming here now. Earlier, we used to pick shellfish and oysters, even crabs, all the way from Worli Dairy to Priyadarshini Park. Now there is no more business along that shore, only Haji Ali is left,” said Turbherkar. “Marginal fishermen and women were always going to be the first, and hardest, hit by this project. They should have been given compensation before reclamation work started. Almost all indigenous land use has been completely erased along this coast. Most of the reclamation work was done during lockdown. Poor fishermen who were badly hit by the pandemic were left with no way to recoup their losses,” said Debi Goenka, founder of the Conservation Action Trust, one of several legal petitioners against the CRP. At Haji Ali too, shellfish and crab are getting scarce, fisherwomen say, pointing to the once gravelly part – that has now been reclaimed – where one could find them in large quantities – of the beach. But a small bucketful of oysters, which can be harvested even 200m away from the shore during low tide, will fetch them about ₹400-500 in the market. “Before the pandemic, if we were lucky, we could sell it for ₹800 also. But prices have been down for a while, and it takes a lot longer to gather enough money. I don’t know if there are more women or fewer oysters,” Turbhekar said. Multiple groups of women from Cuffe Parade, Colaba, Wadala, Trombay, Mahul, Sewri and Worli, expressed similar concerns. “Sometimes, one could find really big lobsters and crabs in front of Mahalaxmi temple. At Worli Dairy, I have picked up stingrays and other big fish that used to get washed up at low tide. Everything was gone after lockdown,” said Shubangi Tanel, 44, from Machhimar Nagar in Badhwar Park, Colaba, who has been foraging along this coast for over 20 years. Most women HT spoke to had fishermen husbands who ventured into deeper seas, either on their own boats or as labourers. “But this haath ka kaam (work by hand) has always been done by us. We sometimes go to Nariman Point or Marine Drive, but have to wait for the lowest low tide, which comes once every eight or nine days. And the tetra pods make it hard to enter the water. Mahalaxmi temple, Amarsons Gardens, Breach Candy and Worli Dairy were the best places to find shellfish and oysters on most days, until the reclamation,” says Madhuri Tandel, 36, from Colaba. Some, like Pratibha Patil, 40, from Cuffe Parade Koliwada, rely on this trade as the sole bread-winners in their family. Patil’s husband, Jayant, a fisherman, lost his legs in an accident at sea in 2016, after which she has relied solely on oyster and shellfish picking to make ends meet for her family of four. She sells her wares at Sassoon Dock. Out of at least 15 women HT spoke to over multiple visits to the area, four said this was the sole source of income for them and their immediate relatives. Three of their husbands had been in debilitating accidents, while one had passed away over a decade ago. Several others were unable to pay off existing debts, incurred largely due to medical expenses in the family. “Once they finish building the road, even what’s left at Haji Ali will be wiped out. Where will we go after that,” said Patil. Still others did not have any family history of fishing and had learnt the trade purely out of necessity. “Anyone who wants to make some money in a day can come here and do this work. No one will stop you,” said one of two women from Wadala, declining to give her name. Unlike their male counterparts, who are represented by unions such as the Worli Machhimaar Sarvoday Sahakari Society and Worli Koliwada Nakhwa Matsyavevsay Sahakari Society, these women, who hail from several localities other than Worli, are not organised into similar interest groups. This also seemed to be the case for fishermen like Mahesh Waghela, a 30-something resident of Worli Naka who now works as a security marshal, guarding an access road to the coastal road project construction site near Lotus Jetty. Waghela’s family, from Gujarat, has not been historically associated with fishing. But having lived his whole life around the Worli fishing zone, he picked up the trade growing up. “I’ve spent days at a stretch out at sea. During the August to December season, there is a need for labour on boats. When there is a job squeeze, during the off season, one could throw a net close to the shore and fend for themselves. Ghar ki kadhi toh ban jaati thi (you could catch enough to make a curry at home). Now we can’t even manage that much,” Waghela said. A Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute “rapid-report” from 2019 had stated that this particular segment of the seashore is a rich oyster bed, and that “livelihoods of oyster pickers, particularly fisherwomen,” is likely to be impacted by reclamation of the coastal road. The report also notes multiple instances of artisanal fishing across the shore from Haji Ali and Worli Dairy, at a distance of about 300m, recording catches of prawns, stingray, Ghol, seabass, moonfish, ribbonfish, acetetes and pomfret running into dozens of kilos in a single day. Even in deeper waters, Worli Koliwada’s fishermen say, they are anticipating tough times ahead. A range of commercially important species – pomfret, khaira, Ghol, barramundi, catfish, halwa, rawas (Salmon), hekru – are becoming harder to catch in viable quantities. “There is sedimentation in the water due to construction work and a lot of noise pollution. Fish are very sensitive and run away to deeper areas on slightest of disturbance. This reclamation is clearing out water even faster than the sea link did,” said Deepak Vasudev, an artisanal fisherman from Worli Koliwada. In their March 2019 report, experts at the Collective for Spatial Alternatives had noted, “Based on the past experience of Bandra-Worli sea link project, which caused siltation in Worli (affecting access to the sea), reduced fish catch, and affected navigation (due to sea link columns), it is inevitable that reclamation and construction activity for the coastal road will adversely impact fishing and livelihoods in the area. Except that the impacts are likely to be much worse.” Anand Pendharkar, a naturalist who has closely studied the area, said, “These predictions are now beginning to manifest themselves. Over the years, community dependence along this coast has come to include many stakeholders across categories of jobs, class and caste. The scale of dislocation is massive.” Officials in the civic body’s coastal road department did not directly respond to a detailed questionnaire seeking a comment for the story. However, a spokesperson for the department said that civic body is currently in the process of appointing a third-party agency to assess the nature and extent of the project’s impact on fisherfolk. “We have already floated a tender for a thorough rehabilitation assessment. A third-party organisation will take stock of the situation and work out a compensation plan for affected fishermen. We can give more details only after this has been done,” said the official. As per the tender floated by the civic body last December, the entire rehabilitation process for project-affected people (PAP) is slated to take about three years, which the fisherfolk said is far too long. HT also reached out to Ashwini Bhide, chairman of the civic body-appointed Fisherfolk Rehabilitation Assessment Committee (FRAC) for a comment, but did not receive a response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-coastal-road-project-work-leaves-fisherfolk-in-uncharted-waters-101619982717867.html
03-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s toll crosses 1, 400-mark as 17 more succumb||Seventeen more persons from the district lost their battle to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours even as 1, 404 others were found infected, health department officials said. The youngest fatality was a 25-year-old man from Jandiali village who had no pre-existing co morbid conditions.Spelling more trouble for the already overburdened health infrastructure, the active patients’ count crossed the 9,000-mark to settle at 9, 870 on Sunday. Health department officials say the number of active cases will cross the 10,000-mark on Monday. Ludhiana has been seeing a steady rise in daily infections since April 19, when the single-day infection count crossed the 700-mark for the first time. In the last 10 days, the district has recorded over 1, 000 cases four times. The cumulative count of cases since the outbreak last March stands at 57, 590, of which 46, 310 have recovered.The latest fatalities include nine women and eight men, the oldest being an 80-year-old man from Tajpur Road. The others include a 79-year-old woman from Abdullapur Basti, a 72-year-old woman from Gaushala Road, a 68-year-old woman from Barewal Road, a 65-year-old man from Noorwala Road, a 62-year-old woman from Mundian Kalan, a 61-year-old man from Madhopuri, three 60-year-old women from Subash Nagar, Prem Nagar and Giaspura, a 56-year-old woman from Ram Nagar, a 54-year-old woman residing near Jyoti Model School, a 54-year-old man from Sundar Nagar, a 49-year-old man from Azad Nagar, a 45-year-old man from Phullanwal and a 45-year-old man from Tibba Road, besides the 25-year-old man from Jandiali village.Those who tested positive include six healthcare workers, a cop and two international travelers.As of Sunday, there were 41 patients availing Level-3 (critical care) facilities in various government and private hospitals in the city. Apart from that, 1, 451 patients were admitted in the isolation wards of various private hospitals in the city which are running full to capacity, while 138 are in government hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-toll-crosses-1-400-mark-as-17-more-succumb-101619982418411.html
03-05-2021||Other||Innovate for oxygen production: Yogi to entrepreneurs||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday asked entrepreneurs in the state to explore the possibility of undertaking experiments and innovations for oxygen production and the manufacture of oxygen concentrators.He was addressing business people drawn from across the state at a video conference. The chief minister asked them to cooperate in the war against Covid and join hands in overcoming the medical oxygen problem.“With the Covid infection rate 30 to 50 times (more) intense in the second wave, there was a huge rise in oxygen requirement. Though the state took a lot of steps to overcome the problem and succeeded to a great extent, the business community and entrepreneurs may work towards new experiments and innovations in the areas of oxygen production and manufacturing of oxygen concentrators,” he said.Observing that entrepreneurs had always been with the society and the country in tough times, he said nation once again needed their energy and cooperation in overcoming the second wave of the infection.The government would extend all cooperation to those who intended to set up medical oxygen ventures, he said.He noted that 16 lakh business people had done GST registration so far and more of them should do so.“Life and livelihood both are hit under the present circumstances. To break the chain of infection, the government has introduced an effective system of weekly closure and night curfew. But all essential and emergency services will continue. Continue to extend cooperation. In case, any untoward incident happens with you, immediately inform the local administration. If you don’t feel satisfied with their action, then inform the chief minister’s office. Immediate action will happen,” he said.He also said business community’s interests were a priority for the state government which had “done a lot for their safety, security, insurance, ease of doing business”.Uttar Pradesh finance minister Suresh Khanna too participated in the event. He said despite the Covid pandemic, the state saw a rise in GST returns. In 2019-20, the state collected ₹72,931 crore and in 2020-21 the collection went up to ₹80,290 crore. UP Vyapari Kalyan Board chairperson Ravikant Garg also participated in the video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/innovate-for-oxygen-production-yogi-to-entrepreneurs-101619982357885.html
03-05-2021||Other||With 41 deaths, J&K covid toll rises to 2,370||Srinagar Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded 41 covid-19 related deaths taking the total death toll to 2,370. The UT also reported 3,571 fresh novel coronavirus infections taking overall cases to over 1.83 lakh. Of new cases, 2,421 cases are from Kashmir, while 1,150 are from Jammu, besides 41 travellers. Of 41 deaths, 28 were reported in Jammu division and 13 in Kashmir. On Saturday, 47 fatalities were reported, the deadliest day since the pandemic began.April recorded the highest monthly case tally of 45,123 infections and 449 deaths. Officials said with 1,126 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 486 in Jammu district, 268 in Baramulla, 222 in Anantnag and 195 in Budgam.The number of active cases, which has been rising exponentially, reached 32,421, officials said. Most of these cases have been added since February 9, when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593. As many as 1,453 patients have recovered, including 848 from Kashmir and 605 from Jammu.Around 1.49 lakh persons have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 81% against 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 73 lakh tests have been conducted. Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 81,000 cases and 1,063 deaths of the total.Reiterating on following covid SOPs including using of face mask, social distancing and maintaining proper hand hygiene, divisional commissioner Kashmir, Pandurang K Pole urged people to maintain actual covid behaviour for their safety and their family members.He maintained that over 8 lakh people have been vaccinated in Kashmir, and the process will be ramped up significantly.The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday put Srinagar district and Lakhanpur, he gateway to Jammu and Kashmir, a containment zone with a 500 metre radius and areas on either side of the Jawahar tunnel in Ramban district under red category. The rest are in the orange zone, meaning the UT, as of today, has no green zone. An order issued by the state executive committee said that the categorisation will be followed for implementation of permitted activities in such areas notified by the SEC separately for the purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-41-deaths-j-k-covid-toll-rises-to-2370-101619982238435.html
03-05-2021||Other||Indian Navy launches ‘Samudra Setu-II’, deploys 7 ships to bring medical oxygen||The Indian Navy has launched ‘Operation Samudra Setu-II’ to meet the country’s oxygen requirement amid the surge in Covid-19 cases in the second wave and the acute shortage of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). As a part of the operation, the Navy has deployed INS (Indian Navy Ships) Kolkata, Kochi, Talwar, Tabar, Trikand, Jalashwa and Airavat for shipment of oxygen-filled cryogenic containers and associated medical equipment from various countries. The first batch of the ships, INS Kolkata and INS Talwar, deployed in Persian Gulf, were immediately diverted for the task, and entered the port of Manama, Bahrain, on April 30. INS Talwar is likely to reach India with 40 MT (metric tonnes) LMO on May 4. INS Kolkata has proceeded to Doha, Qatar, for medical supplies, and will head to Kuwait to bring liquid oxygen tanks, said naval spokesperson commander Mehul Karnik. Similarly on the eastern seaboard, INS Airavat, too, has been diverted for the task and will enter Singapore to bring liquid oxygen tanks. INS Jalashwa, the LPD (landing platform/dock) which played a key role during operation Samudra Setu last year, was pulled out of maintenance, prepared and is on stand-by in the region to embark medical stores at a short notice, the Navy has mentioned in its press release. The second batch of ships comprising INS Kochi, Trikand and Tabar, deployed in Arabian Sea, have also been diverted to join the national effort. From the Southern Naval Command, the landing ship tank, INS Shardul, is being readied to join the operation by Monday, commander Karnik added. Apart from this, Indian Air Force aircraft C-17 has carried out several sorties from within the country and abroad to supply oxygen tankers to different places to assist the civil administration dealing with oxygen shortage for Covid-19 patients. Three oxygen tankers were airlifted from Bangkok to Jamnagar on April 28, while one was lifted from Agra to Ranchi, and another from Chandigarh to Ranchi, said Karnik. Two oxygen tankers were airlifted by C-17 aircraft from Indore to Raipur and Bhopal to Surat last week. Operation Samudra Setu was launched last year by the Navy to rescue Indian citizens stranded in neighbouring countries amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Around 4,000 stranded citizens were successfully brought back to India, said commander Karnik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rindia-navy-launches-samudra-setu-ii-deploys-7-ships-to-bring-medical-oxygen-101619979297821.html
