04-05-2021||Other||One-third of total Covid deaths at PGIMS, Rohtak in April alone||The Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak has witnessed a spike in Covid-19 death toll and a total of 264 persons have succumbed to the contagion at the institution in April only.As per data taken from the hospital officials, 768 deaths have been reported at PGIMS between May 1, 2020 and May 4, 2021. Of these, 264 deaths (34%) were reported last month alone.Last year, 10 persons lost their lives due to Covid at PGIMS in May, 25 in June, 36 in July, 41 in August, 84 in September, 45 in October, 127 in November and 52 in December.Similarly, 13 deaths were reported in January this year, two in February, three in March, 264 in April and 66 in May so far.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said that the death toll witnessed a sharp rise in April, 2021.“The reason was growing number of patients. We have 113 ICU beds and our doctors are making all efforts to save lives of every patient undergoing treatment here. Also, people had lowered their guard this year which resulted in rise in caseload and deaths,” she added.A senior doctor at PGIMS, requesting anonymity, said there is rise in Covid suspected deaths. “Hospitals are admitting patients who have RT-PCR positive reports and there are many patients with false negatives, whom hospitals are refusing admission. Such patients are also dying,” the doctor added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/onethird-of-total-covid-deaths-at-pgims-rohtak-in-april-alone-101620148281601.html
04-05-2021||Other||Five police SUVs to ferry Covid patients in Kaithal||The Kaithal district police have deputed five sport utility vehicles as ambulances for Covid patients in district.Kaithal superintendent of police (SP) Lokender Singh said that the SUVs were provided to the district police and now will be run as ambulances to ferry Covid patients.He said the ambulances will provide free services to patients and relief to the infected persons as rent of ambulances have increased following surge in cases.According to the SP, Kaithal DSP Raj Singh has been appointed as nodal officer. People can take the help of these vehicles by dialing helpline 108. He added that these vehicles, however, do not have oxygen facilities for patients.OXYGEN PLANT STARTS IN KARNAL HOSPITALTo meet the rising demand of liquid oxygen, a dedicated pressure swing adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generation plant was made operational at the Karnal civil hospital on Tuesday. The plant has a capacity to produce 200l oxygen per minute.Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said with starting of the unit, the demand for oxygen in the civil hospital will be easily fulfilled. He said the plant was approved by PM Modi and around ₹14 lakh have been spent to set up this plant.He added that this plant’s operations are free of cost. The oxygen will be generated from atmospheric air with the PSA technique and the hospital will have a direct supply of oxygen via pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-police-suvs-to-ferry-covid-patients-in-kaithal-101620148038654.html
04-05-2021||Other||Vij accepts that there’s shortage of oxygen in Haryana||Haryana home and health minister Anil Vij has finally accepted that there is a scarcity of oxygen in state.“Our teams are trying to arrange oxygen everywhere in state. There is scarcity because the supply from Odisha and elsewhere is taking time to reach here. But we are trying our best and getting the supply airlifted. The situation will improve soon,” Vij said on Tuesday.SITUATION IN HOME DISTRICTHis comment comes at a time when a private hospital in his home district has claimed on Tuesday that they have only two hours of liquid oxygen left.Park Healing Touch Hospital, a private facility on Chandigarh Road, treating Covid patients, flagged the SOS, where 30 critical Covid patients are admitted.Dr Jagmohan Oberoi, GM (operations), said, “Of total 90 patients, 50 are Covid patients including 30 on ventilator or BiPAP support. We were anxious so we met Vij who asked the DC to supply the gas at the earliest.”Dr Sukhpreet, district co-ordinator of oxygen supply, said a truck with one tonne oxygen was sent to the hospital, immediately.Sources in the health department said the Ambala civil hospital is overcrowded with critical patients. Also, MM University Mullana, one of the largest Covid facility in region, had given a similar panic alarm on Monday and oxygen was supplied accordingly.DC Ashok Kumar Sharma, while inspecting the oxygen plant in Saha said 100 spare cylinders will be sent to Mullana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vij-accepts-that-there-s-shortage-of-oxygen-in-haryana-101620147738464.html
04-05-2021||Other||Covid vaccination gains good response in Haryana||Amid spike in Covid-19 cases, vaccination has gained momentum in Haryana. People are coming forward in large numbers to take the jab.As per figures of the Cowin portal, total 63,489 people were vaccinated at 1,022 vaccination centres in Haryana till 5pm on April 4. Over three lakh people in the age group of 18 to 44, including health and frontline workers have been vaccinated since the vaccine was rolled out for the above 18 age groups.On May 2, total 18,310 people were given the jab. On May 3, the number of vaccinated people rose to 56,999, and 8,557 of them got the second dose.“All 10 adult members of my family received the first jab soon after it was opened at the vaccination centre in my village on May 2. Now there are no dates available for the new registration,” said Harish Dhawan, a resident of Yamunanagar.As per doctors monitoring the vaccination process, surge in new cases is a major factor that encouraged people to get vaccinated. Now, the government’s move to vaccinate people above 18 years of age has increased these numbers manifold.“The response is good, especially in big cities as people are registering their entire families for the shots to protect themselves from the virus and this is after a surge in cases,” said a vaccination officer.Karnal chief medical officer Yogesh Sharma said, “The surge in cases and government’s decision to roll out vaccination for all above 18 people, have encouraged people for vaccination as cases are being reported in all age groups.”As per Cowin portal, the available vaccines at centres in Gurugram, Faridabad, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Panipat, Hisar, Panchkula and Palwa. All vaccines at Max Hospital, Gurugram are booked till May 10.In Nuh, which has reported the minimum number of Covid patients in state after Charkhi Dadri so far, all available dates at 23 vaccination centres are booked till May 10.Kaithal civil hospital senior medical officer Dr Shailender Mamgain said people are coming in good numbers for vaccination in urban as well as rural areas.Most vaccination centres were booked soon after opening of the portal, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-vaccination-gains-good-response-in-haryana-101620147630678.html
04-05-2021||Other||Centre for World University Rankings has IISER in top six per cent globally||PUNE The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune, has been ranked in the top six per cent of universities worldwide, by the Centre for World University Rankings. These rankings are based on information that CWUR gathers through databases and other sources, and not through university submissions. A total of 68 universities and institutes from India have been ranked in the CWUR Global 2000 list. The 2021-22 edition of CWUR’s Global 2000 list ranked IISER Pune 1,124 in the world, out of 19,788 universities. The list also ranks IISER Pune 22nd nationally, and at 330 in the regional (Asia) level. Among the performance indicators that CWUR employs, IISER Pune scored in the research performance category. CWUR is a consulting organisation providing policy advice and strategic insights to governments and universities to improve educational and research outcomes. CWUR sources data on these parameters through databases and global lists, and does not rely on surveys and data submission by universities. “We are very happy to be listed in the top 2000 Global list by the CWUR. IISER Pune’s score is largely because of our research performance, and I would like to commend our researchers for this. Such an indicator of institutional performance would certainly help boost the morale of our researchers in these difficult times. I am sure that our researchers will do even better in future.” said IISER Pune director Professor Jayant Udgaonkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-for-world-university-rankings-has-iiser-in-top-six-per-cent-globally-101620146297936.html
04-05-2021||Other||Education minister hails SC order on fee relief to pvt school students||PATNAFollowing the Supreme Court’s order to private schools, offering relief to students towards fee payments, the state education department is considering framing a policy to ensure that the parents received the benefits as stipulated in the order.The Supreme Court, in a case filed by private schools of Rajasthan, has ruled that the schools shall not be charging money for the unutilized campus facilities and that the students be allowed to avail at least 15% reduction in annual fee for the academic session 2020-21, the pandemic phase. It also said none of the students be held up for want of payment of fees. The judgment was made public by the apex court on Tuesday.Private schools had gone to the apex court against the Rajasthan government’s order to cut tuition fee of students enrolled in CBSE-affiliated schools by 30% and the state board by 40%, respectively.Bihar’s education minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary said the judgment was in tune with the state government’s appeal to private schools to offer relief to the students who remained off the campuses due to Covid19 pandemic. “In the last assembly session, we urged private schools to rationalize fee structure and charge minimal from the students so that the schools also get the amount required for the sustenance of their staff,” said Chaudhary.Additional chief secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar said the department was waiting for full judgment of the apex court to frame suitable strategy to act and help the parents get fee reduction in accordance with the order.There are over 25,000 private schools in the state with a total of around 50 lakh students.“The school has been charging transportation fee, computer fee, science laboratory charge, etc, even though my son did not go for off-line studies,” said Namrata Kumari of Shashtri Nagar, whose son is in class 10 at a private school in the nearby locality.National president of Private Schools and Children Welfare Association Syed Shamael Ahmad hailed the judgment, saying it made clear that the state government could not regulate the fee structure of private schools. “So far as granting relief to the students, private schools would definitely honour the verdict by giving 15% concession on fees,” said Ahmad.He said all private schools should abide by the SC verdict. “However, the guardians are also requested to clear the dues to the schools so that they could pay salary to teaching and non-teaching staff, who are dependent on the school to sustain their families,” said Ahmad.He urged chief minister Nitish Kumar to clear the payment of government grants to private schools on account of enforcing the right to education (RTE) and taking admissions of poor students on 25% seats. “Payment of RTE grants, amounting in several crores of rupees, to the qualified schools has been held up for the past four-five years at the district level. The CM must look into the issues and penalize officers responsible for this,” Ahmad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/education-minister-hails-sc-order-on-fee-relief-to-pvt-school-students-101620142697708.html
04-05-2021||Other||Padma Shri decorated former scientist M B Verma passes away||Padma Shri decorated former DRDO scientist Dr Manas Bihari Verma (78) died of heart attack on Monday night in Darbhanga. According to sources close to Verma’s family, he breathed his last around 11.45 pm at his home in KM Tank locality of Laheriasarai, Darbhanga town.A close associate of former President Dr APJ Abdul Kalam, Verma played a key role in making the country’s first light combat aircraft (LCA) Tejas. Verma set a stringent goal for integration of weapons and multi-mode radar (MMR), besides initial operation clearance for Tejas.Conferred with Padma Shri award in 2018, Verma’s journey, from being an eminent scientist for the nation’s premier defence research organisation to an educationist working in the rural region, is inspiring. After completing his schooling from village, Verma pursued his graduation from Bihar College of Engineering (presently known as NIT Patna.)During his 35-year service, he worked with aeronautical establishments in the country and went on to become programme director of Aeronautical Development Agency (ADA), Bangalore, from 2002 to 2005. He got a chance to work for a fair period of time with former President Kalam.After his retirement from ADA Bangalore, Verma chose to return to his native village Bour in Darbhanga and got actively involved in addressing issues of illiteracy. Later on, he extended support to Viksit Bharat Foundation, which was started by Dr Kalam in mid 90’s, to build scientific temperament among school students, especially in rural pockets through Mobile Science Laboratory (MSL).He was also associated as trustee of Maharaja Kameshwar Singh Kalyani Foundation.Meanwhile. chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed his condolences over M B Verma’s death. “Very sad with news of demise of Padma Shri decorated famous scientist Manas Bihari Verma ji. His death has caused irreparable damage to the science world. The nation will always remember his contribution. May his soul rest in peace”, the CM tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/padma-shri-decorated-former-scientist-m-b-verma-passes-away-101620142637631.html
04-05-2021||Other||We have all failed: HC on Covid crisis||PATNAThe Patna High Court on Tuesday once again made strong observations against the state government for its inept handling of the Covid crisis, but refrained from passing any order, which has been reserved for May 6, after it was informed by advocate general Lalit Kishore midway through the hearing that the state had announced a lockdown till May 15. “At least one order has been complied with,” the bench of Justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh and Justice Mohit Kumar Shah observed. As soon as the proceedings began at 11 am, the court was angry that not enough had been done and the court could not go on waiting, putting the lives of the people at risk. “We have all failed. All of us feel ashamed for what we have done. Don’t make a joke of the proceedings. We cannot wait. We cannot play with the lives of the people, you may. It is an observation on us also that we have failed. This has happened only because we depended on the state officials and false assurances given by the state officials,” bench observed. When the advocate general tried to defend the state government saying it had taken effective steps, sanctioned ₹50 lakh to the ESIC hospital on Monday along with manpower and took exception to the court’s remark that he should not make joke of the proceedings, the bench asked him to name the hospitals where beds had been increased. When the AG took the name of Rajedendra Nagar Hospital (150 beds), the bench said it was nothing. “You had said about 1,000 beds at the IGIMS and 500 beds at the ESIC hospital, but it could not start. PMCH is in a shambles, NMCH is struggling,” the bench said. “The orders we have passed from the first date when we first took the matter on April 15 speak for themselves. In our opinion, certain drastic measures need to be taken to tackle the situation in the state, which has already gone beyond control.” The court also questioned the functioning of dedicated Covid care centres, saying most beds were vacant since there were no facilities there. The court also asked additional solicitor general KN Singh to seek instructions in the light of today’s proceedings and AG to file a detailed affidavit on the progress made by the state’s health department in fighting the Covid crisis. “The court will pass appropriate orders on Thursday. The court will fail in its duty if necessary orders are not passed in the larger public interest to ensure right of life to the people in the state,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/we-have-all-failed-hc-on-covid-crisis-101620142577687.html
04-05-2021||Other||Bihar locks down till May 15||PATNAWith no signs of an arrest in surging Covid cases and continuing shortage of life saving drugs, medical oxygen and hospital beds across the state, the Bihar government on Tuesday announced lockdown in the state from May 5 to May 15. Chief minister Nitish Kumar announced the decision through a tweet Tuesday morning after holding a meeting with cabinet colleagues and senior government officials on Monday night.“The decision comes in the backdrop of positivity rate which is hovering over 10% for the last one week. Despite restrictions, the infection is increasing,” said chief secretary Tripurari Sharan. The state reported 14,794 positive cases on Tuesday, taking the number of active cases to 110,430. The state capital continued to remain a hotspot, contributing 2,681 of the new Covid-19 infections during the last 24 hours. The state so far has recorded 2926 deaths, 105 of which were reported in last 24 hours. The state government, in the last week of April, had extended curfew timings from 9 pm to 6 pm and ordered closure of shops from 4 pm instead of 6 pm.The government had earlier restricted attendance of staff in offices and semi-government offices to only 25% while schools were closed till may 15. The universities and colleges have already closed down for summer vacation since May 1.During the lockdown, all offices, barring emergency and essential services, will remain closed, a notification issued by the state home department said. Air and rail travel have been allowed to continue and offices, banks, and other offices would function with minimal staff strength while religious places and places of worship will remain closed, the chief secretary said. All commercial and private establishments will be allowed to function normally, except shopping malls and restaurants/eateries, which will be allowed to offer only home delivery/takeaway services. Medical shops, grocery shops, and other essential services would remain open like the previous lockdown norms.The state government has banned plying of vehicles but allowed public transport to operate to 50% of capacity for carrying passengers travelling by rail or air. RJD attacks govt; Cong, BJP welcome lockdown The state government’s decision to enforce lockdown was criticized by the RJD. “The opposition has been demanding the lockdown for last 15 days. But the Bihar CM was awaiting orders from somewhere else. And when it has started affecting villages, the government has imposed the lockdown,” said leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav.However, RJD’s ally Congress welcomed the decision. “We have requested CM for lockdown earlier and now it has been announced, although a bit late. Yet we welcome the decision,” said Congress MLC Premchandra Mishra.“The Bihar government is taking every decision in consultation from the group of experts and taking into account people’s opinion. We appreciate the decision on the lockdown,” said BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-locks-down-till-may-15-101620142518320.html
04-05-2021||Other||Bihar places order for first batch of 15.92 lakh doses of vaccine||PATNABihar on Monday placed orders for supply of first batch of 11.80 lakh doses of Covishield and 4.12 lakh doses of Covaxin before it begins inoculating 5.50 crore target population of 18-44 years of age against coronavirus. Bihar is purchasing the vaccines directly from the firms — the Serum Institute of India, the manufacturers of Covishield, and the Bharat Biotech, manufacturers of Covaxin. The state’s purchase would be in addition to the Centre’s allotment in due course of time, said an official of the health department. “We made advance payment of ₹36.74 crore to the Serum Institute on Tuesday for the first lot of 11.80 lakh doses of Covishield. We have also placed purchase orders for supply of 4.12 lakh doses of Covaxin with the Bharat Biotech. We are in constant touch with the firm to raise the invoice so that we can make advance payment for the vaccines,” the official added. The Centre has fixed a purchase rate of ₹315 per dose for Covishield and ₹420 per dose for Covaxin for states and union territories. “We are pursuing with the Serum Institute for immediate dispatch of the vaccines and it has assured us that the shipment will move Wednesday,” the officer said. Bihar has been going slow on vaccination because of lack of availability of sufficient vaccines. “We have around 8 lakh doses of vaccines available with us and intend to utilise them up in the next four days. The Centre has assured to replenish the vaccines before we exhaust our stock,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar, also the state’s nodal officer for vaccination. The lack of vaccines has forced Bihar to scale down its session sites from 2,800 almost a month back to 2,200 as on Monday. “We were faced with a shortage of vaccines a fortnight back when the number of inoculations dipped to around 70,000 a day against a peak of 3.75 lakh inoculations a day. We have picked up again and inoculated 1,16,805 lakh on May 3,” added Kumar. Bihar had so far inoculated 74,18,981 people against a target group of 2.30 crore people above 45 years of age. The state has decided to hold back the vaccination of 18 years and above population till it receives sufficient quantity of vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-places-order-for-first-batch-of-15-92-lakh-doses-of-vaccine-101620142517755.html
04-05-2021||Other||7,928 fresh Covid cases and 53 deaths in Pune district on Tuesday||PUNE Pune district reported 7,928 fresh Covid cases and 53 Covid-related deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the state health department.Pune district has a total of 8,80,545 Covid cases. Of this, 7,61,187 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 9,827 deaths in the district. At present, there are 1,09,531 active cases in Pune district. Of the 53 deaths were reported in the district on Tuesday, 28 were in Pune rural and 25 in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). No deaths were reported in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 4,45,114 Covid cases and 5,695 deaths till Tuesday. Whereas PCMC has reported 2,13,913 cases so far and a total of 1,526 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 2,21,518 total cases so far and 2,549 deaths due to Covid. As per the state health department, 65,934 patients were discharged on Tuesday in Maharashtra taking the total to 41,07,092. The recovery rate in the state is 85.16%.The case fatality rate in the state is 1.49%.Currently, 39,36,323 people are in home quarantine and 30,355 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7928-fresh-covid-cases-and-53-deaths-in-pune-district-on-tuesday-101620142037634.html
04-05-2021||Other||Sonowal or Sarma? Assam waits for the next chief minister||Two days after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies returned to power for a second time, speculations continued to do the rounds on Tuesday across Assam on who will be the next chief minister of the state. There’s no clarity yet on whether incumbent Sarbananda Sonowal will continue to head the government or senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who played a crucial role in the party’s poll performance, will be given the post. “It is clear that either among the two, the incumbent CM or the finance minister (Sarma) would be the next CM. Whoever is given the responsibility will accept it. I appeal to all BJP MLAs and workers to remain calm till a decision is reached,” BJP state chief Ranjeet Kumar Dass told journalists on Tuesday. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, who were scheduled to visit Guwahati on Tuesday, are now expected on Wednesday to meet the newly elected legislators and get their views on government formation and the CM’s post. “It is natural for the public and voters to speculate who will be the next CM. But the BJP is a disciplined party and the party’s parliamentary board will meet in Delhi in the next 2-3 days to take a call on this,” BJP MP from Silchar Rajdeep Roy said. In the meantime, newly elected MLAs and leaders of alliance partners Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL) are meeting both Sonowal and Sarma in Guwahati. “If my name is being discussed and I am being questioned on it, what do you expect me to answer? Someone has to become the CM as the post won’t remain vacant. You should ask a third person about it. It is embarrassing to face such questions,” Sarma told the media on Tuesday. Most BJP MLAs are saying that a decision on the CM’s post would be taken by the party high command with the consultation of the legislators. A senior BJP leader said on condition of anonymity that Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) could also have a say on who will take the top post. “It is sad to see that in the fight for the CM’s chair, people of Assam are getting affected. It is clear that there is a difference within the BJP on this issue. We are worried the fight between the two for the post could hurt the state,” said newly elected Congress MLA from Mariani, Rupjyoti Kurmi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sonowal-or-sarma-assam-waits-for-the-next-chief-minister-101620140178370.html
04-05-2021||Other||It is harrowing to call Covid victims’ kin: PGIMS nurse||When 24-year-old Sheetal Choudhary joined as a staff nurse at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) four years ago, little did she know that three years down the line she would be single-handedly doing the unenviable job of arranging cremations for those succumbing to Covid through two waves of the pandemic.The energetic Covid warrior has been doing the job everybody shies away from — making the dreaded phone call to family members of the deceased, coordinating with the police, municipal corporation and PGIMS staff, sealing and sending bodies to the cremation ground — for the last year. Till May 1, she had arranged the last rites of at least 700 people claimed by the virus and has not taken a single leave in three months.On Sunday morning, Choudhary received a call from the father of an 11-month-old boy, who died of Covid on Saturday night. The father wanted to see his son’s face for the last time. Choudhary’s eyes brim with tears as she recalls the harrowing phone call. “I suffer a breakdown every day on seeing these deaths. It was very difficult for me to console the father and grandfather of the 11-month-old child who battled for his life for four days.”Choudhary, the nodal officer for Covid death management at PGIMS, says her morning starts with people begging her to arrange an ambulance so that they can take the body of their loved ones to the crematorium.“I sent 12 bodies to the cremation ground for last rites till Sunday afternoon and 14 on Saturday. Making the phone call to the family of patients and receiving them when they arrive for a final glimpse of their loved ones the next day,, however, is the hardest part of the job. I get at least 400 calls per day, most of which are by the family members of the deceased ringing up to ask when the body will be cremated and how many people are allowed to come,” she says.Choudhary says they use labels so that bodies of patients with the same name do not get mixed up. A team of 8 Class-4 employees seal the bodies.Unidentified body left at PGIMS“We have two ambulances and send bodies to two crematoriums in two shifts every day. Last month, I was only able to return home at 2.30am after making a cremation list for the next morning because over 30 patients had died in a single day. The bodies were lined up and our staff struggled to pack the body. A senior police official’s sister had succumbed to the virus at a private hospital in Gurugram and the staff had left the body at PGIMS without informing us. We struggled to identify the body,” she says.On the challenges faced by the staff, Choudhary says a few Covid patients’ family members had refused to appear for the cremation and asked them to perform the last rites.“Many people would demand that they be allowed to take the body to their native town or village. A few influential would demand that their relative’s body be cremated at the earliest, but I have always given bodies as per sequence,” she said.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya Choudhary is doing work, which other employees are refusing to do. “Her job is high risk, and she has been doing it for the last year. She is single-handedly doing the work of six-seven staff members,” Dahiya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/it-is-harrowing-to-call-covid-victims-kin-pgims-nurse-101620139637958.html
04-05-2021||Other||Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara under stricter lockdown as cases increase||PUNE In view of the increasing number of Covid cases and the subsequent strain on the health infrastructure, three districts in Western Maharashtra - Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara - will go under a stricter lockdown from May 5. Under this lockdown, only milk and vegetable supply will be allowed. In Pune district, the local administration announced additional curbs from Tuesday in Baramati tehsil, where many villages have become hotspots.Kolhapur has so far seen 70,844 total cases of which 9,592 are active patients as on May 3, while total fatalities stood at 2,363. In Sangli, 79,911 people contracted virus since last year, of which 13,861 are active patients, while 2,388 have succumbed to the virus. In Satara, progressive positive count for Covid cases reached 1.98 lakh, of which 23,100 are active, with 2,384 fatalitiesIn Kolhapur, while the number of cases reduced in the past two days, there is a shortage of oxygen and Remdesivir, which prompted guardian minister Satej Patil to announce the lockdown from May 5. Patil said “If the cases rise in the coming days, more oxygen will be needed. Strict lockdown will be imposed in the district from 11 am to break the chain of infection.” Besides Kolhapur, guardian minister of Sangli, Jayant Patil, also announced a complete lockdown in the district for eight days, starting Wednesday. “At this point, lives are more important than livelihood. Therefore, I urge everyone to follow lockdown norms and not step out,” said Patil. In Satara, fresh restrictions came into being from Tuesday, as cases spiked. Except for milk, and home delivery of food and medical services, everything will be closed. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that while cases are on the decline in many cities, including Mumbai and Pune, some districts are showing a surge. “To make sure Covid doesn’t spread further, the local administration has decided to impose a stricter lockdown in Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara. There will be additional restrictions in these places,” said Tope, speaking to reporters in Mumbai. The state is already under curbs, which according to the order, will last till May 15. Meanwhile, Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte has written to the Union cabinet secretary to enhance liquid oxygen allocation to Maharashtra, as 16 districts in the state are seeing a continuous growth in Covid cases. Kunte in his letter mentioned that the state continues to face the onslaught of the second wave of the Covid pandemic, with a current active caseload of 6,63,758, of which 78,884 cases admitted are on medical oxygen, including 24,787 in ICUs. The letter further stated that 17 Maharashtra districts -- Palghar, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Solapur, Satara, Nandurbar, Beed, Parbhani, Hingoli, Amravati, Buldhana, Wardha, Gadchiroli and Chandrapur -- are showing a continuous growth of active Covid cases, because of which the oxygen requirement is also increasing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kolhapur-sangli-and-satara-under-stricter-lockdown-as-cases-increase-101620138437452.html
04-05-2021||Other||PMC’s women officials demand security after alleged misbehaviour by corporators||PUNE A series of incidents involving public representatives arguing with woman officials at the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has prompted women officials to now demand security. Earlier last week, BJP corporator Dhanraj Ghogre alleged that he was first mistreated by assistant medical officer Dr Vaishali Jadhav, who is also in charge of the vaccination drive. Ghogre later created a ruckus in the cabin of the civic health chief and allegedly humiliated Jadhav. In another incident, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) corporator and party leader in the PMC, Vasant More, allegedly insulted assistant medical officer Dr Manisha Naik. Dr Jadhav said, “I have written a letter to the commissioner to provide us security after these incidents. I am also planning to write another letter to the police commissioner and state women’s commission. It is not a matter of one individual, but all women officials who are working in a pandemic situation are under tremendous pressure.” Neelam Gorhe, deputy chairman of the Maharashtra Legislative Council and MLA has also written a letter to minister Eknath Shinde and PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar to form a committee to conduct inquiry. She said, “I have received complaints regarding both incidents which happened on April 28 and 29. I have written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and urban development minister Eknath Shinde to look into the matter to avoid such incidents. PMC should provide security to Dr Vaishali Jadhav and Dr Manisha Naik, and the corporation must take strict action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmcs-women-officials-demand-security-after-alleged-misbehaviour-by-corporators-101620137057262.html
04-05-2021||Other||Goa villages announce self-imposed lockdowns, CM warns against curbs on essentials||With several villages and towns in Goa announcing their own ‘mini-lockdowns’ in Goa, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday urged village panchayats and municipalities in the state to not ‘create panic’ by forcibly locking out even essential services. HT has learnt.“If you stop essential services you will create a panic-like situation and we will end up in more trouble. People should understand that essential services need to remain open and the movement of people who are involved in essential work should not be curtailed,” Sawant said. More than two dozen towns and villages in Goa have imposed their own ‘lockdowns’ asking all non-essential shops to remain shut and restricting the timings of essential shops. While imposing their own lockdowns with varying durations, the local bodies have also restricted the timings of stores selling essentials with most lockdowns allowing the essential shops to only remain open during the morning hours. Sawant also announced that non-essential shops, which were allowed to remain open between 7 am and 7 pm as part of the restrictions, would now also have to shut shop. Restaurants, too, that were previously allowed to operate with 50% seating capacity, will now not be allowed to host patrons within the premises and can remain open only for takeaways. “Additional Restrictions are being imposed on shops selling non-essential items till May 10 2021. Restaurants will cease to function, except their kitchens for home delivery of food items,” Sawant said. Goa is facing an acute shortage of oxygen beds as well as liquid medical oxygen. The Goa Medical College and Hospital, the state’s premier medical facility, has converted its examination blocks into covid facilities. State health minister Vishwajit Rane has admitted that Goa is facing a shortage of oxygen to the tune of 8,000-10000 litres per day. Goa is reporting between two to three thousand fresh Covid-19 cases and between 40-50 deaths each day. The state’s positivity rate is among the highest in the country and has crossed 50% last week before settling to around 45% over the last few days. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-villages-announce-self-imposed-lockdowns-cm-warns-against-curbs-on-essentials-101620136817821.html
04-05-2021||Other||PMC staff on Covid duty gives rise to increase in illegal constructions||PUNE As per Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials, there is an increase in the number of unauthorised constructions in the city. The PMC attributes the spurt to residents taking advantage of the current lockdown, as PMC personnel are all on Covid duty.According to PMC’s building permission officials, Kondhwa, Kharadi, Wadgaonsheri, Mundhwa, Keshavnagar, Katraj, Hadapsar, Sinhagad road, Vishrantwadi, Kalas Dhanori and Lohegaon, apart from 11 merged villages areas, is where ward officials are reporting an increasing number of unauthorised constructions.Rajendra Raut, superintendent engineer of the building permission and construction department, said, “Our staff has been assigned Covid duties. We have received very few proposals for building permissions.”In recent action, PMC demolished 27,950 square feet of unauthorised construction in Mundhwa, Ghorpadi and the BT Kavade road area. PMC officials found 2,500 square feet of unauthorised construction at a residence in Shrivastinagar, and over 20,000 sqft at four different locations in the same area.Namdev Gambhire, executive engineer, of the department said, “We have got calls from residents about unauthorised construction. Due to Covid-19 duties, our staff does not get enough time to take action. However, we have been given instructions to serve notices and file police complaints.” An official, speaking anonymously, said, “The administration has taken strict action against engineers negligent while on Covid duty. Recently, two engineers were suspended by the PMC. Therefore, we don’t get time to visit unauthorised construction sites and serve notices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-staff-on-covid-duty-gives-rise-to-increase-in-illegal-constructions-101620136517263.html
04-05-2021||Other||Amid Covid-19 crisis, Rajasthan demands share from international supplies||The Rajasthan government has urged the government of India to give priority to Rajasthan and provide the state with 5,000 oxygen concentrators, HT has learnt. In a letter to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the state health department mentioned that various international agencies, including the Redcross, are assisting with the management of the Covid-19 pandemic in India in form of oxygen generation plants and concentrators, medical equipment and other medical consumables.Rajasthan is among the top five states with a high caseload of Covid-19 patients in the country. More than 16,000 Covid-19 patients are currently on oxygen, including ventilators, and the number is expected to grow rapidly in the coming weeks, the state informed the Centre. In its letter, the state said it is making all efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19 and for the provision of oxygen. Looking at the present trend, the oxygen demand is likely to shoot up. The state also demanded pulse oximeters, N95 masks, and PPE kits, among other essentials required to fight the virus. A senior official of health department said Rajasthan requires around 530 MT of oxygen daily, looking at the daily number of active cases, which is on constant rise, but what is available is around 265 metric tons. “The state has urged GoI to provide 5000 oxygen concentrators,” he added.The Union health ministry has approved the allocation of 6,853 Remedesivir injections vials to Rajasthan which was received in donation from the USAID, the official informed. Meanwhile, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has directed swift preparation of plans for setting up an oxygen plant in Rajasthan and the purchase of essential equipment such as oxygen concentrators. After the review meeting on Monday night, the CM directed the departments of health and medical education, industry, urban development, autonomous government and district administration to make coordinated efforts for setting up or setting up new oxygen plants and purchase of oxygen concentrators. The CM said that oxygen concentrators can prove useful in catering to the need for oxygen for Covid-19 patients in hospitals. They should be procured as soon as possible and co-operation of Indian embassies abroad should be taken for the import. It should also be ensured that there is no delay in reaching them due to shipping and other reasons. Gehlot directed officers to keep constant coordination with the officials of the companies concerned to get the supply of oxygen coming from Jamnagar and Bhiwadi to the hospitals as soon as possible. He said that on Monday, Union home minister Amit Shah assured the state to provide additional tankers for the lifting of liquid medical oxygen. State urban development minister Shanti Dhariwal said the possibilities of setting up oxygen plants are being explored in big cities of the state. At some places, land has also been identified for the purpose. In the coming days, work orders will be issued for setting up the plant in coordination with the concerned departments. Additional chief secretary, industries, Subodh Agrawal, informed that the process of importing the concentrator from China and Russia is being finalised. Discussions are also being held for procurement from some firms from Dubai and Mumbai. He informed that by the end of May, about 25,000 concentrators will be available in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-covid-19-crisis-rajasthan-demands-share-from-international-supplies-101620135377827.html
04-05-2021||Other||Covid duty by MBBS interns to be treated as compulsory rotating internship: NMC||The National Medical Commission (NMC) has stated that Covid-19 duties performed by MBBS students will be treated as compulsory rotating internship.The decision follows the announcements made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s office to address the shortage of human resources in the fight against the pandemic. To augment manpower amid the crisis, the government had announced that the services of final year MBBS students can be utilised for providing services such as teleconsultation and monitoring of mild Covid cases after due orientation by faculty.NMC secretary Dr RK Vats said that considering the unprecedented situation due to the pandemic, where augmentation of medical manpower is critical, duties performed by interns during their posting in various places or departments for Covid-19 management will be treated as the duty in those departments for purpose of compulsory rotating internship.As per the NMC notification, the MBBS interns will be involved in different departments for different durations. “They will spend two months in general medicine, including psychiatry, 15 days in emergency or critical care and two months in community medicine,” the notification reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-duty-by-mbbs-interns-to-be-treated-as-compulsory-rotating-internship-nmc-101620134658300.html
04-05-2021||Other||No challans, Moga admn to send violators of Covid protocols to open jails||Amid the raging second wave of Covid-19 infections, the Moga administration has set up an open jail at Godhewala stadium on Ludhiana Road to lodge violators of the various norms and restrictions put in place by the government. Moga deputy commissioner (DC) Sandeep Hans said the decision was taken to curb unnecessary movement of people amid rising infections. “People are roaming around the streets without any reason. For how long will we challan them? From now on, we will be taking stern action against the violators and sending them to open jails. Besides, people are already facing financial troubles. So, we have decided to detain them instead of collecting challans,” said the DC. The open jail has been set up under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and The Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. It will remain functional until further orders. DSP City Barjinder Singh said, “We have cleaned and sanitised the open jail. But we appeal to residents to stay at home rather than ending up here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-challans-moga-admn-to-send-covid-safety-violators-to-open-jails-101620132018059.html
04-05-2021||Other||32 ventilators lying unused to be installed in Mohali hospitals||After Hindustan Times reported that 32 ventilators were gathering dust at the upcoming Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, Mohali, for the last nine months, the district administration on Monday swung into action.Five ventilators will be installed at the civil hospital in Phase-6; 15 will be made available for the upcoming 104-bed makeshift Covid hospital; while 12 others will be installed at another 100-bed facility being created in the district with the support of the army.HT had reported that several parts of the state were reeling under an acute shortage of critical care facilities for Covid-19 patients and the number of active cases had crossed the 9,000 mark. Mohali is among the nine worst-hit districts of Punjab, where more than 22,000 Covid cases and 180 deaths have been reported since April 1.Deputy commissioner of Mohali, Girish Dayalan, said that all 32 ventilators will be made operational in about twenty days.‘We’re working on war footing’Dr Bhavneet Bharti, director principal of the upcoming Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, said, “We are working on a war footing; appointment letters have been issued to the faculty to ensure human resources are in place while the faculty joins. Arrangements are being made for setting up an oxygen generation plant to ensure uninterrupted supply to the institute. We are well aware that the health facilities in the district are overwhelmed by the sudden surge in Covid cases. So we are trying our best to meet the manpower and the equipment challenges, and will hopefully get a go ahead as soon as the team of the National Medical Council conducts the inspection of the facility.”The ventilators were received nine months ago under PM Cares Fund, but the installation remained pending due to unavailability of an oxygen generation plant and paucity of technical manpower. The ventilators also needed some software up-gradation for which a technician from Bharat Electronics Limited (BHEL) had been contacted, said DC.On April 27, Hindustan Times had reported how eight ventilators, which the civil hospital in Phase-6 had bought around eight months ago, were lying unused due to a lack of infrastructure and staff to operate them. The next day, the hospital authorities had handed over the ventilators to two private hospitals in Mohali—Max and Fortis.Mohali has emerged as a medical tourism destination with 30 private hospitals, having top-class facilities, catering to patients from the region. These currently have 256 ICU beds, of which 240 were occupied as on Sunday. There are three major government-run civil hospitals in Phase-6, Kharar and Dera Bassi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/32-ventilators-lying-unused-to-be-installed-in-mohali-hospitals-101620076574268.html
04-05-2021||Other||For mourning kin of Covid victims, it’s a painful wait for last rites in Mohali||Amid a rise in Covid-19 deaths, the waiting time at Mohali’s sole crematorium, located in Sector 73, has gone up. On Sunday, bodies of 20 Covid victims were cremated but the families of 13 victims were asked to wait till Monday. Again, on Monday, seven other families were asked to wait till Tuesday. As deaths started rising in April, the crematorium in Sector 73 had created a separate enclosure for Covid victims. Since April 1, as many as 186 persons have succumbed to the virus in the district. Narinder Pandey, the head priest of the crematorium says, “We had to ask seven families to wait till Tuesday to carry out the last rites of their loved ones. We are helpless. We can cremate only 20 bodies a day. Only four bodies are cremated in an electric crematorium in a day.” A resident of Sector 69, whose father died due to Covid-19 at a private hospital on Saturday, said, “We were already shattered by the death. Now, we have been asked to wait for another day for the cremation. Even the hospitals don’t hand over bodies to the family. They only give it to the nodal officer as per the protocol.” During the waiting period of over 24 hours, the mourning families have additional tasks—to arrange a 1 litre sanitiser and four PPE suits. Three PPE suits are for the crematorium staff and one is for the family member who is allowed to light the pyre. 90 quintals of wood used every day With 20 bodies being cremated every day, 90 quintals of wood are being used every day since April 1. For cremating one dead body, four quintals are used. Before April, only 24 quintals of wood were used. The cremation is done by three employees of the cremation ground and one member of the family. Mohali MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “We have already made a special enclosure for the cremation of Covid victims. We have enough space. I will check, how there is a waiting period of one day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/for-mourning-kin-of-covid-victims-it-s-a-painful-wait-for-last-rites-in-mohali-101620075612930.html
04-05-2021||Other||Chandigarh sees a new peak as 890 test positive||A day after recording the highest-single day count of 860 cases, Chandigarh saw a new peak of 890 fresh infections on Monday. Eleven persons, including a 35-year old man from Faidan village, also succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 507. Out of 11 fatalities, six breathed their last in private hospitals of Panchkula and Mohali.A total of 528 persons were also discharged after recovery on Monday. Chandigarh’s cumulative count of cases currently stands at 45, 196, of which, 7, 943 are active cases. The new infections include 466 men and 424 women.Four more succumb in Panchkula as 250 test +veFour more persons lost their life even as 250 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Panchkula on Monday. The deceased include two men, aged 60 and 68, from Pinjore, a 45-year-old woman from Moginand and a 66-year old man from Sector 21. All four had pre-existing comorbid conditions such as hypertension and diabetes.Panchkula’s cumulative count of cases is 21, 937, of which 2, 021 are active, 19, 695 have recovered and 221 have died. The district’s recovery rate, as on Monday, was 89% while the positivity rate was 15%. The fatality rate stood at 1.6%. Panchkula health department is planning to set up 40 isolation beds in the OPD of the Civil Hospital to deal with any exingency.Civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “We are planning to shift the OPD in a hospital in Saket and the gynaecology services to Sector 26 in case we witness a certain surge in cases. And 40-isolation beds with oxygen supply can be set up in the OPD.”12 deaths in Mohali take toll to 622 Twelve more persons died in Mohali in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 622. As many as 534 fresh cases were also reported on Monday, taking the count to 49, 085. The district has recorded 2, 515 cases and 27 deaths in just three days. Out of total, 534 cases, 182 are from Mohali city, 109 from Dhakoli, 77 from Kharar, 86 from Dera Bassi, eight from Lalru, 13 from Boothgarh, 30 from Gharuan, 21 from Kurali and eight from Banur. Meanwhile, with 1, 042 patients also recovered from the disease, bringing down the number of active patients to 8, 713. Civil surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur said, “All those who died were above the age of 60 and were having comorbid conditions.”29 micro-containment zones in UT The UT administration on Monday declared 29 more micro-containment zones in the city. These are located in Sectors 7, 20, 21, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 47 and Daria village, Indira Colony, New Indira Colony, Ram Darbar, Phase 1 and 2, and Modern Housing Complex, Pipli Wala Town and Samadhi Gate in Mani Majra, Vikash Nagar in Mauli Jagran and Mauli Jagran Complex. As many as 32 micro-containment zones were declared in the city on May 1. 356 in 18 to 44 age group vaccinated PanchkulaAs many as 1, 409 persons received the Covid vaccine on Monday, of which 356 were in the age group of 18 to 44. On Tuesday, the timing of vaccination has been divided as per the age-group. Persons above 70-years will be given the vaccine from 9am to 11am, those in the age group of 50-60 will be given the jab from 11 am to 12:30pm, and persons in the age-group of 45 to 50 will be vaccinated from 12:30pm to 2pm. The vaccination sites will be Polyclinic, Sector 26; MDC-4; Government Dispensary, Sector 12 A; and Government Dispensary, Sector 21, Panchkula. For people in the age-group of 18-44, the vaccination drive will take place from 9am to 4pm at Government Dispensary, Sector 25; Urban Health Centre, Sector 16; Ayush Dispensary, Sector 9, Primary Health Centre (PHC), Pinjore; and Community Health Centre, Raipur Rani, and Community Health Cente, Kot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chandigarh-sees-a-new-peak-as-890-test-positive-101620075132622.html
04-05-2021||Other||New Covid-19 variant highly infectious; R0 up to 3: TIFR-IISc model||The new variant of the Covid-19 virus prevalent in the second wave is likely to be almost two to two-and-a-half times more infectious than the previous variant according to a statistical model by Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Mumbai, and Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore.Allowing the virus to be two to two-and-a-half times more infectious than the virus strain seen last year best explains the observed Covid-related fatalities in Mumbai between February and April this year, finds the model.This was revealed in the latest report released on Monday. A simulation model, developed last year by scientists from the two institutes, projects that the R naught (R0) or reproduction number of the virus has increased from two-two-and-a-half times to over three under the new variants in the non-slum regions, where the second wave was more severe.R0 denotes the expected number of individuals a single person exposed to the virus infects in a city where everyone else is susceptible. This means, a person infected with the new strain of the virus is likely to infect over three people they come in contact with.“The increased R0 is an indicator that the new variant of the virus is much more infectious. This is in line with the rapid spread of the virus in the second wave and more number of people getting infected,” said coordinator of the simulation project at TIFR Sandeep Juneja, who is the dean of the institute’s school of technology and computer science.The R0 for the overall city (slums and non-slum areas) is likely to be three-and-a-half to four-and-a-half. The R0 is higher in slums owing to a higher population density.“However, as the current infections in the city are largely in non-slums or high rises, the increase in R0 from non-slums is a better measure of the impact of more infective variants to the city,” said Juneja.The model which makes this prediction mimics a city with a population of 13 million. It takes into consideration different population demographics, densities, household sizes, city movement restrictions and interaction of people with each other. The initial parameters that were chosen were such that the death rates matched the actual observations in last April. The simulations that arose from the parameters chosen were done for various scenarios such as population compliance, lockdowns and other restrictions, role of local trains, vaccinations.Murad Banaji, senior lecturer in mathematics, department of design engineering and maths at the Middlesex University, London, who has been studying the epidemic in Mumbai, agreed that the mutant circulating in the city was more transmissible.“The epidemiological evidence, the speed of spread in particular, does point to whatever variants are circulating in the city being more transmissible and/or more able to infect people who have previously been infected. The spread has been wider than we would expect, and this has undoubtedly resulted in more fatalities. On the other hand, I have not seen evidence that whatever variants are circulating in Mumbai are more lethal (causing more severe disease in those infected). Overall, I think we can be fairly confident that new variants have played a role in Mumbai’s latest wave, causing increased spread and hence fatalities; but I don’t feel I’ll be able to put numbers on this,” he said.Lancelot Pinto, a city-based pulmonary specialist, said that the current variants of the virus appear to be more transmissible. “Epidemiologists have been maintaining that the new variant is more infectious. While earlier one in five people in a family in close contact would contract the disease, now we seldom see that. Now, almost all members of the family test positive for the virus. On the ground, in our experience, it does appear that the variant at play now is more infectious. We are also seeing a rise in the close contact transmission rate,” said Pinto. However, with the number of cases now dropping, the current reproduction number (Rt), which is an indicator of the infectiousness of the virus at a given point in time, is likely to have reduced.“Looking at the drop in cases, one can assume that the Rt in Mumbai could be less than 1, although our model doesn’t calculate Rt,” said Juneja.If Rt is below 1, an infected person infects one or less than one person on an average.In yet another measure of the infectiousness and severity of the new strain of the virus, the TIFR-IISc model projects that the variant is likely to cause 1,500-2,500 additional deaths by September. The scientists arrive at this after plotting estimated fatalities for various scenarios, such as 2.5% of infected people infected with infectious strain on February 1 (two to two-and-a-half times more infectious), with lockdown from April 15-May 15 and with vaccination effectiveness of 0.75. This was plotted against a scenario without infectious strain and without lockdown. Irrespective of the scenarios, the model predicts that the city may record a few thousand new infections each day in September, which correspond to a few hundred reported cases daily. “This is taking into account that there are no new variant or significant reinfections, which could substantially increase the number of cases,” Juneja said.Vaccine effectivenessThe analysis by the TIFR-IISc model as well as by Banaji point to the effectiveness of the vaccination drive in saving the lives of the elderly.According to Banaji, as on April 25, up to 580 lives could already have been saved by the vaccination drive focussed on the elderly. “We have to remember that the estimate of 580 fewer fatalities is based on what we would expect to see if the elderly had continued to form 80% of the city’s fatalities, as was true from the start of the year to the end of March. But it is also roughly consistent with the drop in the delayed case fatality rate in the city. So we definitely have seen fewer recorded fatalities during April than expected based on the epidemic’s path up to the end of March,” said Banaji.In the TIFR-IISc model, the reduction in fatality numbers due to the senior citizens vaccinated in March will start to show up around May. “If vaccination continues at a rapid pace, say more than 50,000 new persons daily, then by July it leads to significant reduction in fatalities, so much so that one can hope to return to fatalities near single digits by the end of June or early July. There are caveats. We don’t understand how infectious, virulent, and prevalent the variants of SARS-CoV-2 virus are. There may also be immune escape by a virus mutation that makes antibodies produced by an earlier infection or a vaccine shot ineffective,” said Juneja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-covid-19-variant-2-5-more-infectious-than-last-year-s-strain-tifr-iisc-model-101620072551512.html
04-05-2021||Other||Hailstones destroy homes, crops in Thane district’s Murbad||Around seven villages in Murbad taluka within Thane district experienced hailstones on Sunday evening. The sudden change in weather has destroyed acres of crops in Alaychi Wadi, Merdi, Modhalwadi, Kelewadi, Valhivare, Dharrkhid and Bandeshet villages. The hailstones have also damaged many of the houses that did not have sturdy rooftops, and impacted the glass windows too. The unexpected change in weather has also changed the façade of the village, making it looks like an ice-covered hill station. “The hailstones fell heavily on the roofs and windows of our houses. Though it was very cloudy for the past few days, we did not expect such a drastic change in weather. All the vegetables that were yet to be harvested have been destroyed and this has greatly affected us farmers,” said Jaideep Pavshe, 42, a resident of Merdi village. The tribals who practice summer farming have been the most affected. Many villagers are asking for compensation as the farms and crops have been destroyed.Murbad taluka’s tehsildar Amol Kadam said, “We have reached out to the villagers and are providing them support, especially to those whose houses have been damaged. We shall talk to the collector and decide if further support can be provided. These seven villages are within Thane District but are situated closer to Malshej Ghat. Around 150 houses were damaged, with some of the roofs having ripped apart completely. We are still assessing the damage to crops and other problems faced by the villagers.”Murbad taluka has a population of around 22,000.Amid the destruction, children in these villages were excited as they enjoyed playing with the layers of ice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hailstones-destroy-homes-crops-in-thane-district-s-murbad-101620072371495.html
04-05-2021||Other||Delay in getting oxygen bed led to Palghar journo’s death: Kin||A 34-year-old journalist working with a Marathi newspaper died due to Covid-19 at Palghar district on Monday morning. His brother claimed that he died due to a delay in getting a bed. The journalist, Raju Salvi, had tested positive for Covid-19 a few days ago and was admitted to a Covid Care centre in Mokhada. However, after his condition worsened, the doctors advised his relatives to admit Salvi to a hospital where an oxygen bed would be available. His brother Ravindra, also a journalist, looked for an oxygen bed in Jawhar-Mokhada area but was unable to find one. Ravindra claimed he was looking for an oxygen bed since Friday but found one only on Monday morning.“On Monday morning, a bed was available in a Dahanu hospital and Raju was being taken there in an ambulance. However, he died during the transit when the vehicle crossed the Jawhar city limits,” said Ravindra.Raju is survived by his wife and three children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delay-in-getting-oxygen-bed-led-to-palghar-journo-s-death-kin-101620072313787.html
04-05-2021||Other||Covid-19 wave: Political party workers take the lead on ground||As the pandemic rages on, young politicians across party lines have kept politics aside to assist those who are battling the Covid-19 wave. Over the past few weeks, Maharashtra has been hit by a strong Covid-19 wave, leading to shortage of oxygen, hospital beds, anti-viral drug and availability of ambulances in many parts, forcing people to seek assistance on social media platforms. Young politicians from the Shiv Sena, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Congress have responded to the cry for help, at times in collaboration. Besides them, political parties too have set up parallel systems to help Covid-19 patients. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have set up jumbo Covid-19 centres in cities such as Nagpur, Pune and Mumbai, facilitated the procurement of oxygen and Remdesivir injections, donated ambulances and put up vaccination centres in various cities.For Yuva Sena functionary Rahul Kanal, throughout April, the day started at 8am and ended at 4am the next day, as he was flooded with requests for arranging hospital beds, Remdesivir or oxygen cylinders for Covid-19 patients in Mumbai. Kanal said that everyday, they would get around 1,000 requests from people. “Now as the cases in Mumbai have come down, the requests have reduced. But we still get tagged for Remdesivir and ambulances. Smaller hospitals have issues in getting Remdesivir; those admitted to civic-run facilities do not have to run around for the drug. We guide people to collector’s office and (FDA Food and Drug Administration) to get the injections.” Kanal added that Yuva Sena has been feeding stray dogs and cats too. “With the lockdown imposed, the strays do not get food. We distribute dog and cat food packets to non-governmental organisation (NGO), which take them to different areas of the city,” he said. AAP’s national joint secretary Ruben Mascarenhas said he was being tagged for aid on social media. He later decided to set up a helpline with party members and volunteers, as it would not have been possible to help everybody, considering the volume. “I woke up with about 1,000 requests on social media accounts, which has now come down to about 500, as the cases have reduced. Later, we set up a helpline to keep things organised. We have had 12,000 calls in the past three-four weeks, of which we have helped 40% of the callers. Typically, there are five requests — Remdesivir, oxygen, hospital beds, ambulance and plasma,” he said.Congress legislator from Bandra (East) Zeeshan Siddique said that he was responding to requests from the hospital bed, as he was admitted for Covid-19 for 15 days. “I had nothing much to do apart from resting. So I used to divert all the requests I got on Twitter and Instagram DMs (direct messages) to the team,” he said. Siddique, the state’s youngest legislator, had set up a helpline last year. “In 2020, we used to get requests, but not as many as these. The second wave has hit hard. In the past one-and-a-half months, the resources have been exhausted,” he said, adding that his social media feed and helpline buzzed the most at night, with requests for ICU (intensive care unit) and ventilator beds.Even though, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the state government have streamlined the allotment of hospital beds and distribution of Remdesivir, Siddique and Mascarenhas said they have to follow up with officials for immediate allotment. “We guide people to BMC war room but again get calls that even after a few hours, the bed has not been allotted,” Mascarenhas said.The young politicians that are getting tagged for requests are collaborating with each other. “I tag leaders like (Shiv Sena parliamentarian) Priyanka Chaturvedi, Kanal, Siddique, Jiten Gajaria from BJP in my posts. The idea is to get people help in the least possible time,” Mascarenhas said. “Right now humanity comes first. Nobody should think twice in seeking help from someone from another party. Ruben, Priyanka Chaturvedi, etc… we are all helping each other to save lives at the moment,” Siddique said.BJP’s top leaders, including Union minister Nitin Gadkari, leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis and state unit chief Chandrakant Patil have put in their efforts in helping strength of the health infrastructure. The party facilitated setting up of three 100-bed Covid-19 hospitals each at Nagpur’s National Cancer Institute, Nelson Hospital and KT Nagar. They also set up a Covid care centre at Koldongari in Andheri, among others, and procured 78 metric tonnes of oxygen for Nagpur from a private company. BJP’s attempt to procure the stock of 60,000 vials of Remdesivir from a Daman-based pharma company had mired in controversy after the company’s director was summoned by Mumbai Police for questioning over stockpiling suspicions. Similar controversy erupted after Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil, BJP parliamentarian from Ahmednagar, had procured Remdesivir vials directly and distributed them in his constituency. The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has slammed him for his “surreptitious and illegal” procurement using a chartered flight. The court has ordered the police for action. Vikhe-Patil said that he did so to save lives and was ready to face action.Meanwhile, the state Congress unit will donate ₹2 crore to chief minister’s (CM) relief fund to facilitate the expenses for vaccination of citizens in Maharashtra free of cost. Congress legislative party chief and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat announced that 53 party legislators from both the houses will donate their one-month salary to the fund. He also announced that he would donate his one-year salary and the amount for vaccinating 5,000 employees in the group of companies he heads to the fund.The party has also asked all its workers till gram panchayat level to adopt families in their villages for vaccination. “Party leaders and workers will donate the expenditure of vaccination of their family as well as of those adopted by them to the CM’s relief fund. The workers will also ensure that the families adopted are taken to the vaccine facilities, monitored for side-effect and for their second doses. This will help us expedite the drive and complete it in due time,” said Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole.Another Congress leader said that six executive presidents, district in-charge leaders, district presidents, tehsil presidents have been given responsibility to monitor the drive in villages. “Workers who are not in a position to pay for vaccine doses will help in taking beneficiaries to the centres and ensuring that they get their shots in time. The donation towards the vaccination shots is to be deposited to tehsildars at tehsil level,” the leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-wave-political-party-workers-take-the-lead-on-ground-101620072191464.html
04-05-2021||Other||Political row over Adar Poonawalla’s claims||Serum Institute of India (SII) chief Adar Poonawalla claim that he had received “aggressive demands” from some “powerful people” of the country for vaccines has turned into a political slugfest between the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The MVA has asked Poonawalla to disclose the names, while BJP said they have information on who threatened the SII chief, but will disclose the names at an “appropriate” time.Maharashtra minister of state for home Shambhuraj Desai, who is a Shiv Sena leader, said, “If someone is threatening Poonawalla, he can file a written complaint with the police department. We will probe the matter.” Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole in his media interaction appealed to Poonawalla to disclose the names of the “influential” people who threatened him and promised security. “It is beyond logic to understand why Poonawalla has been provided Y-category security by the central government without any request or proven threat perception. It needs to be checked if the security had been provided to keep a watch on the industrialist. Both Poonawalla and the central government need to clarify on this issue,” said Patole. In an interview with British newspaper The Times, Poonawalla who heads Pune-based SII, talked about receiving “aggressive calls from some of the most powerful people in India”, demanding the supply of vaccines. He said that the level of expectation and aggression was “unprecedented”. Currently, Poonawalla is in London to be with his wife and children.The state BJP also jumped into the controversy, with leader Ashish Shelar claiming that he knew the people threatening Poonawalla. “Various names are cropping up in the case related to the threats to SII’s Adar Poonawalla. If the links are connected to the local party, then it needs to be taken very seriously. We have specific information about it and BJP will expose them. The people who are involved should be ready to face consequences,” warned Shelar.A news channel had claimed that Shiv Sena workers were threatening Poonawalla for vaccines. Industries minister Subhash Desai wrote a strong-worded letter to the channel, objecting to it defaming the party. The channel anchor expressed regret later, calling it “mixing of identities”. But Sena has demanded an apology on prime time show over the allegation.The name of farmer leader Raju Shetti has also cropped up in this matter. Shetti has warned that he would not allow vaccine trucks to leave the state till Maharashtra gets its “rightful share” of the doses. “I have never called Poonawalla and had warned central government that I will not allow discrimination to Maharashtra. The state has the highest number of Covid-19 cases and the [SII’s Covishield] vaccine is produced here. Hence, we are entitled for a larger quota,” said Shetti.Meanwhile, NCP slammed Poonawalla over the vaccine prices. “He [Poonawalla] sold vaccines at ₹150 per dose to the Centre and at ₹400 per dose for the states. When people started questioning him, he reduced the price by ₹100. All this has created suspicion [over profit making] about him. No one is trying to defame him,” NCP’s chief spokesperson Nawab Malik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/political-row-over-adar-poonawalla-s-claims-101620072131483.html
04-05-2021||Other||Drug addict held for vehicle lifting in Ludhiana||The Millarganj police arrested a drug addict for vehicle theft on Sunday. Two scooters were recovered from his possession.The accused was identified as Salinder Singh alias Shinda, alias Bakri alias Gora of Basti Abdullapur.ASI Balbir Singh, in charge at Millarganj police post, said that the police had arrested the accused near Millarganj during special checking. When the police stopped the accused for checking, he failed to produce the documents of the vehicle. On being questioned, the accused confessed that he had stolen the scooter from outside a park. Following the information provided by the accused, the police recovered another scooter from his possession.ASI Balbir Singh said that the accused was a drug addict and committed the crime to meet his need for drugs. He used to roam around the city and steal vehicles using the master key. He is already facing trial in three cases including one for possession of illegal weapons.A case under Sections 379 (punishment for theft) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused at Division Number 6 police station. The accused was produced before the court on Monday. The court remanded the accused one day in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drug-addict-held-for-vehicle-lifting-in-ludhiana-101620072013432.html
04-05-2021||Other||HC dismisses plea by Kangra doctor deputed for Covid duty||The Himachal Pradesh high court on Monday dismissed a petition filed by a doctor from Kangra district challenging the orders of his deputation to a makeshift Covid-19 hospital in Una district.In his petition, the doctor maintained that in 2018, he had met with an accident and remained hospitalised for a period of five months. He pleaded that since he had suffered lumber, spine and sacrum injuries in the said accident, he would not be able to serve at the place of deputation.While disposing of the petition, the division bench comprising justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and justice Chander Bhusan Barowalia observed that the petitioner has failed to realise that the health workers in over-crowded hospitals, the policemen and other frontline workers are already beset with overwhelming load of Covid-19 patients and these workers are exhausted from almost a year of restless fighting against the pandemic.The court observed that the state is currently fighting the grimmest battle against Covid-19 which is nothing short of a disaster culminating in mass deaths and, therefore, it is imperative that the frontline workers are made to work on rotation basis or else the health system is likely to collapse with the sudden and drastic surge in Covid-19 cases.The bench said the petitioner is trying to escape from the duties and responsibilities that have now been assigned to him as there is no contemporaneous records to show that the petitioner is in any manner incapacitated to serve at the transferred station and if the petitioner is fit enough to render his services in Kangra district, why he cannot serve at the makeshift Covid facility in Una.A government servant is the holder of a status and that cannot be made depending on his will, the bench said.“Once a person accepts the status as per rules, he no longer remains only a simple individual, but an integral part of governance, and at times even in the face of government,” said the division bench.The court said that in the garb of self-unwillingness to serve, the petitioner cannot be permitted to shirk from his duties and responsibilities and this tendency has to be dealt and curbed with an iron fist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-dismisses-plea-by-kangra-doctor-deputed-for-covid-duty-101620071955282.html
04-05-2021||Other||Solan hospital declares alive Covid patient dead||A hospital courted controversy on Monday after it pronounced an alive Covid-19 patient dead and handing over another person’s body to his family members.The goof up reportedly took place at Maharishi Markandeshwar Medical College and Hospital in Solan.The hospital authorities declared Kewal Ram, 80, a resident of Kotla Mashivar village, who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19, dead and handed over the body of another person to his family members.While the kin were preparing for the cremation, they discovered that they had the wrong person. An inquiry by the family members revealed that the octogenarian was indeed alive and undergoing treatment.Ram’s grandson, Jagdeep Thakur, said that the clothes on the body were that of his grandfather’s. However, when they started looking for the gold ring and earring Ram used to wear, they found the body to be someone else’s.“The negligence by hospital authorities and local staff have hurt our sentiments. Had we not checked, we would have performed the last rites of my grandfather while he was still alive,” he said.Meanwhile, Solan deputy commissioner KC Chaman said that he and the sub-divisional magistrate concerned (SDM) rushed to the spot upon being informed about the matter. The body was returned to the hospital, he said.Probe launched“A probe has been launched to find out who was responsible for the negligence,” said the DC.In another incident, a woman accused Nerchowk Medical College and Hospital of negligence that allegedly led to her father’s death.In a video that has been doing rounds on the social media, the woman, identifying herself as Shakshi, alleged that her father was admitted to the hospital last week.“Today, my father’s condition deteriorated, but no doctor came to check on him despite repeated requests,” she alleged.She is reportedly protesting against the hospital and seeking answers from the staff. However, it is not clear whether her father died of Covid or some other reason.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/solan-hospital-declares-alive-covid-patient-dead-101620071954164.html
04-05-2021||Other||Mehbooba criticises sacking of govt staff over ‘anti-state’ activities||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Monday lashed out at the Centre for dismissing government employees in Kashmir on what she said were “flimsy grounds”.“In the middle of a pandemic, GOI should focus on saving lives instead of firing government employees on flimsy grounds in Kashmir,” she said in a tweet.“No wonder its misplaced priorities have converted India into shamshanghats and kabristans. The living continue to suffer and the dead are deprived of dignity,” she said.Mufti’s comments came after the government dismissed a teacher and then a revenue officer in what it said was in the “interest of the security of the state”.The general administration department issued an order on Friday stating that Lt governor Manoj Sinha, after considering the facts and circumstances of the case, observed that the activities of Idrees Jan, a teacher of Government Middle School, Kupwara, are such as to warrant his dismissal from service.Similarly, in another order, Nazir Ahmad Wani, naib tehsildar of Pulwama, was dismissed under similar clauses.The dismissals come after the government last month set up a special task force to identify and scrutinise employees involved in any case related to posing a threat to the country’s security or anti-national activities.The order, however, has not gone down well with employees and union leaders. Former employee union leader and chairman of Jammu and Kashmir Civil Society Forum Abdul Qayoom Wani expressed resentment over the sacking calling it a jab on the employees’ integrity.It has demanded that the decision be revoked and reviewed judiciously under the service norms so that justice can prevail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mehbooba-criticises-sacking-of-govt-staff-over-anti-state-activities-101620071953187.html
04-05-2021||Other||J&K sees 50 more deaths, its highest single-day toll since pandemic struck||Jammu and Kashmir on Monday recorded highest single-day spike of 51 fatalities, first time since the pandemic began in March last year, taking the total death toll to 2,421.The UT also reported 3,733 fresh novel coronavirus infections, taking the union territory’s overall cases to 1,87,219.Of the new cases, 2,439 cases were from Kashmir, while 1,294 from Jammu, including 103 travellers.Out of the 51 deaths in the UT, 35 were reported in Jammu division and 16 in Kashmir.The month of April recorded the highest monthly case tally of 45,123 infections and 289 deaths.Officials said with 1,136 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 584 in Jammu district, 296 in Pulwama, 232 in Baramulla, 209 in Sambha and 208 in Budgam.The number of active cases, which has been rising exponentially, reached 34,567, officials said. Most of these cases have been added after February 09 when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593.As many as 1,536 patients have recovered, including 910 from Kashmir and 626 from Jammu.As many as 1,50,231 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 80.24 % against 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 7.38 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 82,000 cases and 1094 deaths of the total.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-sees-50-more-deaths-its-highest-single-day-toll-since-pandemic-struck-101620071894420.html
04-05-2021||Other||J&K BJP leader accuses Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh of aiding illegal mining in Tawi river||Former BJP legislator and All Jammu Stone Crushers’ Association president Vikram Randhawa on Monday levelled serious allegations of facilitating illegal mining in Tawi riverbed against Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh, district mineral officer Ankur Sachdeva, Jammu divisional commissioner Raghav Langer and SSP Jammu Chandan Kohli.Randhawa, who was recently appointed as BJP state secretary, alleged that under the garb of a high court ban on mining in the riverbed, Dr Jitendra Singh has been aiding illegal mining, for which his secretary Bharat Sharma gets hefty commission every week.“District mineral officer Ankur Sachdeva is facilitating illegal mining in lieu of crores of rupees and the share goes to Dr Jitendra Singh, Jammu divisional commissioner, SSP Jammu and other officials,” he said at a press conference at his residence here.“From Badyal Brahmana to Ramnagar, there were around 45 stone crushers, which were operating on their proprietary lands on valid licences. These crushers were not indulging in any illegal mining and were generating revenue for the government. However, a conspiracy was hatched to shut them all and Sachdeva conducted raids in November last year and accused the stone crusher owners of keeping illegal raw material with them,” said Randhawa.“However, Sachdeva failed to prove his allegations or submit any report. On February 10, he served notices to us, slapping fines up to ₹25 lakh. Since we wanted hassle-free trade, we moved the high court on April 19, which granted us permission to run the stone crushers till the probe was completed,” he said.The former MLC also claimed that anti-corruption bureau has booked Sachdeva in corruption cases but “pressure” from the top brass has scuttled the investigations.Randhawa alleged that in the past two and a half years, Dr Jitendra Singh and his ”agents” have caused a loss of ₹350 to ₹400 crore to the state exchequer.He also accused Dr Singh of throwing open auction of liquor licenses to outsiders from J&K forcing locals to starve.Meawnhile, Sanjeev Sharma, BJP executive member and parliamentary affairs in-charge for Dr Jitendra Singh, said that the latter will file a defamation case against Randhawa.“MoS PMO will file a defamation case of ₹1 crore if Randhawa does not come up with evidence within 24 hours,” he said.J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina said, “Since Randhawa has levelled serious allegations, they must be probed and whosoever found guilty must be taken to task. Also, he used unparliamentary language in his presser, which was highly objectionable. We will seek an explanation from him.”“This notice of show cause initiates disciplinary proceedings against you in line with directions of J&K BJP president with respect to addressing a press conference and a series of media interactions today by you while levelling unfounded allegations against a senior leader of party holding responsible position in Union Council of ministers,” read the notice issued by the panel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-bjp-leader-accuses-union-minister-dr-jitendra-singh-of-aiding-illegal-mining-in-tawi-river-101620071892107.html
04-05-2021||Other||Bookie, 2 bizmen accuse ex-Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh of extortion||A cricket bookie and two businessmen from Mumbai have written to Maharashtra director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey, alleging that former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh ran a recovery and extortion racket in Thane while serving as that city’s police chief between 2015 and 2018. The three have also named a former encounter specialist and a serving inspector of Thane Police of being part of Singh’s alleged illegal activities. The bookie and businessmen alleged that the cops extorted crores of rupees from them. Police sources said Pandey has entrusted the complaints to state crime Investigation department (CID) for inquiry. Singh, who is posted as the commandant general of Maharashtra home guards, did not respond to calls and messages for response over allegations. The complainants – bookie Sonu Jalan and businessman Ketan Tanna and Munir Ahmed Pathan – had met the DGP Pandey last month and filed their complaints against Singh. As per their complaints (of which HT has copies), the three alleged that on Singh’s instructions, the two other cops named in the complaint, had taken “contracts” for recovery of money from private individuals. These officers, the complaints stated, would call up businessmen on the pretext of inquiry in a fake complaint and then extort them by threatening to implicate them in false cases.The complainants have claimed that under Singh’s leadership, the two police officers would also allegedly extort money from those who had received calls from Ravi Pujari for extortion, claiming that they had links with the gangster.Jalan, who was arrested by Thane Police in 2018 in a Maharashtra Control of Organised Crimes Act (MCOCA) case, stated that Singh, with the help of these “corrupt” officers, manipulated complaints with the intention of extortion from innocent persons. A first information report (FIR) has already been registered against Singh on a complaint by Akola police inspector BR Ghadge, who had alleged that as he had refused to follow Singh’s “illegal” orders to benefit some accused in a criminal case, the former Thane top cop conspired with others and registered extortion and corruption cases between August 23 and September 3, 2015, against him. Ghadge claimed that the accused had falsely implicated him to harass him.Recently, Singh was removed from the post of Mumbai Police commissioner following the Antilia explosives scare and the murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran. Hiran was in possession of the vehicle in which explosives were found outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani residence. Hiran reported the vehicle stolen around a week before it was found with the explosives in late February. He was found dead on March 5. Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze has been named as the main accused in both cases. After Singh was removed as the commissioner, he wrote a letter to the chief minister, alleging that the state’s then home minister Anil Deshmukh had instructed Vaze and some other officers to extort money from establishments. Deshmukh has resigned and the Central Bureau of Investigation is probing the allegations against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bookie-2-bizmen-accuse-ex-mumbai-police-chief-param-bir-singh-of-extortion-101620071591980.html
04-05-2021||Other||Three of a family die of Covid-19 in 20 days||Three members of a family died due to Covid-19 within a span of just 20 days in Anshet, Wada. Savita Thakre, who was undergoing treatment at a Covid care centre in Wada, succumbed to the infection on April 11. Her husband Sadanand and son Sagar were also admitted in the same hospital. On April 22, Sagar died after some complications during treatment and on May 1, Sadanand too succumbed.Sagar’s wife and her 2-year-old son, who had also tested positive for Covid-19 and were admitted in the same hospital, recovered and were discharged from the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-of-a-family-die-of-covid-19-in-20-days-101620071411308.html
04-05-2021||Other||Gang black marketing oxygen concentrators busted||New Delhi Four members of a gang allegedly selling oxygen concentrators in the black market were arrested from the national capital and as many as 115 oxygen concentrators were recovered from their possession in an operation that also saw the Delhi Police also search for an oxygen cylinder to cut open the shutters of a godown from which the alleged kingpin refused to come out for nearly 12 hours.The main accused, Anil Jain, was arrested four years ago as well for allegedly changing old currency notes worth ₹5 crore to new ones, in the aftermath of demonetisation, said Rajiv Ranjan, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north). Police could not immediately share the current status of the case.The latest racket was busted after the special staff of the outer north district police learnt that a gang was allegedly hoarding and selling oxygen concentrators illegally.“Based on the inputs we received, we sent a policeman as a decoy customer to purchase an oxygen concentrator on Friday,” said the DCP.The decoy was offered a machine for ₹1.1 lakh though the maximum retail price was only ₹40,000. Police arrested the two sellers, Anuj Jain and Shekhar Kumar, from Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar in outer Delhi and seized five concentrators kept in their car.Their questioning led police to a house in West Delhi’s Janakpuri, from where 60 oxygen concentrators were recovered, and five more from another car. A third suspect, Keshav Chaudhary, was also arrested.Chaudhary’s questioning allegedly pointed police to a warehouse in Janakpuri where more concentrators were allegedly stored.“When we visited the warehouse on Saturday evening, we were surprised to learn that Anil Jain was inside,” the DCP said.With Jain locking himself in and refusing to surrender, police looked for a gas cutter but could not operate it without an oxygen cylinder. Nearly 12 hours later, police had finally managed to secure an oxygen cylinder and began to cut the shutter when Anil Jain surrendered.The DCP said that 45 oxygen concentrators were recovered from the warehouse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gang-black-marketing-oxygen-concentrators-busted-101620071352064.html
04-05-2021||Other||Ensure no job losses, salaries are given to staff on time: Dental Council of India to colleges||The Dental Council of India (DCI) advised all its affiliated self-financed colleges to not cut salaries of both staff and students who have been working non-stop at the forefront of Covid-19 relief for the past one year. In a letter, DCI further suggested that institutes should not lay off their staff in such trying times. “We are all aware of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases and the country is currently fighting a second wave of the pandemic. It goes without saying that the economic position of a person contributes a lot to their mental condition and staying mentally strong is the need of the hour,” said the circular released by the council in the last week of April. It further stated that the circular follows recent directions issued by the Union Ministry of Labour & Employment, advising employers to not default on the payment of monthly salaries to their employees. “All institutes are advised to extend their support and contribute to the national cause by not deducting salaries of staff and students employed at present, or laying off faculty or other employees, and ensure on-time payment during this hour of need,” said the circular signed by the DCI deputy secretary, Mukesh Kumar. A similar demand has been made by several state governments as well as final-year resident doctors’ organisations who have been working extended shifts for the past 13 months. “Most colleges are overworked at present, especially with the second wave of the pandemic pushing the present health infrastructure to the brink. It will be impossible for the medical and dental college hospitals to function without their employees. So we are all ensuring that no one loses their job in the midst of such crisis,” said the head of the management of a private dental institute in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ensure-no-job-losses-salaries-are-given-to-staff-on-time-dental-council-of-india-to-colleges-101620071232439.html
04-05-2021||Other||Police join hands with MHA, NPCI to act on cyber crime during pandemic||New Delhi Bank accounts of people who dupe online buyers of oxygen supply equipment and medicines will be blocked immediately and the use of their mobile phones will be restricted, senior officers of the Delhi Police cyber cell, Union ministry of home affairs and the National Payment Corporation of India (NPCI) decided on Monday during a meeting. Police said that an analysis of the phone numbers behind the scams revealed that many were operating from outside Delhi to cash in on the chaos due to the pandemic. According to Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal, eight such cases have been registered at the cyber cells and police stations across Delhi in the recent days.With social media flooded with several such complaints and police directly receiving many complaints, Delhi Police chief S N Shrivastava on Monday directed the district cyber cells in Delhi as well as the crime branch to act on the matter, said Biswal, adding thatthe Cyber Prevention Awareness and Detection (CyPAD) and Economic Offences Wing (EOW) too have stepped in.“Senior officers of Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre of the MHA and NPCI too were invited to find a solution,” Biswal said.The NPCI agreed to freeze the bank accounts used by cyber criminals, said Biswal. For instance, if a complaint is received regarding such cheating, police will contact NPCI to freeze the bank account of the suspects which increases the scope of retrieving the money.Police will also reach out to the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) to ensure that the phone numbers used by the fraudsters are required to undergo the mandatory KYC process. Police said this will deter the scamsters from using the phone to dupe more victims.Police have urged the public to lodge such complaints on their helpline number, 155260, and on www.cybercrime.gov.in. Victims can also simultaneously seek help from police’s Covid helpline 011-23469900 or send an email to acp-cybercell1@delhipolice.gov.in.“Each complaint shall be duly enquired into and appropriate action will be taken. CyPAD will act as the nodal point for interacting on a daily basis with the concerned authorities. All major cyber criminal networks, based out of Jamtara, Mewat, Purulia and other places, shall be under intense scrutiny,” said Biswal.“It is noticed that people in desperation are not exercising due diligence or even the slightest of verification before transferring money online to unknown persons who are claiming to be oxygen or medicine providers. We urge people to be very careful and transfer money only after verifying the contacts,” Biswal said.In one such case of fraud, Hemant Kumar, an outer Delhi resident, sent an SOS message seeking oxygen for his sick father and was contacted by a man who offered to provide a cylinder if he made an advance online payment of ₹45,000. While the suspect remained incommunicado after receiving the money, the victim approached Adarsh Nagar police on Monday which swung into action and caught the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-join-hands-with-mha-npci-to-act-on-cyber-crime-during-pandemic-101620071231207.html
04-05-2021||Other||Delhi RWAs ask govt to arrange oxygen for Covid patients in home care||New Delhi: Families of Covid-19 patients in home care have requested the government to make arrangements for oxygen cylinders and refills, with the boom in cases choking supplies and driving up prices.The shortages have meant that families must contend with travelling long distances, waiting for extended periods, and paying exorbitant rates for oxygen cylinders that may last just a few hours. Garvit Singhvi, a resident of Greater Kailash-1, said arranging oxygen support for his parents, who tested positive for Covid-19, was difficult. His father’s oxygen saturation had dropped to 85%. “We wanted to have oxygen support at home while we hunted for hospital beds. The first fight was to arrange an empty cylinder, which I got from a friend in Hisar. But getting it refilled was a struggle,” he said. “There was a long queue at one of the oxygen plants in Mohan Cooperative area. But we didn’t get the oxygen even after waiting for nearly three hours. We then somehow managed it from another plant after waiting for around five hours.”Singhvi said his parents were lucky to get admission in a hospital.SB Singh, president of Lajpat Nagar 3 RWA, said they have had difficulties getting oxygen cylinders refilled. The RWA has maintained 12 oxygen cylinders and one concentrator for its residents. He said, “It is difficult to find a place where we will get oxygen. A few days ago, we sent our volunteers to an oxygen plant in Naraina at 6am, but got just two cylinders, that too at 7pm.”He said all the cylinders in his area are in use. “While supply to hospitals should be the priority, we request the government to make arrangements to ensure that people in home care who need oxygen get it easily.”A district magistrate said, “The priority is first given to hospitals. But we have kept a quota of oxygen for people who are not in the hospital setup. The queues are long, but we are trying to ensure that people don’t have to wait long.”A senior official with the central district said, “We don’t have an oxygen plant in our district. People have to go to Mundka and Burari to get oxygen.”Satyajit Vaish, a resident of Panchsheel Park, who has been trying to arrange oxygen for residents in need, said, “There are so many people who are undergoing treatment at home, as they are finding it difficult to get a bed in the hospital. It is not possible for people to go out and stand in a queue for hours on end to get a cylinder refilled. We are trying to help people get oxygen at home. But getting the cylinders refilled is such a huge challenge. It is good that the government has regulated the supply to check on black-marketing, but there is a need to streamline the oxygen supply for people undergoing treatment at home.”RWAs said that earlier, they could get oxygen refilled from dealers in their areas. “But most oxygen refillers have stopped taking calls. Not everyone can travel to the oxygen plant. The government should make some provision to resolve this problem. There should be some more centres where people can go to get the cylinders refilled,” said Pankaj Agarwal, president of Safdarjung Enclave RWA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-rwas-ask-govt-to-arrange-oxygen-for-covid-patients-in-home-care-101620070991186.html
04-05-2021||Other||Oxygen Express trains to deliver 205 MT of oxygen - Rlys biggest single day load - to Delhi||New Delhi The national capital is scheduled to receive around 205 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) on Tuesday morning, as the Indian Railways has deployed 10 tankers on board two Oxygen Express trains — its biggest single-day load since the special operation to ferry oxygen tankers began amid acute shortage.One train from Durgapur in West Bengal, ferrying 120 tonnes of liquid oxygen is scheduled to reach the Tughlakabad railway station at 9.30am on Tuesday while the second train, ferrying 85 tonnes of liquid oxygen, is coming via Hapa (Gujarat) to Gurugram,the railway ministry said on Monday. Officials said that the train from Hapa will halt at Gurgaon and the LMO will be transferred to trucks of the Delhi government and taken to the city. While another Oxygen Express train, carrying 30.86 tonnes of LMO from Angul in Odisha, will arrive in Delhi by Monday evening, railway ministry officials said this is meant for supply in Haryana. “Railways is set to deliver its biggest single day load of nearly 205 tonnes to Delhi by tomorrow morning,” the ministry said in a statement on Monday. The move is expected to give a breather to the national capital which has been facing an acute shortage of oxygen supply for the past few weeks. Several hospitals in Delhi have sent out desperate calls to authorities to replenish their oxygen supplies which dropped precariously and threatened lives as the health infrastructure was crumbling under the pressure of an unprecedented rise in the number of Covid patients requiring oxygen or ICU support.Till Sunday, Delhi received 454 MT of oxygen in the last 24-hours against its increased quota of 590 MT. The Delhi government has demanded 976 MT of medical oxygen to add 1,200 ICU and 15,000 oxygen beds.The central government last week directed states to ensure free movement of vehicles carrying oxygen amid reports of some states diverting the vehicles for local use while hospitals sent out frantic appeals for emergency supplies.“EG 2 (Empowered Group 2, formed by the PMO comprising officials from different ministries and experts) decides oxygen pipeline for states. EG 2 on Thursday set the ball rolling for mapping the sources of medical oxygen and their production capacity to match the requirement of 12 high-burden states, and has developed a framework to guide them,” railway ministry spokesperson said.“Oxygen pipeline is a railway operation term which means oxygen express trains on hand with us for various destinations (states) in the country. We have an online real-time system to monitor the movement (pipeline) of Oxygen Express trains. EG 2 group is already working since long and is closely monitoring the situation in the country. Officials of our Ministry are also part of it,” he explained.The national transporter has so far delivered around 1,125 tonnes of LMO in 76 tankers to various states. “Seven Oxygen Express trains are on the run currently, with 422 MT LMO in 27 tankers. Haryana will receive its fourth and fifth trains carrying nearly 72 MT LMO from Angul (Orissa) and Rourkela (Orissa),” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-express-trains-to-deliver-205-mt-of-oxygen-rlys-biggest-single-day-load-to-delhi-101620070691010.html
04-05-2021||Other||Punjab traders protest against closure of shops due to Covid-19||The Punjab government’s directive to keep shops selling non-essential goods shut till May 15 to check the spread of covid-19 has not gone down well with shopkeepers. There were protests across the state against the decision on Monday, seeking the withdrawal of fresh restrictions. In Faridkot, a protest was carried out through the main-street of the town to the major market. Malkit Singh, a shopkeeper said that they don’t have any other alternative to generate revenue. “We are middle-class people and depend on our shops completely. Liquor shops are open and even government offices are working with 50% staff, so why can’t we open our shops? Our survival is at stake, we are ready to follow the strictest of covid norms, but we must remain open,” he added. Later, a local Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Gurdit Singh Sekhon led a delegation to meet deputy commissioner Vimal Kumar Setia and requested for some relief. In Sangrur and Barnala, protesters raised slogans against the government, adding that even a few-hour window to open shops will work for them. They also met Sangrur SDM and DC to seek relaxation in restrictions to ‘save’ their business.“The government says there is no lockdown, but our shops are being closed. This cannot work,” said Jaswinder Prince, chief of Sangrur Vyapar Mandal.In Patiala, Rakesh Gupta, president, Patiala District Beopar Mandal, said, “The authorities have failed to identify essential services, as police forcibly even shut grocery stores on Monday. When banks and government offices, which witness huge rush, are allowed to operate, then what crime have we done.” Fatehgarh Sahib-based readymade garment trader said the government should allow the traders to open their shops on rotational basis “We stocked up summer merchandise worth ₹40 lakh before the onset of summer season but it appears that sale will drop this year too, due to covid,” Gupta added.Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said traders and shopkeepers must support the government. In Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar districts of Doaba, it was business as usual for small towns, though in bigger cities, non-essential shops remains closed. Police was deployed in large numbers across Jalandhar city for implementation of restrictions. In SBS Nagar, police booked 15 people for violation of covid-19 norms. Over a 1,000 persons were fined for not following covid-19 guidelines, and their samples were also taken. In Kapurthala, deputy commissioner Deepti Uppal inspected Kapurthala city to ensure there was no violation of government orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-traders-protest-against-closure-of-shops-due-to-covid19-101620070032241.html
04-05-2021||Other||UP panchayat elections: Vote-count still around 50%; parties start claiming wins||The counting of votes for the three-tier panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh remained inconclusive on Monday evening, even as political parties started claiming victories of candidates they supported, largely for the posts of zila panchayat ward members.According to a press statement issued by the state election commission here, only as many as 2,32,612 village ward members, 38,317 village pradhans, 55,926 kshetra panchayat ward members and 181 zila panchayat ward members had been declared elected till Monday evening.“As per the information available from districts, the counting is in progress at all the 826 centres across the state,” a commission spokesman said.The manual counting of votes began on May 2 and people familiar with the issue said that final results were not expected before Tuesday afternoon since 40-50% of votes were still to be counted.The counting of votes is being held for 58,176 posts of village pradhans, 7,32,485 village ward members, 75,852 kshetra panchayat ward members and 3,051 zila panchayat ward members. Large gatherings of candidates, their supporters and agents continued to be seen at most counting centres on the second consecutive day, throwing Covid-19 protocols to the winds. The counting will determine the fate of over 12 lakh candidates who were in the fray with nearly 12 crore rural voters having exercised their franchise in the four-phase voting exercise. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday claimed victory for party-backed candidates in the three-tier panchayat polls, saying they had won most seats and were leading in many. The claim of victory was made even before the full election results had come.Uttar Pradesh (UP) BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said, The BJP win/decisive leads are a ratification of the party work/initiatives taken for the rural poor and farmers.” The state election commission (SEC) has already made it clear that though political parties may have backed candidates, the results won’t be declared on party line||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-panchayat-elections-vote-count-still-around-50-parties-start-claiming-wins-101620069310675.html
04-05-2021||Other||Be mental support for people amid Covid: UP CM to sportspersons||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday asked the sportspersons in the state to become the mental support and strength for people and the society for fighting and overcoming the pandemic.“This is a pandemic. In a pandemic, no amount of resource is enough and today all need mental support and strength. And who are accustomed to taking on challenges in life better than sportspersons? Who knows the value of teamwork (which we need in these times) better than the sportspersons? Sportspersons should become the support that society is looking for. Ask people to follow guidelines,” Yogi said while interacting with national and international sportspersons across the state via videoconference.Yogi said this was not the time for making unnecessary comments, spreading myths and rumours. Doctors, nurses, other frontline workers were all fighting Covid with dedication. It’s time to stay united and win the war against Covid, he added.The interaction involved sportspersons from various fields like hockey, cricket, athletics etc in which state sports director RP Singh also participated.Former international cricketer Suresh Raina said there was a need to be united to defeat Covid and for prevention alertness was utmost. Preeti Dubey, a hockey player, said people can defeat Covid positive status by internal positivity and people should work on strengthening their immunity.Ashok Kumar, a former Indian hockey player and son of legendary former Indian hockey wizard Dhyan Chand, said a balanced and disciplined lifestyle was significant in either preventing or overcoming the disease. He said people should include yoga and exercises in their lifestyle to stay fit.Vijay Singh Chauhan, an athlete, said people should steer clear of all kinds of misinformation and rumours and be vary of such people who were spreading negativity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/be-mental-support-for-people-amid-covid-up-cm-to-sportspersons-101620069130637.html
04-05-2021||Other||Private hospitals seek clarity on vaccination||Private hospitals here have sought clarity on the Covid vaccination drive and they have urged the state health authorities to provide vaccine vials so that they can resume giving jabs. They said they had not been administering vaccines since April 30 here and beneficiaries, whose second dose is due now, were calling them up for appointment.The Association of International Doctors, a body of doctors from the private sector in India has written a letter to a senior official in this connection.“On April 30, we were told to return the stock of vaccine we had. Now that we do not have vaccines people coming for the second dose have to be returned,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.“The entire process is stopped and there is no further clarity on vaccination by private hospitals. We request the private hospitals be provided with vaccine doses. We would wish to know from where we can purchase vaccine and the amount to be given so that the programme can run again,” said Dr Shukla.On Monday, 8,897 people got their vaccine doses in Lucknow, including 2,851 beneficiaries between 18 and 44 years of age at 60 vaccination sites, all in government hospitals.Over the last 60 days, many beneficiaries have been vaccinated. While a large number have their second dose due, many are seeking their first dose. Many hospitals in Lucknow have set up separate vaccination desks and rooms for the 30-minute post-jab observation period as per the protocol and they have had to deploy additional staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/private-hospitals-seek-clarity-on-vaccination-101620067750280.html
04-05-2021||Other||Yogi announces 25% extra salary for doctors, nurses on Covid duty||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday announced 25% extra salary or honorarium for doctors and nursing staff on Covid duty at government-run hospitals in Uttar Pradesh, the state government said in a statement.A range of other frontline health and sanitation workers in the state would also get additional emoluments. He made the announcement at the Covid review meeting with Team-9 here.“All health workers, doctors, paramedics, housekeeping staff, sanitation workers, ASHA (accredited social health activist) and anganwadi workers are setting an exemplary example of service and compassion. The state government will provide such workers with additional emoluments as an encouragement. For doctors, nursing staff working at hospitals, 25 % extra would be given over their present salary/honorarium. This would apply even when they are off-duty in their isolation period post-duty,” he said according to the statement.The chief minister also said that medical/nursing final year students will be also put on Covid duty. They too will be paid honorarium.He also said retired health workers, experienced doctors and ex-servicemen should also be deployed on Covid duties and they will get an honorarium as per rules and orders that will soon be issued in this connection.Giving further details, a state government spokesperson later said, “Doctors and paramedical staff giving their valuable services in Covid will get 25% additional emoluments/honorarium on their basic pay while the final year medical students, paramedics, nursing staff and retired doctors/nurses etc will be engaged contractually/outsourced at 25% more rates than the existing NHM (national health mission) rates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-announces-25-extra-salary-for-doctors-nurses-on-covid-duty-101620067150173.html
