05-05-2021||Other||UP floats global e-tender for 40 million vaccine doses||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday said it was floating a global e-tender to procure 40 million (four crore) doses of the Covid vaccine from manufacturers even as chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced that a total of 51,284 people in the age group of 18-44 had been vaccinated in Uttar Pradesh since May 1. With the intended procurement of vaccines, the government plans to boost the inoculation drive launched for people between 18 and 44 years as well as those above 45 years across the state. “Since the launch (May 1) of vaccination for people in the age group of 18-44, a total of 51,284 persons have been given the first shot of the vaccine. And vaccination for people over 45 years of age is going on smoothly. So far, overall, a total of 1,30,90,985 doses have been administered. Minimise vaccine wastage for maximising inoculation. The state government has also issued a global tender for procurement of doses for the age group of 18-44,” the chief minister said. The state government had earlier placed orders for the supply of one crore Covid vaccine doses —50 lakh vaccine doses from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited that manufactures Covaxin and 50 lakh doses from the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) that manufactures Covishield. The state health and family welfare department has a stock of 1.50 lakh vaccine doses for people between 18 to 44 years and 13 lakh doses for the beneficiaries above 45 years. An officer said the department was likely to receive a consignment of doses from manufacturers on Friday-Saturday. For its part, the Uttar Pradesh Medical Supply Corporation Limited (UPMSCL) said online short-term global e-tender was invited from licensed manufacturers for supply of 40 million doses of Covid vaccine to UPMSCL, Lucknow. The tender will be governed as per guidelines of the Central government. The tender can be downloaded on May 7 and the last date for the online submission of the tender documents is May 21. The chief minister on April 29 had announced that state government would float global tenders to procure four to five crore doses of the Covid vaccine. The state government has said it will give free vaccines to beneficiaries at the government vaccination centres set up in hospitals and medical colleges. Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said till Wednesday 1.5 crore people had received the first dose and 25.22 lakh people got the second dose too. A total of 1.30 crore Covid vaccine doses had been given to the beneficiaries, he said. On Wednesday, 2,755 beneficiaries in the age group of 18 to 44 years, including 1,683 male and 1,072 female, were vaccinated in Lucknow. In all, a total of 10,474 beneficiaries of all age groups took the jabs at 70 vaccination centres in Lucknow district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-floats-global-e-tender-for-40-million-vaccine-doses-101620235957773.html
05-05-2021||Other||UP BJP leaders stage sit-ins to protest Bengal violence||Leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday staged a sit-in outside their homes, sitting alone to indicate Covid-appropriate behaviour, to protest against the attacks on party cadre in West Bengal after Trinamool Congress’s third consecutive win there. The UP BJP leaders claimed that the attacks on BJP cadres were carried out at the behest of the ruling TMC. While state BJP chief Swatantra Dev staged a dharna outside his residence, several party functionaries and ministers follow suit across the state. “There is Corona curfew in the state and hence as representatives of a disciplined party, we staged protests in keeping with the Covid protocol. But the situation that prevails in West Bengal is shocking. Such things were heard during the partition,” said the UP BJP chief. The BJP leaders claimed that within 24 hours of the election results in West Bengal, the TMC cadre unleashed terror, targeting BJP cadres. “Such violence is unacceptable in a democracy,” the BJP leader said adding they would continue to fight against such violence in a democratic way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-bjp-leaders-stage-sit-ins-to-protest-bengal-violence-101620235957175.html
05-05-2021||Other||BJP woos Independents as SP upsets its applecart||The three-tier panchayat elections, considered a semi-final before the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, provided a boost to the Samajwadi Party (SP) that bagged the single largest chunk of zila panchayat wards, but the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ended up with a below par performance and was now looking to make amends in the indirect election for zila panchayat chief and block pramukhs, who will be chosen by zila panchayat members. The trends and results available for the 3,050 district panchayat wards on Wednesday evening showed the SP winning or leading in 779 wards, the BJP at 579, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) at 361 and the Congress at 76. Independents and smaller parties won or led in 1,272 wards.The BJP, which secured a landslide victory in the 2017 UP assembly election bagging 312 out of 403 seats in the state assembly over four years ago, suffered setbacks in its bastions of Ayodhya, Varanasi, Lucknow and Gorakhpur in the panchayat elections even as the SP maintained its grip on its strongholds of Etawah (western UP), Kannauj (central UP), Mainpuri (western UP), Azamgarh (eastern UP), Etah (western UP), Kasganj (western UP) and Farrukhabad (western UP) by bagging the maximum seats.Although the panchayat elections are not contested on party symbols and the State Election Commission (SEC) has said results won’t be declared on party lines, all parties have officially released the names of the candidates backed by them.The BJP has already opened channels with the independents, a majority of them rebels from various parties, to try and win the maximum of the zila panchayat chairpersons’ and block pramukhs’ post. “Several independents are in touch with us,” a BJP leader confirmed.The indirect elections are to be held for 75 posts of zila panchayat chairpersons and 826 kshetra panchayat chairpersons (block chiefs).“In 2015, when the Samajwadi Party was in power, they had claimed win in nearly 2100 zila panchayat seats. Naturally, they won the indirect polls to elect the zila panchayat chief and block pramukh too. But this time our performance wasn’t up to the mark and a major reason for it could be several party candidates contesting for the same post, which created confusion and ultimately division of our votes,” a BJP leader said. The victory of the SP and other Opposition candidates in the panchayat election is likely to set the ground for fresh political realignment and alliances before the assembly election. The smaller political parties, including the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), the Aam Admi Party (AAP), the Apna Dal, the Azad Samaj Party (Bhim Army) and the Pragtisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia also bagged wards in the areas of their influence. The Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha launched by the smaller parties has called for a united alliance against the NDA in the 2022 assembly election, said SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar.The farmers’ agitation against three central agrarian laws dented the BJP’s fortunes in west UP where it had won the maximum seats in the 2017 assembly elections.The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) that won only one seat in the 2017 assembly election and was wiped out in its stronghold in west UP made a comeback in the panchayat election, winning seats in Meerut, Shamli, Bulandshahr, Baghpat, Hapur and Bijnor (all in the west UP region).The BJP had “organised” chaupals in the villages before the panchayat elections with party MPs, MLAs and a battery of ministers campaigning in the rural areas.In Varanasi, the SP won 15 of the 40 wards, the BJP seven, the BSP seven and the Congress five wards so far. In Ayodhya, the SP won 24 of 40 wards, BJP bagged six and BSP five wards.In Lucknow, SP won 10 of 25 wards, the BJP bagged three and the BSP secured five wards. The Congress failed to win in any ward in the two regions. In Gorakhpur, the SP won 19 of 68 wards, the BJP won 20, theEven as the BJP and the SP claimed victory in the panchayat election, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday congratulated the victorious party candidates and thanked the voters for supporting the BJP candidates.In a tweet, Yogi called upon the victorious candidates and people to assist the administration in fighting the Covid pandemic. They should follow the Covid guidelines and corona curfew protocol, he said.Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav said the ruling BJP was a sinking ship. The results of the panchayat elections clearly showed that BJP would face defeat in the 2022 assembly elections, he said. The BSP that won merely 19 seats in the 2017 assembly elections also made a comeback in its strongholds of Saharanpur (western UP), Mau (eastern UP), Amroha (western UP), Ghaziabad (western UP), Bhadohi (eastern UP) and Ambedkar Nagar (eastern UP) by bagging the maximum number of the zila panchayat wards there.BSP chief Mayawati has directed the party leaders and workers to begin preparations for the assembly election. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev, however, said the party had done well in the polls.BSP legislature party leader Lalji Verma dismissed BJP claims of having done well in these rural polls. “I would have agreed that they did well had they announced their candidates for block pramukh, zila panchayat and block development council. This they didn’t do. Rest is immaterial for the BJP is currently the ruling party,” Verma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-woos-independents-as-sp-upsets-its-applecart-101620235717244.html
05-05-2021||Other||Agra sees dip in Covid cases during partial curfew: Study||The partial statewide corona curfew seems to have a positive impact in Agra with the Taj city witnessing a decline in daily Covid cases, said a study conducted by the district administration.The corona curfew from Friday 8 pm (April 30) to Tuesday 7 am (May 4), which was extended on May 3 for 48 hours and is in force till May 6 till 7 am has been further extended till Monday (May 10) 7 am.As per the study, there were 893 Covid positive cases on Friday (April 30) when the partial corona curfew began and the number gradually fell and on Wednesday (May 5) 205 cases were reported. Such downward trend was also witnessed in daily sample positivity which was at peak in last days of April and has witnessed downward trend after the curfew began since Friday last.On Wednesday there were three deaths due to Covid-19 taking the toll to 285 while 205 people tested positive of the virus. Also, 707 people were cured in the last 24 hours and active cases stands at 3127. “In all there had been 22619 positive cases of Covid-19 in Agra out of which 19207 patients got cured. In all 75391 samples have been collected and tested in Agra,” said district magistrate Agra Prabhu N Singh.The recovery rate which was badly affected in second wave in April also exhibited signs of improvement and rose to 84.92% on Wednesday after dropping to 75.68% on April 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agra-sees-dip-in-covid-cases-during-partial-curfew-study-101620233016711.html
05-05-2021||Other||Bihar parties bite dust in Assam, Bengal polls||PATNAThe ruling JD(U) and other regional parties in Bihar have fared poorly in the recent assembly polls in Assam and West Bengal where they had fielded their candidates in a number of seats to expand their base. As per data available with the Election Commission of India (ECI), JD(U) managed a mere 0.11% of total votes polled in Assam, where all its 34 candidates lost their deposit. Sources said majority of candidates got around 600- 800 votes. In 2016 assembly polls in Assam, JD(U) had contested four seats and got 0.07% votes. In Bengal, JD(U) got 0.02 % votes of the total votes polled and majority of its 16 candidates lost deposits, sources said. The RJD, which contested one seat in Assam as part of the Congress-led alliance, got only 0.07% of total votes polled. In West Bengal, the party had not fielded any candidate and had extended support to the Trinamool Congress. The Lok Janshakti party ( LJP), which contested 10 seats in West Bengal and around a dozen seats in Assam, got 0.01% and 0.04% of the total votes polled in the two states, respectively. The CPI-ML(Liberation), which is a major Left party in Bihar, got 0.03% votes of total votes polled in West Bengal and 0.14% in Assam. Sanjay Verma, JD(U) leader in-charge of Assam polls, said the party did not perform as per expectations in Assam that saw a straight contest between BJP and Congress-AIUDF alliance and in West Bengal because of straight fight between BJP and Trinamool. RJD’s Abdul Bari Siddiqui, a former minister, said his party could have done better in Assam had it got more seats in alliance with Congress.Headline: Dismal performanceJD(U)’s all 34 candidates in Assam and 16 in Bengal lost their depositsAssamParty: Votes (%)JD(U): 0.11% RJD: 0.07%LJP: 0.04% CPI-ML(Liberation): 0.14%BengalJD(U): 0.01% LJP: 0.04% CPI-ML(Liberation): 0.03%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-parties-bite-dust-in-assam-bengal-polls-101620228396469.html
05-05-2021||Other||Villagers refuse to get vaccinated||BETTIAHFlat refusal by villagers to get vaccinated for Covid-19 has presented a new problem in parts of East Champaran district.According to officials, no resident in Mangalapur village of Sangrampur block agreed to be vaccinated, saying it could cause harm to them.“The sentiment against vaccination is deep seated in villages,” said Dr. Shital Narula, in-charge of public health centre (PHC), Areraj. Officials said only 17 people agreed for vaccination at Binwaliya village (in Areraj block), which has a population of around 250. At Salaha village of the same block, the turnout for the second dose was very low. “As against over 100 vaccinated ones, mere 25 agreed for the second dose,” Dr Narula said.High drama unfolded at Mangalapur in Sangrampur block after a medical team reached to administer vaccine. “During six hours of our stay in the village, not a single resident agreed for vaccination and hence we had to return,” said Dr Neeraj Kumar, in-charge of PHC, Sangrampur.“The villagers say they are scared after a person died 15 days after taking vaccination. We are planning to launch an awareness drive,” said an official, refusing to be identified. “Will you take care of our family if the vaccine backfires?” was their common refrain, said Om Prakash Kumar, village headman, Baraiyatola Rajpur panchayat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/villagers-refuse-to-get-vaccinated-101620228335838.html
05-05-2021||Other||South, central Bihar worst hit in second wave||PATNAA review of the Covid-19 pandemic in rural areas by the panchayati raj department has found the spread of the virus is less in north-east districts comprising Kosi and Seemanchal regions in comparison to the southern districts like Aurangabad, Gaya , Nalanda and some central Bihar districts, mainly Patna. The department has instructed all mukhiyas (village heads) in the vulnerable districts having higher case load, especially in southern Bihar, to track symptomatic patients and ensure they are put on early medication after proper tests so that complications and mortality rate is reduced. Bihar reported 14,794 cases on Tuesday, taking the tally of active cases to 110,430. Sources said an internal assessment by the health department has concluded similar findings based on positivity rate (the percentage of people turning positive as against total number of tests daily) in the districts. The district-wise positivity rate could not be assessed as senior health officials did not respond to messages and phone calls.Bihar’s positivity rate stood at 15.6% on Tuesday while it was 16.1% on April 30, the highest so far after resurgence of Covid cases in the second wave. “North-east Bihar is far less affected by Covid cases whereas southern districts are witnessing a surge in cases. The positivity rate in districts also indicate the same. Our review meeting with mukhiyas and other officials on Tuesday indicated the same trend,” said Amrit Lal Meena, additional chief secretary, panchayat raj department. Officials said panchayat representatives have been asked to monitor general health of people in their respective gram panchayats, especially in households where members are running fever. “For us, the next seven days are crucial as there are reports that an average 30% of the households in rural areas have some members having fever. It could be seasonal flu but we are taking updates from rural areas on a daily basis,” said a senior official in the department, seeking anonymity. Some of the districts, whose Covid related data for last few days are available, corroborate the findings. For instance, Aurangabad recorded 535 new cases on Tuesday against 356 cases on Monday. Gaya recorded 767 cases on May 3 and 662 cases on May 2.Nalanda, the home district of chief minister Nitish Kumar, too has seen an upward trend, with 618 cases detected on May 3. Begusarai has also witnessed a surge in cases.On the other hand, the number of new cases in north-east districts has fluctuated from 100 to 400 on a daily basis over last few days. The lowest number has been in Kishanganj and Madhepura, the latter recording 210 cases on May 1 and 299 cases on May. In other districts like Purnea, Katihar and Saharsa, the number of cases has remained below 400, as per official data. “Our priority is to check the spread of Covid in rural areas in all districts,” Meena said, adding that panchayat representatives have already bought 40 lakh masks for distribution as per norms. Each household this time is being given six masks for protection against Covid. Principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/south-central-bihar-worst-hit-in-second-wave-101620228275819.html
05-05-2021||Other||In Covid-19 times, CT scan machine at this prominent Prayagraj hospital is lying non-functional||At a time when doctors are increasingly depending on CT scan of patients to confirm Covid-19 infection and determine the scale of its impact on vital organs like lungs, the CT scan machine of Tej Bahadur Sapru (Beli) Hospital is lying non-functional for over two weeks now. This despite the fact that the CT scan machine in Beli hospital is just the second one in a government hospital in the district, the only other one is installed at SRN Hospital.The CT scan costs ₹5,300 to 5,500 at private diagnostic labs in the market against ₹600 at government hospitals for regular patients and the scan is free for those suffering from Covid-19. RT-PCR tests detect coronavirus in around 80 per cent of the cases and for confirmation in other cases clinical features and CT scans/chest X-rays are being used to rule out false negatives in symptomatic patients followed by a repeat test after 24 hours.“However, people like me having kin suffering from Covid-19 have to get it done at private labs paying almost 9 to 10 times the cost despite being able to ill-afford it,” said Manas Srivastava, a shop owner and a resident of Pratapgarh whose father is undergoing treatment at SRN hospital in Prayagraj.In Prayagraj, the scanning facility under the government system is presently available only in SRN Hospital, which is limited to the patients of this very hospital. Here the screening of Covid patients is being done free of cost whereas the patients admitted in other wards (non-Covid) have to pay ₹600 for the CT scan of the chest.“We are on an average performing 50-60 scans every day here,” shared a senior doctor of SRN Hospital.“The CT scan fee for Chest at SRN Hospital is ₹600. However, the screening of Covid patients is free of cost and we are doing it every day for our patients,” said Gautam Tripathi, deputy superintendent in charge of SRN Hospital.As for Beli Hospital’s machine non-functional for more than 15 days, the hospital administration claims that it has appealed to senior officials several times, but no one seems to be listening.“We are trying to get it fixed,” said Kiran Malik, chief medical superintendent of Beli Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-covid-19-times-ct-scan-machine-at-this-prominent-prayagraj-hospital-is-lying-nonfunctional-101620225396337.html
05-05-2021||Other||Indian origin alumni of Singapore univs to help UP in pandemic times||Lucknow: Amidst Covid-19 crisis, Indian origin alumni of top Singaporean Universities are raising funds to purchase oxygen concentrators for Uttar Pradesh in coming weeks. The group plans to distribute at least 50 modern high-capacity oxygen concentrators in the state by next week.Aarti Kumar, an alumna of a university in Singapore is one of the persons coordinating the effort. “The initiative was aimed at providing some relief to India as it fights a massive second wave of Covid pandemic. The group set the target to raise $75000 which was met within two days. The target was then doubled,” said Aarti.The mission named SUMO (Singapore University Mission Oxygen) was launched by Milaap foundation. The group has raised a total of $117,463 with the help of 668 supporters by the time this report was filed.“A large number of students studying in top universities in Singapore have joined the effort to help their home country in the time of distress. Beside concentrators, the group is also rallying support to procure other medical equipment which could be used for people suffering from Covid-19,” she said.“We are currently procuring the devices. Efforts are also being made to get all the required paperwork done for distribution of the devices in the country,” said Aarti.The volunteers from the group are in touch with other groups which are currently working towards Covid-19 relief measures in Uttar Pradesh for the distribution of the medical devices.“We are looking for groups that are arranging emergency medical equipment for the people suffering from Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh so that we could provide the required medical equipment to them,” Aarti added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/indian-origin-alumni-of-singapore-univs-to-help-up-in-pandemic-times-101620224495135.html
05-05-2021||Other||Maratha youth fear for future with reservation gone||PUNE The Supreme Court ruling cancelling reservations for the Maratha community in the state is expected to have a long-lasting impact on the educational sector, as well as on job opportunities for Maratha youth. The court also clarified that there will not be any impact on admissions to post-graduate medical courses that were granted till September 9, 2020. Maratha youth are disappointed with the verdict. Shailesh Patil, a post-graduate student who also participated in Maratha Kranti Morcha’s protests, said, “After my post-graduation I was planning to apply for a government job and under this reservation was hoping to get it. This verdict will not only impact on us, but all forthcoming generations of Maratha community. Still there are lakhs of students in the state from the community who come from rural areas and giving them a boost is necessary through this reservation.” Last year, Class 11 (first year junior college - FYJC) admissions were delayed by close to two months due to the reservation case going on in the court. An interim stay given by the Supreme Court (SC) on the implementation of the quota for the Maratha community in jobs and education, saw the state education department stop the admission process for FYJC on September 9, 2020. It resumed from November 26, 2020. Talking about the SC verdict Kuldeep Ambekar, a student and president of the Students Helping Hand organisation said, “It was expected that this reservation will get cancelled and now all the Maratha students are in great disappointment. We respect the SC judgment and we hope that state government will find a solution over this critical issue which is related to the careers of lakhs of students.” Another student Pooja Thite said, “There are several post-graduate courses where fees are not affordable. There is a large number of students from the Maratha community who come from economically weaker families. I wanted to opt for higher education in computer engineering, but getting a good college and affordable fees is not possible now due to this reservation getting cancelled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maratha-youth-fear-for-future-with-reservation-gone-101620224074982.html
05-05-2021||Other||‘Very disappointing for the Maratha community’||After the Supreme Court quashed the reservation for the Maratha community on Wednesday, strong reactions came in from within the community. Constitutional experts said this verdict was expected. In its judgment, SC ordered the 2018 law framed by the Maharashtra government to give reservations to the Maratha community void as citing that the state cannot breach the 50 per cent ceiling on quotas. Speaking about the judgment, Ulhas Bapat, a constitutional expert, said, “I had earlier also said that giving reservation above 50 per cent is not possible. It was clearly mentioned in the Indira Sahani case that reservation cannot be given over 50 per cent. The SC verdict is final. Despite knowing this, how did the high court allow this law to happen?” According to Bapat, also an academician, the state government has an option to file a review petition in the SC, although the government will have to look at accommodating the Maratha community in the other backward class (OBC) quota. “In the current situation, reservations cannot breach the 50 per cent ceiling. So it will directly impact OBC reservation and then lead to issues between OBCs and Marathas,” said Bapat. Prakash Ambedkar, grandson of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar and Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi leader said, “A large section of the Maratha community, which is economically downtrodden, deserves reservation. There are two segments within Marathas. While the rich don’t require this, economically poor Marathas should be included in the quota.” Rajya Saba member Sambhajiraje, who was at the centrestage of the Maratha reservation issue, said, “Today is a very disappointing day for the Maratha community. In the end, the state government failed to convince the Supreme Court and now the supernumerary quota method should be implemented, it is the only option left. I appeal to the Maratha community not to undertake protests or huge gatherings in view of the current Covid situation.” Shiv Sangram party leader Vinayak Mete, who is also one of the coordinators of the Maratha Kranti Morcha, alleged that the state government failed to strongly put up a legal fight for the Maratha community in front of the Supreme Court. “Taking moral responsibility of this Ashok Chavan should immediately resign from the cabinet. Throughout the last one year, as the case was going on in the court, there was no proper coordination between the committee headed by Chavan and the Maratha community leaders. It is high time Sharad Pawar intervenes in this matter and helps to resolve this entire reservation quota issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/very-disappointing-for-the-maratha-community-101620223474800.html
05-05-2021||Other||AU to promote UG second, third year students sans exam||Covid-19 Impact Allahabad University (AU) has decided that students of second year of undergraduate courses and intermediate semester of postgraduate and professional courses will be promoted to the higher classes or semester. The varsity has also decided that the students of the third year of undergraduate courses will also be promoted, and mark sheets will be awarded to them on the basis of their performance in the previous class. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting of the examination committee chaired by the vice-chancellor prof Sangita Srivastava held in the online mode on Tuesday, said AU officials.It has been decided in the meeting that for the students of undergraduate first year courses and postgraduate or professional final semester, the examinations will be held in the July - August 2021 depending on the then prevailing pandemic situation, said AU PRO Jaya Kapoor. The examination committee also resolved that for the purpose of the implementation of the reservation policy in the combined research entrance test (CRET)-2020 admissions, the individual departments of the University would to be treated as separate units as vacancies will be calculated under faculty members of a particular subject, the PRO added.For the purpose of application of reservation in constituent colleges, the colleges are to be treated as separate units and like university, seats for research admissions would be calculated college-wise/department-wise in order to be in conformity with the policy being adopted, she added.After announcing its decision to keep the Allahabad University (AU) campus and its constituent colleges closed till April 30, the varsity administration had recently decided to open the campus only from July 5. The authorities had preponed the summer vacations by 10 days. The summer vacations of AU have now begun from May 4 instead of May 15 and would end on July 5.Earlier this month, owing to the present Covid-19 pandemic and many of the teaching and non-teaching staff members getting infected with the coronavirus, the varsity administration had decided to close the main campus and that of the constituent colleges till April 20. Later, when the corona positive cases continued to rise in the city and more staff members were infected, AU authorities extended the duration of closure of AU till April 30.The varsity authorities had begun its annual exams for undergraduate and postgraduate courses from April 3 through online mode. After few days, when the campus of AU and its constituent colleges was closed till April 20, the exams were postponed. Later, the controller of examination had said that the exams would be held from April 30, but soon that was also withdrawn owing to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/au-to-promote-ug-second-third-year-students-sans-exam-101620216633637.html
05-05-2021||Other||‘Breathe India’: IIT-K grads’ fundraiser for O2 concentrators||Lucknow A group of five IIT Kanpur alumni have started a fund raising drive on a social media platform to buy oxygen concentrators which they will donate to Delhi and Uttar Pradesh governments for distribution in hospitals. Their initiative, ‘Breathe India’, has raised more than ₹3 crore in a week and they are hopeful it will soon touch ₹4 crore mark. For UP, they have tied up with a Lucknow -based NGO, RightWalk Foundation, headed by Samina Bano, an IIM Bangalore alumna. On Wednesday, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between KGMU and RightWalk Foundation for donation of oxygen concentrators. The foundation will give 25 units of oxygen concentrators. Of these, 5 units of 10 LPM machines were given today and 15 units of 5 LPM will be given by Friday. RightWalk Foundation works to implement the Right to Education 12.1(c) and the Apprenticeship Act, 1961. Currently, they are supporting the Covid relief efforts by distributing food kits and other items. With the demand for oxygen being higher than ever before, Dr Suryakant, head of the department pulmonary sciences made an appeal to civil society, on the Lucknow Management Association platform. This appeal was then promoted by Prof Nishi Pandey from the English and Modern European Languages Department, Lucknow University. Later KGMU vice chancellor Lt Gen (Dr) Bipin Puri and programme director, Kush Tripathi of RightWalk Foundation, signed an MoU. How IIT-K alumni partneredwith Rightwalk Foundation Ashutosh Ranka, Class of 2017 and four others took to Milaap fund raising platform. They raised more than ₹3 crore, of which ₹2.4 cr will be used to meet crisis situation in Delhi and the rest of the money will be used for Uttar Pradesh. “We decided to get oxygen concentrators for Delhi and tied up with NGO Save Life. Working closely with the Delhi government, we started the fund raiser, Preet India and raised ₹3 crore in a few days. Now we have placed an order for 300 concerntrators with different vendors,” Ashutosh said. Road-map for UP “We decided to expand and in UP we collaborated with RightWalk Foundation. The IIT alumni community also pitched in and we received ₹10 lakh from the batch of 1985,” Ashutosh said.. “As the number of Covid cases started spiralling in April, the demand for oxygen also went up. Realizing the need, our first step was to quickly finalize suppliers of oxygen concentrators. Our consignments from China and Turkey will be reaching us soon,” said Samina Bano, founder and CEO of RightWalk Foundation. She added: “RightWalk has a presence across all the 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh, but we have chosen to intervene in 12 districts where Covid has spread like wildfire. These districts are Lucknow, Varanasi, Agra, Gorakhpur, Kanpur, Amroha, Prayagraj, Noida, Bareilly, Ghaziabad, Aligarh and Moradabad. We plan to keep a fixed number of oxygen concentrators in each district and offer it to needy people free of cost. The intervention will help in saving 30,000 to 40,000 lives in the next four-six weeks. We also plan to distribute medical and ration kits among Covid-affected families.” Currently, RightWalk’s fundraiser has raised more than ₹50 lakhs and counting. Other organizations join in The Swasth Foundation and ACT grant combination has sent 50 units of oxygen concentrators (OCs) to Lucknow that are to be distributed through RightWalk. These are in addition to the 135 concentrators RightWalk has procured from China and Turkey. The former is a non-profit social enterprise focused on providing the poor a range of affordable and high-quality primary-preventive health services, while the latter is a movement by India’s startup ecosystem to fight societal problems at scale. Furthermore, GiveIndia is supporting RightWalk with procurement and deployment of 100 units of 10L OCs and 10 units of 5L OCs in several districts of UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/breathe-india-iit-k-grads-fundraiser-for-o2-concentrators-101620215493276.html
05-05-2021||Other||Hundreds of farmers defy Covid curbs in Amritsar, head for Delhi to protest||Defying the Covid-19 protocols and lockdown in Punjab, hundreds of supporters of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), including women and the elderly, gathered at Beas town in Amritsar district on Wednesday before heading for Delhi’s Singhu border to intensify the agitation against the three farm laws passed last year.They left in dozens of tractor-trailers, cars and tempo-travellers with many huddled together.Before embarking on the journey, the supporters gathered to raise slogans against the Centre and a few corporate houses. The protesters are expected to reach the national capital on Thursday.Asked why no action was taken against them despite the Covid curbs, deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said he will seek a report from the senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya. “Whatever legal action is there, it will be discussed with the SSP,” he said.Amritsar is one of the Covid-19 hotspot districts of Punjab with more than 5,000 active cases and 1,014 deaths. A total of 674 positive cases were reported from the district on Tuesday.Also Read | Assembly poll results vindicate stand of agitating farmers: SKMKMSC leaders have been holding meetings in villages over the past week to mobilise support for the march.Asked why the organisation was holding a march despite the second Covid-19 wave, KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said, “If any harm comes to farmers due to coronavirus, only the Centre will be responsible. We have been forced to remain on the roads because the Centre is not accepting our demands. We will go home immediately if our demands are met.”He wrote on social media on Tuesday: “The Centre is trying to sabotage our movement. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh is helping the Centre indirectly.”Another such march of the KMSC is scheduled to begin from Tarn Taran on May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hundreds-of-farmers-defy-covid-curbs-in-amritsar-head-for-delhi-to-protest-101620214413731.html
05-05-2021||Other||Kapurthala SSP recommends departmental probe against DC’s reader||Kapurthala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kanwardeep Kaur has written to deputy commissioner Deepti Uppal, recommending a departmental inquiry against a key official posted in the latter’s office who had allegedly threatened a cop. The move comes after an audio of the alleged incident surfaced on social media on April 29.In the audio clip, the DC’s reader, Narinder Singh Cheema, was purportedly heard threatening and pressuring assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Kulwinder Singh to let some men join investigations in a criminal case lodged them. Cheema is further heard saying that a contempt petition will be filed against the ASI if he doesn’t allow the men to join investigations. To this, the ASI is purportedly heard saying that he was busy as there had been a death in his family, and that he would allow the accused to join investigations soon. Cheema is also heard accusing the cop of registering a case without proper probe. When contacted, Cheema said the men named in the case had been granted bail on the condition that they join probe within a week (April 27). The cop, Cheema said, was deliberately delaying the matter, so he called him.In the letter to the DC, the SSP recommended action against Cheema for allegedly misusing his official position. The SSP had earlier sought a report from Kapurthala deputy superintendent of police Surinderpal Singh on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kapurthala-ssp-recommends-departmental-probe-against-dc-s-reader-101620158659961.html
05-05-2021||Other||Centre notifies revised eco zone around Thane flamingo sanctuary||The Union environment ministry has notified a revised eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of 48 square kilometres (sq km) around the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary (TCFS), spread across Mumbai suburban and Thane districts. The draft proposal, which was sent to the ministry by the Maharashtra government in March, was gazetted on April 30. The ministry has given a 60-day window to receive public comments on the notification.The move will increase the area earmarked for protection by the forest department, which had initially proposed to include just 34.06 sq km within ESZ. The state government had, in March, written to the Centre proposing to include an additional 14 sq km of land within ESZ.An ESZ is a buffer area created around a wildlife sanctuary or national park to reduce developmental pressures. The proposal has also increased the maximum width of the originally proposed buffer area to a maximum of 3.98km, as compared to 3.5km earlier. At its southern-most point near Vashi bridge, the width of ESZ is 0km, while at its northernmost point at Thane-Kalwa bridge, the width is 2km.Spread across 1,690.5 hectares (ha) across Mulund, Vikhroli, Bhandup, Kanjur and parts of Mandale village, TCFS is home to 12 true mangrove species, 39 mangrove associates, 167 species of birds including flamingos, 45 fish species, 59 species of butterflies, 67 insect species, among other mammals such as jackals. In May 2018, the state had declared it a flamingo sanctuary.“There is increase of about 14 sq km from the earlier notified ESZ of 34 sq km. Mangroves of Navi Mumbai area have been included in the current notification. It will go a long way in conservation of mangroves in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) region,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (mangrove cell).About 1,400ha of mangrove forests towards the Navi Mumbai side of ESZ were not originally covered in the ambit of the original ESZ delineation because they were already declared as reserve forests under the Indian Forest Act, forest department officials said. They are also covered under CRZ (coastal regulation zone). However, last February, the ministry recommended their inclusion in ESZ.Environmentalists, however, remained skeptical of the development. “The solution here is to declare TCFS as a wildlife sanctuary under the Wildlife Act. An ESZ notification won’t offer much protection as seen in case of Sanjay Gandhi National Park, where developmental activities are undertaken inches away from the boundary of the protected area,” said D Stalin, director, non-governmental organization (NGO) Vanashakti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-notifies-revised-eco-zone-around-thane-flamingo-sanctuary-101620158239835.html
05-05-2021||Other||24 firms hired for audit of SGPC’s religious, educational institutions||Months after controversy erupted over irregularities in appointment of auditors, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) hired 24 private companies to conduct financial audits of its religious and educational institutions. “The 24 firms would be working at district-level to conduct internal audits of gurdwaras and educational institutions. As of now, we have roped in these firms for the financial year 2021-22 for an annual charge of ₹49 lakh. In case these firms find any irregularities during audit, they will have to bring it to the notice of the SGPC headquarters. Every firm will have to submit its report by the 10th of each month,” said SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur on Tuesday. She added, “Every firm will work under the rules promulgated by the SGPC. In addition to the audit, the staff of educational institutions and gurdwaras will also be given training on computerisation of records.” An Akal-Takht-appointed panel that probed into the misappropriation of 328 saroops of Guru Granth Sahib had pointed out that timely computerisation of the accounts by the private firm hired for the purpose could have averted the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/24-firms-hired-for-audit-of-sgpc-s-religious-educational-institutions-101620157939304.html
05-05-2021||Other||Petrol priced at ₹96.95/litre, diesel at ₹87.98 in Mumbai||Fuel prices in the city witnessed a surge on Tuesday. While the price of one litre of petrol increased to ₹96.95, diesel was available at ₹87.98 per litre. The hike in fuel prices has come after nearly 19 days. On April 14, petrol was available at ₹96.98 per litre and diesel for ₹87.96. From April 15 to Monday (May 3), petrol price remained at ₹96.83 per litre, while a litre of diesel was available at ₹87.81. Citizens have stated that the increase in fuel prices have come after the election results. With financial constraints, the fare hike will add to their woes, they said.“Fuel prices in the city were constant for some time. We were happy as a maximum number of people are travelling on their own vehicles to avoid contracting or spreading coronavirus. But the fuel prices in the city surged a day after the election results in other states. This is not fair as common people will suffer due to the hike,” said Vikhroli resident Aarti Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-priced-at-96-95-litre-diesel-at-87-98-in-mumbai-101620157758640.html
05-05-2021||Other||K’taka ministers didn’t respond to oxygen SOS calls: Volunteers||Bengaluru: At least 10 hospitals in Bengaluru on Tuesday made desperate calls for help from the state government and others, stating that they were fast running out of oxygen. As of 7pm on Tuesday, only one hospital had claimed that they had received supply, while others were still struggling to source oxygen.The desperation was a continuation of the stressful events that unfolded on Monday when five hospitals in the city ran out of oxygen. In one of the hospitals – Arka Hospital in Yelahanka – two persons died due to oxygen shortage.Volunteers in Bengaluru who arranged for oxygen for these hospitals on Monday said that the government and ministers did not respond to the emergency calls, leaving volunteers to scramble for oxygen cylinders.“Yesterday (Monday) was the first time, our city experienced an oxygen crisis like what was witnessed in New Delhi. But the government and its ministers were not available throughout the day. It was volunteers who arranged for oxygen,” said Saqib Idreez, a volunteer, who helped two hospitals get oxygen on Monday.According to him, the panic calls began around the afternoon when he got a distress call from a woman who wanted an ICU bed. “When I asked her, she said that the hospital she is admitted, was running out of oxygen. We realized that there was a bigger problem than the one case, so we called up the hospital,” said Idreez.When Idreez and other volunteers contacted the hospital, they claimed that their supply of oxygen was running out and they have stock only till 5 pm. Soon the volunteer group began making calls and also asked the hospital to provide a letter stating the concern.In response, Dr Srihari Shapur, medical director of the hospital wrote a letter which read: “This is to inform you that we are running out of oxygen supply, we are unable to collect oxygen care for the patient. We have been informing since 01/05/2021, 6:00 pm. We will shortly run out of oxygen by 03/05/2021, 5 pm. Kindly arrange for beds in different hospitals. We regret this situation. And request you to co-operate in view of patient well-being.”Idreez said that they made multiple calls to BBMP officials to talk about the issue, however, there was no response. Later, we were told that the deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan had tweeted saying his office will dispatch oxygen supply. “In the meanwhile, we were getting similar calls from two other hospitals. Since the DCM had offered oxygen to Medex, we shifted our attention to the other two hospitals,” he said.While they were procuring cylinders from the other two hospitals, we got a call from Medex saying they were running out of oxygen. “We were surprised because the DCM had offered to help. Then we called up his office and the men there kept saying the stock is on the way, but nothing reached. So, we decided to arrange cylinders ourselves and we managed to get around 15 of them, which gave the hospital some time,” said the volunteer.But even in the late evening when no supply came, a volunteer from the group made calls to the Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar. “We thought he would help, but instead he asked us to go to BBMP and fill the required forms. We told him that it was an emergency and explained the situation, but he kept telling us to go through BBMP. As he continued to argue, he cut the call,” said Idreez.On Tuesday, at least five hospitals including Safa hospital, Mediscope hospital, Rajarajeshwari Nagar medical college, had placed emergency requests for oxygen. As the numbers were increasing Mercy Mission, a collective of volunteers and other volunteers were scrambling for cylinders from whichever centre or homes they could find them.Medex was about to get a refill from Hosur in Bengaluru’s outskirts late at night and others were provided cylinders by the volunteers. “The one thing we realized was that the government hasn’t taken the oxygen crisis seriously. When we spoke with them, they were acting as if the hospitals were blowing the situation out of proportion. They haven’t learnt anything from what happened in New Delhi,” said a volunteer on the condition of anonymity.Deputy chief minister Narayana and health minister Sudhakar didn’t respond to Hindustan Times’ calls for their version on the incident. A BBMP official on the condition of anonymity said that there was no shortage of oxygen in the state and there was a problem with storage, especially at the smaller hospitals. “Many hospitals, especially the smaller ones, don’t have enough storage facilities. They are mostly storing oxygen in small cylinders, and they have a requirement to refill multiple times in a day, this is leading to a shortage,” he said.However, on Tuesday, the high court had pulled up the State and Central governments for the lack of oxygen supply in the state. “The requirement of the state is 1,467 metric tonnes and you have increased it only to 865 metric tonnes from existing allocation… Are you not aware that people have died in the state due to non-availability of oxygen,” a division bench of Chief justice Abhay Oka and justice Aravind Kumar asked the central government’s council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-ministers-didn-t-respond-to-oxygen-sos-callsvolunteers-101620155959660.html
05-05-2021||Other||Bengaluru: 2 patients die due to oxygen ‘shortage’||Bengaluru Two Covid-19 patients died in Bengaluru’s Arka Hospital on Tuesday allegedly due to shortage of oxygen, the hospital management said. The incident highlighted the growing scarcity of critical supplies amid the raging pandemic in Karnataka and especially its capital Bengaluru. Dr Manju Aditya, director of the hospital, said he had raised an SOS call on shortage of oxygen on Monday night. He added that by 3 am on Tuesday, the hospital managed to get the supply of around 15 cylinders. “During the time of low oxygen (stock), two patients died. Both were severely infected by Covid-19,” Dr Aditya told Hindustan Times. “We asked in vain for help. We went to neighbouring hospitals and managed to arrange 10 cylinders from them,” he said, adding that there was no supply of oxygen at the plant from where the hospital gets its supply. The incident came a day after at least 24 Covid-19 patients died in Chamarajanagar district, about 175 km from Bengaluru, allegedly due to lack of oxygen. At least five private hospitals in Bengaluru have raised SOS calls for oxygen supply since Monday night. The hospitals that raised the SOS on Monday and Tuesday include Medax, RajaRajeshwari hospital, Sree Saiprasad among others.With only “stop-gap” arrangements from the government, private hospitals find themselves with full occupancy and no critical medical supplies, to treat Covid-19 patients, according to managements of at least three such establishments. Meanwhile, Mandya district in-charge minister KC Narayana Gowda on Monday evening said there was a severe shortage of oxygen in the district, about 99 km from Bengaluru. Amid reports of deaths due to shortage of oxygen, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa has come under sharp criticism for not increasing preparedness of essential medical supplies like oxygen, hospital beds, life-saving medicines and even space to cremate the rising number of dead. After the incident in Chamarajanagar, Yediyurappa met oxygen manufacturers and suppliers on Monday to fix the teething issues in distribution. But various hospitals claimed that they were yet to get any real assistance from the government. Priyank Kharge, former minister and Congress legislator from Kalaburagi, a border district that is one of the worst-impacted regions in the state, on Tuesday said that several oxygen suppliers were profiteering from the pandemic. “While Kalaburagi hospitals are gasping for oxygen & people are dying due to shortage in supply, a private oxygen plant in district has been profiteering by sending O2 cylinders to Maharashtra while @BJP4Karnataka Govt sleeps throughout pandemic,” Kharge said in a post on Twitter. Gaurav Gupta, chief commissioner of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Tuesday sought the help of people to upgrade public healthcare infrastructure. “Calling out for your support in procurement of oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders and NIV ventilators for BBMP healthcare facilities,” he posted on Twitter. The state government has also been accused of ignoring the warnings of imminent second wave of pandemic by the state-appointed technical advisory committee (TAC) on Covid-19 in November last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bengaluru-2-patients-die-due-to-oxygen-shortage-101620155658487.html
05-05-2021||Other||‘Traffic’ Ramaswamy dies due to Covid-19 at 87||Chennai: Eighty-seven year old social activist K R Ramaswamy, popularly known as ‘Traffic’ Ramaswamy died in Chennai on Tuesday after battling complications of Covid-19. He had been admitted to the city’s Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and was on ventilator support. Ramaswamy, a self appointed traffic regulator, for hours used to direct traffic near the Madras high court in the 1990s from where commuters began calling him ‘Traffic’ Ramaswamy. Later, he walked into courtrooms and became a regular filing petitions against road traffic norms, encroachments, unauthorised buildings, and erection of hoardings. In Tamil Nadu, which is notorious for its banner culture of sycophant cadre putting up huge cutouts and hoardings of their leaders only for it to be torn down by ‘Traffic’ Ramaswamy. He’s fearlessly tore down posters in front of homes of powerful former chief ministers J Jayalalithaa and M Karunanidhi. He didn’t spare the hoardings in front of AIADMK and DMK party offices. “His fight against big digital hoardings and banners was phenomenal,” says Jayaram Venkatesan who founded the anti-corruption movement, Arappor Iyakkam. “He fought both on the road as well as in court to get it banned at one stage. His other cases on encroachments, granite scam will always be remembered. He inspired many youngsters to become active citizens.” He has been arrested several times and has grabbed eyeballs when he would sit or lie down on a main road in protest. He has filed more than 200 public interest litigations (PILs) for the larger good. One of his PILs, led the court to direct the city police to reverse its decision on converting the NSC Bose Road (near the court) into a one-way. He moved court stating that the police were taking an easy way out by not regulating traffic and converting a broad arterial road into a one-way. He also got fish carts, that were causing road accidents, banned. For all his mighty work, he was a frail man dressed in white shirt, khaki trousers under which his catheter was strapped, oversized spectacles and always carried a bundle full of petitions in his hands and in his pocket. In 2018, a Tamil biopic of him was released in cinemas. Until his health deteriorated, he was active following several cases. Politicians and public mourned the loss of the activist who brought several changes for the better in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/traffic-ramaswamy-dies-due-to-covid-19-at-87-101620155539826.html
05-05-2021||Other||As cases surge, city faces acute drug shortage||Bengaluru The raging Covid-19 pandemic has led to an acute shortage of antiviral medicines, medical shop owners said, adding to the rapidly deteriorating healthcare infrastructure in Bengaluru which is among the worst impacted regions in the country.Medical shop owners said that several antiviral medicines like Fabiflu, favipiravir, Tamiflu, Fluvir among others are normally available in abundant supply in local chemists.“If a distributor had 100 sheets (of medicines), the demand for antiviral medicines have gone up by a 1,000 times,” MK Mayanna, a medical shop owner and president of Bruhat Bengaluru Chemists and Druggists Association, said.The forum consists of around 3,500 members who run such stores in and around the city.mid reports of shortage of medical essentials, shopkeepers said, citizens are stocking up on these medicines to treat cold, cough and other symptoms attributed to Covid-19. “The government has taken control over supply of several medicines and distributors just don’t have any of it,” Nandan, ownerof Devi Medicals in Jeevan Bhima Nagar in east Bengaluru, said. He added that it made little sense for the government to take over the supply of critical medicine to control profiteering and black marketing.However, black marketing has become rampant in Bengaluru, if recent arrests over hoarding of Remdesivir, a drug used to treat critically ill Covid-19 persons are any indication.Families of critically-ill patients told HT that they have paid between ₹10,000 to ₹60,000 per vial to get Remdesivir.“The poor cannot spend their life savings to arrange it (Remdesivir and other drugs). In spite of drug stores having stock of Remdesivir, they have to wait till the drug controller sends them a request to supply it to hospitals. The government appointed only one to two officials for such a huge responsibility and this has led to black marketing of Remdesivir,” Yunus Nawab, a city-based lawyer, said. After making frantic calls to friends and relatives, it took Nawab more than two days to get Remdesivir for his mother who was admitted in a private hospital.“I have a report that it (Remdesivir) is being sold in black and to other states. There will be a detailed enquiry into this and all you will have to face the consequences. I won’t spare anyone,” Yediyurappa reportedly told a few officials during an emergency meeting convened by the chief minister on Tuesday.According to the report, he said, there was evidence to show the involvement of several people in blackmarketing of these drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-cases-surge-city-faces-acute-drug-shortage-101620155539141.html
05-05-2021||Other||Bomb inside ice cream ball explodes, two children hurt in Kerala||Thiruvananthapuram: Two children, aged five and two, suffered injuries in north Kerala’s Kannur district on Tuesday, after a crude bomb, hidden inside an ice cream ball which the children picked up inadvertently for playing, burst, police said. The children took up the ball from a vacant plot of land adjoining their house and took it for playing but when they tried to open, it exploded, police said, adding condition of one of them was serious. The incident occurred in Muzhakunnu police station. Certain pockets of Kannur district are notorious for violent clashes between the CPI(M) and RSS cadres and many lives were lost in three-decade long rivalry. In party villages crude bomb-making is a routine affair to check political opponents. To avoid detection many hide crude bombs in vacant plots and houses and many such freak accidents were reported from the area, police said. Police have launched a search operation in area to find hidden crude bombs, if any, and detained the owner of the plot. “We have detained the owner of the plot and two others in connection with the incident,” said a senior police officer. Two weeks back, a CPI(M) supporter lost both his hands while making a crude bomb in Kadirur. Last September, an accused in TP Chandrasekharan murder case also sustained serious injuries when a bomb which he was assembling went off accidentally. Chandrasekharan, who floated a new party after leaving the CPI(M), was hacked to death by a group of CPI(M) workers in Vadakara in 2012. Most of the accused in the case were later sentenced. His widow K K Rema got elected to the assembly in the just-concluded elections. At least 200 party workers of both, CPI(M) and RSS, were killed in past three decades in recurring political clashes in north Kerala district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bomb-inside-ice-cream-ball-explodes-two-children-hurt-in-kerala-101620155479066.html
05-05-2021||Other||After Kerala win, Left to draw up fresh national plan against BJP||Thiruvananthapuram: Taking a leaf out of emphatic victory in Kerala, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) will take a fresh initiative to build an alternative against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at national level, said party acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan on Tuesday in the state capital. The CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) won 99 out of 140 assembly seats in the state on Sunday, bucking a four-decade-old political tradition of oscillating the Congress and CPI(M)-led fronts alternately. In the Left surge, the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) drew a blank in Kerala. Talking to reporters after the party secretariat meeting, Vijayaraghavan said the new government will be sworn in after the LDF meeting on May 17. “Due to pandemic situation, strict restrictions are in force. Let the situation ease a bit, there is no hurry,” he said, adding the LDF will observe a victory day on May 7. Workers have been asked to lit lamps in their homes observing Covid -19 protocol.He said “historic victory” in Kerala has given a fresh impetus to secular and democratic forces in the country and the party will take initiative to build a new alternative against communal forces. “Our victory and high vote share are historic. It is a victory of the Left and secular forces. This victory has national relevance also,” Vijayaraghavan said, adding the victory was clinched in trying times. He said all opposition parties, including the Congress and BJP, had teamed up against the government and many central agencies had pitched their tents in the state and intimidated officials and others but their designs fell flat with people’s mandate. He said the loss in Kerala will hasten the fall of the Congress in the country. Vijayaraghavan added that the Congress tried its best to weaken secular forces in Kerala and its national leaders were also part of it, while referring to Gandhi family’s intense campaign in the state. “The Congress and BJP were in a race to raise baseless allegations against the government. At one point both were talking in single voice. They also tried to sabotage some of the welfare programmes. People have given them a befitting reply,” he said.Meanwhile, outgoing opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has alleged a CPI(M)-BJP nexus to weaken the Congress in Kerala. “A close look at the results show in many seats NDA vote share has gone down. Most of these votes have shifted to the LDF camp. We suspect it a part of a conspiracy of the BJP’s pet “Congress-mukt” campaign,” he said in Thiruvananthapuram. BJP state president K Surendran has denied Chennithala’s claims, saying the Left successfully injected a fear psychosis among minority communities that led to consolidation of their votes in its favour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-kerala-win-left-to-draw-up-fresh-national-plan-against-bjp-101620155418572.html
05-05-2021||Other||Stalin, Palaniswami chart new path with healthy political ties||Chennai: Edapaddi Palaniswami and MK Stalin are charting a refreshing and respectful political rivalry in a state that has witnessed bitterness, animosity and violence for more than 50 years between their Dravidian predecessors. After the May 2 results ended the AIADMK’s 10-year rule and brought back the DMK, Palaniswami graciously accepted defeat and wished Stalin on Twitter, the platform for new-age politics. Stalin reciprocated by seeking Palaniswami’s ideas and cooperation. “Democracy is a fusion of both ruling and opposition parties,” Stalin said. This was unheard of during previous regime changes in Tamil Nadu. A prime factor is that the two new leaders have no personal animosity unlike the history of rivalry between DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi and MG Ramachandran (MGR), and later J Jayalalithaa. It began when the matinee idol and popular leader MGR split from the DMK in 1972 and founded the ADMK (later renamed AIADMK) ending the MGR- Karunanidhi friendship and successful partnership in films and politics. MGR won the first election in 1977 after launching his party and continued to remain chief minister until his death in 1987. “Their personal vengeance gave rise to politics of hatred in Tamil Nadu,” says former journalist Durai Karunanidhi. “Both of them wanted to abolish each other’s parties. DMK foisted false cases against MGR and after he came to power, MGR managed to keep a Chanakya-like Karunanidhi away from electoral victory until his death. Yet, they were on speaking terms; they would participate in common public events.” MGR and Karunanidhi had together attended the wedding of Tamilisai Soundararajan, the daughter of Congress veteran Kumari Ananthan. She is now a BJP leader and governor of Telangana and lieutenant governor of Puducherry. Videos from her wedding show MGR, who was then chief minister, and Karunanidhi sitting together, speaking and laughing. After MGR’s death, Jayalalithaa took over the reins, became the state’s opposition leader, as Karunanidhi returned as chief minister in the 1989 elections. Jayalalithaa inherited the rivalry, which increased after an infamous incident in the assembly when the DMK was two months into its third term. Violence broke out between the two parties and DMK’s present organising secretary Durai Murugan is accused of hitting Jayalalithaa and she came out of the assembly weeping and dishevelled. In 2001, in less than a month after Jayalalithaa became chief minister, a then 78-year-old Karunanidhi was arrested over corruption charges. In a midnight drama, police woke him up at 1.45am, roughed him up and took him into custody, all the while with Karunanidhi shouting, ‘kolapandranga’ meaning “they are killing me”. “He spent a week in prison, that’s all Jayalalithaa wanted. She didn’t pursue the case,” says DMK veteran and MP TKS Elangovan. Karunanidhi and Jayalalithaa never saw eye-to-eye and avoided assembly proceedings with each other. “Jayalalithaa has expelled AIADMK cadre when she heard reports of them speaking to DMK cadre,” said Durai. Elangovan narrates that though AIADMK MPs and MLAs would speak to him when they were together in Delhi in parliament or outside, the same members wouldn’t dare to be seen with him in Chennai. “We would fly back from Delhi to Chennai together and chat together on-air but from the minute we land, they will stop speaking and won’t even walk next to me,” says Elangovan. “That’s how much they feared Jayalalithaa.” The change perhaps started with Stalin who attended Jayalalithaa’s swearing-in in 2016 even as several DMK MLAs boycotted it. Karunanidhi complained that Jayalalithaa insulted his son in the seating arrangement as he was seated in the 16th row. The following day, Jayalalithaa clarified that it wasn’t intended and if she was informed of Stalin’s attendance, she would have relaxed norms and seated him in the front row. The erstwhile hardened stances began to wither after Jayalalithaa’s death in December 2016 after she was re-elected for a second term earlier that year. After a long-drawn succession battle, Palaniswami became chief minister and helmed the AIADMK along with O Panneerselvam. “Though the ruling and opposition debated and criticised each other, they came out of the assembly speaking to each other similar to the Delhi culture and respectful politics began to peek in Tamil Nadu,” says Durai. It was beginning to bring back a healthy political culture that was seen even between former chief ministers-- Congress’s K Kamaraj and DMK founder CN Annadurai. Palaniswami gave audience to a Stalin-led delegation in his chamber because they wanted to submit reformations -- a scene perhaps common in other states such as Kerala where ruling and opposition leaders travel and work together, but not in Tamil Nadu. Ministers led by Pannerselvam visited Karunanidhi’s residence when his health was deteriorating. It hit a rough spot when the AIADMK government cited new environment rules and denied permission for Karunanidhi, who didn’t die in office, to be buried alongside former chief ministers and his Dravidian mentors and rivals in Chennai’s Marina beach in August 2018. DMK went to court and the AIADMK allowed it after the Madras high court’s approval in a special late-night hearing. Palaniswami justified that it was the state’s inability due to policy. It was also a time when the Palaniswami-led government was seen as being subservient to the BJP at the Centre which Stalin has consistently criticised. “Stalin doesn’t seem to be the one to carry personal vengeances and Palaniswami and Panneerselvam are soft too,” said Durai. Stain went to Palaniswami’s Chennai residence for his mother’s memorial service in October 2020 just before both leaders would begin a high-octane campaign mocking each other. On Tuesday, a few DMK workers tore down banners of an ‘Amma canteen’ in Chennai, launched by Jayalalithaa in 2013 and replicated across the country to serve budget meals for the poor. “Our leader (Stalin) asked for the board to be fixed back; the two workers have been arrested and expelled from the party,” said M Subramanian, former Chennai mayor and newly elected MLA. Such actions and their exchanges post campaigns even as they trade important places as chief minister and opposition leader indicates that the new-generation leaders are overturning decades of hate politics built on personal vengeance into a healthy atmosphere. However, Stalin, in his election manifesto has stated that the DMK would form a special court to try corrupt ministers. He has submitted two complaints to governor Banwarilal Purohit against Palaniswami, Paneerselvam and other top ministers on graft charges. Stalin has also promised to speed up investigations into Jayalalithaa’s death. It remains to be seen how the DMK would pursue these two promises which would earn the wrath of the new opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stalin-palaniswami-chart-new-path-with-healthy-political-ties-101620155359118.html
05-05-2021||Other||Chennai scrambles to find ICU beds as Covid cases soar||Chennai: As Covid-19 cases rise in Tamil Nadu with the highest caseload in Chennai, people were struggling to find beds with oxygen support and ventilators in time. As per 5.30 pm data from the state government’s Covid bed status on its website, among the five government hospitals in Chennai, only nine oxygen supported beds were available out of 1,823 while all 919 ICU beds were occupied. “On an average, we are admitting 150-200 patients per day and most of them are in critical condition. Discharges are 70-90 in a day… we are extending oxygen lines,” said Dr E Theranirajan, dean, Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), the largest public hospital in Chennai treating Covid-19. The hospital has now formed a four-member committee to exclusively monitor consumption of oxygen. “The team will monitor and plan how to conserve oxygen in the wards,” said Theranirajan. The hospital is also planning to add 20,000 kilo litre oxygen from other blocks, to meet the demand for Covid-19 treatment. “We are working with the technical team as well as the oxygen team to be able to conserve it even as we increase the oxygen points,” Theranirajan added. ICUs in most private hospitals in the city are full and the struggle is to find beds in either government facilities or smaller private hospitals. “It’s a very bad situation,” said a doctor of a private hospital. “More patients are critical in the second wave. In the first wave, even those with mild, moderate symptoms were hospitalised, but now they’re in home treatment. Our ICU is full and there are 12 patients on the waitlist. We use 3,500 metric cubes of oxygen every day for more than 250 patients on oxygen support. We are worried about managing oxygen so that it is not replenished,” the doctor added. Archanaa Seker, who volunteers for a group Chennai Cares formed to help people find drugs and beds, said it took them more than eight hours to find an oxygen supported bed for a 65-year-old man with comorbidities in Chennai last week. The patient’s oxygen levels were 89 at 11 am last Tuesday and began to drop. The group called 108 ambulance service operated by the government and which had oxygen support and the family went to a private and government hospital where there were no beds before reaching RGGGH. “They had to wait for a few hours at the hospital before he got a bed with oxygen support. At 11.30 pm, he was struggling to breathe but his treatment had started,” said Seker. The patient died in the hospital on Tuesday. “The hospital had rightly escalated his treatment at every stage, but despite being on high flow oxygen his health deteriorated,” said Seker. “The struggle for beds is showing us many sides of why the situation is grim in Chennai. It’s not just a shortage of resources but lack of information. Who is going to guide you? Where do you go first if you are told you need to be on a ventilator? It’s also the first time we are pushing people to use the government system whether it’s for treatment or the 104 helpline to avail beds because the system is in place,” Seker added. On Tuesday, Tamil Nadu reported 21,228 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total active caseload in the state to 123,258. Chennai accounted for 6,228 of the total new cases, taking its active case count to 33,222, according to state health department. The state also reported 144 deaths due to Covid-19 on Tuesday, which took the toll due to the pandemic to 14,612. Meanwhile, health authorities said it has been more challenging as compared to the first wave. “We are increasing hospital beds with oxygen and ensuring oxygen is sustained as cases are increasing and we have sought inputs from Kerala on their management,” said a health official, who did not wish to be named. Tamil Nadu is going through a transition from the AIADMK-led government to the newly elected one led by DMK chief MK Stalin. A day after victory, chief minister-elect Stalin held two review meetings with the state’s chief secretary, health secretary among other top bureaucrats on the Covid-19 situation on Monday and Tuesday. “After the meeting we introduced new restrictions,” an official said. Late Monday night, the new restrictions such as 50% workforce in government and private offices from May 6 to 20 were announced. “Don’t think of this as restrictions imposed by the government but as the restrictions that people put on themselves,” said Stalin in a statement. “Only by turning this into a people’s movement can we break the chain,” he added. Experts said that though Tamil Nadu has a better public health system and administration compared to other states, it is getting overwhelmed. “If you see the curve in the second wave, it’s a steep rise,” said virologist Jacob John, former director of the ICMR’s Centre of Advanced Research in Virology. “The spread is three-four times faster because of the variants, which is most concerning,” John added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chennai-scrambles-to-find-icu-beds-as-covid-cases-soar-101620155298489.html
05-05-2021||Other||Shortage of vaccine doses irks senior citizens in Thane||Senior citizens awaiting their second dose are now having their appointments cancelled as the vaccination drive for those above 45 years of age have been called off in Thane, Kalyan and Navi Mumbai since Saturday. All three civic bodies are waiting for vaccine doses; especially the Covaxin. For the last two weeks, Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has not been getting doses of Covaxin, whereas Thane and Navi Mumbai last received Covaxin on April 25. For 56 years old, Rama Iyer from Vrindavan Society in Thane, this is the last week for her to get vaccinated with the second dose of Coviaxin. “We have tried visiting vaccination centres last week, but to no avail. My daughter spoke to our regular physician who assured us that we could wait for another week, despite the schedule to get vaccinated. However, the government should ensure that there is enough stock for those who have taken the first dose.” There are many senior citizens like Iyer, who are awaiting the arrival of Covaxin for their second dose. “I have been calling hospitals in Thane, Navi Mumbai and Mira Road for the last two weeks. I am not a tech-savvy person and my children live in another city. Hence, I rely on my neighbours to help me find vaccination centres. Two weeks ago there were two centres in KDMC that had Covaxin but I was not aware of it. By the time I got to know, they were short of vaccines. There is a continuous appeal from authorities to get vaccinated but there is no help or support on how to go about the vaccination process,” said Hemant Shah, 64, resident of Dombivli. Prashant Patil, secretary, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Kalyan chapter, informed, “People need not panic as they can wait for two weeks from the time frame for the vaccine. For both vaccines, there is enough time suggested and the authorities are also working to get additional doses as soon as possible.” Moreover, a few senior citizens are on high medication, hence the doctors have suggested Covaxin. Prachi Choudhary, a resident of Navi Mumbai who helps senior citizens with the vaccination process, said, “I have a list of 140 senior citizens waiting to get vaccinated; among these, we have prepared a separate list of those who need the second dose as they are a priority. However, the shortage of supply is proving to be a hindrance. Covishield was available in most places until last week and many went ahead with walk-in vaccinations for the same.” Various citizen organisations are working towards helping senior citizens get their doses as per schedule, especially for second doses. “Once the hospital gets the vaccine stock, we are plan to start the immunisation drive. Housing societies could join us in this mission and help their members get vaccinated,” said Kasber Augustine, resident of Thane. Over 23,000 people in Thane city have taken Covaxin, of which 17,000 are yet to get the second dose. “We received Covaxin on April 25 and we had six centres open the next day. Post that we have not received any doses of the vaccine. Sunday onwards we have only been focusing on those between 18 and 44 years of age,” said a senior officer from Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). Similarly, KDMC has not received Covaxin doses for the last two weeks and no doses are available for those above 45 years of age in the last four days. Abhijit Bangar, commissioner, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC), said, “We are expecting more vaccines on Wednesday. As of now, the vaccination process has been stalled for 45 years and above age. We received Covaxin last on April 25 and Covishield on Thursday.” Meanwhile, Thane district officials are also unable to meet the demand for vaccines. A senior officer said, “There is a shortage all over the state. We are not getting the desired number of vaccines. The ones that we get have to be equally distributed in all civic bodies, municipal councils as well as rural areas. This is a difficult task, especially, considering the population in urban areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shortage-of-vaccine-doses-irks-senior-citizens-in-thane-101620155238476.html
05-05-2021||Other||Tackling the oxygen crisis: As people gasp, waiting time to install O2 plants goes up||The state government is approving applications seeking to set up oxygen plants on a priority. But due to the ever-increasing demand, the waiting time to install plants has gone up. This is due to a dearth of technical experts and skilled workforce required to set up such plants. Till April the state government had approved 54 applications seeking permission to set up oxygen plants. On state government’s request, the micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) sector has come forward to set up Oxygen plants. It is also willing to assist the government in setting up medical oxygen plants in 47 districts of the state which have been sanctioned by the PM under the PM-Cares Fund, set up last year to collect donations to battle Covid-19. “The demand for technical experts and skilled workforce required to set up Oxygen plants has increased manifold across the country, including Uttar Pradesh, since March-April. As the demand has gone up, skilled workforce is scarce,” said Pankaj Kumar, president, Indian Industries Association. “The waiting time to start a project (oxygen plant) has gone up by two-and-a-half months. Companies in the business of installing oxygen plants are flooded with orders,” said Manmohan Agarwal, senior vice-president, IIA. The IIA has requested the state government to set up a help desk dedicated only for oxygen plant projects and make available latest technology for setting up these plants. The MSMEs of Uttar Pradesh have also requested the state government to make available to them the DRDO’s latest technology relating to liquid oxygen plants. “The DRDO has the latest technology of liquid oxygen plants. We have requested the state government to make available this technology to us and required skilled workforce to set up oxygen plants,” said Kumar. Most oxygen plants being installed in the state are directly sourced from companies in the business of installing oxygen plants. “There are around seven or eight big companies that install readymade oxygen plants. These companies assemble oxygen plants on-site,” said Atul Bhushan Gupta, vice-president, IIA. “Now, due to manifold increase in demand of Oxygen plants there is a waiting time of two-and-a-half months if you place an order today for installing a plant,” Gupta added. “Another way to install an oxygen plant is to procure all parts and material required yourself. But only those who have full knowledge about oxygen plants can adopt this method. It also time consuming,” said Gupta. Also, individual efforts are also being made. Industrialist RK Chaudhary of Varanasi has donated an oxygen plant to Deen Dayal Upadhaya Government Hospital. The plant has a capacity to generate 650 litres of oxygen per minute. “The plant was purchased from Airox Technologies Pvt Limited, Aurangabad. It has started operating from April 29,” said Chaudhary. Rohit Maheshwari, owner of the Maheshwari Gas Pvt Ltd, Meerut, started operating his plant from last week. It has the capacity to refill around 1,000 jumbo oxygen cylinders daily. Meanwhile, the IIA is also in the process of procuring 12 oxygen plants from Russia with the help of state government. “Negotiations will start soon to purchase 12 oxygen plants from Russia,” Kumar said. What happened to the 42 O2 plants sanctioned in 2018?Uttar Pradesh could have easily warded off the present crisis, had not the government’s 2018 plan to set up oxygen plants in 42 government hospitals across the state, hit a bureaucratic hurdle. In the 2018 budget, the government had sanctioned ₹200 crore to set up oxygen plants in 42 government hospitals across the state, each plant with a capacity of 2000 MTD. The completion year was 2019. Among these hospitals, four were in the state capital, including Jhalkari Bai, Civil Hospital, Bhaurao Deoras Hospital and Thakurganj Hospital. But the project is yet to take off after a controversy over the health department’s tendering process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tackling-the-oxygen-crisis-as-people-gasp-waiting-time-to-install-o2-plants-goes-up-101620153378346.html
05-05-2021||Other||WhatsApp-armed youth create awareness among Sonbhadra tribals||A group of volunteers associated with Banwasi Seva Ashram, in Myorpur area of Sonbhadra, is trying to create awareness among locals, including tribals, through WhatsApp to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The group is also trying to give pointers on what to do and what not to in case someone begins to show Covid-19-like symptoms. The volunteers try to promote home remedies to keep Covid-19 at bay. The awareness drive has been launched at the initiative of the Banwasi Seva Ashram’s senior functionary, Shubha Bahan, said Jagat Vishwakarma, who is leading the team of volunteers. A WhatsApp group has been created for every 10 people possessing android phones in around 15 villages in remote areas. Each group has a volunteer. Each volunteer has circulated these home remedies, Vishwakarma said. Vishwakarma said that home remedies include taking steam, gargling thrice with lukewarm water and a pinch of salt, applying pure mustard oil on nostrils, chewing mulethi (Glycyrrhiza glabra), clove or misri (rock sugar) in case of sore throat, making a decoction of large cardamom, cinnamon and black pepper with spices and taking it twice daily. Every member of the house should take decoction in these days. Further, people are advised not to roam outside the house in case of fever, cold, cough or sneezing, and to avoid crowded places. If you have a cold, cough, fever, diarrhoea, vomiting, weakness, redness in the eyes, headache, difficulty in breathing, consult a doctor without wasting time. Without consulting doctors, do not take medicines. Keep paracetamol at home and take it in case of fever. It can be taken at an interval of eight hours. If fever remains for more than 24 hours, consult a doctor and have yourself tested, he added. The literate youths read out the message for the elderly and appeal to them to follow the advice. Volunteers have forwarded the remedies on WhatsApp groups in villages, including Jigan Tola, Ahir Budhwa, Manrutola, Kudpana, Faripan, Purvi Deohar, Manbasa, Jharo, and Jharo Khas, Majhauli. Volunteer Raghunath Bhai said, “We also demonstrate how to take steam after boiling water in a mid-size bowl.” The volunteers appealed to the people not to fall in trap of exorcists in case of ailments. Only take medicines by consulting doctors, they exhort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/whatsapparmed-youth-create-awareness-among-sonbhadra-tribals-101620153198406.html
05-05-2021||Other||Thane Police chief Phansalkar transferred||Thane Police commissioner Vivek Phansalkar was on Tuesday transferred to the post of Maharashtra State Police Housing and Welfare Corporation Ltd’s managing director. Suresh Kumar Mekhla, joint commissioner of police, Thane, has been given the additional charge of the city’s police chief. Phansalkar, who is an additional director general, was promoted to the director general rank last week and was transferred accordingly following the promotion. A 1989 batch officer, Phansalkar had taken charge as Thane police commissioner on July 31, 2018. He had previously worked in Thane in 2008 as a deputy commissioner of police. Phansalkar, known to be a polite and down-to-earth officer, had a good control over the city during the lockdown period. Last September, he was infected with coronavirus while performing his duty and was admitted for treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-police-chief-phansalkar-transferred-101620153199016.html
05-05-2021||Other||Oxygen leak at Palghar hosp, fixed in time||A leakage in the valve of an oxygen jumbo tank was reported in the government-run Revera Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) in Vikramgadh, Palghar on late Monday evening. Fortunately, another Nashik type oxygen leakage disaster was averted after the alert medical staff acted on time. Twenty-two Covid-19 patients – 11 men and 11 women – died of oxygen deprivation in Nashik on April 21 after an oxygen tank leak led to the malfunctioning of ventilators and oxygen support equipment at Dr Zakir Hussain Hospital. Confirming the incident, Dr Ramdas Marad, nodal officer and medical superintendent of Rural Hospital, Jawhar said, “There was a leakage in the tanker and there were 90 patients on oxygen. My medical staff immediately connected spare oxygen cylinders so that the oxygen supply is constant. We have 150 oxygen cylinders in our hospital and that came in handy.” The leakage was reported in a valve in the jumbo oxygen tank installed in February. “We also informed the technician of the agency who installed the jumbo tanker. They arrived within an hour and the leakage was fixed,” said Dr Marad.The 250-bed government hospital has 302 Covid patients admitted, of which 90 are on oxygen support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-leak-at-palghar-hosp-fixed-in-time-101620153138365.html
