06-05-2021||Other||All UP courts to observe summer vacation from May 10 to June 4||Amid rise in Covid cases in Uttar Pradesh, the Allahabad High Court on Thursday issued a notice preponing the summer vacation of the High Court and the Subordinate Courts in the state from May 10.The vacation period, earlier scheduled from June 1 till June 30, 2021, has been advanced to begin from May 10 until June 4, 2021.The circular said, “Summer vacation in the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad as well as its Lucknow Bench and its subordinate courts be preponed and observed from 10.05.2021 to 04.06.2021 in lieu of 01.06.2021 to 30.06.2021 and the calendars be treated modified accordingly.”Earlier, taking into account the COVID-19 second wave, the Supreme Court has advanced the summer break of the Supreme Court from May 10. It will reopen after the summer break on June 28.Likewise, several other states had also preponed summer vacations due to rise in Covid cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-up-courts-to-observe-summer-vacation-from-may-10-to-june-4-101620324173869.html
06-05-2021||Other||Young group reaching out to needy patients in Sangam city||PRAYAGRAJ: A group of youths has come forward to help both Covid and non-Covid patients, especially in the old city, at a time when even near and dear ones are reluctant to attend to the ill. The group uses all available resources to help patients and their attendants and tries to instill confidence among them to fight the disease. The youths have formed WhatsApp groups to share information about needy patients, availability of resources and man force for delivering necessary items to them. The group pools resources and takes help from local leaders, corporators and eminent citizens to help patients soon after receiving a distress call. Zeeshan Rehmani, the founder member of the group, said he and some of his friends were shocked at a large number of deaths all of a sudden. It was not hard to realise that second wave of Covid-19 was extremely dangerous. Soon there were reports of patients dying without receiving necessary basic help for treatment. Many of the patients were from poor families and were unable to arrange for medicines etc. With the objective of helping poor patients and their attendants, a group was formed over 20 days back. Many youths from different localities of the old city volunteered to join. A Whatsapp group was created with the name of Covid-19 help in which members were added. Volunteers share information about poor patients in their localities, their condition and needs through Whatsapp groups. Most of the time patients are short of oxygen, medicines, transport and even money and attendants. However, with a large number of patients and meager resources, those in critical condition or lacking money are helped on priority basis. “Some oxygen cylinders were donated by people who got them for treatment of their kin earlier while some cylinders were taken from welders on rent. Those in immediate need are given empty cylinders and sometimes poor attendants are also helped in taking the cylinder to plant to get them filled,” Zeeshan shared. Another member of the group Mohd Usman said besides oxygen cylinders, medicines, transport and other necessary facilities were being arranged by the group which has over 100 members in different localities. “We have pooled resources and sought help from others to help patients. Our motive is to reach out to patients who are financially weak and have no kin to attend them”, Usman said. The group has till now helped a large number of patients residing across old city and even reaches out to people in narrow lanes and bylanes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/young-group-reaching-out-to-needy-patients-in-sangam-city-101620322973137.html
06-05-2021||Other||In PM’s Jayapur, village head loses panchayat poll||Srinarayan Patel, 60, village head of Jayapur (Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first adopted village), lost the recently concluded panchayat election. BJP-supported Patel was defeated by one Rajkumar Yadav, 50, who also claimed support of the BJP. While Yadav bagged over 840 votes, Patel could secure only 600. “I am thankful to all voters for electing me as village head. I will ensure development in Jayapur,” said Yadav. However, Patel said: “Yadav has never been associated with the BJP. I am a BJP worker.” He added: “I accept the people’s verdict. Though I lost the election, I will keep working for the people of Jayapur that has seen unprecedented development during my tenure (last five years).” “Interlocking on many paths and concrete work on other paths in the village were done. All streets in the village are pucca. Toilets were constructed in each house, solar lights installed on streets and the village also got two branches of nationalised banks,” he said highlighting his achievements. Several other developmental works were carried out in the village ever since it was adopted by the Prime Minister in 2015 under the Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojna, Patel said, adding that Jayapur has now become a well known village in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-pm-s-jayapur-village-head-loses-panchayat-poll-101620322433654.html
06-05-2021||Other||Covid blues: LU experts to counsel students, others||Lucknow: The counselling and guidance cell of Lucknow University has decided to extend counselling services to students of the university and affiliated colleges as well as other people in the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic in the state. According to experts, students are suffering from fear of losing their near and dear ones due to Covid-19 as majority of the people either have symptoms or spend their time taking care of family members. “Students are transfixed in negative thoughts which is taking a toll on their own physical and mental health . There seems a dire need to counsel students to convert this unwanted situation as an opportunity to upgrade themselves physically, mentally, ,emotionally and spiritually,” said Madhurima Pradhan, director, counselling and guidance cell. Teachers of psychology department and coordinators of counselling and guidance cell had volunteered to spare time to counsel students and others who felt like talking to a counsellor, said LU spokesman Durgesh Srivastav. The counsellors will maintain confidentiality and ethical guidelines while dealing with students. The service will be available six days in a week as per schedule given on LU website under facility of counselling and guidance cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-blues-lu-experts-to-counsel-students-others-101620322433052.html
06-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana woman with brain tumour denied treatment; husband, in-laws booked||Police have booked a farmer and his three family members for dowry harassment and neglecting the treatment of his wife after she recently succumbed to a brain tumour.The accused, Deepinder Singh, was booked on the complaint of his wife’s brother, Manjit Singh, a resident of Kotli village, Payal. Manjit told the police that his sister Satvir Kaur, 43, married Deepinder 11 years ago. Through the course of their marriage, he and his family had been harassing her for dowry. When they did not fulfil his demands, he stopped her treatment for brain tumour, which eventually led to her death on Wednesday.“We have booked Deepinder, his father, Manjit Singh, and two relatives Jaskaranjit Singh and Rajwinder Kaur under Sections 498-A (dowry harassment) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. They will be arrested soon,” said assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Surjit Singh, who is investigating the case for Payal police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-woman-with-brain-tumour-denied-treatment-husband-in-laws-booked-101620322013607.html
06-05-2021||Other||Succour through WhatsApp: Youth group aids needy with O2, medicines||It was 1 AM when Kareli area resident Hamza’s phone rang. An upset Mohd Shahid, who also lived in the locality, was calling for help as his father was sinking for want of oxygen. Achhe Khan, 65, had tested positive for Covid-19 and his oxygen level was falling fast. Having failed to arrange for an oxygen cylinder, his family had lost all hope. Suddenly, Shahid thought of Hamza and sent out an SOS.Immediately, Hamza informed Zeeshan Rehmani about the condition of Achhe Khan, who posted a message in a newly formed WhatsApp group. Within half an hour, Mohd Usman, another group member, arranged for an empty oxygen cylinder and even helped Achhe Khan’s relatives in getting it filled. A few hours later, Achhe Khan’s oxygen saturation level rose to acceptable limits.Rehmani, Usman and Hamza are just some of the members of a WhatsApp youth group, ‘Covid-19 help’ that swung into action that night and helped save the life of Achhe Khan. The group has over 100 members living in different localities of the city.Meanwhile, Sayed Mohammad, Anas, Ali Usmani, Guddu and many others have a similar story of how these young do-gooders helped them at a time when help was required the most. These are just some of the people who have been helped by this group with medicines, oxygen cylinders, transport etc.This group of youths has come forward to help Covid-19 patients and others, especially in the Old City area, at a time when even near relatives are reluctant to attend to patients. Members use available resources to help patients and their attendants and try to instil confidence among them to fight the disease. Till date, the group has helped around 100 patients residing across the Old City and has even reached out to people living in narrow lanes and by-lanes to provide assistance.Through the WhatsApp group information is shared about needy patients, the availability of resources and the manpower needed for delivering the necessary items to them. Soon after receiving a distress call, the group pools resources and takes the help of local leaders, corporators and eminent citizens for providing help to patients. Zeeshan Rehmani, the founder member of the group, said that he was shocked at the sudden surge in the number of deaths. Soon, reports began pouring in of people dying for want of basic help in getting treatment. Many were from poor families and unable to arrange for medicines, etc. “It was then that the idea of forming a WhatsApp group came to mind and along with my friends, I formed the ‘Covid-19 Help’,” Rehmani said. He formed the group some 20 days back and many youths from different localities of the Old City volunteered to join the group and assist in providing help to the needy. Volunteers in the group keep information about poor patients in their localities and share information about their condition and their needs through WhatsApp groups. Mostly, patients are short of oxygen, medicines, transport and even money and attendants. However, with a large number of patients and few resources, those in critical condition or lacking money are helped on a priority and are given immediate help. “Some oxygen cylinders were donated by people who had them, while some cylinders were taken from welders on rent. Those in immediate need are given empty cylinders and sometimes poor attendants are also helped in taking the cylinder to the plant to get them filled,” Zeeshan said. Another member of the group, Mohd Usman, said that besides oxygen cylinders, medicines and transport, other necessities in saving lives are being arranged by the group. “We have pooled resources and sought help from others to help the needy. Our motive is to reach out to patients who are financially weak and have few or no kin to attend to them,” Usman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/succour-through-whatsapp-youth-group-aids-needy-with-o2-medicines-101620319852898.html
06-05-2021||Other||Leaves cancelled for police personnel||PATNAThe state police headquarters has asked district and range police chiefs not to grant any leave to the personnel, saying their presence was necessary for effective implementation of the Covid-19 lockdown that will be in place in the state till May 15. While routine leave applications have been cancelled, no new applications will be entertained, except for medical reasons or other emergenciesAdditional director general (police headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said 85% of the state police personnel had taken at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and of them, around 65% have been administered the second dose too.“In the second wave of Covid19 this year, 955 members of Bihar police are infected as on today,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/leaves-cancelled-for-police-personnel-101620317453383.html
06-05-2021||Other||Lalu back in action, to hold virtual meeting with party MLAs on May 9||PATNAAfter a gap of almost four years, RJD chief Lalu Prasad will have an interaction, albeit virtual, with party MLAs on May 9 during which he will discuss the Covid-19 situation in Bihar and other party matters. The former Bihar chief minister, who was convicted in multiple fodder scam cases and incarcerated since December 23, 2017, was released from jail last week after completing bail procedures and had stayed for few days at AIIMS, New Delhi, where he had been undergoing medical treatment for several ailments . A few days back, he shifted to his eldest daughter’s residence in the national capital. Sources said Prasad, along with younger son and Bihar’s leader of the opposition, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, also in New Delhi, would hold the meeting virtually. “The RJD chief would be taking feedback from party legislators about the Covid situation in the state and initiatives taken by the MLAs to help people after resurgence of Covid cases in the last few weeks. Political matters would also be discussed,” said Sanjay Yadav, a close aide of Tejashwi. The RJD president, after coming out of jail, has already become active on his Twitter account, taking potshots at the Nitish Kumar government over the alleged poor health services in the state and rising Covid cases. “In Bihar, there is not only scarcity of beds, vaccine, oxygen, injections but also of medicines for simple fever. Our chief minister will not say anything on it,” said Lalu in one of his tweets on Thursday. Party leaders said the RJD chief’s release from jail has already galvanised the party workers. “We are excited about the meeting called by Laluji. Whatever instructions he gives, we will follow,” said senior party leader Shyam Rajak.In the 2020 assembly polls, the RJD-led grand alliance had bagged 110 seats while the NDA got a simple majority in the 243-member House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lalu-back-in-action-to-hold-virtual-meeting-with-party-mlas-on-may-9-101620317452708.html
06-05-2021||Other||Patna reels with 3,665 new cases and 29 deaths Army docs to step in to support ESIC hospital for Covid patients||PATNABihar on Thursday reported 15,126 new infections and 90 deaths during the last 24, taking the cumulative cases to 5,53,803 of which 1,15,151 were active cases. Patna witnessed an explosion in cases with 3,665 people testing positive, the highest so far in a day, and reported 29 deaths during this period, taking the total death tally to 891. Gaya with 752 cases, Muzaffarpur (736), Nalanda (535) and West Champaran (533) were among the other leading contributors. With the state capital being the hot bed, the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) hospital at Bihta was set to add another 100 beds from Friday after promise of help from the Army. The hospital has been struggling with logistics issues in the management of Covid-19 patients, with 15 of its 40 doctors having tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. “The army personnel have assured us of providing 50 doctors and around 20 paramedics from Friday to support us add another 100 beds at our hospital. With this, the total number of beds available for management of Covid-19 will go up to 250,” said Dr Manmohan Mishra, medical superintendent of the ESIC hospital on the outskirts of Patna. Depending on manpower support from the state government and the army, the number of beds may later be scaled up to 200, allowing a total of 350 patients at our hospital, he said. The 500-bed ESIC hospital is grossly underutilised, operating as it was with 150 beds when all major hospitals in Patna are displaying house full board due to heavy spike in cases in what is being referred to as the second wave of the pandemic. The ESIC currently has no manpower support to run an intensive care unit (ICU) with ventilator support, important for the management of Covid-19 patients. “We have just one senior resident from the department of anaesthesiology and one from the department of medicine. They are just not enough to manage ICU. Besides, of the 40 doctors, almost 20 are from the non-clinical disciplines like anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, pathology, etc. They, too, have been deployed as consultants to oversee the junior and senior residents deployed at our hospital,” said Dr Mishra. Besides, 15 of our 40 doctors at the hospital have tested positive for Covid-19, forcing them to be under home isolation, he added. The ESIC hospital has received some support from the state government, which has deputed around 40 doctors and 113 paramedics. Earlier, the Bihar government had on April 13 sought assistance from the army to fully operationalise the ESIC hospital. The next day, a two-member team from the defence ministry had met Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s principal secretary, health, to assess the requirement to fully operationalise the ESIC hospital for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The defence team had then agreed in principle to extend help to the state government by providing 50 doctors to fully operationalise the 500-bed ESI hospital. The Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO) had stepped in to manage the 500-bed hospital during the first wave of the pandemic last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patna-reels-with-3-665-new-cases-and-29-deaths-army-docs-to-step-in-to-support-esic-hospital-for-covid-patients-101620317393343.html
06-05-2021||Other||HC seeks govt affidavit on Covid crisis, oxygen gap||PATNAThe Patna High Court on Thursday asked Bihar’s chief secretary to file a detailed affidavit with regard to lack of infrastructure in hospitals, men and equipment, testing, availability of medicines and oxygen, disposal of bio waste and black marketing in a tabular form by Friday, when it will hear the matter again. The court was particularly concerned about oxygen availability and sough to know why the state was unable to lift the quantity allocated by the Centre and what was being done to ensure that full allocation was lifted. Appearing for the Bihar government, senior counsel Vikas Singh said that against the demand of 300 metric tonnes (MTs) of oxygen, the state had been allocated 210 MTs, but so far the state was able to lift 154 MTs only due to lack of tankers for transportation of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). “We are engaging private parties for transportation of oxygen. Jharkhand has also given six tankers and the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) three. We are also trying other means to augment supply. Once we are able to lift the allocated quota, we will seek more from the Centre. Transportation is a problem, which the government is trying to sort out. The state is also generating around 40 MTs of oxygen,” he said. Additional solicitor general (ASG) KN Singh, however, informed the court that the Centre had so far provided 13 tankers to the state government for transportation, though it was the state’s responsibility to lift the allocated supply. “Tankers used for other purposes have also been deployed for transportation of oxygen. Besides, the state also uses its own tankers,” he said. The bench of chief justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar made it clear they were interested in results. “We are not here to govern. We are not the government. We are here only to see that governance is done. We are conscious of our duties. At this point of time, we don’t want to form any opinion. We have sought a detailed affidavit from the chief secretary and want the state to coordinate for transportation of oxygen,” it said. As soon as the hearing began at 11 am, the new bench headed by the chief justice said the state was not able to transport even the allocated quota of oxygen and sought a detailed reply in the afternoon regarding present requirement as well as projected future requirement, besides status of tankers deployed for transportation.. “As far as oxygen is concerned, what we have gathered from the previous proceedings is that the stand the state has taken is at a variance . While the state put the allocated quota from the Centre at 194 MTs initially, it was later revised to 164 MTs. The state has not been able to transport even that much. The figures supplied with regard to oxygen quota from various companies earlier also don’t match,” the bench said. The bench also wanted to know if there was blackmarketing and hoarding and who was taking action against them. “We have to save every human life, because if we fail to do that, we will be failing in our constitutional duty,” the bench said. On Tuesday, the bench of Justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh and Justice Mohit Kumar Shah had made strong observations against the inept handling of the Covid crisis and went to the extent of saying that “All of us feel ashamed for what we have done”, but refrained from passing any order, which was reserved for May 6. However, on Thursday, the bench was changed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-seeks-govt-affidavit-on-covid-crisis-oxygen-gap-101620317392800.html
06-05-2021||Other||4th doctor arrested in PCMC cash-for-admission to Covid centre case||PUNE: A fourth doctor has been arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for accepting money to admit a patient at the Pimpri-Chichwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) Covid-19 facility located at the Auto Cluster in Pimpri.The fourth arrested doctor has been identified as Dr Jyotsna Dandage, a medical practitioner in her 30s, who works at the Covid centre.The three arrested earlier were identified as Dr Praveen Jadhav, Dr Sachin Kasbe, and Dr Shashank Rale.Dr Jadhav was arrested along with Dr Kasbe and Dr Rale who work at Padmaja Hospital in Chinchwad.“Dr Jadhav and Dr Kasbe had an understanding about bringing patients to the Auto Cluster. Dr Kasbe took the amount from the patient, kept his share and gave the rest to Dr Jadhav. Dr Jadhav asked Dr Dandage to admit the patient to the facility and gave her ₹10,000 for it,” said Sagar Kavade, assistant commissioner of police, Pimpri Division of Pimpri Chinchwad police.Dr Dandage was produced in court along with the three others on Thursday. All four doctors have been remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4th-doctor-arrested-in-pcmc-cash-for-admission-to-covid-centre-case-101620316072677.html
06-05-2021||Other||1 killed, 1 injured as gangs clash on Sinhagad road||PUNE A man was killed while another was grievously injured after a group of men were attacked late on Wednesday night by another group, over local rivalry, in Raikar Mala, Sinhagad road.The deceased has been identified as Sham Sontakke (24) and the injured as Yogesh Chavan (20), who is also the complainant in the case. Sontakke, Chavan and their friends decided to drink alcohol and were heading towards an open ground in Raikar Mala. That is when a group of five-six men, who have had fights with them earlier, arrived and started attacking the group with blades and rods, according to the complaint.The police are on the lookout for the group of assailants. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempted murder) of Indian Penal Code and other relevant laws was registered at Sinhagad road police station.67-year-old found bludgeoned to death in CampPUNE: A 67-year-old pavement dweller was found bludgeoned to death in the Modikhana area of Camp on Thursday.The man was identified as Ismail Sayyed (67) and had made a hut to sleep under along a footpath. He was found dead inside it.“Someone has used a blunt object to hit him in the head. It seems to have happened late last night. He picked scrap to make a living and lived on the street,” said senior inspector Ashok Kadam of Lashkar police station.The man had blunt force injuries on his head when he was found. While his hut is not under CCTV coverage, there are two cameras that cover the entryway to the spot. The police are checking footage from both the cameras.A case under Section 302 (murder) has been registered at Lashkar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1-killed-1-injured-as-gangs-clash-on-sinhagad-road-101620314632627.html
06-05-2021||Other||Mumbai woman travelling on bus to Pune for son’s wedding robbed of jewellery, cash by co-passenger||PUNE A woman form Mumbai was robbed of jewellery by another woman who met her on a bus to Pune on April 28, and offered a sweet that is suspected to have been laced with a sedative.The 50-year-old complainant has been identified as Sunita Sugriv Jadhav, a housewife residing in Sion Koliwada, Mumbai. She was travelling to Pune on a state transport bus.“She was coming to Pune to attend her son’s haldi ceremony on April 29 and the wedding on the day after that. She was carrying jewellery and cash for that purpose,” said assistant police inspector Harish Thakur of Bundgarden police station, who is investigating the case.The bus started from Mumbai at 9:30am and reached Pune after four hours.The complainant was offered a pedha, which she suspects was sedative-laced, by another woman who appeared to be 45-50 years of age, according to her complaint.“The woman got off at the point where the bus stopped for a break and bought three pieces of the sweet. She ate two and offered one to the complainant. The complainant ate a small piece and refused the rest as it did not taste right,” said API Thakur.The complainant then started feeling dizzy and her tongue started feeling heavy, according to her complaint.The co-passenger appeared to be concerned and took the woman to the gate of Sassoon Hospital. However, by this time, the woman had lost most of her consciousness. The woman told her that she was getting a hospital paper made in order to get an x-ray. However, she took off with the complainant’s bag instead.A case under Sections 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, with intent to commit an offence) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Bundgarden police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-woman-travelling-on-bus-to-pune-for-son-s-wedding-robbed-of-jewellery-cash-by-copassenger-101620312892605.html
06-05-2021||Other||22-year-old woman arrested for killing 3-year-old boy in Market Yard area||PUNE A 22-year-old woman has been arrested for killing a three-year-old boy in the Market Yard area.The woman and her husband live in the labour camp at a construction site in Vastu India, Market Yard. The murder is suspected to have happened at 7am on May 1. The deceased child was identified as Chaken Verma (3), who also lived in the labour camp with his parents.The woman was upset about conversations between her husband and the child’s mother, according to the complaint in the matter.The child’s father, Avghesh Verma (27), lodged a complaint against the woman.The child was playing under a tamarind tree in the labour camp when the now-arrested woman picked him up and took him to the construction site.She took him to water that had pooled into a ditch that was dug to construct a lift in the under-construction building. The woman then threw the child in the pool after which he is suspected to have drowned, according to the police.A case under Section 302 (murder) has been registered against the woman at Market Yard police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/22yearold-woman-arrested-for-killing-3-year-old-boy-in-market-yard-area-101620312532430.html
06-05-2021||Other||0.5 million railway tickets cancelled in March-April||PUNE Due to the statewide lockdown and various strict restrictions imposed on public transportation, 0.509 million passengers have had their railway tickets from Pune cancelled. Ticket charges of ₹38 crore has been refunded to these passengers in March and April. Since mid-Marchm, Covid cases have been rising in the state and city, and gradually, passengers also started cancelling tickets. The RTPCR test is mandatory for passengers coming, or going, to other states from Pune. “I had booked ticket to travel to my hometown Nagpur from Pune in April. However, due to the statewide lockdown restrictions, I cancelled the ticket and now I will go after couple of months,” said Sameer Waghchoure. Due to a poor response by passengers, several trains are been cancelled by the Pune railway division. These include - Pune-Nagpur weekly special train, Pune-Ajni weekly special train, Pune-Amravati weekly special train and Kolhapur-Nagpur bi-weekly special. All these trains originate from the Pune railway division and have been cancelled due to occupancy of less than 15 per cent. 224 passengers fined for not wearing masksPune Railway Division has decided to fine passengers without masks, given the rush of passengers at the railway station traveling to various destinations across the country. Since the order was declared by the Railways on April 18, so far, a total of 224 passengers have been fined ₹64,130.“The rush has increased at the Pune railway station, so it is necessary to keep passengers safe. As per Covid protocol, all passengers should wear a face mask, maintain social distance and strictly follow safety rules for their own safety. A fine of ₹500 was levied on violators and we have fined 224 passengers and collected ₹64,130 till now,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune Railway Division spokesperson. Welcoming this move of the Railways, Harsha Shah, president of the Railway Pravasi Group said, “The railway station is a place where crowding will be there, but our own safety is in our hands. If passengers do not wear a mask while traveling, they should be fined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/05-million-railway-tickets-cancelled-in-marchapril-101620312292387.html
06-05-2021||Other||FIR against 13 for social media posts on Shivaji, CM, Pawars||PUNE The Pune Police have lodged a case against 13 persons, including one who was arrested, for posting objectionable and controversial content on historical figures and political personalities. While the person arrested has been accused of posting objectionable content about a historical figure, 12 others booked in the case were charged with posting messages about chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy CM Ajit Pawar and NCP president Sharad Pawar. Following his arrest, Swarup Pralhad Bhosale (35), a resident of Sai Complex in Bhilarewadi, Pune, was remanded to police custody by the Pune court on Thursday for three days, according to assistant public prosecutor Dnyaneshwar More. Bhosale was arrested at 8pm on Wednesday. “We arrested him from Pune. He had made some sexual comments about Shivaji Maharaj on Twitter. The others booked in the case have made posts on various social media platforms about political leaders and have made caste-based comments to incite divisive feelings,” said senior inspector Dagdu Hake of the cyber-police station in Pune. The group of booked people, however, are not working together as they all have made comments and posted content about various topics, as per the police. “This does not seem to be a collective effort. We will be looking at the extent and role of each of them before deciding the next arrest,” said PI Hake. The FIR was lodged based on a complaint filed by Akash Chandrakant Shinde (24), a private contractor and vice-president of the Yuva Sena in Pune. “I had been keeping track of posts made by some accounts based on 51 screenshots collected two-three months ago. Their posts were earlier innocuous, and we ignored them. Recently the comments got very offensive and sexual in nature. Some of these people are in politics, some are social workers, and some are on the internet simply as trolls. One of the men from Jalna ran a Facebook group and a page where he posted offensive pictures and content. We decided that it is time to register an FIR,” said Shinde. A case under Sections 153(a), 295(a), 469, 499500, 504, 505(2), and 34 of Indian Penal Code, along with Section 67 of the Information Technology Act has been registered at the cyber-police station against the 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-against-13-for-social-media-posts-on-shivaji-cm-pawars-101620311512441.html
06-05-2021||Other||Vikram Bhave, accused in Dabholkar murder case, granted bail by HC||PUNE Vikram Vinay Bhave (37), arrested in May 2019 in the case involving the murder of Narendra Dabholkar, has been granted bail by the Bombay High Court on Thursday. Bhave was arrested along with advocate Sanjeev Punalekar in May 2019 based on an alleged confession statement recorded by Sharad Kalaskar, accused of being one of two who arrived on a motorbike on the morning of August 20, 2013, on Omkareshwar bridge and shot Dabholkar dead.While Punalekar was granted bail on July 5, 2019, Bhave was denied bail by a lower court, after which an appeal was made to the Bombay High Court in September 2020. Since his arrest, Bhave has been lodged at Yerawada Central Jail.The judgement was reserved on March 23 and issued on Thursday by a bench of Justice SS Shinde and Manish Pitale.Bhave’s bail was denied by the lower court once in January 2020 and once in September 2020. “The impugned orders dated January 21, 2020, and September 15, 2020, are quashed and set aside. The bail applications of the appellant are allowed in the following terms,” read the order by the Bombay HC.The case is being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Bhave was accused of helping the two assailants conduct a reconnaissance of the area where Dabholkar was known to take his walks, and to provide logistical support.Advocates Subhash Jha, Virendra Ichalkaranjikar, Vasant Bansode, Ranjit Nair, and Harekrishna Mishra represented Bhave in the HC, while assistant public prosecutor SD Shinde represented the state of Maharashtra, and advocates Sandesh Patil with DP Singh represented the CBI.The bail was granted on nine conditions, including payment of a personal bond of ₹1,00,000 and two solvent sureties in the like amount.Bhave will have to mark his presence at Deccan police station every day for a month between 8am and 10am. For the second and third month after his release, Bhave will have to appear in the police station twice every week, on Monday and Thursday. Starting the fourth month, he can visit the police station once a month on Monday between 10am and 12 noon, according to the court order.The court also asked Bhave to submit his passport and not move out of the police jurisdiction. The order also states that Bhave is prevented from making contact with other accused in the case, which includes his former employer Punalekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vikram-bhave-accused-in-dabholkar-murder-case-granted-bail-by-hc-101620310072352.html
06-05-2021||Other||Hyacinth in Katraj lake persists; greens fear aquatic life will go extinct||PUNE Despite the efforts of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to clear the Katraj lake of hyacinth, experts and environmentalists fear local fish species will go extinct in the water body if the scenario persists.The lake covers an area of 29 acres and is currently completely covered by hyacinth. “The otherwise eutrophic lake inside the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park is getting polluted water from nearby areas. This is harmful to the aquatic fauna and the nature surrounding the lake,” said Dr Raj Kumar Jadhav, director, Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research centre. This man-made lake was constructed during the Peshwa era and is situated in south of Pune. It is a combination of two lakes, with the first acting as the sedimentation tank, from where water flows into the Katraj lake. “Dams on both the lakes have gates at the bottom, which are used to release excess water into the Ambil odha (stream),” Dr Jadhav explained. “These days the water quality of Katraj lake is severely degraded due to polluted water from surrounding areas directly entering the lake. The lake is silted and covered by vegetation,” said Dr Hemant Ghate, retired professor of Zoology, Savitribai Phule Pune University. Ghate added, “The biological quality of water has changed so much that we have lost native species of fish like Puntieus Deccaniensis, which was first found in Katraj Lake in the 1970s. This was a small fish, two inches long, but now the fish is gone. This is because of the hyacinth which is exponentially growing due to the untreated sewage in the lake. Sewage provides phosphate and nitrogen for the hyacinth to grow.” On April 2, deputy chief minister and Pune district’s guardian minister, Ajit Pawar, directed the municipal officials to remove the hyacinth and desilt the lakes. A 2019 study by Renu Arora and Prof Milind Gidde, department of environmental education and research, Bharati Vidyapeeth (deemed university), had stated that the lake needs proper management and a treatment process. “Removal of weeds by a natural process is important. The diversion of the drainage line is important. There is a need to place aerators in the lake that may help to control the fish death rates, because they are at an extinct level. If some precautions are taken, the aquatic life of the lake will survive,” the study stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hyacinth-in-katraj-lake-persists-greens-fear-aquatic-life-will-go-extinct-101620309472203.html
06-05-2021||Other||Covid-19 situation in city likely to see multi-storey flyover at Nal Stop miss completion deadline||PUNE Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation’s (Maha-Metro) plan to ensure the multi-storey flyover at Nal Stop on Karve road will be ready by June has been scuppered by the Covid-19 situation in the city.Hemant Sonwane, general manager, Maha-Metro said, “The flyover work is going on in full swing, but, due to the Covid-19 situation, there will be a delay in completing the work. At present, the reinforcement of the pier caps is in progress.”With a majority of the Pune Metro labour workforce having returned to their native places, work has slowed down.Maha-Metro and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials held a joint meeting in December 2020, at which the deadline of June 2021 was declared. The PMC sewage department had also given permission to Maha-Metro to lay storm-water drainage pipes on both sides of Karve road.Abhijit Dombe, executive engineer, PMC’s road department, said, “Last year, people faced lots of problems during the monsoons. Work is in its final stages. Maha-Metro has assured us the work will be completed before the monsoon begins.”PMC has also given permission to Maha-Metro to dismantle a pedestrian bridge on Karve road.The proposed flyover will come up with 13 pillars, three of them in the middle of Nal Stop square. The top tier of the flyover will be for the metro rail, while the lower tier will cater to vehicular traffic. The flyover will start after SNDT chowk on Karve road and pass over Nal Stop chowk, descending onto the next square. It is 572 metres in length and 6.1 metres wide. The corporation contributed ₹30 crore and Pune Metro ₹26 crore for this flyover project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-situation-in-city-likely-to-see-multi-storey-flyover-at-nal-stop-miss-completion-deadline-101620308812249.html
06-05-2021||Other||HP hits new peak with 3,842 Covid cases||Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday hit a new peak with 3,842 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the state’s tally to 1,14,787. The death toll mounted to 1,679 after 32 more patients succumbed to the contagion. As many as 195 fatalities have been recorded in the state in the first five days of the month. In April, 449 people had died of the contagion. The active cases in the state have crossed the 25,000-mark. There are now 25,902 active cases in the state while recoveries touched 87,151 after 1,480 people recovered. Record cases in Kangra Kangra, the most populous district in the state, logged a record 1,292 cases, the highest single-day spike in any district, since the outbreak of the pandemic. The district has recorded 3,954 cases in first five days of May and has 6,872 active cases, the highest in the state. Solan recorded 683 cases, Sirmaur 416, Shimla 378, Bilaspur 266, Chamba 166, Hamirpur 140, Una 135, Mandi 133, Kullu 120, Kinnaur 78 and Lahaul-Spiti 35. At 12, the highest fatalities were also recorded in Kangra, while seven people succumbed in Mandi, 5 in Shimla , 2 in Solan and one each in Bilaspur, Chamba, Hamirpur, Kinnaur, Kullu and Una. Kangra has recorded 21,739 cases so far, followed by Shimla with 16,363 cases and Mandi 16,012. Solan has recorded 14,812 cases, Sirmaur 8,753, Una 7,654, Hamirpur 7,480, Bilaspur 6,662, Kullu 6,262, Chamba 5,078, Lahaul-Spiti 2,036 and Kinnaur 1,934. State BJP chief tests positive for Covid State BJP chief Suresh Kashyap has tested positive for Covid. “I got my test for Covid-19 done after mild symptoms and the report turned out to be positive. I have self-isolated and people should not worry as I will soon recover and will be back,” he wrote on Facebook. Kashyap also advised those who came in his contact to isolate themselves and get their tests done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hp-hits-new-peak-with-3-842-covid-cases-101620245139489.html
06-05-2021||Other||Illegal mining charges: Jammu mineral officer seeks FIR against BJP leader Randhawa||The police here have taken cognisance of a complaint filed by Ankur Sachdeva, district mineral officer of the geology and mining department, against former BJP legislator and Jammu Stone Crushers’ Association president Vikram Randhawa, said a senior police officer on Wednesday.The complaint was filed by Sachdeva following Randhawa’s allegations against the former, besides Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh, Jammu divisional commissioner Raghav Langer, SSP Chandan Kohli, of aiding illegal mining in Tawi riverbed.Through the complaint, the mineral officer has sought an FIR against Randhawa, who in his recent presser had used unparliamentary language and threatened to “kill the former before committing self-immolation”.Sachdeva has also sought a personal security officer citing threat to his life and his family members.“It is requested to please provide PSO as my life is in danger and they may try to attack me and my family members for taking action against illegal mining,” read Sachdeva’s complaint.“We have taken cognizance of the complaint but in such cases no FIR is registered. We register it in our logbook and present it before the court,” said the SSP.The J&K administration had on Tuesday constituted a four-member panel to look into the illegal mining allegations.In an order issued by Manoj Kumar Dwivedi, commissioner secretary to government, sanction was accorded to the constitution of a committee, comprising four officials for in-depth examination of alleged illegal mining activities/operations of stone crusher units in and around Tawi river in violation of the high court directions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/illegal-mining-charges-jammu-mineral-officer-seeks-fir-against-bjp-leader-randhawa-101620244839169.html
06-05-2021||Other||J&K sees record single-day rise of 4,716 cases, 52 deaths||Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday hit another grim milestone with a record single-day rise of 4,716 Covid-19 infections and 52 deaths.Overall, the number of cases in the union territory has reached 1,96,585 and the death toll is now 2,510.Of the new cases, 3,198 are from Kashmir, while 1,518 pertain to Jammu. Among these, 129 were travellers.Out of the 52 deaths, 28 were reported in Jammu division and 24 in Kashmir. On Monday, as many as 51 people had succumbed to the infection.The month of April recorded the highest monthly tally of 45,123 infections and 289 deaths this year against 4,519 cases and 37 deaths in March.Officials said with 1,125 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 598 in Jammu district, 511 in Baramulla, 362 in Pulwama, 277 in Budgam and 255 in Anantnag.The number of active cases, which has been rising exponentially, reached 39,628, officials said. Most of these cases have been added after February 9 when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593.Around 2,338 patients recovered on Wednesday, including 1,794 in Kashmir and 544 in Jammu.As many as 1,54,447 people have recuperated so far, taking the recovery rate to 78.56% against the 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 7.46 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed about 86,600 cases and 1,148 deaths.Owing to the surging cases, the J&K administration had imposed corona curfew in four districts of Srinagar, Jammu, Baramulla and Budgam on April 29 which was has been extended till May 10. Samba district was also brought under lockdown from Wednesday evening.Around 49,000 people above 45 years of age and 5,982 in the age group of 18-44 were vaccinated in J&K on Wednesday, the officials said. Over 25 lakh people have been vaccinated in the UT so far. 24x7 oxygen war room started in Jammu The industries and commerce department on Wednesday established a 24x7 oxygen war room (control room) at Udhyog Bhawan, Rail Head Complex, Jammu, to monitor and manage the supply and distribution of oxygen within the Jammu division.Madhur Anand has been nominated as the nodal officer for the control room and the public can contact him on phone numbers 9469593931 and 9469593933 in case of emergency.The war room will be in constant touch with the consumers and suppliers of oxygen and will take immediate necessary steps, whenever needed.The order issued by Anu Malhotra, director, industries and commerce department, however, did not mention if NGOs and volunteer groups are permitted to fill oxygen cylinders.Routine surgeries deferred in Jammu division hospitals The J&K administration on Wednesday ordered to defer routine/elective surgeries at all government and private health institutions of Jammu division for their optimal utilisation amid the surge in Covid-19 cases.Issued by divisional commissioner Raghav Langer, the order, however, said emergency services and critical care required for co-morbid and dialysis patients, and maternal and child health services would continue as usual.“In view of the prevailing situation of Covid-19 pandemic in Jammu division demands optimal utilisation of available resources so that the existing infrastructure/healthcare facilities are not overburdened, the elective/routine surgeries are required to be deferred,” the order read.Langar said the main focus of the healthcare system at this juncture was the management of virus cases. “All elective/routine surgeries shall be deferred in government as well as private health institutions in the division; unless there are pressing medical reasons and the benefits of such procedure outweigh the risk related to Covid situation and its fallout,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-sees-record-single-day-rise-of-4-716-cases-52-deaths-101620244784116.html
06-05-2021||Other||Covid surge: ICU beds filling fast at major Srinagar hospitals||With the continued surge in Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir, the tertiary-care hospitals in Srinagar are fast running out of dedicated intensive care unit (ICU) beds.For the past one week, four districts — Srinagar, Budgam, Baramulla and Kupwara — that are experiencing major spike in virus cases and deaths, have been under lockdown, which is likely to be extended if the situation does not improve.“The lockdown may be extended with stricter curbs for some days as the cases are still rising, especially in Srinagar,” a senior government official said.On Tuesday, the UT witnessed the highest number of positive cases since the pandemic outbreak in March 2020, with Srinagar recording the most (1,311) cases, followed by Jammu with 598 cases.“Beds are filling fast at SMHS and Chest Diseases hospitals, which come under the Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar. There is a medical emergency-like situation,” said GMC nodal officer Dr Salim Khan.Another senior GMC doctor, Salim Iqbal said that the UT is seeing over 4,000 daily cases, and this figure is more than that of some nations. “This is quite disturbing, and I pray that we all adhere to preventive measures before we see a disastrous situation.”Notwithstanding the ground situation, the J&K administration’s daily Covid bulletin paints a rosy picture of bed occupancy at its dedicated hospitals.As per the bulletin, till Tuesday evening, of total 116 ICU beds, 77 were vacant in Kashmir, while in Jammu, of 234 ICU beds, 103 were unoccupied. Of the 3,591 isolation beds in J&K, 1,565 were still vacant, the bulletin stated.However, doctors say they are struggling with ICU bed availability. “Our Covid hospital at indoor stadium is now full. We have even spared a whole ward in the hospital for sick patients,” said a senior medico at Government Medical College, Baramulla, which does not have a single high-flow oxygen bed despite patients’ attendants having flagged the issue several times.With this, the attendants are seeking help on the social media.“My mother is admitted at SMHS. I’m in need of oxygen cylinder flow meter. Kindly do the needful,” wrote an attendant on Twitter. There are similar SoS messages on the social media. Even former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah highlighted such messages on his Twitter account.Srinagar deputy commissioner Ajaz Asad, however, has asked people not to decide the treatment plan for patients themselves.“Someone called me at 12.45am yesterday requesting for ICU bed. I woke up the medical superintendent of the hospital. He woke up the doctor who replied: Patient is stable on high-flow oxygen and doesn’t require a ventilator. Please don’t decide the treatment yourself. Let’s go by advice of doctors strictly,” the DC tweeted.At Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS), which is one of the biggest hospitals treating Covid patients in the valley, 284 patients are admitted, while the tertiary care facility had earmarked only 260 beds for patients. “If there is no shortage of beds, then why are people highlighting issues on social media? Either people are lying or government officials are,” said Adil Ahmad, a social activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-surge-icu-beds-filling-fast-at-major-srinagar-hospitals-101620244779808.html
06-05-2021||Other||629 arrested for covid norm violations in three days in Punjab||Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said that joint teams of Punjab Police have issued at least 6,531 challans to face mask violators and arrested 629 persons for violating the Covid-19 norms across the state over the past three days. The DGP, while disclosing data from May 2-4, said Punjab Police had registered around 560 FIRs against those found flouting the guidelines, including owners of prominent hotels, marriage palaces, restaurants, shops etc. The DGP said besides issuing fines, police have taken over 66,000 face mask violators to undergo RT-PCR testing under the drive to enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Since the special drive was started from March 19, 2021, the Punjab Police have persuaded over 6.9 lakh people to undergo Covid-19 testing, besides penalising over 1 lakh people across the state for not wearing face masks, he added. A spokesperson said Tarn Taran Police have booked owners of restaurant Arabian Kebab and Master Burger for defying night curfew timings, besides booking a petrol pump owner, when most of his employees were found without a mask. The DGP exhorted the public to comply with restrictions, which were similar to those laid down in 15 other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/629-arrested-for-covid-norm-violations-in-three-days-in-punjab-101620244179133.html
06-05-2021||Other||SC notice to Sodhi family over Punjab’s plea for land compensation||Gagandeep@htlive.comJalandhar The Supreme Court has issued notice to Punjab sports minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi and others in a land acquisition matter in which the state public works department (PWD), in December 2020, had filed a recovery suit against Sodhi and family. The Punjab government had sought review of the SC order of 2019, granting relief to the Sodhi family. On May 3, the SC bench of justice Uday Umesh Lalit and justice Dinesh Maheshwari heard the review petition and issued the notice. HT has been following the matter closely. In 2014, the Sodhi family received a compensation of ₹1.8 crore against land acquired by the state government for a road project, after they had moved court. In 2015, a Ferozepur court said, on a plea from Sodhi, that they were entitled to re-determine the compensation of the acquired land in 2012, as per the new land acquisition Act, which came into force in 2014. In 2017, the Punjab and Haryana high court upheld the district court order, which was subsequently upheld by the Supreme Court in 2019. The SC order states that there was a delay of 544 days in filing the review petition. The order adds the application seeking condonation of delay states inter alia that the land in question were subject matter of acquisition initiated in 1962, which attained finality, and compensation was paid to claimants. “Issue notice on the application for condonation of delay as well as on the review petitions, returnable on July 16, 2021, and let these review petitions be listed in open court,” the order added. In December 2020, the PWD had filed a recovery suit against minister Sodhi, alias Guru Gurmeet Singh, and his family members — brother Guru Hardeep Singh and nephews, Prabhjot Singh and Jasdeep Singh — in a Guru Har Sahai court for allegedly pocketing double compensation for the land in question. One Joginder Singh was also named in the plea. The department has also made Guru Har Sahai SDM a respondent. The land at Mohanki Attar village had been acquired for the Ferozepur-Fazilka-Guru Har Sahai road. The family received ₹1.8 crore compensation in 2013 for the land after re-acquisition in 2012, which, as per record, had also been acquired in 1962 for ₹7,384. The land comprised 55 kanal and 6 marla belonging to Sodhi and 38 kanal of his nephew Jasdeep Sodhi (son of Hardeep Singh). In March 2020, a Punjab government sub-committee found that the Sodhi family had got double compensation. In February 2021, the Punjab and Haryana high court had also stayed the disbursement of re-determined compensation. The court was hearing a letter patents appeal (LPA) filed by Punjab government challenging the single bench order in the contempt petition filed by the minister’s brother Guru Hardeep Singh in 2018. Hardeep had pleaded for implementation of the order of the Ferozepur additional district and sessions court to give re-determined compensation to the family under the new land acquisition law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/scnotice-to-sodhi-family-over-punjab-s-plea-for-land-compensation-101620243519963.html
06-05-2021||Other||Bathinda reporting 12 covid deaths a day for past 10 days||With 20 deaths reported due to Covid-19 in Bathinda on Wednesday, the second day in a row, local authorities are struggling to find enough space at the two crematoriums in the city. Data shows that 121 people have succumbed to the virus over the past ten days since April 26; this translates into 12 deaths a day. The district is among the six worst districts of Punjab. Over the past 10 days, it has added an average 568 new virus infection cases every day with 5,682 new cases reported since April 26.Sonu Maheswari, whose NGO Naujawan Welfare Society (NWS) has been working with the district administration in cremating bodies since the pandemic outbreak last year, said, “Everyday volunteers have to perform 6-7 last rites outside the cremation ground compound due to lack of space. Over the past few days, all pyre platforms remain occupied.”Bodies of suspected cases are also cremated according to the Covid protocol. Owing to a substantial number of deaths, families are asked to collect the last remains the very next day of cremation.“The city has no electric crematorium. A dignified last rite is becoming challenging due to the growing number of mortalities due to Covid, suspected death cases caused by the coronavirus, and other reasons. Bathinda city has two conventional cremation grounds with a capacity to handle 28 bodies. A cremation ground near the grain market complex is preferred, as it has enough space for 24 pyres,” said Maheshwari. Dr Sukhjinder Singh Gill, in-charge of Covid mortality cases, said in the three days, two minors have also died. “An 18-day-old infant died at Government Medical College at Faridkot, while a 5-year-old boy succumbed at Adesh Hospital in Bathinda. We have confirmation of only two deaths of patients, who were below 18,” said Gill.OPEN JAIL NOTIFIED FOR CURFEW VIOLATORSThe district administration on Wednesday designated SSD Senior Secondary School near Gol Diggi as open jail to keep violators of curfew. District magistrate B Srinivasan said that those who will be booked for violation of curfew in the district will be lodged at this open jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bathinda-reporting-12-covid-deaths-a-day-for-past-10-days-101620243098863.html
06-05-2021||Other||Covid-19 guidelines: Defiant Patiala traders resolve to open shop today||Defying state government restrictions on closure of non-essential shops due to the Covid-19 pandemic till May 15, traders across Patiala district have decided to open their shops in all commercial areas from Thursday onwards. On Wednesday, traders protested in Patiala city and said that shopkeepers dealing with non-essential items were facing heavy losses. There are over 21,000 such shops in the district. Rakesh Gupta, president, Patiala District Beopar Mandal, said, “Liquor vends and meat shops are allowed to open; then what is wrong with those dealing with garments, shoes and general store items? The authorities should conduct a field survey. They will find that since the implementation of these orders, traffic volume in main markets has increased, not decreased. There has also been spurt in covid cases.” “Instead of allowing selective opening of shops, the government should impose complete lockdown, so that it should be fair for all traders,” Gupta added.On Wednesday, the matter pertaining to resentment among shopkeepers over selective closure of shops also figured in the state cabinet meeting, in which CM Capt Amarinder Singh asked district administrations to work out the phased shop reopening plan.In the meeting, the CM added that closure of non-essential had been done to prevent crowding, but phased opening could be worked out by district administrations. Abhishek Garg, president, Patiala’s Sher-e-Punjab Market Association, said the lockdown has started taking toll on their businesses as well as patience. “Last year, garments lying in my stores were damaged due to a bug attack. Termites have eaten up furniture at our outlets. Fungus damaged leather goods. This will be repeated this year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-guidelines-defiant-patiala-traders-resolve-to-open-shop-today-101620242618847.html
06-05-2021||Other||Need to increase Covid tests in rural areas: Dushyant||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said that there is a need to increase tests in rural areas to avoid further spread of Covid-19 in villages.Since the number of cases are rising in villages, there is need to increase tests in rural areas of Haryana, he said.The deputy commissioners have been asked to increase tests in rural parts of Haryana with the help of a special unit, Dushyant said after inspection of under-construction 500-bedded Covid hospital near Panipat refinery.He said that the first phase of 300 beds will be made operational by May 10 and it will admit patients from May 12. The second phase of 200 beds will be completed in the next 15 days. Dushyant urged people not to store emergency medicines as it may lead to shortage of medicines for those in need.He added that no decision has been taken so far on opening of liquor vends in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/need-to-increase-covid-tests-in-rural-areas-dushyant-101620242318675.html
06-05-2021||Other||No major impact of lockdown in urban areas of Haryana||Even as the Haryana government has made movement pass mandatory for commuters during lockdown, there was no major impact on movement of people on highways, especially in the cities.The district-level officials dealing with enforcement of lockdown said the lockdown is not as strict as the one people faced last year.They said the government has allowed auto approval for movement passes and thousands of people from across district have auto-approved passes as people applying for it do not require any approval from the authorities.Kurukshetra city magistrate Nisha Yadav said, “We are getting good response from people for movement pass as over 4,500 passes were approved under the auto-approved category whereas around 2,000 passes have been approved by the deputy commissioner.”In Panipat, 1,09,990 people have applied for the movement passes and 9,120 have been approved, including 8,101 who got auto-approved passes.Panipat superintendent of police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan said 523 people have been challaned in Panipat in the last two days for coming out on roads without any valid reason and 340 people were challaned for not wearing masks.Also, Karnal police have challaned 300 people for violating the lockdown.Over 14,000 people have auto-approved passes in Karnal so far, whereas the deputy commissioner has approved only 21, and 3,627 are still in the process.BJP LEADERS PROTEST WEST BENGAL VIOLENCEThe BJP leaders staged a dharna at all district headquarters to protest post-election violence in West Bengal.The protests were led by BJP MPs and MLAs at the mini-secretariat as only five people were sitting on dharna.They slammed TMC leaders for alleged attacking BJP workers within hours after TMC registered a thumping win in the assembly polls.BJP MP from Karnal, Sanjay Bhaita, who led the protests in Karnal and Panipat, said, “TMC workers are attacking BJP workers in West Bengal and this is highly condemnable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-major-impact-of-lockdown-in-urban-areas-of-haryana-101620242080405.html
06-05-2021||Other||Phagwara SHO suspended for kicking cart of vegetable vendor||Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta has placed Phagwara station house officer (SHO) Navdeep Singh under suspension with immediate effect. A video of Navdeep, kicking a basket of vegetables of a street vendor in the city, went social on Wednesday morning. Kapurthala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kanwardeep Kaur issued formal suspension orders of Navdeep, and, later, transfer to police lines, Kapurthala.The incident occurred on the Sarai Road where a large number of vegetable and fruit vendor shops were present, when police went to check on violations of covid-19 norms. The SHO got furious at violation of the guidelines and kicked the vendor’s cart, which overturned. The video of the incident invited sharp criticism of the police from social media platforms. A twitter user Khushpreet Brar tweeted, “A shameful act by a Phagwara police officer. This is inhuman, as everyone deserves respect. Poor vendors are risking their lives for their bread and butter, not for fun. He should be suspended, this is intolerable.”Replying to Brar, Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta tweeted, “Absolutely shameful and unacceptable. I have suspended the Phagwara SHO. Such misbehaviour will not be tolerated at any cost and those who indulge in it will have to face serious consequences.” Kapurthala SSP Kanwardeep Kaur said, “As member of a disciplined force, such behaviour is against service rules and is unwarranted. A departmental inquiry has also been initiated against him.” She added that officers of Kapurthala Police have contributed money to compensate the vegetable vendor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/phagwara-sho-suspended-for-kicking-cart-of-vegetable-vendor-101620241899687.html
06-05-2021||Other||Kurukshetra govt hospital denies admission to Covid patients||Hours after the authorities of Lok Nayak Jai Parkash Government Hospital in Kurukshetra installed a notice denying admission to Covid-19 patients, the notice was removed and the hospital made alternate arrangements.The district administration swung into action after photos of the notice were widely shared on the social media.BJP’s Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha convened an emergency meeting with the deputy commissioner and officials of the health department and the notice was removed.Later, Sudha said directions have been issued to admit patients coming to the hospital and action will be taken against officials behind this act.On whether the hospital can deny treatment to people, Haryana health minister Anil Vij said, “This is wrong. And we will take action against those at fault.”Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Sharandeep Kaur Barar said they could have made alternate arrangements instead of denying treatment to Covid patients.As per a letter being circulated on the social media, the Kurukshetra chief medical officer has written to the medical superintendent of the LNJP Hospital stating that “all beds in Covid isolation ward of the hospital are occupied and if any patient admitted in the emergency ward is found to be infected, they should not be admitted in the hospital and should make arrangements to isolate new patients at their home or shift them somewhere else”.Also, the district administration has set up a three-member panel to ensure all patients get admission and treatment in Covid hospital.The deputy commissioner said people facing problems to admit patients can dial helpline 1950 for admission at Covid hospitals.Later in the evening, government issued the transfer and posting orders of seven senior officers of health department including Kurukshetra civil surgeon Sukhbir Singh and Sant Lal Verma has been appointed as civil surgeon Kurukshetra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kurukshetra-govt-hospital-denies-admission-to-covid-patients-101620241539148.html
06-05-2021||Other||Of six oxygen generation plants in Haryana, two already operational: Vij||As the state battles scarcity of liquid oxygen, Haryana health and home minister Anil Vij on Wednesday said that of six pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants, two are already operational and rest of the four will start working by the end of this week.“We were allotted six such plants and one each in Sonepat and Karnal are already functional. The plant in Ambala will start providing gas by Wednesday night. Rest of the three plants in Panchkula, Faridabad and Hisar will get ready within 2-3 days,” Vij said.After inspecting the plant at the civil hospital in Ambala which will provide oxygen directly to patients’ bed in the isolation ward, Vij said other than these six plants, the Union government has allotted 60 more such facilities which will be installed at hospitals with bed capacities of 30, 50, 100 and 200.“Civil work will be carried out by the NHAI and is expected to complete within a week. Installation will be undertaken by DRDO along with a Union government agency. We have a target to make every government hospital in state ‘atmanirbhar’ in terms of oxygen supply. We’ve instructed private hospitals to install their own plants within six months or face action,” Vij added.On Wednesday, he said that chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar is himself monitoring the oxygen supply situation in state.“Most of the gas allotted in our quota is being transported from Odisha and there are some issues in its supply. So after a meeting in Chandigarh on Tuesday, we’ve decided to import 10 trucks from any foreign country where the vehicles are available, to develop an uninterrupted chain between Haryana and Odisha for its supply,” Vij said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/of-six-oxygen-generation-plants-in-haryana-two-already-operational-vij-101620241119360.html
06-05-2021||Other||Fire engineer files PIL before HC over blazes at hospitals||A Nagpur-based fire engineer and a private forensic expert has filed an intervene public interest litigation (PIL) before the Bombay high court (HC) concerning the fire incidents in state hospitals. Referring to the Virar hospital fire incident, where 15 patients were charred to death on April 23 due to a short circuit in the air conditioning unit, the plea also suggests solutions to avoid fires in hospitals. The hearing is for the PIL is posted on Thursday.Nilesh Ukunde, 53, the petitioner who is an engineer from the Central government run-National Fire Services College, Nagpur, said large amounts of alcohol in sanitisers and heavy curtains inside the ICU blocked cross-ventilation, this led to the spreading of fire. The intervention petition by Ukunde is based on the fire audits of several Covid hospitals in the state.In the petition before the HC, Ukunde said he has visited around 35 Covid hospitals and had also visited the Virar hospital post the tragedy on the orders of the divisional commissioner, Nagpur Municipal Corporation and the fire audit of the Virar hospital states that alcohol settled on ceilings and can result in a fire due to a short circuit in the absence of cross ventilation. The alcohol is lighter than air and settles on the upper layer of the room, as per the petition.In the Virar hospital case, there was only one point for entry and exit from the ICU, thus the patients were trapped. The hospital should have used a suction pump, every eight hours, for two minutes, to suck out the alcohol-laden air in the upper layer of the room, and thus the fire would not have occurred, said Ukunde in the fire audit.The curtains in all ICUs of hospitals should be removed and only fire retardant cloth should be used, which was absent in the Virar hospital. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) to all hospitals which are being implemented in Nagpur hospitals, and such SOPs should be adopted by all Covid care hospitals in the state, said Ukunde in the PIL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fire-engineer-files-pil-before-hc-over-blazes-at-hospitals-101620240998006.html
06-05-2021||Other||Sangam city youngsters go all out to help needy during pandemic||PRAYAGRAJ: At a time when people are putting up a brave fight against the pandemic, it is the youngsters working under banners of different social organisations who are providing help to the needy. From nutritional food to sanitising different localities, these youths have come forward to give a befitting reply to the current challenge, using their resources and funds. Activists associated with the Nandi Seva Sansthan, a social organisation of the city, have been engaged in serving the corona positive patients living in home isolation. The organisation has floated a helpline number (9936667701) which can be used to get free food delivered right at home. “We have been delivering good quality food free of cost to corona positive patients living in home isolation in different colonies of the city, adopting safety measures and following the corona guidelines. The members of the organisation prepare and deliver nutritious food to the homes of the patients after receiving orders on WhatsApp”, said Lalu Lal Gupta, senior member of the NGO. Likewise, former general secretary of the Allahabad University Student Union (AUSU), Shivam Singh and his friends too are doing their bit. They held a corona testing camp at Amarnath Jha hostel of Allahabad Univerity on Wednesday. “We are determined to put in our best effort in trying to end this crisis”, said Shivam. His team of volunteers visit designated Covid treating hospitals and provide food for the family members of the patients waiting outside the hospitals. Besides, they give food packets to people sleeping on footpaths, at bus stand etc. Shivam and his friend Sharad Shankar Mishra also sanitise various hostels, areas surrounding AU etc. Shivam said that he started this work early every morning and continued till night. He sanitises battery rickshaws, hostel premises, crossings, roadside shops and bus stand and hospitals—all free of cost using his own funds collected from friends and kin. Joining these efforts is a Mumforganj-based organisation named Akhand Yuva Samiti. Although the organisation is just three years old, a distress call on the WhatAapp number is enough for getting food at the doorstep of a corona positive patient. “We have been delivering around 150 food packets each day in different localities of the city”, informed 23-year old Satyam Kerservani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sangam-city-youngsters-go-all-out-to-help-needy-during-pandemic-101620239677815.html
06-05-2021||Other||Cops cremate Covid+ woman whose kin could not turn up||Agra Police at Ekta chowki here set an admirable example by cremating a 62-year-old Covid positive woman whose family members were unable to attend her last rites. The woman’s sons, who live in Dubai, requested the police to get the cremation done as they were unable to fly to Agra. Sharda Devi (62) lived in Jaipuria Sunrise Colony here. She was suffering from fever and sore throat. Her husband was in Mumbai where he is a builder and her two sons, Arjun and Niranjan, were stuck in Dubai. “ The woman died on Monday but no one in the colony was prepared even to touch the body because of Covid -19 fear. The body was lying in the apartment and left with little choice, we decided to send the body to the mortuary after wearing PPE kits,” said Shailendra Singh Chauhan, the in charge of Ekta police outpost in Agra. “Both the sons of the deceased in Dubai were in telephonic discussion with me and assured that some member of the family would reach Agra on Tuesday to conduct the last rites. However, none, including husband of the deceased could turn up and so her sons requested the police to get the cremation done and provide ashes to the servant who was earlier looking after the deceased but is presently in Gorakhpur,” informed Chauhan. “To fulfill the wishes of the family, the deceased was cremated on Wednesday by cops in the presence of the servant who came from Gorakhpur. The cremation was made available live online for family members who could not turn up,” stated Chauhan, the cop winning appreciation for the humane approach in these pandemic times. “ The ashes have been handed over tohe servant according to the wishes of the sons,” added Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cops-cremate-covid-woman-whose-kin-could-not-turn-up-101620239437793.html
