07-05-2021||Other||Ambala’s home-isolation model to be scaled up across Haryana||The home Isolation android app and dashboard developed by the Ambala administration and the health department in September last year, will now be scaled up by the National Health Mission across Haryana, officials said on Friday.The initiative was commended by state health minister Anil Vij. He said that the innovation is first of its kind and should be replicated by all districts in state.Ambala CMGGA Utsav Shah said the model will now be taken up to actively monitor the health of Covid positive patients under home isolation for the entire state.“There are over 72 teams deputed on home isolation duty in Ambala who visit patients every alternate say, starting Day 2 until Day 11 of the patient’s home isolation. Vitals of the patients - SPO2, temperature, blood pressure, pulse and respiratory rate are recorded on every visit through the app, in addition to complete personal details of the patient, will be filled during initial registration,” a statement reads.“Submission of the vitals of every patient are geo-tagged to ensure that the vitals are recorded at the isolation facility or home of the patient and not elsewhere and a dashboard projects the status of every patient based on their vitals and colour codes them based on severity of the patient,” it adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambalas-home-isolation-model-to-be-scaled-up-across-haryana-101620411361771.html
07-05-2021||Other||450 jail inmates test Covid positive in Haryana||As many as 450 inmates from 11 jails in Haryana who tested positive have been shifted to a special section of Rewari jail dedicated to Covid inmates, prison officials said.Inmates from Haryana jails have been shifted here for isolation after they tested positive. This jail is under construction and 20% of its work is yet to be completed.BS Yadav, assistant superintendent of special section of Rewari jail, said 450 inmates have been shifted here in the last 10 days.“We are adhering to social distancing and following the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs. A team of doctors, including a medical officer, nurses and other staff are deployed here for 24-hours to check the health status of inmates,” he said.“The inmates are stable and some of them are suffering from fever, cough and cold. If any inmate in Haryana tests positive, he will be shifted here,” Yadav added.As many as 284 inmates of 512 (60%) tested positive at Nasibpur jail in Mahendergarh on May 5 and 6.“The situation is being monitored closely,” Mahendergarh deputy commissioner Ajay Kumar said.VACCINATION NOT GIVEN TO INMATESA senior health official, pleading anonymity, said jails are overcrowded and it is a difficult task to maintain social distancing among inmates.“Even the jails are overcrowded and there are chances of further spread of the virus. We are surprised as to why vaccination drive was not carried out for inmates even as many are aged or suffering from health complications,” the official added.Haryana jail minister Ranjit Singh Chautala said rise in inmates testing positive is reported in the second wave.“In the first wave, we did not have to set up a dedicated jail for Covid inmates but this time we have decided to provide isolation facility to Covid inmates at Rewari jail, which is under construction. If the cases among inmates increase, we will think of setting up another jail,” he added.“I will talk to the health department to inoculate the staff of power and jail staff, besides giving jabs to inmates,” Chautala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/450-jail-inmates-test-covid-positive-in-haryana-101620411181766.html
07-05-2021||Other||Dushyant cancels Jind event after farmers’ protest||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala had to cancel a programme scheduled at Jind on Friday after farmers, led by women, started a march towards the city even after facing a tough time with the police.In the last five months, Dushyant has tried to visit Jind the second time and on both occasions, his visit was cancelled after farmers’ protest.Dushyant is the only minister in the BJP-JJP coalition government who has failed to enter his home constituency Uchana, in Jind, since the farmers’ protest started in November last year.Earlier in the day, Dushyant inspected the site of a temporary hospital in Hisar and announced that the 500-bedded hospital will be started by May 16.“The equipment will be airlifted by May 14 and the hospital facility will be functional from May 16. It will benefit patients coming from Hisar, Jind, Bhiwani and Fatehabad,” he added.The women protesters who were sitting in front of tractors led the march on Friday and removed barricades. Police tried to stop the protesters but due to the large gathering it failed. The protesters reached the PWD resthouse where Chautala was scheduled to chair the meeting and raised slogans against him, besides burning his effigy.BKU district president Azad Palwan said Dushyant had made plans to enter Jind even after knowing that farmers here are unhappy with him.“He failed to extend support to our protest against Centre’s three farm laws. We had announced a boycott of BJP-JJP leaders supporting the Haryana government in our villages and will show them black flags if they try to enter,” he said.“Last month, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had entered Jind because officials landed his helicopter in the cantonment zone. Dushyant tried to follow Khattar’s footsteps but the farmers foiled his bi,” he added.“We don’t want to see his face. We are not concerned with him as he failed to support us in the farm agitation,” the protesters said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dushyant-cancels-jind-event-after-farmers-protest-101620411064135.html
07-05-2021||Other||Fake e-passes: Police lodge FIR after ‘Donald Trump’, ‘Amitabh Bachchan’ seek entry into Shimla||In a peculiar case of fake e-pass registration, Himachal government’s online portal showed former US President Donald Trump and Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan seeking entry into the state — both trying to come from Chandigarh to Shimla.Soon after, the Shimla police registered an FIR under provisions of the Indian Penal Code and IT Act against the person who made the dubious e-pass registrations in the names the prominent personalities.The Covid e-portal was recently reactivated after the state government introduced the curbs in the wake of steep spike in virus cases.As per police, the miscreant had applied under the name of “Donald Trumph” on May 7, with the father’s name mentioned as Mark Jones and place as Sector 17, Chandigarh. The registration form also mentioned that the person would be travelling in a light motor vehicle with Chandigarh registration number and category was mentioned as essential service provider.The second registration was done in the name of “Amitabh Bachhan”, son of “Harbans Rai Bachhan”, who would be travelling from Sector 17, Chandigarh, to Himachal to meet Rajiv Sehjal.Interestingly, the Aadhaar and mobile numbers for both the passes were same.As soon as copies of the two passes went viral on social media, netizens started highlighting the callous attitude of the authorities and pointed out the glitches in the pass verification system.Opposition leaders also questioned the government’s working while sharing the snapshots of the e-passes.During the first wave of Covid-19 last year, the e-passes were verified by the deputy commissioners or sub-divisional magistrates of the areas concerned.However, this time the authorities enabled auto-approval on the online portal to save people from inconvenience and delays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fake-e-passes-police-lodge-fir-after-donald-trump-amitabh-bachchan-seek-entry-into-shimla-101620410106016.html
07-05-2021||Other||Himachal hits new grim peak with 4,190 cases||Himachal Pradesh hit new peak on Friday recording 4,190 fresh Covid-19 infections, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak for the second consecutive day, taking the state’s total caseload to 1,22,906. It was also the deadliest day as the state recorded 56 fatalities due to the contagion. The total death count shot up to 1,784. Of the new cases, highest 1,605 were reported in Kangra alone, highest single-day spike in any district since the outbreak. Mandi was second on the list with 518 new infections, followed by Sirmaur where 482 people have been detected positive. Bilaspur recorded 317 new infections, Hamirpur 300, Shimla 281, Chamba 267, Solan 230, Una 119, Kullu 42, Lahaul-Spiti 16 and Kinnaur 13 respectively. Highest 21 deaths were reported in Kangra, nine in Sirmaur, eight in Solan, Six in Mandi, four in Shimla, three each in Bilaspur and Una and two in Hamirpur. Kangra accounts for 20% disease burdenKangra, the most populous district in Himachal, accounts for around 20% of the total caseload. The four worst-hit district Kangra, Shimla, Mandi and Solan share 60% of the disease burden. In terms of fatalities also, Kangra is on the top of the chart with 483 deaths—27% of the total deaths in the state. It is followed by 380 deaths in Shimla and 207 in Mandi. Meanwhile, active cases have shot up to 29,513 while recoveries reached 91,573 after 2,363 people recuperated—highest in a single day. Kangra has the highest 8,237 active cases as well as highest 15,631 recoveries. In terms of total cases also Kangra is the worst hit with 24,353 cases followed by Shimla where 17,044 people have been detected positive and Mandi recording 17,007 infections to date. Solan’s caseload has climbed to 15,540, Sirmaur 9,467, Hamirpur 8,148, Una 7,979, Bilaspur 7,295, , Kullu 6,334, Chamba 5,551, Lahaul-Spiti 2,134 and Kinnaur 1,954.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-hits-new-grim-peak-with-4-190-cases-101620410102681.html
07-05-2021||Other||Hapur DM deputes magistrates to three private hospitals||Hapur district magistrate Anuj Singh has deputed static magistrates to three private hospitals to ensure hassle-free treatment to Covid-19 patients, the district administration said. The step comes amid growing complaints against private hospitals.“Magistrates have been deputed to three medical facilities to keep a watch on the requirements of patients and hospitals as well as ensuring hassle-free treatment,” the district magistrate said.The magistrates would be available round the clock at Saraswati Institute of Medical Sciences, G S Medical College and Rama Medical College in Hapur to help patients and their attendants. These officials would also coordinate between hospitals and the administration to deal with the availability of oxygen and other requirements.Earlier, a 23-year-old Covid patient died during treatment at a private hospital in Hapur on Tuesday night. The hospital allegedly insisted that his family members clear the bill of ₹54,000 before releasing the body. The matter was reported to the subdivisional magistrate and the Hapur DM, who directed the hospital to release the body immediately.The DM said the family members were unable to pay the amount and the hospital gave them the body immediately after he enquired about it.“I did not intervene, just enquired from the hospital about the issue. Within 10 minutes, they handed over the body after completing the formalities,” said Singh.The district magistrate also said the medical facilities were overwhelmed in the district due to the increasing number of patients and he was ensuring that no one should return without treatment.He said over 800 patients from Hapur, Meerut, Delhi, Ghaziabad and other places were undergoing treatment in six medical facilities of Hapur district.Currently, Hapur district has 1,632 active cases of Covid-19 and 363 new cases were detected on Thursday. Two patients died during treatment.Doctors associated with the Indian Medical Association (IMA) in Meerut have also demanded similar arrangements for deputing magistrates to the hospitals of Meerut and other districts of the western UP region to facilitate hassle-free treatment of patients and ensure the availability of oxygen and medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hapur-dm-deputes-magistrates-to-three-private-hospitals-101620408300895.html
07-05-2021||Other||Patna hospitals still battle oxygen crisis||PATNAPatna continued to add the maximum number of new Covid-19 cases, reporting 2,410 cases and 19 deaths in the last 24 hours on Friday, as Bihar logged 13,466 new cases and 62 deaths during this period, taking the cumulative Covid cases to 5,67,269 and deaths to 3,139. On Friday, there were 1,15,066 active cases across the state, with Patna contributing 22,330. The state also showed a marginal improvement in recovery of patients, up from 78.65% on Thursday to 79.16% on Friday. Meanwhile, hospitals in Patna continue to face oxygen crisis, necessary in management of Covid-19 patients, forcing some to reduce oxygen pressure to patients, while also refusing admission to new patients. The Ruban Hospital, accredited to the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH), is one of the prominent facilities in Patna which is grappling with oxygen scarcity and has had to curtail admission of new Covid-19 patients. “Our oxygen requirement is 600 cylinders (1 cylinder is 340 litres) per day, but we are able to get a maximum of 400-450 cylinders only in a day. When there is a delay in refilling of oxygen cylinders, we even have to temporarily reduce oxygen pressure by 15-30 minutes to patients so that they do not run out of life saving gas,” said a spokesperson of Ruban hospital. “We maintain pressure enough not to harm a patient, but at the same time also not run out of gas,” the spokesperson said when asked if reducing oxygen pressure did not put patient life at risk. He said the hospital had up to 230 beds for Covid-19 patients, but was unable to admit as many patients. “We have had to restrict admission to 170-190 patients only because of oxygen scarcity. Nearly 40% of our 170 Covid-19 patients are under critical care, requiring high oxygen up to 15-30 litres per minute. We cannot admit more patients unless the government assures us full oxygen,” he said. Almost similar is the condition at most other hospitals too. The Sahyog Hospital in New Patliputra Colony, which has 30 beds for Covid-19 patients, has a daily demand of 30-40 D-type jumbo oxygen cylinders (each having up to 7,000 litres oxygen), but gets up to 25 cylinders per day. “We have a shortage of up to 15-18 cylinders every day. As such, we admit only mild to moderate patients, while refusing the severe to critical cases, requiring more oxygen support,” said the spokesperson of Sahyog hospital. The Mediversal Hospital at Doctors Colony in Kankerbagh has 40 beds for Covid-19, but it had to stop admission of patients due to shortage of oxygen a few days back, said Partha Dey, its general manager, facility. “We require 200 cylinders but get only up to 160-170 cylinders, leading to oxygen shortage. However, we try that our patients do not suffer,” he said. The oxygen requirement of AIIMS-Patna had gone up more than four times from 2,000 kilo litres a day to 9,000 kilo litres since February, said its superintendent Dr CM Singh. It was, however, able to meet the requirement as it had a 30,000 kilo litre oxygen tank and got its supply of oxygen from Kolkata. Similarly, the oxygen demand of Paras-HMRI, too, had also doubled from 900 litres to 1.8-2 kilo litres in about a month, said its superintendent Dr Syed Asif Rahman. He, however, said oxygen supply was sufficient as it had a 20 kilo litre oxygen tank. The Centre has allocated Bihar a daily quota of 214 metric tonnes of medical oxygen, but it was able to lift only 167 metric tonnes because of logistic issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patna-hospitals-still-battle-oxygen-crisis-101620403980374.html
07-05-2021||Other||‘Don’t rush to adopt children orphaned due to Covid’||PATNABihar’s social welfare department has cautioned people against rushing to adopt children orphaned due to the Covid-19 epidemic, saying adoptions without permission from agencies concerned would be an illegal act.The department has also asked district magistrates and district child protection units to keep a watch on such children and either hand them over to their relatives or take them to the government care institutions. “We were getting reports of children losing their parents due to Covid-19 infections and it was being suggested to adopt these children to provide them foster care. We saw such messages on social media,” said Rajkumar, social welfare director who handles government care institutions and adoption centres. “This is alarming. Adoption without the permission of the CARA (Central Adoption Resource Authority) and SARA (state adoption resource authority) is quite illegal. Those who want to adopt a child will have to follow the adoption process,” he said. “People are also advised to inform DM and the child protection unit in case they find such cases in their neighbourhood or the in the village. Their identity will not revealed if they so wish,” he said. Rajkumar said though all government care institutions and adoption centres in the state have remained shut for the outsiders since March this year to avoid Covid-19 infections, things will be managed if a child needs government care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dont-rush-to-adopt-children-orphaned-due-to-covid-101620403980887.html
07-05-2021||Other||Man held in Rohtas with 129 oxy cylinders||PATNAThe police on Friday arrested a man in Rohtas and seized 129 oxygen cylinders he had hoarded to sell in the black market.The accused, Bikash Kumar, a resident of Adarsh Nagar under Dehri police station of Rohtas district, was selling jumbo oxygen cylinders, which have a capacity of 47 litres, for ₹35,000 a piece, five times higher the actual price.“He was trying to sell the cylinders illegally in the black market for an exorbitant price,” said a statement from Rohtas superintendent of police (SP) Ashish Bharti. “Posing as a relative of a Covid patient, a police officer on Friday noon approached Bikash to negotiate the price of an oxygen cylinder. After bargaining, he agreed to give a cylinder for ₹35,000. Thereafter, the police raided the accused’s shop on station road and seized 129 oxygen cylinders, a gauge and other equipment,” the SP said. “We have booked Bikash under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Act,” Bharti said. During interrogation, the accused confessed he procured oxygen cylinders from West Bengal.As many as 25 people have been arrested for black marketing of oxygen cylinders, life-saving medicines, injections and oximeters across the state, according to the Bihar Police headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-held-in-rohtas-with-129-oxy-cylinders-101620403920326.html
07-05-2021||Other||CM’s appeal for putting off weddings has few takers||ARA /PATNAChief minister Nitish Kumar’s appeal to defer marriages to prevent spread of the coronavirus in the midst of lockdown seems to be having few takers, especially in semi-urban areas. In Bhojpur district, 1,600 applications have been submitted till Friday afternoon in different police stations of the district regarding information about marriages. The state government, while announcing the lockdown, had made it mandatory for people to inform their respective police stations three days in advance if they wished to hold marriage ceremonies. The state had capped the number of wedding guests at 50. Though curfew timings has been relaxed till 10 pm for marriages,orchestras and processions have been prohibited altogether.However, a day after announcing the lockdown, the CM had appealed to people to defer marriages “if they can.”Bihar has enforced lockdown from May 5 till May 15 following an unprecedented surge in Covid cases. Many a family expressed their helplessness. “My son’s marriage was fixed last year but was deferred due to the pandemic. Now that the pandemic has returned this year, we decided that the marriage ceremony will be held with fewer people,” said Chatthu Prasad of Ganauli whose son’s “tilak” ceremony is on May 14. He has submitted his application in the police station concerned. In Purnia district, 161 applications have been submitted, giving information about marriages. District officials in East and West Chamapran pleaded ignorance about the number of wedding scheduled during the lockdown and said only the in-charges of police stations could tell.“We have already received around 20 applications for weddings,” said Rohit, station house officer (SHO), Mufassil police station, Motihari. Ugranath Jha, SHO, Mufassil police station, Bettiah, put the number of applications at two to three in the areas within his jurisdiction.Meanwhile, Sanjay Kumar, subdivisional police officer of Chakiya in East Champaran, said one person had been arrested and two firearms seized in connection with celebratory firing at a wedding, a video of which had gone viral on social media.In Patna, however, there is a rush to cancel weddings. “There were a number of auspicious dates between May 5 and 15, but most of the bookings have been cancelled,” said a marriage hall employee, wishing anonymity.Kumud Sharma, the manager of the luxury Panache hotel in Patna, told PTI that almost 90 per of the advance bookings for weddings have been postponed.“A few people, for whom shifting the date was unavoidable, are going ahead with a simple wedding. Only a handful of guests will be present and there would be no band- baajaa-baaraat,” he said.The situation has left decorators and ‘band parties’ or orchestra groups staring at losses.“We had four-five bookings per day during this period but all of them have been cancelled,” said Mohd Tajuddin, the proprietor of the famous Patna Bachcha Band.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cms-appeal-for-putting-off-weddings-has-few-takers-101620403860992.html
07-05-2021||Other||Bihar to set up experts’ panel to fight Covid crisis||PATNAThe Patna High Court on Friday asked the Bihar government to constitute an eight-member committee of experts it had once proposed to tide over the Covid-19 situation. The committee, to be headed by Patna AIIMS director, would suggest and advise the government. The HC asked state’s advocate general Lalit Kihsore to inform the court about the committee on Monday. Meanwhile, the Bihar government submitted its affidavit, as asked by the HC on Thursday, outlining steps being taken with the cooperation of the Centre to ensure full lifting of the quota of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) allocated to the state. The affidavit said the initial phase of uncertainty for oxygen was over and the government was constantly working with the Centre to augment supply. “Within a week, the state will be in a position to lift the entire quota, as additional tankers have been deployed for the purpose. In the beginning, oxygen supply was too little in view of sudden surge in demand, but things have improved significantly and it would improve further. The oxygen supply is being monitored round the clock. Even oxygen cylinders are being transported with police escort,” said Bihar government’s counsel Vikas Singh.The court had earlier sought to know steps being taken to lift the allocated quota of oxygen from the Centre and ensure supply of essential medicines. Justice Shivaji Pandey, who was in the bench with chief justice Sanjay Karol, wanted to know how the state proposed to fulfil the oxygen needs of a large number of Covid patients, who are encouraged to live in home isolation. Justice Pandey, who retired on Friday, also asked about the ways of determining oxygen requirement for hospitals. The HC has been hearing the matter related to management of Covid situation and shortage of oxygen supply in Bihar since April 15 on a regular basis.The next hearing is scheduled for Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-to-set-up-experts-panel-to-fight-covid-crisis-101620403860356.html
07-05-2021||Other||Back-to-back semster exams put SPPU students under pressure||PUNE Students affiliated to the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) are worried, as they are going to appear for two semester exams, back-to-back. Currently, the first semester exams of SPPU are going on, while the second semester exams are likely to start from next month. Also, colleges and university departments are continuing their online lectures for students, all creating a burden on students this year. “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic we are already delayed for this academic year. Now once this semester exams get over, from May 15 onwards forms for the second-semester exams will start. The next semester exams will hopefully start from mid-June and will go on till August,” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU examination and evaluation department head. Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal, Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce, said, “This year has been tough not only for students, but also for teachers and college administration. Covering the syllabus for both semesters was tough, but most of the colleges have covered it well. It would have been better if both the semesters’ exams were held together.” Kapil Awate a first-year Science student said, “We just now finished the first semester exams and within a month we have to prepare for the next semester exams. All are tense due to Covid and most of the students don’t even have proper study material. The second semester exams should be held taken after two months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/backtoback-semster-exams-put-sppu-students-under-pressure-101620399600086.html
07-05-2021||Other||Pimpri-Chinchwad’s top cop poses as common man to test police staff||PUNE Disguised as a common man, Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash paid surprise visits to three police stations under his jurisdiction to check the promptness and efficiency of the personnel on duty there. At Hinjewadi, Prakash complained about some anti-social elements harassing them, while at Wakad, he told the police personnel that the gold chain of his wife was snatched by a motorcyclist. At Pimpri police station, he complained against the ambulance driver for demanding exorbitant charges for ferrying a patient.Prakash himself gave information about the sequence of events that unfolded during the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. As part of the exercise, he visited Hinjawadi, Wakad and Pimpri police stations. In order to change his appearance, the commissioner sported a fake beard and wore a Pathani dress as well as a skull cap. Assistant Commissioner of Police Prerna Katte also accompanied him by posing as a common citizen. Prakash said that instructions were issued to all the police stations to treat common citizens nicely and get their complaints lodged. “To test the ground reality, I along with ACP Katte disguised as common citizens visited three police stations and a couple of nakabandi points in the jurisdiction at night,” he said. “During the visits to Hinjawadi and Wakad police stations, we found that the staff on duty there were prompt in listening to our woes and were seen taking efforts in registering their complaints,” he said. During the visit to Pimpri Chinchwad police station, he found that the staff was seen evading their duties by asking them to go to a police chowky attached to the police station. “It was found that the staff there initially did not give the kind of treatment that was expected from them, although they treated well later. It might be because one of the duty officers recognised me,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pimprichinchwads-top-cop-poses-as-common-man-to-test-police-staff-101620398099869.html
07-05-2021||Other||SPPU begins releasing results of first semester exams||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has begun declaring the results of its first semester online examinations. The SPPU is planning to complete the result declaration process by the end of May.SPPU first semester exams cover 224 courses that began June 10, 2020. These examinations were held online for 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ). SPPU’s Edutech Foundation conducted the exam. So far, results of at least 10 courses have been declared by the university. “For around 71 courses there are internal marks given by the department and external exams are not going to happen. Results will be declared after both internal and practical marks are obtained from the colleges. We try to declare all results by this month-end. The first-semester exams will end by May 10,” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU’s director of the board of examination and evaluation. Kirti Mundada, a commerce second-year student said, “After my exams got over within next couple of days I got my results online. This time the exams went on well and there was not much of an issue with the online system.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sppu-begins-releasing-results-of-first-semester-exams-101620396959727.html
07-05-2021||Other||PMC to call banks for meeting to push for 24x7 water project loan||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has received a lukewarm response to its loan applications from banks for the ₹2,550-crore 24x7 water project. The civic body has now decided to call a meeting of banks officials to discuss the issue. The civic body has, so far, spent ₹465 crore on the project. The administration raised ₹200 crore through bonds in June 2017. In March 2021, the PMC floated a tender for a loan of ₹200 crore. As per PMC officials, some of the banks approached the PMC, stating a “negotiable” interest rate but, avoiding being specific. Ulka Kalaskar, PMC’s chief account officer, said, “After floating tenders and calling for proposals we have not received much response from the banks, so far. We have decided to call the bank officials for a meeting and discuss the interest rates. At present, banks have only mentioned negotiable interest rates. We want exact interest rates to proceed on the loan.” Other senior officials of the PMC, requesting anonymity, said, “Due to Covid-19, most of the project works has been hampered. The deadline will be missed, and priorities have changed. Though PMC has a good credit rating (AA+), banks are over cautious about project completion. After all, it is a project loan. If it gets delayed or hampered, it will affect repayment of the loan.” He added, “At present, municipal bonds are not viable for PMC as interest rates by financial institutes are below 7 per cent.”In 2017, PMC raised ₹200 crore through municipal bonds at an interest rate of 7.59 per cent for 10 years. It also received one per cent concession from the central government for the municipal bonds. Hence, the PMC is paying ₹15 crore per year as interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-call-banks-for-meeting-to-push-for-24x7-water-project-loan-101620396359642.html
07-05-2021||Other||FTAP unhappy with e-commerce sites delivering non-essential goods||PUNE The Federation of the Trade Association of Pune (FTAP) has objected to e-commerce sites delivering non-essential goods, allegedly from May 1.“All the e-commerce sites are now delivering non- essential goods and the rush for deliveries has increased in the last five days,” said a delivery agent in Baner, on the request of anonymity.With the government not allowing non-essential shops to operate, FTAP do not want any relaxation for e-commerce sites either.“All our shops are closed for the last 25 days and with restrictions extending till May 15, things are getting worse. In such a scenario, if e-commerce is allowed to do business then it is an injustice,” said Mahendra Pitaliya, secretary, FTAP.For consumers, e-commerce sites providing non- essential goods is a blessing.“I have a four-month old daughter and in an emergency we can order non-essential baby stuff,” said Pranita Marne, a Kothrud resident.Pitaliya added, “We have already spoken with divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao and Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and they have promised to ensure delivery of non-essential goods will be stopped. If this does not happen then we will open our shops.”Saumya Kabra, founder, Confetti Gifts, said, “The demand for goods has definitely increased in the past few days. People are finding more reasons to have a good time. Gifting in these situations becomes the icing on the cake.”Pooja Nagdev, founder, Inatur Beauty, said, “Essential goods differ from person to person. What is essential for one person may not be essential for another. For example, hair oils, shampoos, face washes and even lavender oil can be essential. It becomes important to keep everyone employed as this is their bread butter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ftap-unhappy-with-e-commerce-sites-delivering-non-essential-goods-101620395579560.html
07-05-2021||Other||Oxygen Express reaches Kota, Rajasthan gets 39 MT O2||The first Oxygen Express carrying 39 metric tonnes (MT) of medical oxygen for Rajasthan arrived at the Kota railway station on Friday, officials said as the state faces a shortage of life-saving gas.The train brought oxygen from Reliance’s refinery-cum-petrochemical complex in Jamnagar (Gujarat) following Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s intervention. Birla, who is a member of Parliament from Kota, said the oxygen would help meet the oxygen needs of Covid-19 patients in Rajasthan. “The oxygen that came through the train and by road was in addition to the allocation by the Centre to the state,” he said. “Rajasthan will soon get 167,000 remdesivir injections, 250 oxygen concentrators and nearly 150 regulators for Covid-19 patients.”Also Read | 414,188 new Covid cases recorded in India in biggest daily spike, 3,915 deathsAn oxygen tanker carrying 28 MT oxygen reached Kota from Jamnagar by road on Thursday evening.Senior divisional commercial manager, Kota railway division, Ajay Kumar Pal, said three tankers on the Oxygen Express each contained 12 MT of oxygen and another tanker has 15 MT. “The Oxygen Express covered 920 km in 20 hours to reach Kota from Jamnagar.”Kota district collector Ujjawal Singh Rathore said the tanker containing 15 MT oxygen has been allocated to Kota. Two tankers each containing 12 MT oxygen have been sent to Jaipur and Jhalawar districts.“With the arrival of 15 MT medical-grade liquid oxygen through Oxygen Express and 28 MT by a tanker through road, Kota has got 43 MT liquid oxygen,” said Rathore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-express-reaches-kota-rajasthan-gets-39-mt-o2-101620390959909.html
07-05-2021||Other||Collecting funds online for kids who lose parents to Covid-19 to be cognizable offence||Sharing picture and messages to collect funds, sponsorship and invite people for adoption of kids who lost one or both their parents due to Covid-19 will be a cognizable offence in Madhya Pradesh, officials said on Friday. Those found to be involved in such activities will be booked for selling and buying of kids under the Juvenile Justice Act 2016, said an officer of the Women and child development department. Child rights expert and lawyer Anant Kumar said, “Good intention is immaterial in these circumstances. Adopting children illegally and selling or purchasing them are serious crimes and are punishable with jail terms from 3 to 7 years. There should be a system to check the fake information and or any information which promotes illegal adoption and buying and selling of kids. Registering case against wrongdoers is a right step to stop such illegal activities”The department decided to take this step after messages, video appeals and photos of kids and bodies of their parents were shared by people to raise funds for the kids. When the officers of the department verified the authenticity of messages, many were found fake, said the officer quoted above. To prevent online fraud in name of adopting children, the Madhya Pradesh government will issue an order to all districts to book such persons under section 81 of the Juvenile Justice Act which has a provision of rigorous imprisonment of five years and a fine up to ₹1 lakh, said Suresh Tomar, joint director, women and child development department. Three days ago, a woman died of Covid-19 in Shivpuri district leaving behind her three kids. Different organisations started posting a video of the body of the woman to raise funds for her kids with a message that the kids lost their father two years ago and now they have lost their mother as well. A social media post claimed that the children are starving and locked inside their house. When a team of the WCD reached the spot, they found that the kids are staying with their paternal aunt and were doing fine, Tomar added. Officials said this was not the only case as there were many such viral messages seeking financial help for orphan kids who have lost one or both their parents due to Covid-19. Childline, Bhopal, director Archana Sahay said, “It is necessary to take strict steps to stop the illegal activities as Childline is flooding with such messages and mainly are fake ones. People are sharing pictures of kids with an appeal to adopt them. This is completely prohibited under JJ Act.” However, the department is also introducing a system to help the children in need. “We can’t trace every post on the social media so we have decided to take action against people, who are posting such messages. But to help children in need, we are introducing a helpline number for such kids and also putting district protection officers’ contact numbers. If anybody comes to know about orphaned kids, they can contact us for protection through child helpline,” said Swati Meena Naik, commissioner, WCD. “Child welfare committee will decide how to help these kids. First, we will search their relatives and if they agree to take care of the kids, we will provide them ₹2,000 per child as per Integrated Child Protection Scheme. If we don’t find any relatives, we will send them to shelter homes and initiate the process of adoption under CARA,” she added. The officer quoted above said the government will rope in NGOs and other genuine social organisations to help. “We are developing fit facilities in every district for children in need,” said the officer. Two days ago, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights chairperson, Priyank Kanungo, also cautioned state governments against social media posts to seek help or donations for orphaned children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/collecting-funds-online-for-kids-who-lose-parents-to-covid-19-to-be-cognizable-offence-101620390246545.html
07-05-2021||Other||Lockdown a partial success on Day 1 in Himachal||The lockdown imposed by the Himachal Pradesh government to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic left a partial impact on the first day as movement of people and most economic activities continued as usual.The state government has imposed a ‘corona curfew’ in the state till May 17, as part of which all offices will remain shut and only essential services will be allowed to operate.In Shimla, shops selling essential items remained open, but there were few buyers. There was no rush at the markets and people adhered to social distancing norms. The usually crowded Mall Road and The Ridge also wore a deserted look. All government and private institutions remained closed. Vehicles supplying essential goods and construction material also plied on the roads.Meanwhile, there were reports of liquor vends operating despite the ban during curfew in Rohru area of Shimla district.“We are asking the administration to fix timings for dhabas and restaurants too. What is the use of closing bars, if the eateries remain open? If people gather there, how the eateries will ensure adherence to social distancing norms in the absence of proper directions,” said president of Shimla Beopar Mandal Inderjeet Singh.Confusion over guidelines In Kangra district, the curfew evoked a mixed response. People moved freely in some parts while social distancing norms went for a toss in public and private transport.Most of the markets remained open as there was confusion due to the unclear guidelines.Atul Kumar, a shopkeeper in Kangra, said that the state government should have closed everything except daily needs shops.“However, almost everything is open except for cloth shops. The guidelines issued by the state and district authorities are not clear,” he said.There was also confusion related to weekend lockdown. As per the new guidelines, there will be no weekend lockdown. Kangra deputy commissioner (DC) Rakesh Prajapati said that Section 144 of the CrPC would be enforced in the state under which gathering of more than five persons is banned. People would be free to move out of their houses but cannot gather in groups of more than five. He clarified that weekend curfew will continue in the district.As per the state executive committee guidelines, hardware stores will remain open for uninterrupted construction activities. However, in Kangra, the stores were closed. The DC said the district authorities will take decision about the hardware stores soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lockdown-a-partial-success-on-day-1-in-himachal-101620389760911.html
07-05-2021||Other||Rapid response team formed at Bihar’s Valmiki Tiger Reserve to keep eye on wildlife amid pandemic||Officials of Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) in Bihar’s West Champaran district have formed two rapid response team (RRT), headed by veterinary experts, to keep an eye on wildlife in two divisions of forest amid the second wave of the pandemic. Five personnel of the wildlife facility recently tested positive for the virus. HK Rai, wildlife conservator and field director, VTR, said the two rapid response team (RRT), headed by veterinary experts, have been deployed at both the divisions of VTR, spread over an area of 900 square kilometres. “The whole idea behind forming the rapid response team is to keep a tab on untoward behaviour of any wildlife amid the pandemic,” said Rai. The field wildlife conservator and field director, however, stated the situation normal. “There is no trace of any untoward behaviour among the animals. However, the RRT is set to collect excrete and vomiting residue to be investigated at Indian Veterinary Research Institute at Izatnagar, Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh,” Rai said. Operating with five to six guards, the team is equipped with tranquillizers and medicines among others. “If the situation warrants, suspected animals will be rescued and kept aside,” said a forest official, refusing to be identified. Meanwhile, five forest staff including two range officers attached with VTR have been tested positive. “The range officers have been asked to update the health conditions of all employees within their range every evening without a fail,” said Rai||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rapid-response-team-formed-at-bihar-s-valmiki-tiger-reserve-to-keep-eye-on-wildlife-amid-pandemic-101620389280026.html
07-05-2021||Other||Odisha CM writes to finance minister seeking waiver of GST on Covid-19 vaccine purchase||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday requested the Central government to exempt Goods and Services Tax on purchase of Covid-19 vaccines while urging the Centre to share the additional resources raised through various cess and surcharges on petrol, diesel and liquor with the state, HT has learnt.In a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Patnaik said that the states have been asked to purchase vaccines out of their own resources to cover the 18 to 45 years age group of the population. “These purchases attract 12 per cent GST making the vaccines costly for the states. Hence GST needs to be exempted completely,” Patnaik wrote.Last month, Patnaik had announced that Odisha would give free Covid vaccines to 1.93 crore people in the 18-44 age group that would cost it around ₹2,000 crore. A finance department official said though the state would get half the amount of 12 per cent GST imposed on the vaccines, even that amount would burden the state exchequer in the pandemic year.The chief minister has also sought financial assistance to states from cess and surcharges collected by the government of India.Patnaik in his letter said it was important that the states are supported so that the entire country fights as one. “Lack of finances should not affect any state as it might affect the entire country in turn. Hence, the additional resources raised through various cess and surcharges on petrol, diesel, liquor etc which are exclusively available to the Union government may be suitably shared with state governments at this critical juncture.“Sharing of financial assistance with states will strengthen the fight against the pandemic including the provision of vaccinations, free treatment, undertaking preventive measures and so on,” he wrote.Odisha and several other states have been demanding that the Centre should share a part of the revenue it is earning from fuel via excise duty, cess and surcharge as the central devolution to states has gone down by 20 per cent. Last year, the Centre earned over ₹3 lakh crore through cess and surcharge on fuel. The central government in March told the Parliament that since May 2020, it has been earning ₹33 per litre of petrol and ₹32 on a litre of diesel in form of central excise duty, including basic excise duty, cess and surcharge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-cm-writes-to-finance-minister-seeking-waiver-of-gst-on-covid-19-vaccine-purchase-101620386279421.html
07-05-2021||Other||Fuel prices in Pune reach new high, Petrol selling at ₹97.31 per litre||Petrol prices in Pune reached a record high on Friday at ₹97.31 per litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers.The petrol and diesel prices surged for the fourth consecutive day with the rate of petrol breaching the previous record on February 27, when it was ₹97.19 per litre.Besides petrol, the price of diesel also reached a record of ₹87.17 per litre, more than the previous high of ₹86.88 per litre. After the break in March and April, when prices had either stabilised or declined, they have started to soar from May 4.The transporters have expressed deep discontent over the price fuel price hike and especially the record prices of diesel.“Now passenger transport is completely closed and only goods transportation is going on. Most transportation is of the essential goods as the pandemic is raging. The hike in diesel price is a major blow to the transporters. The ultimate cost of these excessive prices will have to be sustained by transporters because traders won’t negotiate the transportation rates. How are we supposed to carry on? We are constantly writing to the central government to control the prices and give us some concessions,” said Baba Shinde, director (Maharashtra), All India Motor Transport Congress.Sagar Ghare, a delivery person associated with a food home delivery app in the city said that their profit margin is getting impacted because of the petrol price hike. “The companies already have reduced our per home delivery commission. In addition to this now fuel prices have started to increase again. There are restrictions imposed and we do not have any other opportunity but to continue with this to earn a livelihood. But it is becoming difficult now,” Sagar Ghare said.“The members across the board suggested that the government should be proactively engaged to address the concerns of the transport sector,” said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fuel-prices-in-pune-reach-new-high-petrol-selling-at-rs-97-31-per-litre-101620386039347.html
07-05-2021||Other||Global village idiot: Future skill worries (s)killing the present… and all that jazz||Skills are very important, apparently. Very important. So much so that most of my acquaintances are talking about skills as much as they are talking about Covid-19. Apparently, it’s Covid-19 that’s got them worried about it in the first place. You see, the world is changing. “Do you know that 85 million jobs are likely to be displaced because of emerging technology?” “Where did you read that?” “I don’t remember where! I don’t have any of the skills required for all the new jobs! That’s what matters!” “But you already have a good job,” I pointed out. “But that job may not be there in the future, see?” Now all conversations are not so panic-stricken: “Can’t talk right now, am busy doing online courses,” “Which course?” “Many courses. Leadership, Design Thinking, Critical Thinking, Programming, Sustainability,” “But you are 12! Why aren’t you playing online games and being a kid?!” “The future is coming, without these new skills I won’t succeed.” So, I stopped to think. What skills do I have? What is success? And what is failure? And why haven’t I been thinking about it? In school I remember playing. And reading. And writing. And making and doing and talking. Oh yes, I remember talking a lot. In class. And therefore, kneeling in front of the classroom because talking in class wasn’t such a good thing when the teacher was teaching. And then, I remember talking across the classroom as I was serving my punishment (kneeling), and so I would be sent outside the classroom to kneel there so that everyone passing by would know I was punished. And there, in that lonely corridor, I would talk to teachers, and students and staff who happen to pass by. I think by the time I reached Grade 2, the whole school knew I was a talkative kid. I think I can put it down as a skill then. I got through school and college well enough. Not at the top, not near the bottom, not in the middle, but well enough. And I didn’t worry about getting a score, or fret about what would happen if I didn’t get a good enough score. I didn’t sit for competitive exams, didn’t aim to be an engineer or pilot or doctor, or anything actually. Through college and after, I took up many jobs and learned stuff and did stuff and wrote stuff and then, I discussed it with others, and then, I read and wrote and did and discussed some more, and so on. I held 11 jobs from age 18 through 24. I remember friends and family being worried about me all the time and telling me that I shouldn’t quit jobs so soon, because I wouldn’t be able to build a career. I didn’t stop to think about all that good advice because I was restless and obsessed with finding out who I am, what I could do, what I liked, didn’t like. Today, when I stop and give my back-trail a thought, I would say my life is a perpetual “work-in-progress”. I am just the same kid I was in school, in awe of all that is around me. Asking, running, doing, writing and talking - always talking still - and thrilled with the gift: How beautiful is life! Everything is in motion, occurring simultaneously, nothing is complete, not my work, not my learning, not my youth or middle age or childhood. I am father and child at the same time! Only at the end of my life, will it all be complete. So on the matter of skills, yes, there is a List of Future Skills. It comes from the World Economic Forum’s report on the Future of Jobs (it’s available free from the WEF site). Nasscom has one too, as does Pearson, and many other organisations. The long and short of it is that yes, there’re changes happening right now. There will always be changes in the world we live in. If you are in a job or looking for one, or changing one or studying to get a job soon, it is important to remember that the rules of figuring out how to make a living aren’t too complicated. Figure out what the world needs. Figure out what you are good at, what you are great at, and what you suck at. Then see if the world needs anything that you are good or great at. If not, then see if you can learn to become better at some of the stuff the world does need. If the world doesn’t need what you are good at, then you’ll just have to pick a range of jobs you can become efficient at, without losing your mind because you have to do it 8-10 hours a day. Then, do what you want the rest of the time. That’s what the gig economy’s all about anyway. Whichever way you go, there’s not much point fretting your way through it all.Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/global-village-idiot-future-skill-worries-s-killing-the-present-and-all-that-jazz-101620384362557.html
07-05-2021||Other||‘Make Covid-19 negative certificate mandatory to enter’: HC tells Goa govt||The Bombay High Court at Goa has directed the Goa government to make it mandatory for all people arriving in Goa to have tested negative for Covid-19 saying that there was “no justification … [for] not insisting upon a negativity certificate from persons who seek entry into Goa at this crucial juncture.”“We see no justification in the state of Goa not insisting upon a negativity certificate from persons who seek entry into Goa at this crucial juncture when reports indicate that the positivity rate in Goa is as high as 52%,” the Bombay High Court at Goa bench of Justices MS Sonak and MS Jawalkar said. Hearing a bunch of petitions filed by a group of lawyers, activists and volunteers, the High Court ruled that while making sure that no Covid-19 positive person enters the state, its directions were not meant as an order to ‘seal the state’s borders’ while also directing that essential supplies to the state were not hampered. Noting that the state government should have come up with restrictions on its own (without waiting for the intervention of the High Court), the High Court said that it was unfair to the state’s resident population that Goa being a tourist destination was being cited as a reason for not making it mandatory for a negative test on arrival. “Based on this unrestricted entry, Goa is touted as one of the few tourist destinations where all is well. This is neither fair to the populace in Goa already suffering from the overstretched medical infrastructure nor to the unsuspecting tourists who have to very often avail of the overstretched facilities at a great price,” the High Court observed.“By way of an interim order, we direct the state Administration to ensure that no persons are permitted entry into the state unless they possess a negativity certificate obtained within 72 hours from the time they seek entry into the state,” the High Court ruled.The High Court has, however, allowed the state government to seek a modification of its orders on Covid negative certification before entry into the state, provided the state government sets out its reasons in detail through an affidavit that should be filed by Monday. “Until modified, however, a negativity certificate will be a must for entry into the state of Goa,” the High Court said.The state Advocate General had argued against making it mandatory for people to either produce a Covid negative certificate or be tested upon arrival telling the court that “the decision as to whether a negativity certificate should be insisted upon or not is basically a policy decision.”“Goa has to rely on its neighbouring states for most of the essential supplies and the insistence of any such negative certificate will again impact supplies. Even the central government does not support sealing borders of any states during these times,” he told the court. The High Court, however, wasn’t convinced. “No doubt, some difficulties are bound to arise when it comes to essential supplies… For this, the state administration will have to come out with some adequate protocol to ensure that the essential supplies are not disturbed and at the same time, Covid positive persons are not granted easy entry into the state whose medical infrastructure is already overstretched… but citing such instances to justify wholesale waiver of restrictions in such critical times is not justifiable,” the High Court said.“This is only a case where steps are taken to ensure that the persons who are entering into Goa are not already tested as COVID positive so that they do not contribute to the spread of the epidemic and at the same time are cared for better in their own state,” the High Court said. The High Court has also asked the government to file a status report on the availability of oxygen, beds, crucial drugs as well as to make operational mechanism so that the people know how many beds are available, where and what type as well as to provide security to doctors performing their duties. Goa recorded 3,869 fresh cases of Covid-19 the highest single-day tally since the pandemic began while continuing to report a positivity rate of 51% for the second day in a row. 58 deaths were recorded in 24-hour period ending on Thursday taking the state’s toll to 1501, while nearly 30,000 people -- nearly 2% of the state’s population -- are currently active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/make-covid-19-negative-certificate-mandatory-to-enter-hc-tells-goa-govt-101620382319248.html
07-05-2021||Other||Four arrested for trafficking pangolins in Maharashtra’s Alibag||Four persons were arrested in Alibag, Raigad district, on Thursday for attempting to illegally traffic protected wildlife. Two live pangolins, one adult female and a cub, were recovered from the accused who have been booked under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act (1972) by the Maharashtra forest department.Pangolins are protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Act, putting them in the same bracket as tigers, lions, rhinos and several other species. Smuggling or hunting of pangolins -- which are classified as endangered in the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s red list of threatened species -- attracts the highest penalties as per the law.Also Read | Wildlife board meeting raises concerns on ecotourism in forestsThursday’s arrest was made in Navghar region of the Sudhagad Pali forest reserve in Alibag. Officials said they acted on a tip-off and one of them posed as a customer interested in purchasing pangolins for their scales, which are in high demand in the international wildlife market. “We had been on the trail of the accused for three days,” said range forest officer Sameer Shinde, who also credited Alibaug’s deputy conservator of forests Ashish Thakre, and assistant conservator of forests Sanjay Kadam, for their role in the operation. The four accused have been booked under Sections 9 (prohibition of hunting), 39 (3) (possession of wild animals), 44 (1) (a) (dealing in captive animals), 48 (a) (illegal transportation of wildlife), 49 (purchase of wild animals) and Sections 50, 51, and 51 (a), which deals with arrests and penalties, of the Wildlife Protection Act (1972). They have been remanded to police custody.This is the third incident in Maharashtra this year where poachers have been arrested for smuggling of pangolins. In February, four people had been arrested from Ahmednagar district and then three persons were arrested from Raigad district in a similar case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-arrested-for-trafficking-pangolins-in-maharashtra-s-alibag-101620371698086.html
07-05-2021||Other||Punjab Police ASI suspended, demoted for misbehaving with public||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Punjab Police was suspend on Thursday after a video clip showing him in an inebriated state went viral on social media.ASI Raj Kumar, who was posted at Civil Line Batala, was caught on camera while misbehaving with the public on Wednesday morning. In the video clip, he is seen hurling abuses at some people around him. The video clip was shared on various WhatsApp groups and Facebook pages, invoking sharp criticism from the public.Batala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rashpal Singh said, “As soon as the video was brought to my attention, the cop was placed under suspension. We have also demoted him to the post of head constable as punishment for his misbehaviour. A probe has also been initiated into the case.”He said no police official would be allowed to misbehave with the public. “It is the police’s responsibility to protect the rights of the citizens,” the SSP added.This comes a day after the state police suspended an inspector of the department. Phagwara station house officer (SHO) Navdeep Singh was captured in a video while kicking the basket of a vegetable vendor.Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta had tweeted about the incident saying, “Absolutely shameful and unacceptable. I have suspended SGO Phagwara. Such misbehaviour will not be tolerated at any cost and those who indulge in it will have to face serious consequences.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-police-asi-suspended-demoted-for-misbehaving-with-public-101620330778103.html
07-05-2021||Other||Fuel prices surge for third day in row; petrol at ₹97.34, diesel at ₹88.49/l in Mumbai||Fuel prices in the city witnessed a surge for the third consecutive day. On Thursday, the price of petrol increased by 22 paise to ₹97.34 from Wednesday’s ₹97.12. One litre of diesel was priced at ₹88.49 in the city against ₹88.19 a day earlier, after it shot up by 30 paise.The rise in fuel prices in the city was witnessed on Tuesday after remaining constant since April 15. On April 15, the price for one litre of petrol was ₹96.83 and diesel was ₹87.81 as opposed to ₹96.98 per litre and ₹87.96, respectively, a day earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fuel-prices-surge-for-third-day-in-row-petrol-at-97-34-diesel-at-88-49-l-in-mumbai-101620329455511.html
07-05-2021||Other||CR cancels 23 outstation trains operating within Maharashtra, cites low occupancy||Twenty-three outstation trains operating in the state have been cancelled by the Central Railway (CR) between May 10 and June 30 owing to low occupancy.Some of the cancelled trains include Dadar-Pandharpur Special, Dadar-Shirdi Special, Mumbai CSMT (Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus)-Gadag Express, Nagpur-Kolhapur Express, CSMT-Kolhapur Special, CSMT-Pune Special, CSMT-Manmad Special, CSMT- Jalna Special, Nagpur-Pune Special and Nagpur-Ahmedabad Express. The railways has also decided to cancel the August Kranti Express operating between Mumbai Central and Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station from Saturday.“The occupancy in all these trains has decreased significantly after the restrictions on travel. Majorly, the trains within Maharashtra have been suspended,” said a CR official.The Maharashtra government’s guidelines under ‘Break The Chain’ have resulted in restrictions on travel, expect for emergency/unavoidable reasons. Travellers coming to the state also have to undergo a 14-day home quarantine.Last month, the railways had cancelled its premium Tejas Express train operating between CSMT and Karmali in Goa, owing to low occupancy.Apart from the premium train, the Nagpur-Mumbai Duronto Express, Mumbai Central-Delhi Duronto Express, Mumbai Central-Indore Duronto Express and Mumbai Central-Jaipur Duronto Express had also been cancelled last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cr-cancels-23-outstation-trains-operating-within-maharashtra-cites-low-occupancy-101620329333782.html
07-05-2021||Other||Bombay HC grants bail to man accused in Dr Dabholkar’s murder case||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday granted bail to Vikram Bhave – an accused in rationalist Dr Narendra Dabholkar’s murder case – on furnishing a bond of ₹1 lakh. While granting the bail, the court expressed its doubts over the material collected by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to connect the 37-year-old with the crime.“We have proceeded on the basis of the material on which respondent No 2 [CBI] has placed emphasis and we find that the same does not appear to show reasonable grounds to conclude that the accusations levelled against the appellant [Bhave] can be said to be prima facie true,” said the division bench of justice Sambhaji Shinde and justice Manish Pitale court while granting him bail. Dr Dabholkar was shot dead by two bike-borne assailants on August 20, 2013, in Pune, when he was out on morning walk. Initially, an offence was registered by the Deccan police station in connection with the murder, and on May 9, 2014, the case was transferred for CBI for further investigation.According to CBI, Virendrasingh Tavade of Sanatan Sanstha is the key accused in the case, while Sharad Kalaskar and Sachin Andure are the assailants who shot Dr Dabholkar. Kalaskar said Bhave had helped him and Andure conduct a recce of the area where the rationalist was fatally attacked. Kalaskar also claimed that Bhave had also helped the duo identify the escape route after the attack. Bhave was subsequently arrested on September 25, 2019.The special court at Pune rejected his bail plea last year on September 15, following which Bhave moved HC, contending that there was no material to connect him to the crime.In support of its case against Bhave, CBI counsel, advocate Sandesh Patil, relied on Kalaskar’s confessional statement, recorded in the murder case of journalist Gauri Lankesh, who was shot dead in Karnataka. In his confessional statement, Kalaskar had named Bhave as an accused in Dr Dabholkar’s case. CBI also claimed before HC that Kalaskar had identified Bhave on the basis of his photograph as the person who had helped him and Andure conduct the recce and had also pointed at him during the scene recreation.HC, however, held that Kalaskar’s confession in the Karnataka case could not be used against Bhave in Dr Dabholkar’s murder case, as the confession could only be used against a co-accused. Bhave has not been named an accused in Lankesh’s case. HC expressed doubts about the material regarding photo identification and the separate scene recreations involving Andure and Kalaskar, after noticing material discrepancies in the memorandum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-grants-bail-to-man-accused-in-dr-dabholkar-s-murder-case-101620329153773.html
07-05-2021||Other||HC asks Centre to decide on oxygen allocation to Tamil Nadu||Chennai: The Madras high court has directed the Centre to take a decision by Friday on the revised allocation of 475 metric tonnes of oxygen to Tamil Nadu after the state health secretary J Radhakrishnan informed the court that the revised quantum was agreed upon by the Centre but an order issued on May 5 did not include Tamil Nadu. More alarming is the fact that if the Centre does not release the agreed upon revised allotment, the reserve oxygen in Tamil Nadu will last only till Friday and that there might be a shortage from Saturday, Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) Secretary P Umanath told the court. The state produces 400 MTs of oxygen per day and current usage is between 400-450 MTs per day. The state explained that the INOX plant in Sriperumbudur is the lifeline as it supplies 150 MT but the Centre has diverted 60 MT to other states. The central government has revised the data to 475 MT and said that it requires approval of the empowered group, but it has still not come through. Umanath submitted the gist of the meeting with the Centre on the sharing of oxygen to nearby states of Kerala and Telangana. “The diversion of oxygen from Sriperumbudur to other states has put us in a difficult situation. There is no alternative supply to southern states and we are managing with the reserves and it will run out tomorrow,” Umanath told the court. The submissions were made during a suo motu case of Covid-19 second wave preparedness in Tamil Nadu being heard by the first bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy. On the demand for beds, the health secretary submitted that oxygen beds and ventilators are fast filling up and 875 new ones will come up Friday. The court also asked the health secretary about the deaths in Chengalpattu government hospital. Thirteen patients died between late Tuesday night and early hours of Wednesday. The state informed the court that they have formed a committee to establish the cause of death but submitted that there were provided oxygen. Doctors in the hospital had protested on Wednesday alleging that it was due to oxygen shortage. But the hospital dean said that there was only a drop in oxygen pressure and the patients died due to critical illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-asks-centre-to-decide-on-oxygen-allocation-to-tamil-nadu-101620328193629.html
07-05-2021||Other||Stalin cabinet to be a mix of veterans, young leaders||Chennai: Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Thursday accepted DMK’s list of 34 ministers who will take oath with chief minister elect M K Stalin on Friday. At a party meeting, it was decided that Stalin, who will be sworn in as chief minister at 9am on Friday, will hold the portfolio of the home department, welfare of differently-abled persons among other portfolios. The cabinet is a mix of Stalin’s close aides, veterans and young leaders.Perhaps the most important portfolio amid the pandemic is the health ministry which has been handed over to former Chennai mayor M Subramanian. He is one of Stalin’s closest aides having been together from their youth wing days. Subramanian, who was mayor from 2006-2011 is elected an MLA from Chennai’s Saidapet constituency where he defeated former AIADMK’s Chennai mayor Saidai Duraisamy. Subramanian is also a marathon runner and an accessible leader.Another crucial portfolio during the pandemic will be handled by Palanivel Thiagarajan who will be finance and human resource minister. Thiagarajan, an MBA graduate from MIT Sloan and a former investment banker with stints in Lehman Brothers, Standard Chartered Bank in Singapore and US, returned to India. He is currently the DMK’s IT-wing head and was re-elected as MLA from Madurai Central constituency. The old guard such as party organising secretary Duraimurugan, K N Nehru, E V Velu and K Ponmudi have been made ministers for water resources, municipal administration, public works and higher education respectively. Former AIADMK transport minister V Senthil Balaji who sided with TTV Dhinakaran and was among the 18 rebel MLAs who were disqualified and joined the DMK in 2018, will be the new electricity, prohibition and excise minister. P K Sekar Babu who works immensely in Stalin’s constituency of Kolathur will be minister for Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments. Stalin’s son Udhaynidhi who is elected as an MLA in his electoral debut didn’t make it to the list but his close aide and Thiruverumbur MLA from Trichy, Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi has been handed the responsibility as school education minister. Only two women have been given ministerial posts- Geetha Jeevan gets social welfare portfolio and Kayalvizhi Selvaraj who defeated the state BJP chief L Murugan will be minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare.Political observers say the new cabinet is a gamble. “It’s a blend of old guards and green horns. Durai Murugan is gracefully sidelined with a portfolio which ‘will coordinate with all departments’’ says political commentator Maalan Narayanan. “Subramanian and Anbil Mahesh are given crucial portfolios in which they don’t have experience or expertise. It is a gamble. Thiagarajan is a good choice as FM. Delta region is not represented while Kongu is given heavy representation-- may be to win them back.” Kongu or western region is the AIADMK’s bastion-- the only region where DMK couldn’t make inroads even in this election.Stalin has asked his cadre to watch the swearing in ceremony from home to prevent the spread of Covid-19. It would be low-key event at the Raj Bhavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stalin-cabinet-to-be-a-mix-of-veterans-young-leaders-101620328075878.html
07-05-2021||Other||AIADMK to choose LoP today as party looks to chart future course||Chennai: The AIADMK, which lost after 10 years of being in power, will on Friday choose an important position for the leader of opposition in Tamil Nadu’s new legislative assembly where the DMK will form the government. When AIADMK meets Friday at its party headquarters in Chennai they will arrive at a consensus on whether it would be outgoing chief minister and party coordinator Edappadi Palaniswami or outgoing deputy chief minister O Paneerselvam. Party functionaries said that Pannerselvam’s supporters have pitched for him but the position is likely to go to Palaniswami. “He was our chief minister candidate. Since our party lost the election, it is only morally right for him to be the opposition leader,” said a former minister not wishing to be named. A veteran leader in the party who was a supporter of Pannerselvam said that they will have to stay united to face the next election, which will be the local body polls, and to keep the family of VK Sasikala and TTV Dhinakaran at bay. “It is natural for a section to want Panneerselvam to be the opposition leader but if we continue the status quo of dual leadership where Palaniswami after being chief minister is the opposition leader and Panneerselvam continues to be the leader of the party, no problems will arise.” Another factor is that the party registered its highest number of wins from the western region or Kongu region from where Palaniswami and his top cabinet ministers hail. While the DMK swept Chennai and regions of south, centre and north, it hasn’t been able to breach the western belt which is traditionally the AIADMK’s bastion and Palaniswami was able to retain it with a combination of his work and caste-factor. The western region has 33 MLAs in the AIADMK-led alliance out of 50 seats whereas the south from where Pannerselvam hails has 18 MLAs in the AIADMK-led alliance in 58 seats. Also, Palaniswami increased his margin of win by defeating DMK’s candidate by 92,849 votes in Edappadi constituency in Salem district while Panneerselvam whale trailing in a few rounds before securing a win with 12,154 votes in Bodinayakanur in Theni district. “Palaniswami clearly has the upper-hand,” says political commentator Durai Karunanidhi. “Though they have led a successful dual leadership, Palaniswami strengthened himself and his support base while Pannerselvam wasn’t able to do much for his followers by way of a post so even his supporters have moved away.” In such a scenario, questions remain on how Pannerselvam will handle the situation having been hand-picked by Jayalalithaa twice to fill in as interim chief minister while she was imprisoned and hospitalised. As the finance minister he has presented 10 state budgets. Will he fight it out to be opposition leader or will he move back to Sasikala? “He gave away the CM post so he may as well let this be. The possibilities of Panneerselvam joining Sasikala or her trying to regain control of the party is low,” says Karunanidhi. “But nobody knows what runs in Pannerselvam’s mind. He’s like a silent bomb.” During the campaign, Pannerselvam had in a television interview made a U-turn on the party policy that categorically rejected Sasikala and Dhinakaran-led AMMK and said that if Sasikala accepted the present dual leadership her return could be examined. He was quickly told not to make such statements as the party had hitherto successfully prevented an exodus towards her after her release from prison in February 2021. During campaign, Pannerselvam also attempted to damage control a counter caste-polarisation that arose to his disadvantage after Palaniswami passed a legislation in the assembly an hour before the model code of conduct came into effect providing 10.5% internet reservation to the Vanniyar community to appease their ally, Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK). The issue is a fallout of the caste churning within the AIADMK which when Sasikala operated behind the scenes during J Jayalalithaa’s period was dominated by the Mukkulathor community. “AIADMK began to have caste politics within the party only after Sasikala’s domination,” says Karunanidhi. The two AIADMK leaders quoted above were confident that their functionaries will not move to the Sasikala camp even as it is being keenly watched if disgruntled ministers and MLAs who lost would shift loyalties. Unlike DMK, which had an undisputed change of guard after deaths of party founder CN Annadurai in 1969 and M Karunanidhi in 2018 with M K Stalin to be sworn in as chief minister Friday morning, the AIADMK has been riddled with succession battles but re-invented itself. Soon after MGR’s death, the battle to take control over the party began between Jayalalithaa and his wife Janaki. The latter after becoming the first woman chief minister and losing the post quit from politics. After Jayalalithaa’s death in December 2016, Sasikala briefly held the reigns of the party before being imprisoned and a series of backstabbing and loyalty wars later, Palaniswami and Pannerselvam have jointly kept the party together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aiadmk-to-choose-lop-today-as-party-looks-to-chart-future-course-101620328014129.html
07-05-2021||Other||B’luru civic workers demand safety gear after one dies of Covid||Bengaluru: A week after Bengaluru’s pourakarmikas (civic workers) held a protest outside the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) demanding safety gear for those cleaning the city streets, one of the city sweepers died of Covid-19 on Wednesday. 51-year-old Susheelamma, a pourakarmika in ward 27 in east Bengaluru’s Banasawadi passed away after battling with the Covid-19. Soon after the incident, paurakarmikas in the ward staged a protest in the streets demanding better equipment for them. They demanded that they have not been provided with the required safety equipment even though they are frontline workers, and they perform a high-risk job. Nayanamma, one of the sweepers at the protest said that the government has not provided them with any safety apparatus but also, they are made to walk for hours since no public transport is available. “We come to work every day knowing the risks involved in our jobs. Susheelamma was one of us and she is no more. The authorities have no paid attention to our demand for safety equipment and our demand for providing us transportation to reach our workplaces,” he said. On April 28, pourakarmikas in Bengaluru staged a protest, demanding protective gears like masks and gloves. They alleged that for the past nine months, they have not been provided any masks or gloves. In a letter to the commissioner of BBMP, BBMP Civic Workers’ Union demanded gloves, sanitiser and shoes for workers. “We are working in these times without any facilities. We also humans, just like you,” said Rathna, a civic worker, in a statement to the media following the protest on April 28. “We have been working for many years and despite the Covid (pandemic), we continue to work. But we haven’t received any of the facilities that we should have. The last time we got masks and gloves was last year. We have been asking for three weeks but we still haven’t been given masks and gloves,” she added. The workers have said that despite their protest, no safety gear has been provided to them and most importantly, many civic workers are yet to receive their vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bluru-civic-workers-demand-safety-gear-after-one-dies-of-covid-101620328013530.html
07-05-2021||Other||Covid scare moves beyond K’taka capital||Bengaluru: Despite the exponential surge in Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, the focus of the state government has primarily been on the capital city of Bengaluru, from where a major chunk of the daily cases, 49.5% to be precise, are being reported in the second wave of the pandemic. However, it changed after the death of 24 Covid-19 patients at two hospitals in Chamarajanagar allegedly due to shortage of oxygen. Experts have alerted the government about a likely spike in other districts of the state by next week. An initial trend of this change can be gauged from the statistics of Covid-19 cases in the state. An analysis of infections reported between April 27 and May 3 by the state Covid war room, shows that Bengaluru city does not even feature in the first three spots in terms of case positivity rate. As per war room data, Mysuru district reported the highest positivity rate at 28.8%, followed by Tumkuru at 25.6% and Ballari at 25%. Bengaluru Urban with a positivity rate of 24.7% came in fourth place, while the state’s average was recorded at 20.9%. Even in terms of case fatality rate (CFR), which is the number of deaths per 100 cases, several districts have surpassed Bengaluru. Haveri in north Karnataka reported the highest CFR of 2%, much higher than the state’s average of 0.6%. While Bengaluru city has a CFR of 0.5%, districts like Chamarajangara (1.8%), Ramanagara (1.4%), Chitradurga (1.3%) and Bidar (1.2%) have reported high CFR rates. In terms of absolute numbers, however, no district in the state is anywhere closer to Bengaluru city. On Wednesday, Bengaluru Urban reported 168 deaths, while all other districts reported less than 50 deaths. The city also accounted for 23,706 new Covid-19 cases out of the total 49,058 reported from across the state on Thursday. The active caseload in Bengaluru and Karnataka stood at 332,732 and 517,075, respectively as on Thursday, according to the state health department. Ashwin Mahesh, an urban expert said Bengaluru is still the biggest headache for the state government. “One out of every 35 people in Bengaluru currently has Covid. If you consider the active cases, which are mostly counted among adults, it could be as high as one in every 25 adults. This is our current situation, and we are not talking about people having had Covid at some time, but only the current cases,” he said. Even though the absolute numbers make Bengaluru a bigger problem for the government, experts fear that unlike the city, most districts lack health infrastructure to handle a spike similar to what has been witnessed in Bengaluru. “The expert committee has asked the government to increase the ICU and bed capacity in the vulnerable districts and increase the oxygen supply,” said Giridhar Babu, a member of the state’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Covid-19. According to experts, an increase in infections across the state can be attributed to the exodus of people from Bengaluru to various parts of the state ahead of the statewide “closed down” announced on April 27. Officials familiar with the development said that following a meeting with experts, chief minister BS Yediyurappa has been advised to extend the lockdown like restrictions in the state. Officials added that there are chances of a further extension of the lockdown, but the decision will be taken on May 10. Experts also added that the government has been making some decisions lately despite the repeated advice from the TAC for a coordinated effort. “Recently, the government has decentralised the responsibilities for taking care of remdesivir, oxygen and beds to different ministers. The health minister has been stripped of several powers. We are not saying the health minister was doing a fantastic job, but a reshuffle of responsibilities during a crisis is not a wise decision. By the time these newly appointed ministers learn about the situation on the ground, we would have lost precious time,” said a member of the TAC on the condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, during a hearing on the deaths of 24 Covid-19 patients allegedly due to shortage of oxygen, the Karnataka high court on Wednesday directed the state’s chief secretary to seize all records related to oxygen supply from the offices of deputy commissioners of Chamarajanagar and Mysuru districts, and also from the Chamarajanagar district hospital. The bench asked the chief secretary to keep all the documents in his safe custody till further orders of the court. It came after the deputy commissioners of the two districts were involved in a blame game over the deaths of 24 Covid-19 patients in Chamarajaganar. The Karnataka government on Wednesday appointed retired high court judge Justice B A Patil as the one-man commission to inquire into the Chamarajanagar incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-scare-moves-beyond-k-taka-capital-101620327834139.html
07-05-2021||Other||Black marketing of Bengaluru hospital beds continues||Bengaluru The Bengaluru police on Thursday said they have arrested two persons for allegedly fleecing Covid-19 patients in need of intensive care unit (ICU) hospital beds.In a series of tweets, Bengaluru City Police commissioner Kamal Pant referred to a Covid-19 patient, whose family was forced to pay ₹120,000 for a hospital bed in the city.“A patient Laxmidevamma who was diagnosed with #COVID19 was brought to a private hospital. Due to the non-availability of ICU beds in the hospital, 2 persons, Venkata Subbarao & Manjunath, connected to the hospital and in connivance with Punith -- working as Arogya Mitra in another hospital -- demanded & extorted ₹120,000 from Lakshmisha, the son of the patient, for allotting a bed in a reputed hospital. ₹50K was paid via GPay & ₹70K was paid in cash,” Pant said in two-part tweets on Thursday.He added that the patient died a few hours after being allotted a bed, after which his son Lakshmisha filed a complaint with the police.The two accused were arrested on Thursday, said police, adding that further investigation was on.The incident comes two days after a section of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators made serious allegations against the administration of Bengaluru civic body.Lok Sabha member Tejaswi Surya along with two legislators from Bengaluru had alleged that there were at least 4,065 instances in which hospital beds were booked in the name of asymptomatic persons and later allotments were changed by people employed at the Covid war room with the help of officials and outside agents.“Yesterday (Wednesday) searches were conducted at 8 zonal war rooms. Lot of data has been collected. Eight teams led by one PI each are scrutinising all data. Further action will be taken based on information taken out from this data. The hospitals in which the arrested accused had blocked beds are being investigated. Teams verifying in these hospitals. Police custody will be taken for further interrogation,” Sandeep Patil, the joint commissioner of police, Crime, said.The scam was, however, given a communal colour by Surya and the two legislators -- Satish Reddy and Ravi Subramanya -- as they singled out names of Muslims working in the war room.Meanwhile, Reddy’s name has also cropped up in the scandal, with allegations that his supporters were also part of the racket.There have been rising complaints against government officials for helping touts to profiteer from the sale of antiviral drugs and injections like remdesivir, taking bribes for hospital beds and even jumping the long-winding queues outside crematoriums.All these come at a time when Karnataka and its capital Bengaluru in particular have seen an exponential rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the pandemic. On Thursday, the state reported 49,058 new infections , taking the active caseload to 517,075. Bengaluru accounted for 23,706 new infections, taking its total active case count to 332,732. As many as 328 people succumbed to the viral disease in Karnataka on Thursday, taking the toll in the state to 17,212. Bengaluru reported 139 deaths on Thursday, taking its toll due to Covid-19 to 7,145, according to the daily bulletin of the health department. According to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Central Hospital Bed Management System website, there are over 1,738 beds vacant out of the total 11,074 in government and private hospitals and medical colleges. However, several incidents of critical patients denied admission at hospitals have been reported in the past two weeks.On Thursday, a family drove the ambulance straight to the official residence of CM Yediyurappa, crying for help. In a video that was circulated widely on social media, a man and his sister desperately cry for help to find a bed for her husband who is critically ill and in the ambulance. “We are willing to pay and do not want any money from the government. All we want is a hospital bed,” the man is heard saying. “We have gone to almost 20 hospitals but everywhere they tell us that there are no beds. But the government comes on TV and says that there are enough beds. Please help us get justice,” he pleads with the police and media personnel present there. The woman said that she has two children and wants to save her husband’s life.Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the BBMP, on Thursday said the city administration was looking to convert around 50% of the beds in Covid care centres meant for asymptomatic patients, into oxygenated beds. He added that there are around 15,000 hotel rooms in the city and at least 945 of them will be converted as ‘step-down’ hospitals to ease the pressure on the existing and inadequate healthcare infrastructure in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/black-marketing-of-bengaluru-hospital-beds-continues-101620327773483.html
07-05-2021||Other||‘As performers we have to entertain the masses’||Actor Ravi Sah who has been involved with projects like ‘Raat Akeli Hai’, ‘Paan Singh Tomar’, ‘Life of an Outcast’ and ‘Jamtara’ has seen the highs and lows of life. “Initially, it was really tough to survive as I had left everything to follow my passion for acting. Once the benchmark for me was playing the lead and that did happen. But soon I realised that it’s just not enough. Infact playing a protagonist was the real accomplishment. Thankfully, today I have reached there. So, for me this means I have arrived on the scene,” said the versatile actor who was all set to shoot in Lucknow before the second Covid wave began. “I am super selective and try my level best to take up roles that help me challenge my craft. That’s what makes me happy at the end of the day. I ask filmmakers to give me roles where I have scope to add my nuances to the characters and today the result is there in front of us. Keval’s role in ‘Raat Akeli…’ won me many accolades and all my hard work was paid off,” he said. Ravi is awaiting the release of his new OTT series. “Thankfully it was all set for streaming else like many other projects it would have been put on hold due to alarming rise in Covid cases,” he said. “It’s actually a very low and sad phase that our country is presently going through. As an industry we are doing our best to support (people) and as performers it’s our job to entertain the masses. We are trying to do that too,” he said. His series ‘Crime Next Door’ is slated for this month and as the name suggests it’s a crime thriller drama directed by Deepankar Prakash. I play the lead. I am essaying the role of an investigating officer who is caught in a series of mishaps. I was supposed to start another series as well as a couple of other projects but now all of it will resume once things are back to normal,” said the actor who was born in Purnia, Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-performers-we-have-to-entertain-the-masses-101620326453448.html
07-05-2021||Other||World Asthma Day-2021: Take inhalers regularly, ensure cleanliness, advise pulmonologists||LUCKNOW: Asthmatic patients should take their inhalers regularly, avoid sharing it and ensure their cleanliness.Prof Suryakant the head of the department (HoD) of respiratory medicine, King George’s Medical University (KGMU) said at national conference, that he connected virtually, on the occasion of World Asthma Day on Thursday. Prof Surya Kant while explaining how patients can tackle this virus with coexisting Asthma said, “In the present situation any new symptom must be considered as Covid, and testing of COVID-19 should be recommended.” Dr Jyoti Bajpai, assistant professor in department of respiratory medicine, KGMU, Lucknow was the organiser of conference that was supported by Dr Ajay Kumar Verma, Dr Darshan Bajaj, Dr Ankit Katiyar and residents Dr Sapna and Dr Aniket.Dr AK Singh, pulmonologist, Chandan Hospital in a press statement said, “Asthma is a chronic respiratory disorder in which there is inflammation (swelling) of the airways in the lungs. Due to this inflammation, the airways are narrowed, and the lungs become vulnerable to various allergens which act as triggers for an asthma attack.”Dr Rajneesh Srivastava, pulmonologist, Medanta Hospital, said, “Asthma requires long term treatment and inhalers play a vital role in helping people lead a healthy life with asthma. Many patients frequently underutilise their medications or use their inhalers incorrectly. It should not be stopped without consultation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/world-asthma-day-2021-take-inhalers-regularly-ensure-cleanliness-advise-pulmonologists-101620326273412.html
07-05-2021||Other||SPPU relaxes norms for on-campus work tenders; aimed at helping MSMEs||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has relaxed norms for issuing tenders for works in its various residential and non-residential buildings. With the Covid-19 pandemic adversely affecting small scale industries in particular, the SPPU has take the decision to encourage and support the MSMEs.“Earlier, we had specific norms to allot a tender to a big and experienced contractor who has already done that particular type of work in the past. Also, the financially turnover of that contractor should match the work order. Now these norms are been relaxed,” said Prafulla Pawar, registrar, SPPU.“Tenders are now being given to new contractors. Anyone who wants to bid for the SPPU’s tenders can get its details on the http://mahatenders.gov.in website. Small businessmen can also bid,” he added.There are two types of buildings inside the SPPU campus – residential and non-residential - and several electrical and engineering works are continuously going on, throughout the year. Until now these contracts were given to major contractors. This decision to change the norms was taken at the recent meeting of the SPPU’s Building work committee, held recently. Now the SPPU will issues tenders allowing smaller contractors to bid for jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sppu-relaxes-norms-for-on-campus-work-tenders-aimed-at-helping-msmes-101620310852367.html
