08-05-2021||Other||Kaithal ambulance drivers to provide free facility to Covid patients||Even as the ambulance service providers across country are facing criticism for overcharging patients, members of the private ambulance association of Kaithal district in Haryana have decided to provide free ambulance services to Covid-19 patients.In a meeting of the members of private ambulance association, it was decided that they will provide round-the-clock free travel facility to Covid patients by 15 ambulances from Saturday.“We were already providing free services to pregnant women and road accident victims. Now, we have decided to provide free services to Covid-19 patients,” said Sandeep Sheokand, driver of Balaji Ambulance Services.He said that they have taken the decision following reports that the ambulance drivers are facing criticism as they are making most of the helplessness of Covid patients by charging hefty amounts.“Just because of a few ambulance drivers, who charged extra from patients, the entire community is facing criticism. We have decided to provide free services to counter this criticism,” said another driver, Rahul Kumar.Earlier, following reports that ambulance drivers are charging hefty amounts even for a short distance, the Haryana government had fixed rate for ambulances with advance life support system at ₹15/km while rate of ambulance with basic life support system has been fixed at ₹7/km.Even the Haryana government has directed the regional transport authorities (RTAs) to slap “minimum ₹50,000 penalty” on private ambulance drivers or owners if found charging more than the fixed price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kaithal-ambulance-drivers-to-provide-free-facility-to-covid-patients-101620491589787.html
08-05-2021||Other||Growth of covid-19 cases declines in lockdown’s second week, positivity rate goes up||Bedanti Saranbedanti.saran@hindustantimes.comRanchi: The deadliest second wave of covid-19 pandemic is swiftly spreading across every corner of Jharkhand which has been witnessing a continuous rise in disease’s positivity rate even after imposition of partial lockdown in the state.Noticing a steep surge in covid-19 cases in the first three weeks of April, the state government clamped a partial lockdown in the fourth week (April 22-28), which has been extended further with certain new embargo.While Jharkhand now entered in the third week (May6-12) of the lockdown, the first two weeks saw a decline in growth of cases but reported a significant rise in positivity rate (number of positive cases per hundred samples tested).The state discovered 44,133 positive cases in lockdown’s first week (April 22-29) when certain exempted trade activities were allowed till 8 pm. These cases were detected after testing 322,392 samples with positivity rate stood at 13.68%, meaning thereby that to every 100 samples tested, 13.68 returned positive.The lockdown’s second week (April 29-May 5), however, was more stricter as exempted trade activities were allowed only till 2 pm with only exception to medicine shops and petrol pumps.The growth of positive cases dipped this week as the state unearthed 41,626 cases registering a decline of 5.68% in comparison to the previous week, when 44,133 cases were reported. The disease’s positivity rate, however, didn’t go down but jumped to 16.25% from the previous week of 13.68% as the 41,626 odd cases were discovered after testing 256,134 samples.The rising positivity rate, however, is the real cause of concern for the state as it indicates the rapid spread of the infection.The state reported weekly positivity rates of 4.85%, 7.16%, 10.96%, 13.68% and 16.25% respectively in April 1-7, April 8-14, April 15-21, April 22-28 and April 29-May 5.Health experts, however, opined that the lockdown has greatly impacted the fast spread of the infection.Dr Dewesh Kumar, assistant professor of department of preventive and social medicine RIMS, said, “The lockdown has definitely slowed down the spread of the disease. If we see the results of sample tests conducted at RIMS laboratory, we can say that positivity rate has gone down. We had seen positivity rate as high as 45% on April 17, when 278 positive cases were detected after testing 605 samples. This has gradually came down and on Saturday, we saw only 72 samples tested positive out of total 360. Besides, we have noticed that there has been a significant decline in number of people seeking beds and Remdesivir injections. This shows positive trend as the rush in hospitals is gradually waning.”Dr Kumar said, “We should wait for at least one more week to see the real impact as there is three-four days of delay in test reports. Results of samples collected today will come after three-four days. So, a real assessment could be done atleast after three-four weeks.”According to Kumar, the peak of cases has already come in Jharkhand.“I personally feel that the state has attained the peak and now the cases will decline. Due to lockdown, the growth trajectory would remain flat but high number of cases will keeping coming till May end,” he said.Dr Kumar also indicated that there would be a rise in death toll as according to him the peak in deaths come atleast 10 days after the peak of positive cases.”Jharkhand has been witnessing a continuous rise in number of covid-19 deaths since early April. It reported 38, 141, 317, 786 and 951 deaths respectively in April 1-7, April 8-14, April 15-21, April 22-28 and April 29-May 5.According to health department’s covid-19 bulletin of May 8 morning, the state has so far reported 276062 cases including 211270 recoveries, 61177 active cases and 3615 deaths.BOXBefore and after lockdownWeek. Cases/ST/PR*April 1-7: 6707/138,098/4.85%April 8-14: 16,884/235,540/7.16%Apr 15-21:29,564/269,708/10.96%LockdownAp 22-29: 44,133/322,392/13.68%Ap 29-May 5: 41,626/256,134/16.25%*ST: Sample tested*PR: Positivity rate||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/growth-of-covid-19-cases-declines-in-lockdown-s-second-week-positivity-rate-goes-up-101620486969060.html
08-05-2021||Other||Pappu ‘raids’ Rudy’s area for ambulances, booked||PATNAThe Saran police have registered an FIR against former Madhepura MP and Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) president Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, who on Friday raided a place where over two dozen ambulances purchased from the fund of Saran MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy were parked.The FIR was filed following a complaint from Rudy’s office, which alleged that Yadav and his supporters damaged two of the ambulances and manhandled the caretaker, besides violating lockdown norms, said the MP’s representative Rakesh Singh. On Friday, Yadav, who had been visiting different parts of the state to expose the lack of preparedness in dealing the Covid situation, visited Amnour in Saran and allegedly found over 30 ambulances with ‘MPLADS-2019’ marked on them. “There are over 30 ambulances here. There were more earlier, but they have been moved. Overall, close to 100 ambulances were parked here. We want to know why they were not being used… this is not about Rudyji or Pappu… this is about people of Bihar. The entire state is reeling under impact of Covid,” Yadav said. A video on social media shows Yadav walking around the parked vehicles, removing tarpaulin covering them. Rudy said the ambulances were lying unused for want of drivers. “There are not 60, 70 or 100 ambulances, but only 20. And they are not being used because we don’t have drivers. Pappu Yadav… you can take all the ambulances, but promise the people of Saran that you will find and employ drivers for all of them,” he said. “These are the ambulances which were returned by the panchayats as they were not in used.” “We have a fleet of 75-80 ambulances of which 50-55 are running. The people of the district have never suffered for want of ambulance. Not many drivers volunteer to drive with a Covid patient. I have written to Saran district magistrate to provide me with drivers,” Rudy said. Yadav, however, hit back. On Saturday, he presented before the media 40 people with their driving licences who were willing to run the ambulances. He alleged that panchayats that did not vote for the MP were asked to return the ambulances. Yadav found support from CPI-ML and the RJD. “This is BJP’s way of development. The matter should be probed,” said CPI-ML state secretary Kunal. “He could have donated (the ambulances) to a hospital or NGO,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said. The Congress too backed Yadav. AICC media panellist and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said criminal proceedings should be initiated against Rudy for using the MP fund like his own money. “Discretionary quota fund is managed by the local district authorities and the MP/MLA concerned has no role in deciding the course of purchase or use of the articles purchased from the fund,” said Mishra.“It would expose the nefarious designs of the state government if any action is taken against Yadav for expose the corrupt practices adopted by the BJP leader,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pappu-raids-rudy-s-area-for-ambulances-booked-101620486788503.html
08-05-2021||Other||Death registration in May shoots up in Patna||PATNAWith Covid-19 pandemic spreading fast and gripping newer areas with disconcerting intensity, the positivity rate has gone up past 15% in the state while recovery has plummeted to 78-79%, increasing the mortality rate. There are queues in cremation ghats and graveyards, say those who have performed the last rites of their near and dear ones. While the figures of Covid deaths come mostly from the dedicated Covid government hospitals, figures of death registration from Patna alone points to the growing fatalities, coinciding with the spurt in Covid cases. The incomplete figures of death registration in Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) area alone in just six days, from May 1 to 6 (till 2.20 pm), stands at 795, of which 512 were male and 283 female. It does not include the figures of Gulbi ghat since April 30. Similarly, the death registration figures of Bans Ghat have not been updated online since April 23, say officials. Anup Kumar Sharma, registrar-cum-chief medical officer, Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC), said updating figures online takes some time. It is not reflected online as to how many of the 795 deaths are Covid-related, though it is supposed to be mentioned in the register manually, but officials say the figures are quite high compared to normal days. “There are six places under PMC for which figures are updated online. They include Pataliputra, Bankipore, Kankarbagh, Nutan Anchal, Patna City and headquarters. Some are pending at present, but the uploaded figures so far show 795 deaths registered in just first six days of the month,” Sharma said. He said that from April 1-30, 1626 deaths were registered online. Of them, 1004 were male and 622 female. According to official health department figures, over 62 people lost their life due to Covid infection in Bihar in the past 24 hours, including 19 in Patna, while 13,455 fresh cases got reported. The official figures put the total death toll in Bihar so far to 3,139. On Tuesday last, the casualty figures had breached 100-mark in the state, as per health department figures. A senior official said that the crematoriums were working round-the-clock and it would be difficult to assess the figures of Covid-related deaths out of the total, considering that many deaths are also taking place at home without proper testing or due to difficulty in admission in hospitals. ”Death registration is poor in India as a whole, and more so in Bihar. Besides, the cause of death is often not confirmed by a medical practitioner if the deaths are reported at home,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/death-registration-in-may-shoots-up-in-patna-101620486728462.html
08-05-2021||Other||Vaccination for 18-plus begins today||PATNAAfter a wait of eight days, the Bihar government will start vaccination drive for persons in the age group of 18 to 44 years from Sunday (May 9), according to a tweet by the state health department. “Vaccination for the age group of 18-44 years will start from 9th May 2021 at your nearest health facility (up to Primary Health Centre). Prior registration and slot booking is must for getting vaccinated. Register yourself and book your slots for Covid-19 vaccination,” the tweet said.It further said the state government had received 3.5 lakh doses of #COVID19 vaccine for the persons in the age group of 18-44 years.The state on Monday has placed orders for supply of first batch of 11.80 lakh doses of Covishield and 4.12 lakh doses of Covaxin before it begins inoculating 5.50 crore target population of 18-44 years against the coronavirus. Bihar is purchasing the vaccines directly from the firms, Serum Institute of India, the manufacturers of Covishield, and the Bharat Biotech, manufacturers of Covaxin. The state’s purchase would be in addition to the Centre’s allotment in due course of time, said an official of the health department. The Centre has fixed a purchase rate of ₹315 per dose for Covishield and ₹420 per dose for Covaxin for states and union territories. Bihar has been going slow on vaccination because of lack of availability of sufficient vaccines. On Friday, only 673,96 people in Bihar (all categories) were given vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-for-18-plus-begins-today-101620486729098.html
08-05-2021||Other||Bird flu detected at farm in Punjab’s Ludhiana, 90,000 birds to be culled||The National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, has confirmed avian influenza in samples of birds sent from a poultry farm at Kila Raipur, prompting the administration to order culling of 90,000 birds. The samples were collected on Wednesday after owner of Suba Singh poultry farm informed the administration about the mysterious death of 1,500 birds. As the report confirming presence of bird flu arrived on Friday evening, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma declared the area within a kilometre of the epicentre as infected zone and 1-10km as surveillance zone. Ordering culling of 90,000 birds at the farm, he also constituted a nine-member committee to oversee the process and ensure that no bird, unprocessed poultry meat, eggs, feed or any other material was taken out from the poultry farm. The committee headed by Khanna additional deputy commissioner Sakatar Singh Bal took stock of the situation at the farm on Saturday. Bal said 20 teams of the animal husbandry department will start the culling operation in two shifts from Sunday. With a target of 4,000-6,000 birds a day, the process should be completed in around three weeks, he added. A highly contagious viral disease, avian influenza has many strains. But, most of them are mild and may only cause low egg production or other mild symptoms among birds. However, some are severe and cause deaths of large number of birds. Generally, people coming in close contact with infected alive or dead birds contract the flu, and it does not usually spread from person to person, according to the World Health Organization, which has also said that there is no evidence that the disease can be spread to people through properly prepared and cooked poultry food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bird-flu-detected-at-farm-in-punjab-s-ludhiana-90-000-birds-to-be-culled-101620482769297.html
08-05-2021||Other||‘Elections in India need immediate reform’: Mamata Banerjee||Elections in India need to undergo immediate reforms, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Saturday while addressing the West Bengal legislative assembly on Saturday. Banerjee’s comments came at her first speech at the legislative assembly after taking charge as the chief minister of the state for the third time on May 5. “Since the time of TN Seshan, I have seen the ECI working to prevent rigging during polls. Now it is just the opposite. In some places, the rigging was done with the direct help of the poll panel. This is unfortunate and shameful. Elections need to be reformed immediately. I have been fighting for this since 1995. I am once again giving a call for this. Three nominated persons along with a few retired officers are giving transfer orders on paper chits. This should not happen. Else democracy can’t be saved,” Banerjee said. Veteran TMC leader Biman Banerjee took oath as the speaker of the assembly on Saturday. BJP legislators, however, boycotted the session to protest against the poll violence in the state in which at least 16 persons were killed till Thursday. “They aren’t ashamed that people have boycotted them. I can challenge that they (BJP) wouldn’t have won even 30 seats had ECI not directly helped them,” the chief minister said. The Trinamool Congress in the state has been at loggerheads with the ECI with the ruling party repeatedly accusing the poll panel of working at the behest of the BJP-led government at the centre.Poll panel officials in Kolkata refused to comment on the chief minister’s remarks in the assembly. Earlier in March, however, Deputy Election Commissioner Sudeep Jain had written a letter to the TMC chief, asking her to refrain from making accusations against the poll panel. “We will not attend the speaker’s election. We will also not attend the sessions of the House. We will not come to the assembly till our MLAs get full protection... We will only come when our MLAs will be able to walk alongside our workers,” Dilip Ghosh, BJP’s state president had told the media on Friday.Turning her guns at the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Union government, the TMC supremo accused the centre of behaving in a step-motherly attitude while alleging that oxygen produced in the state was being diverted to other states. “They are not being able to accept the people’s mandate and that’s why they are behaving like this. This is not shameful but has also raised a big question on our democracy,” she said. In the recently ended the TMC won for the third consecutive time winning 213 out of the 292 seats where elections were held. The BJP, which had set a target to win more than 200 seats, could manage only 77. “What if Maharashtra says today that we won’t allow vaccines produced in our state to go out? It cannot happen that way. The TMC should think about a larger perspective. This is a crisis period and the centre is helping each and every state to fight the pandemic,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, BJP’s state vice president.Ministers of the new cabinet would be sworn in on Monday, the chief minister said. The first cabinet meeting would be also held on the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elections-in-india-need-immediate-reform-mamata-banerjee-101620480128720.html
08-05-2021||Other||Covid-19 outbreak at Assam’s Karimganj district jail, 34 prisoners test positive||Thirty-four inmates of Karimganj District Jail in Assam have tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) so far. There are around 290 prisoners in the jail which includes some foreigners from Bangladesh, Myanmar and African countries, HT has learnt. Now, most of the inmates will go through Rapid Antigen Test for detecting the Covid-19 virus. Some more are expected to test positive because they are suffering from mild fever and other issues. Superintendent of Karimganj District Jail, Sanjeev Kumar Chetia has confirmed the news. Talking to Hindustan Times, the superintendent said, “It all started when we noticed some of the inmates were suffering from mild fever and other issues. We requested the district health department to test them and find if the inmates are Covid-19 positive. But we have almost 300 inmates and it is not possible to test everyone at the same time. So the district administration started conducting the test in a phased manner. On the first day, 6 people tested positive and yesterday 28 more found infected. Now, this process will go on and the number may increase in the coming days”.Apart from the local prisoners, there are few detained foreigners kept in Karimganj District Jail. It includes Bangladeshis, Myanmar nationals of the Rohingya community, people from African countries like Nigeria, Ghana and Angola. Most of them were arrested while they tried to cross the Indo-Bangladesh international border located along the district. The African Nationals include some women as well. They were arrested because they entered into the Indian territory without any valid document, Chetia said. About the source of the virus, the jail superintendent believes, there are multiple possibilities. He said, “The family members can be one of the sources because the prisoners get a chance to meet their family members often. The family members come to jail almost every week and they bring food and other stuff along with them. This can be one of the sources for the virus to enter inside the jail. We are also trying to find other possibilities so that we can prevent it in future.”Regarding the treatment of covid positive prisoners, he said, “The prisoners who tested positive have been given a place for isolation at the jail premises. They are being given the treatment there, doctors from the district administration are looking after the treatment part. Required medicines are being supplied by the district health department. But if there are issues like oxygen shortage, breathing problem or lung infection, the person will be sent to Covid-19 ICU in Silchar Medical College and Hospitals for better treatment. But there will be strict security arrangements during the entire process.”There was a similar situation in Silchar Central Jail last year. More than a hundred prisoners tested positive in a span of a week in August. Some of them were sent to Silchar Medical College & Hospitals because they were critical and needed treatment in ICU. The district administration arranged proper security arrangement for the treatment of prisoners at SMCH.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-outbreak-at-assam-s-karimganj-district-jail-34-prisoners-test-positive-101620475209043.html
08-05-2021||Other||After HC order, 18-44 age group vaccination to resume in Chhattisgarh||Chhattisgarh government on Friday said it will resume the Covid-19 vaccination for the age group of 18-44 years in the state following the High Court’s directive in this regard, a press release issued by the government stated.“In compliance of the interim order given by the High Court of Chhattisgarh, the inoculation drive for people under age-group of 18-44 years under Phase-3 Covid-19 inoculation drive will take place on the basis of 1/3 ratio for Antyodaya, BPL and APL categories of people,” a statement issued by the government said.Earlier, the state government suspended inoculation for this age group from May 5 after the Chhattisgarh High Court ordered it to modify its vaccination plan for the third phase of the drive and fix a ratio for distribution of vaccines in an equitable manner.The HC passed the order while hearing a suo-moto public interest litigation (PIL) under which intervention applications were filed challenging the state’s order to give priority to economically weaker sections of society.In an order issued on April 30, the Bhupesh Baghel led-government had said vaccines will be first given to the ‘Antyodaya Group’ (poorest among poor) followed by those belonging to the ‘Below Poverty Line’ (BPL) and then to the ones belonging to the ‘Above Poverty Line’ in the third phase, starting May 1. During the hearing of the PIL on Friday, the HC directed the state government to resume the vaccination for the third phase based on a 1/3 ratio for Antyodaya, BPL and APL categories of people, the official said.In its order on May 4, the HC directed the state government to fix a reasonable ratio of allotment of vaccines for the Antyodaya group along with the BPL and the APL group in terms of vulnerability, chance to spread the disease and the number of eligible persons. In compliance with that order, the state government constituted a high-level committee of secretaries headed by state chief secretary Amitabh Jain, it said.The HC while hearing further on this matter on Friday, justified the state government’s concern towards the poor and directed the committee, constituted under the chief secretary, to submit its recommendation at the earliest, thereafter, the next hearing will be held, the release said.Keeping in view the Covid-19 crisis pandemic and considering the time required for the high-level committee to submit its recommendations, the HC has directed the state government to carry out vaccination under Phase-3 for people under the age group of 18-44 years based on 1/3 ratio for Antyodaya, BPL and APL categories of people, till the committee submits its recommendation, as an interim measure, it said.The state government has decided to establish separate vaccination centres for Antyodaya, BPL and APL groups under phase-3 inoculation drive, it said.At the vaccination centres fixed for Antyodaya and BPL category people, the beneficiaries should visit for vaccination along with ID/documents and ration cards. At the centres for the APL category, people will have to bring IDs mandated by the central government, such as Aadhaar, PAN card and any other valid documents, but they’ll not have to produce ration cards, it said.Since the state government has received 1.5 lakh doses of vaccines as of now for the third phase, the drive will continue till the vaccines are exhausted and will start inoculation again when vaccine doses will be available. Accordingly, notices will be displayed at vaccination centres, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-hc-order-18-44-age-group-vaccination-to-resume-in-chhattisgarh-101620466207503.html
08-05-2021||Other||Volunteers step in to help deal with the pandemic in Kashmir||A network of local voluntary groups has stepped in by arranging medical oxygen, equipment, ambulance services in Kashmir while a non-governmental organisation has helped the authorities establish a 100-bed hospital to deal with a surge in Covid-19 cases that have overwhelmed the healthcare system. Farooq Ahmad, the founder of Help Poor Voluntary Trust, said all of their 300 oxygen machines and cylinders have been pressed into service for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. He added though they are trained to meet any exigencies dealing with the pandemic has been tough. Ahmad said they often get calls for help in the middle of the night invariably for patients with low oxygen levels. “We try to stabilise patients first at home and then shift them to hospitals in our critical care ambulances,” said Ahmad, whose organisation has a fleet of 12 ambulances. Authrout, which helped establish the 100-bed hospital, also has a network of volunteers who have been virtually working non-stop particularly for those in need of oxygen. “We are trying our best to help the people and our helpline is working 24x7. At times, we did not even get to have proper sleep as our phones keep ringing,” said a volunteer of the organisation. Social Reform Organisation (SRO), which was established in 2004 to work for 2005 earthquake victims, has been providing oxygen concentrators, cylinders and medical equipment to Covid-19 patients. Javeed Ahmad Dar, the SRO chairman, said they get around 150 distress calls every 24 hours and have helped provide almost 750-900 patients oxygen support over the last month. The NGO has also provided ambulance service to around 700 patients. “[We are also] providing other relief measures and supplying lifesaving drugs to many Covid patients. We also arranged plasma for many Covid patients...” J&K Yateem Foundation has been providing services, especially in Srinagar and Bandipora districts. “We...[have helped] the poor, needy and the destitute for the last 21 years. ...Covid-19 came up as a new challenge. In the beginning, due to lockdown, daily wagers faced difficult times...[and we provided them] food... Currently, the situation is different...now people ask for oxygen concentrators and we have stepped in to provide this facility too. Due to the non-availability of oxygen concentrators in the market, the organisation could not get more machines. We have 40 machines running and ordered more,” said Javeed Jawaad, one of the volunteers of the foundation. “We even gave oxygen cylinders to the district administration in Bandipora.” Sikh Volunteers Kashmir has been distributing food packets at hospitals and Covid centres. It has also helped conduct 60 cremations across Kashmir and runs a 24x7 helpline for Covid-19 patients. “We have been working for the last year and have procured 24 oxygen machines and 50 cylinders. We arrange medicines, meals and cremations across Kashmir and resources are arranged through voluntary contributions. Our group is being run by doctors and professionals,” said Jagjeet Singh, a volunteer. Falah-u-Darein, a volunteer group established two decades ago in Baramulla to help the poor, too, has stepped in to help Covid-19 patients. “We have 35 oxygen concentrators and 10 cylinders which are all with the patients. We only provide oxygen machines to people on the advice of doctors, which has helped many and there is no crisis in our area,” sayid Asif Aziz, a volunteer of the group. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/volunteers-step-in-to-help-deal-with-the-pandemic-in-kashmir-101620460447128.html
08-05-2021||Other||Covid negative certificates or proof of jab must for tourists entering Goa||Goa has made it mandatory for tourists entering the state to either have Covid-19 negative certificates or that of having been fully vaccinated.Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that the measure would be enforced from next week in compliance with a high court order.“Tourists entering Goa will have to produce valid RT PCR [reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction] negative test reports or proof of vaccination upon entering the state. This is only applicable for tourists,” Sawant said.The announcement came after the Bombay High Court at Goa on Thursday said that it was “not justified” that Goa is not insisting upon Covid-19 negative certificates from people seeking to visit the state.“Based on this unrestricted entry, Goa is touted as one of the few tourist destinations where all is well. This is neither fair to the populace in Goa already suffering from the overstretched medical infrastructure nor to the unsuspecting tourists who have to very often avail of the overstretched facilities at a great price,” the court said. It added the government should come up with restrictions. The court said that it was unfair to the state’s population that Goa being a tourist destination was being cited as a reason for not making it mandatory for having negative tests on arrival.Goa was reluctant to put restrictions on tourist arrivals fearing it would damage the tourism industry following a bad year due to a harsh Covid-19 induced lockdown in 2020.Goa had the highest positivity rate among states (48.5%) the first week of May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-negative-certificates-or-proof-of-jab-must-for-tourists-entering-goa-101620450486151.html
08-05-2021||Other||A day after arrest, man accused of murdering Ludhiana teen for phone escapes||A day after arrest, an accused in the murder of a 17-year-old boy in Daba area managed to escape from the police lock-up after removing the grilles of the skylight in the wee hours of Friday. His accomplices, however, failed to get away as the space was too narrow for them to slip through.The trio had stabbed the teen, identified as Amardeep Singh, when he had tried to resist a phone snatching bid. Following the jailbreak, police lodged an FIR against night munshi Roshan Preet and sentry Budhi Raj for negligence. Proceedings to suspend the two cops have also been initiated. As per information, the accused, Harvinder Singh alias Lali of Gurmel Nagar, Gurmeet Singh alias Gagan of Jamalpur village, and Tej Ram alias Chintu of Mundian Khurd, were lodged in the lock-up of Daba police station that was being run from the flats in Daba.As Harvinder Singh alias Lali was extremely lean, he managed to escape by bending the grilles. The incident is said to have taken place around 2.30am. The cops deputed at the police station were reportedly sleeping at the time. They came to know about the incident in the morning and alerted their seniors. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said it was utter negligence on the part of the police personnel deputed at the police station that a murder accused managed to flee. He said that teams have been formed to trace the accused. A case under Sections 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful appre¬hension) and 225 (resistance or obstruction to lawful apprehension of another person) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused as well as the two cops, he said. A departmental inquiry has also been ordered against the cops, the ADCP added.The trio was to be produced in the court on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-day-after-arrest-man-accused-of-murdering-ludhiana-teen-for-phone-escapes-101620420723018.html
08-05-2021||Other||Quarantined woman foils robbery bid by domestic help in Ludhiana||A woman in quarantine foiled a robbery bid at her house after a Nepalese domestic help, who was employed just three days ago, served milk laced with sedatives to her entire family and called his accomplices to carry out the crime.The incident took place in Panchsheel Vihar on late Thursday night. The woman, identified as Gunjan Sharma, had quarantined herself on the first floor of her house as she had symptoms of Covid-19. The domestic help had served the milk to her husband Gaurav Sharma, 46, who is a trader, his mother Shanti Devi, 65, the couple’s son Divansh Sharma, 15, and four-year-old daughter Siya Sharma. All of them lost consciousness after drinking the milk, however, Divansh gained consciousness after some time and alerted his mother.Gunjan then tried to assess the situation from the balcony and saw unidentified men trying to get into the house. She immediately raised the alarm following which the neighbours rushed outside. Seeing the neighbours, the domestic help and his accomplices fled the spot. The incident was captured on the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed outside the house. Family hospitalisedMeanwhile, the family members, excluding Gunjan, have been admitted to a private hospital on Ferozepur road. The domestic help was not able to serve the milk to Gunjan as she was under quarantine. Case against help, unidentified accomplicesThe Sarabha Nagar police have lodged an FIR against the domestic help, Dinesh, and his unidentified accomplices. Sarabha Nagar station house officer, inspector Paramdeep Singh said they received the information about the robbery bid on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday and immediately reached the spot to start investigation. Gaurav Sharma runs a business of CCTVs. He had hired Dinesh from an agency three days ago as their domestic help Gopi had left.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/quarantined-woman-foils-robbery-bid-by-domestic-help-in-ludhiana-101620420063873.html
08-05-2021||Other||Covid cases rise again in Chandigarh tricity area||A day after the tricity reported a significant drop in the daily Covid-19 cases and deaths, the numbers shot up again on Friday.The tricity added 2,340 new cases, up from 2,095 on Thursday, while the number of deaths rose from 17 to 21. With this, the active cases also climbed to 20,313 from 19,782 the day before.At 890 cases, Chandigarh led the Friday tally, matching its all-time high recorded on May 3. Mohali and Panchkula reported 927 and 523 infections, respectively. Mohali had the highest deaths at nine, followed by eight in Chandigarh and four in Panchkula.The latest fatalities, that included a 35-year-old woman, took Chandigarh’s toll to 549.Of the 48,442 cases reported in the city so far, 8,505 remain active, while 39,388 patients (81.3%) have recovered.Mohali’s caseload rose to 52,857, while the nine casualties pushed its toll to 666. Meanwhile, with 781 patients getting discharged, the number of recoveries increased to 43,144 (81.6%), leaving 9,047 active cases. The youngest among Panchkula’s casualties was a 32-year-old woman. The district’s total cases stand at 24,092, of which 2,761 patients are still recuperating. As many as 21,091 patients (87.5%) have been cured, making for the highest recovery rate in the tricity, and 240 have died. Since breaching the 2,000 mark for the first time on April 22, the tricity has logged 2,000+ cases as many as 12 times in 16 days. Just a week into May, it has clocked 15,131 cases and 175 deaths, against 43,145 cases and 311 deaths in the entirety of April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-cases-rise-again-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101620417782667.html
08-05-2021||Other||4 held for animal trafficking attempt in Maharashtra’s Alibag||Four persons were arrested in Alibag, Raigad district, on Thursday for protected wildlife’s trafficking attempt. Two live pangolins, an adult female and a cub were recovered from the accused who have been booked under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act (1972) by the Maharashtra forest department.Pangolins are protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Act, putting them in the same bracket as tigers, lions, rhinos and several other species. Smuggling or hunting of pangolins – which are classified as endangered in the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s red list of threatened species – attracts the highest penalties as per the law.Thursday’s arrest was made in Navghar region of the Sudhagad Pali forest reserve in Alibag. Officials said they acted on a tip-off received from an informant, and were able to nab the accused after one of them posed as a customer interested in purchasing pangolins for their scales, which are in high demand in the international wildlife market. “We had been on the trail of the accused for three days,” said range forest officer Sameer Shinde, who also credited Alibag’s deputy conservator of forests Ashish Thakre, and assistant conservator of forests Sanjay Kadam, for their role in the operation. The four accused have been booked under Sections 9 (prohibition of hunting), 39 (3) (possession of wild animals), 44 (1) (a) (dealing in captive animals), 48 (a) (illegal transportation of wildlife), 49 (purchase of wild animals) and sections 50, 51, and 51 (a), which dealing with arrests and penalties, of the Wildlife Protection Act (1972). They have been remanded to police custody.This is the third incident in Maharashtra this year where poachers have been arrested for smuggling of pangolins. In February, four people had been arrested from Ahmednagar district for attempting to smuggle these animals. During the same month, three persons had also been arrested from Raigad district in a similar case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-held-for-animal-trafficking-attempt-in-maharashtra-s-alibag-101620416341933.html
08-05-2021||Other||Forest dept staffer killed by elephant in Maharashtra’s reserve, animal restrained||A bull elephant from the Botezari elephant camp at Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) in Maharashtra’s Chandrapur district had to be physically tracked and restrained after it killed a forest department staffer on Thursday afternoon. The elephant, 25-year-old Gajraj, was finally tranquilised at 5am on Friday after a nightlong operation.Department officials said the elephant had entered a period of musth, a phenomenon seen in male adults that is characterised by aggressive, irritable behaviour and in which the elephant’s testosterone levels can shoot up by almost 60 times. Musth is a healthy occurrence and typically lasts between two-four months.“Unaware of this fact, assistant conservator of forests (Kolsa), Mr Kurkarni, along with chief accountant at the office of forest department, TATR, were moving in the same area. Their vehicle got stuck in the mud and they had to leave the vehicle looking at the approaching elephant. In the process, the elephant attacked the two and tragically Shri Gaurkar, chief accountant, died in the event,” the forest department said in a statement.“Two rapid response teams, one from Tadoba Tiger Reserve and another from the Chandrapur forest division had to be called in. We started tracking the animal on Thursday evening, but because it got dark and the elephant was aggressive, we could not confront it till about 5am, when it was finally taken into captivity. The elephant is currently chained and we’ll take a decision on releasing it after it is out of musth,” said Jitendra Ramgaonkar, chief conservator of forests, TATR.At least 80 people, including several members of TATR’s tiger protection force, were roped in for the operation. “Our main concern was the safety of villagers in Kolsa and Ram Talodi, which are the only two habitations inside the TATR core area. We immediately put the residents on alert. Our elephant camp was initially located outside the core tiger reserve area in a village called Moharli, and was shifted earlier this year to Botezari to avoid incidents like this. This was an extremely unfortunate occurrence,” said Ramgaonkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/forest-dept-staffer-killed-by-elephant-in-maharashtra-s-reserve-animal-restrained-101620415981910.html
08-05-2021||Other||Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case: NCB nabs alleged drug supplier from Goa||Continuing its probe into the purported drug links in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested an alleged major drug supplier Hemant Shah alias Maharaj. The special NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act) court in Mumbai remanded Shah to judicial custody for 14 days on Friday, said NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede. According to NCB officers, Shah was arrested from Miramar, Panjim, in Goa on March 8 during an operation in a local seizure case. Shah, a native of Madhya Pradesh, was running a shack and resort in Goa’s Morjim area from the past several years.Shah had allegedly supplied drugs to two local suppliers, Anuj Keshwani and Regal Mahakaal, who were arrested in September and December, respectively, in the drug probe related to the actor’s death.Keshwani and Mahakaal had revealed Shah’s involvement in the supply of drugs. “Both had in their statements said that Shah had supplied LSD and charas to them,” said Wankhede.Accordingly, NBC located Shah in Miramar and conducted raids at his premises on March 8 and allegedly recovered 15 blots of LSD (commercial quantity) and 30 grams of charas from there, said Wankhede.Thereafter, the agency filed an application on April 30 to take Shah’s custody to conduct an inquiry into the drug angle in Rajput’s death probe. The NDPS sessions court at Panjim issued an order, following which Shah’s custody was taken from the jail and he was produced in the court at Goa. He was brought to Mumbai on May 6 on transit remand. Keshwani is a Khar resident and during a search at his residence in September last year, the agency allegedly seized 590 grams of hashish, 0.64 gram of LSD sheets, 304 grams of marijuana, including imported marijuana joints and capsules, and cash worth ₹1.85 lakh as well as Indonesian currency from him. During his interrogation, Keshwani said Mahakaal used to supply drugs to him. Keshwani had allegedly supplied drugs to actor Rhea Chakraborty and Rajput, who was found dead in his Bandra apartment last June. Chakraborty’s counsel has earlier denied all the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-case-ncb-nabs-alleged-drug-supplier-from-goa-101620415502022.html
08-05-2021||Other||Bombay HC grants bail to 3 independent directors of PMC Bank||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday granted bail to three former independent directors of the scam-hit of Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank. HC said there was no evidence suggesting the involvement of the trio – arrested by Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing in 2019 – in the alleged fraud. “There is no evidence to show that the applicants were a part of any conspiracy with the prime accused in causing loss to the bank. There is nothing on record to show that the applicants at any point of time had met accused Nos 1, 2 [realty group Housing Development Infrastructure Limited’s Rakeshkumar Wadhawan and his son Sarang] or there were any meetings with HDIL’s directors,” said HC while granting bail to Dr Trupti Bane, Mukti Bavisi and Rajneet Tara Singh Nandrajog. “There is no evidence that the applicants received any kickback or gratification as board of directors of the bank or that they misused their position in sanctioning loan to themselves or to their relatives or any other person known to them,” the court added.Dr Bane, who works at Bhabha Hospital, was represented by noted lawyer Niteen Pradhan. Bavisi, a non-practicing chartered accountant was represented by senior advocate Ashok Mundargi, while Nandrajog had appointed Wesley Menezes and Waqar Pathan as his counsels.They had pointed that the statements of the witnesses do not establish prima facie case for commission of offence against their clients. All instructions to effectuate the fraudulent transactions were given by the chairperson and managing director to the managerial personnel of PMC Bank, they had argued.The prosecution had opposed the bail pleas.As per the prosecution case, the multi-state scheduled cooperative bank granted loans to HDIL without following the due process. The principle loan amount of ₹2,400 crore snowballed to ₹6,670 crore because HDIL allegedly failed to repay for the multiple loans taken between 2008 and 2019. PMC Bank’s senior management covered up these irregularities to avoid scrutiny by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), by masking the loan transactions from the Central bank auditors and manipulating the compute system to keep the transactions accessible only to a select few within the bank, the prosecution alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-grants-bail-to-3-independent-directors-of-pmc-bank-101620415321893.html
08-05-2021||Other||Bombay HC stays post-facto CRZ clearance for projects||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday stayed a recent office memorandum issued by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), allowing the ex-post facto approval of projects that have not yet obtained coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) clearance under the CRZ Notification, 2011.The stay was in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a Mumbai-based environmental group, challenging the constitutional validity of MoEFCC’s direction. The matter has been listed for final hearing on June 30, before a two-judge bench comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice GS Kulkarni.The impugned office memorandum, dated February 19, and authored by joint secretary of MoEFCC’s CRZ division Sujit Kumar Bajpayee, was also stayed by the Madurai bench of the Madras HC on April 29, in response to a different petition.MoEFCC’s office memo would have allowed projects – typically permitted as per CRZ, 2011, but did not seek requisite clearances prior to commencement –to become regularised subject to fulfilment of certain conditions.“Bringing such projects and activities in compliance with the environmental laws at the earliest point of time is therefore essential, rather than leaving them unregulated and unchecked, which will be more damaging to the environment,” Bajpayee had written to the environment secretaries of all coastal states.“As the project commenced construction and/or operations without a prior CRZ clearance, the respective coastal zone management authority shall assess the environmental damages caused by such an action and shall give specific recommendation in respect of activities, corresponding to the environmental or ecological damage assessed, to be taken up by the project proponent within a period of three years from the date of clearance, under compensatory conservation plan (CCP) and a community resource augmentation plan,” stated MoEFCC’s February 19 office memorandum, which has been reviewed by HT.“This circular empowers coastal authorities/MoEFCC to regularise all kinds of CRZ violations on a day-to-day basis, making it easier for environmental violators to evade substantive law. It further encourages a “pollute and pay” principle rather than the ‘precautionary principle’. A public interest litigation is filed by Vanashakti on the ground that this circular is arbitrary, wholly unconstitutional and in direct contravention of recent Supreme Court judgments,” said Mumbai-based NGO Vanashakti, at the time of filing their PIL before HC on March 30.Experts also pointed out while the amended CRZ (2019) notification has come into force, contingent coastal zone management plans (CZMP) as per the same have not yet been finalised. Until such a time, CRZ 2011 rules should remain in force, Vanashakti’s petition clarified, adding that neither notification allows for grant of ‘ex-post facto CRZ clearance’ which the MoEFCC’s office memorandum proposes to facilitate.HC has also stated that if any permission has been granted or any application has been received for any such CRZ regularisation by a violator since February 2019, then such persons and industries are to be informed of the proceedings stemming from Vanashakti’s PIL.“All such permissions and applications will be subjected to the outcome of the present PIL,” said Vanashakti’s advocate, Zaman Ali. A copy of the HC order is not yet available. The Madras HC, meanwhile, is set to take up the matter on August 25, in response to a PIL filed by R Fatima of Thoothukudi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-stays-post-facto-crz-clearance-for-projects-101620415141813.html
08-05-2021||Other||Defer Class 5 and 8 scholarship exam: Schools, parents to Maharashtra govt||As Covid-19 infections in Maharashtra continue to remain high, schools and parents have urged the state education department to either postpone or cancel the Class 5 and Class 8 scholarship examination, scheduled to be held on May 23. Over the past few days, there have been several demands to cancel the exam considering the risks involved in conducting them offline. However, a circular issued by the Maharashtra State Council of Examination on May 5, which had asked schools and teachers to prepare for the offline exam, irked parents and schools. “At a time when all exams including the professional ones such as JEE (Joint Entrance Examination), NEET (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test) and even board exams are being postponed, why the insistence on conducting offline exam for students as young as Class 5 and Class 8? In fact, if the exam cannot be postponed, it can be cancelled altogether. Children’s safety is more important than any exam,” said the principal of a suburban school. While the exam was earlier scheduled to take place on April 25, it was later pushed to May 23 due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown. Officials said that they will issue a circular in this regard soon. “There is a plan to postpone the exam and we will issue an official circular soon,” said an official from the education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/defer-class-5-and-8-scholarship-exam-schools-parents-to-maharashtra-govt-101620414842335.html
08-05-2021||Other||Need Remdesivir? Grab one at Varanasi Collectorate soon||Remdesivir injection, which is in huge demand for treating corona patients, will soon be available at Collectorate here, said a statement from district administration. The decision regarding this was taken at a meeting of UP ministers Neelkanth Tiwari, Ravindra Jaiswal with MLC AK Sharma, divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal and district magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma on Thursday, said the press statement. “The injection will be available for Covid patients under treatment in private hospitals or in home isolation. It will be made available free of cost for the patients at government hospitals as previously. Kin of the patients of those in home isolation or in private hospitals will have to show the doctors’ prescription and they will be given the injection at a minimum possible price,” read the statement. The anti-viral drug is being used to treat some critical Corona cases due to which it is in high demand. This has even led to shortage and black marketing of the injection.Also, a counter will be set up at each hospital where number of vacant beds and availability of the oxygen will be displayed, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/need-remdesivir-grab-one-at-varanasi-collectorate-soon-101620413822436.html
08-05-2021||Other||Prayagraj: State govt provides 100 additional monitors to SRN hosp ICU||For a better treatment of corona patients admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Swaroop Rani Nehru (SRN) Hospital, the state government has provided 100 more monitors for the ICU to the hospital for close monitoring and betterment of patients. The machines were handed over to the hospital administration by Uttar Pradesh Civil Aviation, Minority Welfare, Political Pension, Muslim Waqf and Haj Minister Nand Gopal Gupta Nandi on Friday. During this time, the Principal of SRN Hospital, Dr SP Singh and district magistrate of Prayagraj Bhanu Chandra Goswami were also present. The minister held an inspection accompanied by doctors and officials and learned about the arrangements at the hospital. At the same time, he encouraged the doctors and other health workers who are serving the people in these difficult circumstances.The minister said that close monitoring of admitted patients in ICU is the need of the hour, in which these computerized monitors will prove to be helpful.The principal of SRN Medical College, Dr SP Singh said that through the monitors, the SPO-2 oxygen saturation level of the admitted patients in the ICU will be monitored. Accordingly, the doctor will be able to see the flow of oxygen. When oxygen is in the BIPAP or on a ventilator, the entire parameter is visible on a vital monitor. The pulse rate, blood sender and ECG will also be displayed, so that there is no problem in monitoring a patient, he explained.Everything is visible on the monitor, which remains connected to the doctor’s duty room. The doctor can also monitor the patient’s vitals through the monitor from the duty room. If the saturation falls, the monitor starts beeping, he explained.There were 140 monitors already available in the hospital and these new 100 machines will allow more patients to remain under better observation, he said.When asked about the arrangements and supply of oxygen by the minister, Principal Dr SP Singh said that SRN has two liquid tanks for the supply of oxygen with a capacity of 40,000 litres. The per-day need is about 20,000 to 22,000 litres of oxygen. The liquid supply in the tank is from Jamshedpur. Two tankers arrive per day due to which the supply of oxygen in the SRN remains constant. There is no shortage of oxygen so far. Minister Nandi directed increasing the capacity and installation of an additional tanker for oxygen supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-state-govt-provides-100-additional-monitors-to-srn-hosp-icu-101620413401594.html
