09-05-2021||Other||11,707 found with ILI symptoms in Prayagraj villages||District and the medical health department’s rapid response teams (RRTs) have identified 11,707 suspected patients having influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms during the five-day mega testing drive launched in 3,178 villages of 23 development blocks of Prayagraj district from May 5, which concluded on Sunday, informed officials.Based on the principle of the test, trace and treat, the aggressive drive was undertaken with the help of special teams of medical and paramedical staff assisted by accredited social health activist (ASHA) workers and Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs).“This house-to-house survey concluded on Sunday and was undertaken as part of a state-wide effort to identify suspected patients of coronavirus, test them and ensure treatment/medicines/admissions of those found infected and in need. A detailed micro-plan was prepared for this mission, and it was according to this that the exercise was undertaken,” said Dr Rishi Sahai, the district Covid nodal officer.“During the five-day exercise, the teams identified 11,707 with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms in the rural areas of the district including 1805 detected on May 5, 2520 on May 6, 2867 on May 7, 2371 were discovered on May 8 and 2144 on May 9. Of them, rapid antigen tests and RT-PCR tests of the majority of them have been performed and the rest would be tested till Tuesday,” he said while saying the data of Covid positive cases found among these suspected patients were yet to reach him.During this exercise, the members of RRTs distributed 9,169 medicine kits as well, among the suspected patients including 338 on May 5, 1934 on May 6, 2656 on May 7, 2095 on May 8 and 2146 on May 9, he added.Dr Sahai said over 4,100 rapid response teams (RRTs) scoured the district’s hinterland as part of the house-to-house initiative covering around 6 lakh houses in 3178 villages located in 23 development blocks of the district.“One team was deputed for every 1000 members of the population, consisting of at least two members including a local ASHA or Anganwadi worker or ANM, a school teacher or member of the local nigrani samiti. Each team was dedicated to a specifically designated area undertaking house-to-house visits between 8am and 2pm each day,” he added.“The team members also spread awareness regarding Covid-19 among the people and also explained the ways to protect themselves from the virus. Anyone found with suspected symptoms was listed and sent for testing. They also distributed free medicine kits. The team leaders were required to file a daily report in the set format about the houses surveyed and list of suspected patients found etc till 4pm on the designated surveillance portal (upcovid19tracks.in) and also deposit a copy of this report at the local community or primary health centre,” Dr Sahai said. In the Pratappur development block, around 200 RRTs were active as part of the exercise. The medical superintendent in charge of Pratappur community health centre Dr Sayeed Ahmed, who was overseeing the exercise in the area, said over 55 positive cases were identified in Pratappur in the first two days itself and all had been provided free medical kits and home isolated after due counselling.“The target was to test 100 suspected cases each day,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11707-found-with-ili-symptoms-in-prayagraj-villages-101620580154902.html
09-05-2021||Other||Medical stores now doubling up as groceries||P+UNE With a strict weekend lockdown in place residents are finding alternate options to buy groceries. Some big medical shops have started selling grocery items, bakery products, ice-creams and various other such items. “There is one 24x 7 medical shop on Satara road where we get almost everything which we buy from a normal grocery shop. There are biscuits, chips, packed food items and many other things,” said Ashutosh Phad, a student living near Swargate. These shops mostly operate round the clock and people rush here not to buy medicines, but these grocery items. Even the civic body or police department won’t take any action against such violators. Shivaji Desai, joint commissioner, Foods and drugs administration, said, “There are complaints received about such medical stores selling food items, but they have a legal food license for it. If needed and found violating the rules the police department or civic body can take necessary action.”Folk artistes to raise Covid1-9 awareness from talukas to municipal areasThe state government has decided to create awareness about Covid-19 through local folk artistes. The state government’s cultural department has issued an order to all local bodies, including the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), to run awareness programmes. The state has sanctioned ₹5 crore for this.The tourism and cultural affairs department under secretary Shailesh Jadhav has issued an order which mentioned folk artistes should be given priority to create awareness from the taluka level to the corporation level. The government has fixed ₹500 per show and one artiste should hold 10 programmes in a seven-day period. In district level, administration will have to give permission to 300 artistes and each district spend Rs13.50 lakh on the awareness programmes. Artists should have to follow all the rules and regulation as mentioned by state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/medical-stores-now-doubling-up-as-groceries-101620577994013.html
09-05-2021||Other||7,380 new Covid-19 cases, 25 deaths on Sunday in Pune district||PUNE Pune distrcit reported 7,380 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours as per the state health department. The district also reported 25 deaths due to the infection. Pune district reported a progressive count of 0.926 million Covid-19 cases, of which 0.815 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 10,107 with 1,00,316 active cases currently under home isolation or undergoing hospital treatment. Pune rural recorded 3,440 new cases on Sunday which took the final count to 2,41,772. With eight more deaths the toll went up to 2,649. Pune city reported 2,110 new cases taking the final count to 4,59,671. With 17 more deaths, the death toll stands at 5,870. PCMC also reported 1,830 new cases, which takes the count to 2,24,681. No more deaths were reported on Sunday in PCMC, so the death toll stands at 1,530.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7380-new-covid-19-cases-25-deaths-on-sunday-in-pune-district-101620577094060.html
09-05-2021||Other||Azam, son shifted to Lucknow hospital from Sitapur jail 8 days after testing Covid-19 positive||Former Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Azam Khan and his son Abdullah Azam, lodged in Sitapur district jail for the past many months, were shifted to a private hospital in Lucknow on Sunday on the recommendation of a district-level medical team, said senior officials of the UP prison administration.The senior Samajwadi Party (SP) leader and his son, along with 14 other prisoners, had tested positive for the Covid-19 infection at the Sitapur district jail on May 1 during a routine testing drive for prisoners. The duo was under medical treatment at the jail since then.A senior jail official confirmed that the former minister and his son were taken to Lucknow in an ambulance.He said they were in jail since February 26, 2020, when a Rampur court rejected their bail application in a case related to alleged forgery in age-proof documents of Abdullah Azam.In September 2019, the court had issued summons to Khan, his wife Tazeen Fatima and his son taking cognizance of the charge sheet filed by Rampur police, in which all three were charged with forgery and cheating. On January 3, 2019, local BJP leader Akash Saxena had lodged a complaint alleging that Azam and his wife helped their son in obtaining two fake birth certificates – one from Lucknow and another from Rampur – following which an FIR was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/azam-son-shifted-to-lucknow-hospital-from-sitapur-jail-8-days-after-testing-covid-19-positive-101620574453821.html
09-05-2021||Other||PMC to complete connecting road via Katraj dairy||PUNE The PMC has finally decided to complete the connecting road work via the Katraj dairy. The road will bypass from Trimurti chowk to Maitri chow in Katraj. The road work has been pending since 2017 due to land-related issues. The dairy has a milk outlet on the spot from where the connecting road passes. The civic body has promised that it would pay them ₹1.60 crore as compensation for demolishing eight houses on the road. A fencing wall at the cost of ₹56 lakh would be constructed and the 200-metre road will be constructed at the cost of ₹2.50 crore.Area corporator Yuvraj Beldare who spearheaded the work and had set a target of four months for road completion said, “A lot of follow-up was done and it was due to the intervention of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar that issue was sorted out. Once the road fund is sanctioned, work on the stretch will begin soon.”Beldare said that the issue was stuck due to unreasonable demands of the dairy administration and PMC officials were ready with a win-win plan. Ultimately the issue has been resolved, he claimed.Sanjay Bhosale, an area resident said, “The new road will reduce traffic and sort out the commuting problems of the residents. It’s a positive step in right direction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-complete-connecting-road-via-katraj-dairy-101620573013767.html
09-05-2021||Other||Irregular slot-booking process has 45+ age group fretting over second vaccine dose||PUNE In addition to a short supply of vaccines in the city, Pune’s vaccination drive has also been affected by an irregular slot-booking process. Citizens have complained that the slots do not open at a fixed time and even when they do, they fill up within minutes of opening. Some have stated that bots and apps have been put in place to alert citizens regarding opening of slots which makes it difficult for others to get a vaccination appointment.Since vaccination opened up for those aged between 18 and 44 years from May 1, Pune city has had to shut down vaccination for four days for all those aged above 45 years. This was done primarily because of the vaccine shortage. Although the app has been designed by the central government, local authorities have to open up slots and create sessions at vaccination centres depending on stock. In Pune city, the PMC does not have an official means of communicating with the citizens, unlike Mumbai, which has an official Twitter handle which posts daily updates. On Sunday, additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal stated: “For those aged between 18 to 44 years, Covid vaccination is planned at 6 centres tomorrow (Monday). Covishield will be available at two centres and Covaxin at 4 centres. Appointment/slot booking will start at pm and only citizens who have got prior appointments would be vaccinated. Vaccination is planned for citizens above 45 years of age at 111 centres tomorrow. Covishield will be available at 101 centres and Covaxin will be available at 10 centres. The second dose will be given only to the citizens who have taken the first dose before April 12, 2021 at the 10 centres where Covaxin is available. Citizens who took the first dose before March 22, 2021 will be given priority at centres where Covishield is available. Also, the first dose will be given to 20% of citizens who come as per appointment.”A senior PMC health official said, “The slots are created according to the availability of the vaccine which is not regular. The vaccines which the centre sends are available for those aged above 45, while the ones the state purchases are reserved for those aged between 18-44 years of age, and so, slots are created accordingly. “In rural Pune, the Zilla Parishad has given the authority to taluka heads to book slots depending on vaccine availability. ZP chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said, “Rural areas are not places with nothing. In rural areas like Lonavala, Hinjewardi, Baramati and Chakan, everyone is using smartphones and so people book and see the list online just like everywhere else. The authority to book the slots has been given to the talukas and there is no fixed time, but the mechanism is very efficient in rural Pune.”However, despite all efforts, the district’s vaccination rate has fallen down in comparison to what was expected. While Pune had aimed to vaccinate 0.1 million people daily, on Saturday, only close to 7,000 people got the jab. Aniket Kasabe, who has been looking for a slot said, “As soon as i got the letter I went online to check it but the slots are not opened up. They say it will open up by 8pm but since the past few days I have been glued to my computer to book the slot, but within minutes it says all booked.” Another beneficiary due his second dose, Sushil Joshi said, “There are many people above 45 years of age who are waiting for their second dose of Covaxin. Authorities in Pune are prioritizing the 18 to 44 year age group. This is a waste of the first dose for the 45+ group.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/irregular-slot-booking-process-has-45-age-group-fretting-over-second-vaccine-dose-101620570313513.html
09-05-2021||Other||PCB to set-up oxygen plant at Cantonment Hospital; Girish Bapat corporates donate funds||PUNE The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) will set up its own oxygen plant at its Sardar Vallabhai Cantonment General Hospital, funded by a grant of ₹25 lakh from Pune’s BJP MP Girish Bapat. In addition to that, some corporates have pledged additional financial support for the oxygen plant. The plant will ensure round-the-clock oxygen supply to the ICU and patients in need, allowing 350 oxygen beds to be managed successfully. Additionally, the plant will have an oxygen storage tank with a capacity of 0.2 million litres.PCB CEO Amit Kumar said, “The MP will be allotting ₹25 lakh for the new plant. Also, some prominent corporates committed to help us set up the plant. As of today, there are a number of challenges for oxygen cylinder replenishments. The in-house facility will give us strength to serve an increased number of patients at the hospital.” Former PCB vice-president Vinod Mathurawala said that board was purchasing oxygen cylinders at the price of ₹30,000 each with a daily requirement of 125 cylinders.“With the commissioning of the plant, it would become hassle-free as oxygen supply is guaranteed. This will boost the capacity to protect more lives from the Cantonment area,” he said.The PCB hospital has a dedicated Covid treatment ward with a capacity of 125 patients, in addition to 18 beds in the ICU. All the beds are currently occupied.Social activist Manjett Singh Virdi , president of Camp-based MS Virdi foundation said, “The oxygen plant will ensure 24-hour oxygen supply and it will play a key role in the board mission to treat and save lives of patients. We will provide all our support to the administration for this noble task.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pcb-to-set-up-oxygen-plant-at-cantonment-hospital-girish-bapat-corporates-donate-funds-101620568033392.html
09-05-2021||Other||Chicken, mutton vendors beat weekend lockdown with “half-shutter” downs||PUNE Despite a strict weekend lockdown in place in the city, huge crowds were seen outside chicken and mutton on Sunday morning. Even shop owners stayed open with shutters half down or back doors open, which led to crowding outside the shops.Similar scenes were noticed on internal roads, where vegetable vendors drew the crowds. During the weekend, starting from Friday 8 pm till Monday 7 am, all non-essential shops are to remain closed, except medical stores. Milk delivery is allowed in the morning hours. Speaking anonymously, the owner of a mutton shop in Katraj area said, “Sunday is our main day to do business and most of our customers come to buy meat only on Sunday, so we cannot keep the shop shut. Due to this weekend lockdown we are facing a lot of difficulties. On one side customers call us to get meat and then, we have to manage it with shutters down.”There eight chicken and mutton vendors in the Katraj area near the Dattanagar chowk. When the local police came to know about the crowds, they immediately rushed to the spot to close down the shops. “Meat shops should remain open on the weekend, as lots of people plan to eat non-vegetarian food only on weekends. Also vegetable shops and roadside vendors should also be allowed. I got one kg of mutton from my regular shop, but from the backdoor,” said Vipul Alekar a resident of Hadapsar. Another resident, Sachin Alande, said, “We prefer to eat chicken every Sunday, and in this situation protein is a good option. When I went to the nearby shop to buy chicken it was closed, but then I contacted the owner and he called me to another place. Now some restrictions need to be relaxed as the Covid cases are dropping.”Talking about this weekend lockdown restrictions, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “During weekend only emergency services are allowed and medical shops, all other essential shops or vegetable and fruit vendors should remain closed. If anyone is opening the shops then they will be penalised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chicken-mutton-vendors-beat-weekend-lockdown-with-half-shutter-downs-101620567493350.html
09-05-2021||Other||As district gasps for oxygen, Moga police hoards 5 cylinders for own facility||Even as the district grapples with a shortage of life-saving oxygen gas for Covid-19 patients, Moga police have hoarded five oxygen cylinders at a special quarantine facility set up for cops.The facility at SSMD Ayurvedic College and Hospital in Duaneke village of Moga has 30 beds and five oxygen cylinders – but no cops in quarantine. In other parts of the district, however, there are 192 Covid patients currently on oxygen support at various government and private hospitals. With just 150 cylinders in its possession currently, the district health department is struggling to meet the demand for oxygen. Moga’s current oxygen requirement is 4.7 MT a day, against which it is getting only 3.5 MT. Oxygen plants based in Mandi Gobindgarh are ready to supply the life-saving gas to the district to meet the requirement, but the non-availability of empty cylinders is posing a challenge. When HT contacted, the supervisor of the quarantine facility for cops, inspector Gurpreet Singh, who is the station house officer of City police station, confirmed that the facility has 30 beds and five oxygen cylinders. “More can be arranged as per requirement. This facility is only for cops,” he said. SSMD Ayurvedic College and Hospital’s principal Dr PC Singla said the five oxygen cylinders at the facility have a combined capacity of 33 litres. Moga civil surgeon Amarpreet Kaur Bajwa said, “Doctor’s prescription is mandatory for getting oxygen supply. Besides that, I cannot say much. It is up to the administration as they are regulating the oxygen supply.” Sub-divisional magistrate Satwant Singh, who is the nodal officer for management of oxygen supply in the district, said, “One cannot possess an oxygen cylinder without a doctor’s prescription. I will look into the matter immediately.” Senior superintendent of police Harmanbir Singh did not respond to repeated calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-district-gasps-for-oxygen-moga-police-hoards-5-cylinders-for-own-facility-101620505990894.html
09-05-2021||Other||Drug racket busted at Amritsar jail, 4 held||Police on Saturday busted a heroin-smuggling racket being run from the Amritsar Central jail, allegedly by notorious gangster Harwinder Singh alias Mannu.Four persons, including a woman, were arrested and 300gm heroin, two country-made pistols of .32 bore, ₹5.25 lakh drug money, two luxury cars (Honda Amaze and Hyundai Verna) and an internet dongle were seized from their possession. The accused have been identified as Vijay Masih of Kalanaur, Robin Masis of Kala Afghana, and gangster Mannu’s cousin Ranjit Singh alias Jeetu and sister Rajwinder Kaur. Police said Vijay and Robin were hired by Mannu, who is lodged at the Amritsar jail and is facing a dozen criminal cases. Mannu, a resident of Kotli Surat Malhi village of Batala, also has links with smugglers based in Pakistan, they said. “Vijay and Robin had been smuggling heroin into various villages on Mannu’s instructions. The proceeds of the smuggled heroin were being submitted to Mannu’s sister Rajwinder,” said Batala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rashpal Singh, adding that their teams were on duty to bring Mannu on production warrant. He said the drug money was recovered from Rajwinder’s house after the confessional statements of Vijay and Robin, who were arrested with 300 gm heroin, two pistols and two cars. He said alleged that Jeetu was coordinating between Vijay and Rajwinder. A case under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and Arms Act has been registered against the accused in Batala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drug-racket-busted-at-amritsar-jail-4-held-101620504910116.html
09-05-2021||Other||7 months on, one held for ASI’s murder in Tarn Taran||Victim Gurdeep Singh, 57, who was posted at the Civil Lines in Tarn Taran, was gunned down by two unidentified bike-borne men after he resisted their snatching bid near Kakka Kandiala village. The accused, who has landed in the police net, has been identified as Jobanjit Singh alias Bobby of Bandala village in Tarn Taran. As per the police, Jobanjit had carried out the crime along with one Lovedeep Singh of None village. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said a team, led by deputy superintendent of police (DSP-PIB) Ravisher Singh, had tracked down the accused with the help of technical evidence. He added that after the crime, the duo had left the state to avoid being traced. “We laid a trap to bring Jobanjit to Jalandhar. As soon as he reached here, we arrested him,” said the SSP.As per the deceased cop’s son, Manpreet Singh, 19, who was present at the scene of crime, the duo had waylaid them when they were on their way back home. “When the accused tried to snatch my mobile phone, my father fought back. One of the accused shot my father thrice and then assaulted me with an iron rod,” said Manpreet. The case against the accused was registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 379-B (snatching with force) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Tarn Taran Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7-months-on-one-held-for-asi-s-murder-in-tarn-taran-101620504670525.html
09-05-2021||Other||Want complete lockdown in Ludhiana, 17-hr curfew will not suffice: Industry||Though the industry has been demanding that trading hours of shops selling essential items be curtailed, the district administration’s announcement of a 17-hour curfew has not gone down well with its stakeholders, who want a complete lockdown. On Friday, the district administration had announced a 17-hour curfew in Ludhiana starting May 10 (Monday), under which all shops will be allowed to stay open from 5am to noon. Industrialists say lockdown in other states of the country had affected their output and while payments were stuck, stocks were piling up even as labour was leaving in hoards. In his latest orders, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma had said all industries will continue to function and labour and employers will get curfew passes. Barring a few sectors such as chemists, emergency medical facilities and milk vendors, all shops, including those selling essential items, will remain open till noon, after which curfew will be imposed. Chamber Of Commercial And Industrial Undertakings (CICU) general secretary Pankaj Sharma said the government was turning a blind eye to the large number of labourers leaving the district on a daily basis in private buses, which were choked. “If the government wants factories to run, they should encourage the labour to stay back. How will we run our units if labour continues to leave? There should be complete lockdown for at least one week,” Sharma said, adding that a partial lockdown will not reap any benefits as the restricted timings will lead to panic buying, especially when it will be close to noon. “Everyone will rush to shops between 10am and noon. Who will open their shops at 5am?” asked Sharma. United Cycle Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) president DS Chawla said the small and medium scale industry was unable to generate financial resources as at least 15 states, which the industry caters to, are under lockdown. “A number of industrialists have died of Covid recently. The government should impose complete lockdown. I appeal every industry to take care of their employees. The labour is our asset,” he said. As per Badish Jindal, chairperson of the Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association, there is bound to be unprecedented rush during the relaxed hours, which will accelerate the spread. “We have requested the chief minister to impose complete lockdown for the industry as we no longer have any markets amid the lockdown in other states,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/want-complete-lockdown-in-ludhiana-17-hr-curfew-will-not-suffice-industry-101620503050507.html
09-05-2021||Other||Maratha quota: Maharashtra govt to form rtd judges’ panel to suggest way ahead||The Maharashtra government on Saturday announced to appoint a committee under two retired high court (HC) judges to review the recent Supreme Court (SC) judgment over the Maratha reservation and suggest the way forward. The committee, comprising five-six other members including laws officers, is expected to submit its report in two weeks to the state government.The Maharashtra government also asked chief secretary Sitaram Kunte to review the recruitments which have been affected owing to the verdict. According to the officials from the state government, there are more than 3,000 employees who have been recruited between November 2018 and September 2020 when the law was in force. The decision over according them permanent recruitment has to be taken. “There are thousands of employees who were recruited on the basis of the reservation given in 2014, but are currently out of job because it was later struck down by the Bombay HC. Kunte has been asked to take a call on them with deliberations from the secretaries of other departments,” said an official from the general administration department.The Marathas were given 12% and 13% quota in education and government jobs, respectively, under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018. On Wednesday, SC quashed it, stating that people from the community cannot be declared educationally and socially backward just to bring them in the reserved category. The five-judge SC bench also refused to refer the 1992 Indra Sawhney judgment that set a 50-% cap on reservation to a larger bench for reconsideration.The state cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation, headed by public works department minister Ashok Chavan and comprising other senior ministers, held a meeting to take a call on future course of action. “The committee under retired HC judges will study the SC verdict minutely and give their observations and available legal remedy on the reservation. The state government will take its decision after the report is submitted in two weeks. The decision over filing the review petition before the five-judge [SC] bench will also be taken based on the report,” said Chavan.The state government is also tapping the option of requesting the central government to intervene, as the judgment stated that the right to accord the reservation is with Centre after the 102nd Constitutional amendment. “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will write to the President and prime minister, requesting them to take steps required for the reservation. The Centre has time and again clarified that the powers of the states have not been nullified even after the amendment, though the SC order has stated otherwise,” said Chavan.Urban development department minister and member of the cabinet sub-committee Eknath Shinde said that the government was committed to continue the benefits to the Marathas. “We have already rolled out the sops to the community in terms of scholarship, freeships, hostel facilities and financial assistance for entrepreneurship. They will further be streamlined,” he said.Legal experts have opined that the state government has very limited options left on the issue. “The review petition before the same [SC] bench would not help as there should be some other ground than the ones that have been exhausted. Even if the Maharashtra government requests the Centre for the reservation, the ratification of the backwardness of the Marathas would be a task as the quantifiable data submitted by the state backward class commission has not been accepted by the top court. The state can think of an entirely new law by weeding out the lacunae in SEBC Act, 2018, but it too will be subject to legal scrutiny,” an official from Mantralaya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maratha-quota-maharashtra-govt-to-form-rtd-judges-panel-to-suggest-way-ahead-101620502389399.html
09-05-2021||Other||UP records 26,847 fresh Covid-19 cases, 298 more deaths||Uttar Pradesh on Saturday reported 26,847 fresh Covid-19 cases and 298 more deaths, according to official data. The state capital witnessed new 2179 cases and 38 deaths.The state’s overall infection count has now gone up to 14,80,315 and the death toll has touched 15,170 since the pandemic began early last year, the data showed.“In the past 24 hours, 34,731 patients — 7884 more than new cases in the same period — were discharged, while a total of 12,19,409 patients have recovered in the state till now,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary (information) at a press conference.At present, there are 2,45,736 active cases (patients) under treatment in the state which is far below 3,01,833, the number of active cases on May 1. The fall in active cases is the result of the aggressive test, treat and trace policy of the state, he said.Among the fresh cases, Lucknow reported the maximum 2179, Meerut 1653, Saharanpur 1485, Gautam Buddha Nagar 1188, Kanpur 863, Varanasi 794, Jhansi 632, Ghaziabad 564 and Prayagraj 451.The state capital reported 38 deaths, Kanpur 23, Jhansi 18, Meerut 12, Prayagraj, Gautam Buddha Nagar and Ghazipur 11 each, Saharanpur 9, Sonbhadra 7 and Varanasi 4, according to the state health department data.“Lucknow has till now reported 2,25,923 Covid-19 cases of which 1,98,109 recovered and the recovery rate is 87.68%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general association of international doctors. Lucknow currently has 25,748 active cases under treatment, a majority of whom are in home isolation.Of the total active cases in the state, 1,93,426 are in home isolation and 8,759 admitted to private hospitals. The remaining are in government Covid care facilities.Till now, the state has tested over 4.27 crore (4,27,24,305) samples, including 2,23,155 in the past 24-hours. About 84,000 more RT PCR samples have already been sent to the labs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-records-26-847-fresh-covid-19-cases-298-more-deaths-101620501489850.html
09-05-2021||Other||Oxygen demand rose three-five times in second wave, says Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said that the total medical oxygen demand in the state during the first wave of Covid-19 was approximately 300 metric tonnes per day and it had now increased by three to five times during the second wave. “During the first wave, the demand was approximately 300 metric tonnes per day while on Friday alone the state supplied nearly 1,000 metric tonnes of oxygen across the state. The demand has risen manifold in the second wave as many patients are now needing oxygen support,” said Yogi Adityanath in Moradabad and Bareilly, according to a state government statement.“Special plans have been made as the demand for oxygen has grown many times, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved 61 new oxygen plants for UP. The process is on to set up one oxygen plant in every district by the sugarcane department,” he added.It was Yogi’s first visit outside the state capital since he recovered from Covid last week. He visited Mordabad and Bareilly for the Covid review of all the districts in the two administrative divisions. To review the work of the nigrani samitis (surveillance committees), he visited Manoharpur village in Moradabad. He asked the members of surveillance committees and the RRTs (rapid response teams) regarding the antigen tests conducted at Manoharpur village. The committees reported that one person was found positive in the village during the special testing drive. The chief minister interacted with the Covid positive person while maintaining social distancing.About the nigrani samitis and the village surveillance drive, Yogi said, “At present, more than 60,000 committees are working under the special screening campaign in around 97,000 revenue villages of the state. Door-to-door rapid antigen tests are being conducted on a massive scale.”He also reviewed the availability of medical kits and gave proper instructions to the officers. A state government statement said that the government on May 5 launched a five-day testing drive to identify symptomatic patients and provide them medical aid.Later, talking to reporters, Yogi said Covid-19 cases declined significantly in the state since May 1. “Total active cases were around 3 lakh on April 30. Within eight days, from May 1 to 8 the cases have decreased by 65,000. So far, more than 3,500 cases have reduced in Moradabad under the action plan of Covid management,” he said.“There were doubts that Covid-19 positive cases will touch the one lakh-mark by May 5, and today is May 8. The count of fresh cases on Saturday stands at 26,847. The second doubt was that cases will increase during the panchayat polls. The panchayat elections ended on April 29, and there has been a continuous drop in the number of cases,” he underlined.Along with officials, he inspected the facilities at the Integrated Command and Control Centre in Moradabad and Bareilly. He also reviewed the arrangements being made at the centres to tackle the Covid-19 situation in the district.“It is a disaster and not an ordinary disease. Sometimes, all kinds of resources fall short in such pandemic. While many big nations are getting battered in this epidemic, we are fighting it strongly with the support of the central government. With collective efforts, we shall overcome this disaster,” Yogi Adityanath said.He also said the state government had directed each district administration to give priority to Covid positive patients.Talking about the vaccination drive for 18-44 age group people, Yogi said that the drive will be launched in several more districts, including Moradabad on Monday. He asked Moradabad district administration to prepare well for the launch. The drive was launched in Bareilly on May 1 along with six other UP districts, including Lucknow.Yogi asked officials of the districts in Moradabad division and Bareilly division to scale up Covid management resources--beds, human resource etc. (WITH AGENCY INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-demand-rose-three-five-times-in-second-wave-says-yogi-101620500949369.html
09-05-2021||Other||Lockdown in Kerala begins, CM Vijayan says situation tough||Thiruvananthapuram: In a bid to contain the Covid surge, the Kerala government imposed an eight-day lockdown from Saturday. The curbs will remain in place still May 16. The state on Saturday recorded a high of 41,971 cases with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 28.25%. Addressing mediapersons through a virtual meet chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said the second wave was really challenging and the government will do everything possible to save lives. “Situation is really tough during the second wave. Though we face shortage of doses we started vaccinating people below 45 years. The government is keeping a strict tab on oxygen situation and availability of hospital beds,” he said. In the morning he held a series of meetings with heads of various departments to spruce up the ongoing fight against the pandemic. “Experts say in the second phase of virus strain is deadly. So we all will have to take extra caution,” he said requesting people to remain at home and follow directives of the state health ministry in letter and spirit. Experts have warned recently that the double mutant variant or SARS-COV2 lineage B.1. 617 is found to be prevalent here. They said it was almost similar to the one reported in Maharashtra (Amaravati strain) and it was at least twice infectious as earlier variants. Earlier the state had confirmed the presence of mutant strains from United Kingdom and South Africa. Experts said the double mutant variant is dangerous than UK and African variants. As cases soar the government imposed a complete down as the weekend restrictions and curbs failed to check the rising graph. This will be extended till May 16 midnight and the government said it is likely to be extended further after gauging the situation. Around 25,000 additional policemen have been deployed to ensure adherence to lockdown norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lockdown-in-kerala-begins-cm-vijayan-says-situation-tough-101620500889233.html
09-05-2021||Other||Decision on lockdown in Maharashtra likely to be next week||Maharashtra recorded 53,605 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday and 864 deaths, taking the tally to 5,053,336 and toll to 75,277, even as the state government in deliberating on various options over the lockdown which will end on May 15 at 7.00am.The state had imposed the lockdown across Maharashtra from April 22 and extended it from 7.00am on May 1 till May 15. In eight districts where there has been a surge in Covid-19 cases, there is a complete lockdown, where citizens can step out only for medical emergencies.Health minister Rajesh Tope said that various options are being explored by the government which will be finalised next week. “We are recording 50,000-60,000 cases daily. These figures are not declining, but are stable. We have various options such as extending the lockdown or to continue with restrictions only in those areas where the cases are increasing,” said Tope, adding that in 12 of the total 36 districts, the Covid-19 cases have re reduced, of which is a positive thing in the battle against the virus.According to Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Parel’s Gut Clinic, the government is faced with a Hobson’s choice. “It will be very difficult call for the government as it concerns the lives as well as livelihood of citizens. The middle path would be to open in a staggered manner in places like Mumbai where the positivity rate is low and Covid-19 cases have been controlled,” said Dr Mandot. “However, the authorities should enforce strict adherence of Covid-19 protocols so that there is no surge in areas where there is a partial opening,” he added.Meanwhile, the state has complained to the Central government about the Karnataka government stopping 50 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen from a steel plant in Bellary meant for Kolhapur and other parts of western Maharashtra.“The Centre needs to keep politics aside and save the lives of people in places such as Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri which have been affected by the blockade imposed by the Karnataka government,” said minister of state for home Satej Patil.The state recorded 82,266 recoveries on Saturday and conducted 260,751 tests. Currently there are 628,213 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops the list with 106,829 patients, followed by Nagpur (62,159) active patients.Mumbai has reported the highest death toll in the state with 13,713 deaths, followed by Pune (10,024).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/decision-on-lockdown-in-maharashtra-likely-to-be-next-week-101620500829837.html
09-05-2021||Other||TRS former MLA arrested in lawyer couple’s murder case: Police||Hyderabad Telangana Police on Saturday arrested Peddapalli zilla parishad chairman and Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) former legislator Putta Madhukar in connection with the murder of an advocate couple in broad day light in Peddapalli district on February 17. According to police, they took Madhukar into custody from Bhimavaram town in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district in the early hours on Saturday. He was brought to Ramagundam police commissionerate later in the evening. A statement from Ramagundam police said Madhukar was absconding from his house in Peddapalli for the last 10 days after switching off his mobile phone. Police said they are questioning the leader to find out why he had gone underground and to where. On February 17, high court advocates Gattu Vamana Rao (53) and his wife P V Nagamani (50) were waylaid and hacked to death by some miscreants at Kalvacharla village in Ramagiri block while they were returning after a court case at Manthani, according to police, who had earlier questioned Madhukar in connection with the couple’s murder. Ramagundam police said Vamana Rao’s father Kishan Rao has recently lodged another complaint in connection with the murder, suspecting it was abetted by Madhukar. “Based on the complaint, police have taken the zilla parishad chairman into custody for questioning,” the statement said. Madhukar represented Manthani assembly constituency from the TRS ticket between 2014 and 2018. In December 2018 assembly elections, he lost to D Sridhar Babu of the Congress. According to police, Madhukar’s nephew Bittu Srinu and his followers, who were accused in the murder of the advocate couple, are in judicial custody. On April 6, following a direction from Telangana high court, which has taken suo motu cognizance of the murder case, police registered a case against Madhukar’s wife and Manthani municipal chairperson Putta Shailaja for allowing Bittu Srinu to use her mobile phone to make a video call with someone from the court premises. A police official from Ramagundam said on condition of anonymity that Madhukar was also a close associate of senior TRS leader and former state health minister Eatala Rajender, who was sacked from the cabinet by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao following allegations of encroachment of lands assigned to Dalits in Medak district. “It is suspected that Madhukar was also involved in various land transactions in Karimnagar district along with Eatala. We are also probing this angle,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/trs-former-mla-arrested-in-lawyer-couple-s-murder-case-police-101620500829284.html
09-05-2021||Other||Why Karnataka had to extend curbs||Bengaluru: Halfway through the first lockdown, the Karnataka government on May 7 announced fresh curbs which would come into effect from May 10. Experts say the government was left with no choice as even seven days after imposing a lockdown, the number of Covid-19 cases in the state did not show a downward trend. The state on Saturday reported 47,563 new Covid cases and 482 deaths out of which Bengaluru alone logged 21, 354 cases and 285 fatalities.Even senior cabinet members didn’t hold themselves back to acknowledge the failure of the lockdown. While announcing the fresh lockdown measures on Friday, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said: “Since the 14-day partial lockdown imposed by the state from April 27 failed to yield the desired result in containing the spread of the virus, we are forced to enforce stringent restrictions.” A similar opinion was shared by the Karnataka health minister who said the lockdown has been a failure. “I needn’t say how this ‘Janata curfew’ has been ineffective with congregations continuing. The trend is not limited to Bengaluru; districts, too, have failed to see its strict implementation. The result is not to our expectation,” he told reporters on Friday. So, where did the government go wrong? Several stakeholders responsible for enforcing the restrictions said that the lockdown was a knee-jerk reaction that was not well thought out. “For starters, the government didn’t call it a lockdown, and used terms like curfew, lockdown like restrictions, since it didn’t want to cause a panic. Looking at the measures implemented, it wasn’t a complete lockdown either. This showed that it was a half-hearted measure,” said a senior IAS officer on the condition of anonymity. “The government allowed several industries, garment industries and private companies to operate during this lockdown. To give an example of Bengaluru, the Peenya industrial area alone employs close to 900 thousand people and close to 500 thousand people work in the garment industries. This a large population still roaming on the streets and many using this privilege for non-work-related activities,” said the officer. A senior police officer in Bengaluru said that one of the biggest complaints received from various police stations was the overcrowding and travel between 6 am to 10 am window for buying essential services. “Even though the government had allowed people to purchase essential commodities, there were no restrictions on vehicle movement. People just assumed on their own that they had a free pass between 6 am to 10 am. When we stopped them, they would say they were going to shop,” said the deputy commissioner of police rank officer. He further added that the number of exceptions in the lockdown rules made enforcement difficult. “Since there were several categories of the people who were allowed to travel, such as employees of various industries and offices, the numbers on the streets were large and it was difficult for the police to effectively enforce the lockdown,” he added. The IAS officer said the big list of exceptions in the lockdown rules made it clear that the government wanted to please all. “The government extended the window for grocery stores from 6 am to 10 am to 6 am to 6 pm, is an example of non-commitment towards the lockdown,” he said. Dr Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist and member of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) also felt the containment measures in the state had failed. “The containment efforts are failing in Bengaluru. The test positivity and tests per million are inversely related. With raging infections, the testing per million is decreased over a period of time. At the same time, mitigation measures (irrespective of what we call whether curfew or semi-lockdown) are incomplete and ineffectively implemented. As a result, there is no benefit in reducing the speed of transmission. This is the opposite of what Bangalore model was known for,” he tweeted on Saturday. Meanwhile, all eyes are on the fresh lockdown announced between May 10 to May 24. Unlike the first, in the second lockdown, there are restrictions on the movement of people between 6 am to 10 am the window to buy essentials. “Several people misused this and started moving around freely, leading to crowds on the streets. Since we raised an objection to this, the rules have been changed,” said the senior police officer. In the fresh set of curbs, the government has banned people from using private vehicles to purchase groceries, parcels from hotels and liquor shops. The new lockdown mandates that it should be done by foot to avoid people travelling long distances during the window. Most importantly, all industries, garment factories and offices have been shut during this period. “The strict implementation of the lockdown is key to controlling the spike in the Covid-19 cases in the state. We will know how serious the government and the people are about preventing the virus when we see the traffic on the roads from Monday,” said the member of the TAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/why-karnataka-had-to-extend-curbs-101620500769303.html
09-05-2021||Other||K’taka goes Mumbai way in Covid fight||Bengaluru: Taking a cue from Mumbai’s fight against Covid-19, the Karnataka government has announced decentralisation to fight the spread of the virus in the city. In an order issued on May 7, the government has ordered to set up Ward Decentralised Triage and Emergency Response (DETER) Committees for Covid-19 management in all 198 wards in Bengaluru. The main goal of this step is to ensure the hospitalisation of Covid-19 patients is not delayed and those who require oxygen find support within two hours. In the order issued on Friday, Manjunath Prasad, the principal secretary of the revenue department and member secretary of the state executive committee said that decentralisation will help provide better supervision for ward-level Covid-19 activities. In the new system, Wad DETER committees (WDC) will run in coordination with the ward committees, volunteer residents’ welfare associations, civil society organisations and disaster support initiatives. Open-source technology platforms will be utilised to operationalise WDC functioning, and a suitable online platform will be used by the BBMP to support this. The WDCs will be responsible for resource mapping the ward i.e. identifying general practitioners, mapping existing RWAs, colonies, apartments, slums, NGOs working in the public health sector, mobilise citizen volunteers, and upload all medical facilities, including primary health centres, Covid-19 care centres, hospitals and nursing homes, and testing centres. The current system, response to Covid-19 in the city is controlled by the helpline number 1912 and zonal level helplines for each of the BBMP’s eight zones. The change in policy takes a leaf from their counterparts in Mumbai. “Ward level Community Triage is seen as a successful intervention in many cities including Mumbai. Currently, there is a delay in informing the test results to the patient due to the centralised ICMR process followed by BU number generation process,” reads the order by the Karnataka government. “To reduce delay in (Covid test) results and avoid panic, positive cases are relayed to the triage coordinator directly from the PHC throughout the day. The triage coordinator will delegate numbers to relevant citizen volunteers. The volunteers must be trained to do triage to identify persons who need to be admitted to ICU and those who require hospitalisation or should be sent to Covid care centres or isolated at home,” reads the order. As per the order, the committees will be responsible for helping people access hospital beds. The data of those in ICU, hospital, CCC or at home will be maintained by the triage centre. The order also mentions an exit strategy to reduce the bed turnaround time in hospitals. Limiting hospital admissions to people with severe illness and shifting those with moderate illness to CCCs in five days, are part of this strategy. The WDCs will also conduct bed audits thrice a day and prioritise admissions to those who need it the most. Apart from this, the WDCs will be responsible for contact tracing and testing, identify cases under home isolation and offer support, ensure maximum vaccination coverage by holding vaccination drives, hyper-local IEC (information-education-communication) on Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, using pulse oximeter, prone position to improve oxygen levels etc. The printed IEC material in multiple languages should be distributed to all grocery stores in the ward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-goes-mumbai-way-in-covid-fight-101620500709226.html
09-05-2021||Other||PM lauded Maharashtra government on its fight against Covid-19: CMO||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke to Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray over phone to take a stock of the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the state and reportedly appreciated the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s efforts in combating the second wave of the pandemic. Many eyebrows in the political circles were raised after Modi showered praises on the MVA government in the backdrop of the frequent clashes between the state and Centre and also leaders from both the sides over Covid-19 management.According to the statement issued by chief minister’s office, Modi lauded the government for its handling of the second wave. “He took information from the CM about the steps being taken by the state government for the management of Covid-19. The CM apprised the PM about the measures planned by the state in anticipation of a potential third wave of the pandemic,” the statement said.Thackeray also requested PM for the additional allotment of oxygen for Maharashtra amid the shortage it has been facing. “PM Modi and the Centre have been guiding Maharashtra in its fight against the virus since beginning and it has proven beneficial too. Expressing his gratitude for it, the CM also thanked Modi for accepting some of the recommendations the Maharashtra government made,” the statement further read.Modi’s gesture of praising Maharashtra has however surprised many in the political circles amid the frequent wars of words between the central and state governments over the supply of Covid-related aid. The recent clashes between Union ministers Harsh Vardhan and Prakash Javadekar and state health minister Rajesh Tope and others over vaccine supply had triggered a controversy. Tope and other MVA leaders have also been targeting the Centre for the alleged discrimination over the supply of oxygen to the state.State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including leaders of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar, have been continuously targeting the state government over its handling of the pandemic. The BJP leaders had alleged corruption in the setting up jumbo Covid centres and had targeted the state government for its failure in constructing adequate facilities ahead of the second wave. Thackeray, on two earlier occasions, had complained to the PM about the state BJP leaders politicising the issue of pandemic.A Congress leader, while expressing his surprise to the development, said, “But what else is left with him, considering that the BJP-led state governments’ failure in combating the pandemic. We have been very transparent in terms of cases and deaths unlike other states.”Political analyst Prakash Akolkar said that by praising Thackeray, Modi has indirectly taken a pot shot at Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.“Delhi and Mumbai, the political and financial capitals of the country, are always compared with each other. By praising Thackeray, Modi has taken a dig at Kejriwal. Also in a way, it’s a slam to Fadnavis and Darekar who keep targeting the Thackeray government on every Covid-related issue. I also feel that on a personal level, Modi and Thackeray share cordial relations and seldom attack each other,” he said.Earlier this week, the Supreme Court had applauded the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) oxygen and bed management.Meanwhile, Thackeray also wrote a letter to the PM, seeking permission to develop a separate app for vaccination to avoid the malfunctioning of the CoWIN platform. He said that the Centre can also develop dedicated CoWIN apps for each of the states to avoid such glitches. The Maharashtra CM has also requested Modi to design a medical framework by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) under which the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) of the respective states can procure vaccine stock from other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pm-lauded-maharashtra-government-on-its-fight-against-covid-19-cmo-101620500649292.html
09-05-2021||Other||Mumbai: 104-year-old man from Palghar beats Covid||A 104-year-old man, a Palghar resident, has recovered from Covid-19, making him the oldest survivor of the virus in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), according to a government official.Centenarian, Shyamrao Ingle was admitted to the Rural Hospital, Palghar a few days ago, after testing positive for Covid-19.“The patient had slight breathlessness, which improved after treatment. His food intake also improved after being low initially,” said the official. Palghar district collector Dr Manik Gursal presented a bouquet to the patient after his discharge. He said the grit and strong willpower showed by the patient, as he fought through the infection, was commendable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-104-year-old-man-from-palghar-beats-covid-101620500290908.html
09-05-2021||Other||Father in ICU, son helps install Ambala oxygen plant||After successfully helping to install pressure awing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants in Sonepat and Karnal, Prof Joginder, who teaches electronics at Gateway College of Education, has now installed a 1,000-l oxygen plant in Ambala.“We completed the process soon after state health minister Anil Vij visited to inspect the plant on Wednesday but I had to leave for Sonepat as my father is infected and admitted in ICU,” he said.Joginder, 35, who volunteered in installation of the plant in Sonepat, was later roped in by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar for help in five other plants. The equipment for the plants were allotted under PM Care Fund earlier this year.The company that was allotted the installation task in state couldn’t send their technicians due to a sudden surge in Covid cases and some other issues.“One of my friends died due to scarcity of oxygen in Delhi last month and I got to know about the situation in Sonepat. I approached the health department and offered my services for free,” the professor said.“I have been assured every possible help by the CM for earliest intervention at any of the plant. The process to operationalise rest of the three plants in Faridabad, Hisar and Panchkula has now been taken over by the company but I’ll be there to supervise them,” he added.Last year, Joginder had assembled/repaired multiple automated sanitisation machines for hospitals and government offices in Sonepat region. An expert in fire safety techniques, the professor has provided its training at many educational institutes.Ambala civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh, in a statement on Friday, said that after a dry run, the plant is fully operational and has a capacity to provide oxygen at 200-l per minute.“It will provide gas equivalent to 45 jumbo cylinders and through this, direct supply will be given to additional 45 beds that have been provided at the trauma centre in city,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/father-in-icu-son-helps-install-ambala-oxygen-plant-101620500289829.html
09-05-2021||Other||Amid surge in cases, Kashi admn distributing free Covid medicine kits||When Vandana Devi (30), a resident of Basani in Badagaon area of Varanasi who was having corona-like symptoms of cough, cold and fever for the past few days, heard that Covid medicines were given free-of-cost at the Primary Health Centre (PHC) she didn’t wasted a moment to get the same. “I immediately visited the Badagaon PHC where the doctor gave me the Covid kit having several drugs. He also told me in detail how to take these medicines,” she said.Similarly, another local Deepak Kumar (22), also having Covid symptoms got the free kit at Badagaon PHC. The Covid kit (having all necessary drugs for treatment of Covid) distribution is part of district administration’s drive to ensure that symptomatic people or those waiting for their Covid test report in rural and urban areas get the medication as soon as possible. The step has been taken in the wake of rapid surge in corona cases in the district during the second wave. The temple city so far has over 12,000 actives Covid cases and has reported over 600 fatalities ever since the outbreak of the pandemic.District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said in the drive, which was started from May 1, so far about 55,000 kits have been distributed in both urban and rural areas.“While 25,000 kits have been distributed in urban areas through urban PHCs and Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) 30,563 kits have been dispensed in rural pockets through PHCs and community health centres (CHCs),” he added.Elaborating about the kit, additional chief medical officer (ACMO) Dr Sanjay Rai said it comprises medicines like Azithromycin, Ivermectin, Paracetamol, pills of vitamin D-3, vitamin C, zinc and B Complex. “It is being distributed among suspected Covid patients and those with symptoms of Covid-19. Over 40 teams, including 20 Rapid Response Teams, several teams of Asha workers, are deployed in rural pockets for distributing the kits. Heath staff at PHcs have also been roped in to distribute the kits,” Rai said. He added that “While using public address system, the teams ask the locals to collect the kits from the RRTs or from the nearest health centre in their respective area between 8am and 5pm daily.”The district has 32 PHCs and nine CHCs. Medical officer in charge, PHC, Badagaon, Dr Sher Mohammad said around 9000 medical kits have been distributed in the villages in the area in the last one week. However, Satyanarayan Patel, a resident of Sinnghpur village in nearby Sarnath area, said he hasn’t got the Covid kit so far. Another resident of Nai Bazar area in Sarnath area Pappu Mishra said the Rapid Response Team was yet to visit his locality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-surge-in-cases-kashi-admn-distributing-free-covid-medicine-kits-101620500169903.html
09-05-2021||Other||Kotkapura firing case: New SIT product of Capt incompetence, says Sidhu||In yet another tirade against chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, this time over the constitution of a new special investigation team (SIT) to probe the 2015 Kotkapura firing, former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu said the government was forced to accept the high court order due to his (CM’s) “incompetence”.Giving six months to the new SIT to compete the probe will further “extend the delay” in giving justice, the Amritsar East MLA said on Saturday. The state government on Friday constituted a new three-member (SIT), headed by additional director general of police (vigilance bureau) LK Yadav, to probe the Kotkapura case. The SIT will complete the investigation within six months. The high court on April 9 had quashed a report in the case by an earlier Punjab Police SIT, headed by IG (now retired) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh and asked the government to form a new SIT. In a series of tweets, the Congress leader hit out at the CM, who also holds the home portfolio, saying: “Sad !! Due to incompetence of the home minister, govt is forced to accept orders of the high court, which the people of Punjab are standing up against. Giving 6 months to new SIT, extends the delay of govt’s biggest poll promise, unfortunately up to next elections code of conduct.”“Injustice caused by deliberate delay is betrayal of people’s mandate. After multiple inquiry commissions, SITs and passage of 6 years, evidence has weakened while accused have gained in wisdom, making their defence stronger due to repetitive investigations on the same matter,” Sidhu said in another tweet. The cricketer-turned-politician has been critical of his own government after the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the earlier probe report into the firing case. He had accused Amarinder of evading the responsibility in the case. Last month, he blamed “one person” for having colluded with the culprits of 2015 sacrilege cases, without naming the CM. Reacting to the criticism, the CM had termed Sidhu’s outbursts “total indiscipline” and said he may be leaving for the AAP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sidhu-at-it-again-attacks-capt-over-new-sit-in-kotkapura-case-101620491168695.html
