10-05-2021||Other||Oxygen supply to private hospitals increased||Officials of the health department, as well as hospital administrations, said that the oxygen supply has stabilised in the district, with fewer SOS calls, an increase in oxygen cylinders and reduced waiting time for oxygen beds and cylinder refills pointing to a move in the right direction.The district is receiving nearly 46 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen at present, against a demand of 60 MT, district administration officials said.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that they are regularly getting oxygen supply from Rourkela and Angul in Odisha, Bhiwadi in Rajasthan and neighbouring Panipat, following which the situation has stabilised. “We are getting nearly 46 MT of oxygen every day and we need 60 MT to meet the demand. The process is streamlined and the district administration is monitoring the demand and supply directly to ensure families (of Covid-19 patients) do not have to arrange for oxygen cylinders,” he said.Private hospitals that were receiving five to 10 cylinders earlier are now getting as many as 50 cylinders, as they no longer have to shuttle between different plants to get oxygen.Dipankar Sethi, general manager (operations) of Sethi Hospital in Model Town, said that they are receiving at least 19 oxygen cylinders per day and the supply is regular. “Earlier, we hardly used to get six cylinders and were facing challenges to admit Covid-19 patients. Now, with the regular supply, the staff are focussing more on the Covid ward and only one vehicle is used to get supply from the designated station,” he said.The queue at all refilling station has also been streamlined and the stations are divided between the hospitals to avoid confusions.SP Yadav, the managing director of Pushpanjali Hospital in Civil Lines, said that their quota has been increased to 50 cylinders a day. “We have 31 Covid beds and are getting regular oxygen supply. The families do not have to struggle to arrange for the same,” he said.Garg said that the demand is rising exponentially as the number of serious patients is also rising. “We are distributing as per the demand and also to ensure there is no distress situation at any hospital. In case of any emergency, we have directed the hospitals to get in touch with me so that oxygen can be sent to them without any delay,” he said.Anil Khatana, the head of operations at W Pratiksha Hospital in Sector 56, said that they have 37 Covid beds and hardly used to get 20 oxygen cylinders earlier but the same has now increased to 100. “The district administration increased our quota to 100 on Monday. More than three vehicles used to run to different locations to get oxygen and used to wait for more than seven hours to get them refilled. Now, we get supply from only one station and there is no waiting period also. We also used to ask patients to arrange for cylinders, which is no more the case,” he said.The regional transport authority, in a bid to streamline oxygen supply in the district, converted 12 nitrogen and argon tankers into oxygen tankers to enable transportation of oxygen from two plants in Odisha.Officials said that the increased supply of oxygen over the past two days has helped in reducing the number of distress calls from hospitals.Dr Prithvi Raj Aryan, the director of Aryan Hospital on Old Railway Road, there are nearly 80 Covid patients admitted to the hospital, for whom they are getting 70 oxygen cylinders every day. “The refilling stations which were demanding exorbitant rates are controlled by the district administration and now, there is no struggle to get cylinders refilled. The staff which was busy getting oxygen waiting in long queues are now taking care of Covid-19 patients and regularly updating district administration regarding the oxygen supply,” he said.Garg appealed to hospitals not getting a regular oxygen supply to contact him for a quick resolution of the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-supply-to-private-hospitals-increased-101620669560017.html
10-05-2021||Other||Odisha becomes 5th state to float global tender for Covid-19 vaccine||Odisha became the fifth state after Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan and Maharashtra to float global tenders to procure vaccines for international manufacturers and asked the Centre to exempt imported vaccines from all tax liabilities to reduce the burden on its finances. The move came at a meeting chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik.During the meeting, it was also decided to form a technical team for swift procurement of vaccines and vaccination.Odisha is seeking to import vaccines to vaccinate its people in the 18-44 age group. Currently, the state is getting Covishield and Covaxin vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech respectively.The state expects to get the Sputnik V vaccine, with an efficacy of 91 per cent, that was invented by Russia’s Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology. Sputnik V recently got central approval for production and use in India.The government’s decision to float global tender came as the vaccination drive has slowed down due to a poor supply of vaccines. On Monday, several senior citizens in districts like Balasore, Keonjhar and Bhadrak, who had come to a vaccination centre to take the second dose, staged dharna protesting the unavailability of the Covid-19 vaccine.The beneficiaries alleged that they have been visiting the centre every other day for the second jab, but to no avail. So far 62,84,644 doses of Covaxin and Covishield have been given to beneficiaries.In another move to strengthen Odisha’s preparedness to fight the second wave of Covid-19, the Cabinet has also approved amendments in Industrial Policy Resolutions 2015 incentivising the production of medical oxygen in the state. This will offer benefits to those manufacturing medical oxygen and containers.While appreciating the hard work and sacrifices of Covid-19 warriors across the state, the CM expressed heartfelt gratitude to the people for their cooperation in the fight against the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-becomes-5th-state-to-float-global-tender-for-covid-19-vaccine-101620668000003.html
10-05-2021||Other||Karnal, Kurukshetra admns set up alternate hospitals for Covid patients||With number of critical Covid-19 patients continuing to rise, the district health authorities are setting up temporary hospitals to accommodate the patients.The Karnal administration has set up a 100-bed Covid healthcare centre at a banquet hall in Karnal and 30-bed Covid hospital in Assandh on Monday.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said these temporary hospitals will have oxygen support and will help provide basic facilities to patients who require oxygen support.Last week, the administration had set up a 250-bed Covid care centre in Phoonsgarh village to meet the increasing demands of hospital beds.As per figures of the district health department, there are 16 Covid hospitals in district and they have 647 beds with oxygen support and 637 beds are already occupied.Similarly, the Kurukshetra administration has created a 50-bed Covid care centre in a private school on Monday.Kurukshetra chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma said patients with mild symptoms will be admitted in these hospitals to contain the spread of the virus in their family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnal-kurukshetra-admns-set-up-alternate-hospitals-for-covid-patients-101620665061881.html
10-05-2021||Other||Haryana stops wheat procurement operations||After procuring around 81 lakh MT wheat, government procurement agencies in Haryana have stopped the procurement operations in all 394 mandis in state.As per government, 83.49 lakh MT wheat arrived in the mandis in state and government procurement agencies have procured 80.77 lakh MT wheat.However, there were reports that payments of farmers are pending.Expecting a bumper produce this year, the government had increased procurement target to 80 lakh MT against 74 lakh MT of last year.But the government figures revealed that around 83.50 lakh MT wheat arrived in mandis and around 2.72 lakh MT is still lying unprocured.The procurement operations were stopped on April 30 but the government could not disburse payments of all farmers as only ₹12,977 crore has been paid to farmers and payments of around ₹3,000 crore are still pending. Most pending payments belong to farmers of Uttar Pradesh.Additional chief secretary (food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department) Anurag Rastogi had said that the target of procuring 80 lakh MT wheat was fixed by the Union government but the actual procurement can be less or more than the target.On whether government has any plans to procure more wheat from Haryana as crop is still arriving in mandis and procurement has exceeded the target, he had said that the target does not change.Ground-level mandi officials said that there are no instructions to resume procurement operations so far.On the other hand, farm union leaders and arhtiyas are demanding that government should resume procurement operations to ensure that entire wheat arrived in the mandis can be procured in MSP of ₹1,975 per quintal.As per officials of the food and supplies department, arrival of wheat in some grain markets has reached beyond expectations. In Karnal grain market, around 15 lakh quintal wheat has arrived against 12.40 lakh quintal of last year.Rajnish Chaudhry, president of the association of commission agents in Karnal grain market, said that over 50,000 quintal wheat was of hundreds of farmers not procured by government and they are waiting for government orders so that wheat of all registered farmers can be procured.Haryana BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni has threatened to hold protests in mandis if the government does not resume procurement in mandis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-stops-wheat-procurement-operations-101620664947088.html
10-05-2021||Other||More effort needed to prevent child marriage: collector||PUME Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh has asked to take quick action if any child marriage takes place within the Pune district.With Akshay Tritya on May 14, considered an auspicious day child marriages – the state government has alerted the district to keep check on all activities.“More efficient efforts should be made to prevent child marriage and protect child rights. Preventive measures should be taken against child marriage in Pune district and if such cases are noticed, necessary legal action should be taken against immediately,” said Deshmukh.According to the Prevention of Child Marriage Act 2006, child marriage is illegal.In connection with the implementation of this act, Gram Sevaks for rural areas and child development project officers for urban areas have been appointed as child marriage prevention officers.With one year of lockdown (April 2020-2021), the state administration has managed to prevent 560 child marriages from different part of the states.The pandemic is also considered as one of the major reasons for an increase in cases of child marriage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/more-effort-needed-to-prevent-child-marriage-collector-101620659178444.html
10-05-2021||Other||Give free vaccination to all against Covid, Lalu tells PM||PATNARashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce free vaccination for all against Covid-19 and said there should be no price distinction between the Centre and the state government.This was Prasad’s first statement released to the media since he was released from the jail on May 6 on bail granted by the Jharkhand High Court. The RJD chief has spent nearly 40 months in jail after his conviction in fodder scam cases. In his statement, Prasad said the onus to get every eligible citizen get vaccinated free of cost in a phased manner rested on the central government and cited the example of polio vaccination undertaken during the sting of HD Deve Gowda as the prime minister.“At the time when the country lacked facility and sensitization for healthcare, around 12.73 crore children were administered polio vaccine in a single-day drive on January 8, 1997. This is still a world record. On December 7, 1996, as many as 1.74 crore children were offered polio drops,” claimed Prasad.The then JD-led government had confronted a lot of difficulties in convincing the people to go for vaccination, who had many misconceptions. “But the government overcame all the obstacles with its firm determination. It is unfortunate that the present government being led by a leader having reputation as Vishwaguru is unable to arrange the required number of vaccines even after charging the common people for the jabs,” said Prasad.Earlier, on Sunday, Prasad held a virtual meeting with party leaders from his daughter Rajya Sabha MP Misa Bharti’s residence and urged them to set up Covid care centres in their respective areas of influence and help people fight the pandemic.The party leaders were also urged to “expose and thwart” any instances of black marketing of oxygen cylinders and other important medicines, and help needy patients with food and other logistics like ambulances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/give-free-vaccination-to-all-against-covid-lalu-tells-pm-101620658998428.html
10-05-2021||Other||Vaccines on campus? SPPU demands student data from all affiliated colleges||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), on Monday, issued a circular to all its affiliated colleges to send in data of all students above the age of 18 years.The data sought includes name, address, contact number and Aadhaar card details. The university is likely responding to demands from student organisations for campus-based vaccination drives for students.The circular, issued by Santosh Parchure, director, SPPU’s student welfare board, stated: “As per the state government orders, all colleges affiliated to SPPU need to submit details of students above the age of 18 immediately, by May 11. The college or educational institution should make an excel sheet with the following details of the students – name; date of birth; age; gender; stream; class; contact number; email ID; Adhaar number; and address. For this college should appoint a nodal officer and carry out the process on a priority basis.”Kuldeep Ambekar, student and president of Students Helping Hand, said, “We were repeatedly demanding that special arrangements be done in colleges and university campuses for student vaccination. In the second wave we have seen youth are getting infected and many have even lost their lives. It is a welcome move if SPPU has initiated students being vaccinated on campus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccines-on-campus-sppu-demands-student-data-from-all-affiliated-colleges-101620658638461.html
10-05-2021||Other||State deploys disaster mgmt experts to held PMC with vaccine drive, prepare for 3rd wave||PUNE The state government, on Monday, deployed two experts from the field of disaster management to develop a holistic action plan for the smooth implementation of the Covid vaccination drive in Pune.Risk governance specialist Praveenkumar Pawar and public health expert Dr Anuja Sankhe are the two chosen to help the PMC iron out kinks in its ongoing vaccine drive.The experts will visit vaccine centres, collect information and give suggestions to the PMC commissioner. They will, henceforth, also attend all Covid-19 related meetings held by the PMC.The duo will set a medical emergency response plan at PMC level and specifically address vaccination drives in slums, and vaccination drives for the vulnerable population - seniors, people with comorbidities and/or disabilities, pregnant women, and children.Pawar and Dr Dankhe will also help the PMC prepare a medical emergency response plan for the third wave of Covid-19. Across Maharashtra, the state government has to deputed 10 experts and two senior consultants to support municipal corporations in assessing the ground situation and evolving an action plan - short, medium and long-term. The experts will develop risk communication strategies, and a preparedness plan for hospitals and Covid centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-deploys-disaster-mgmt-experts-to-held-pmc-with-vaccine-drive-prepare-for-3rd-wave-101620656598374.html
10-05-2021||Other||Covid warriors overcome the odds to fight virus in Haryana||Frontline workers from administrative officials to medical staff are leading by example as they battle the Covid-19 pandemic in Haryana. Some got infected, while others lost relatives to coronavirus but that has only strengthened their resolve.Chairing a meeting of the Rewari district administration last week, Union minister Rao Inderjit Singh appreciated the work done by deputy commissioner Yashendra Singh despite having lost two relatives to Covid.Yashendra Singh resumed office on April 30 after training when the district was in the grip of oxygen supply shortage. Four patients at a private hospital had lost their lives due to the shortage of oxygen cylinders. Singh has since been personally monitoring the distribution of cylinders to hospitals in the district.“I have assured doctors that no patient will die in hospital due to shortage of oxygen. I hold coordination meetings at night too and have started home delivery of oxygen cylinders,” he says. Last week, the demand for oxygen increased in Rewari, prompting him to arrange 120 cylinders from Rohtak, 30 each from Gurugram, Mahendragarh and Faridabad districts after coordinating with his counterparts.FACE OF RESILIENCE, SHE SETS AN EXAMPLEPriyanka, a staff nurse at Rohtak’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, is another face of a resilient Covid warrior. She returned to duty at the Covid ward with a smile on Sunday after defeating coronavirus for the second time.The past three weeks were the toughest for the young mother after she tested positive.“There was no one else at home to look after my two children, both of whom are aged below 10 years, till my husband, a soldier, took leave to be with us after five days. I was confined to one room and the children to another. My in-laws wanted to come from our native village in Bhiwani, but I didn’t want to put them at risk. My husband and I remained away from the children even though we stayed in the same building,” she said.IN ISOLATION BUT CONNECTEDJhajjar civil surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya has been isolation ever since he developed Covid symptoms, but that hasn’t stopped him from coordinating from a room at the PWD rest house in Beri.“Though 264 employees of the 1,635 health department employees in Jhajjar contracted the virus, services have remained unaffected. A commander is as good as his army and I want to thank my team for rising to the occasion,” says Dr Dahiya. The civil surgeon and his wife, Dr Pamila, who is also a government doctor, had gone home in Gurugram in the beginning April, but had never imagined that they would be battling such a situation.“We have a 23-year-old daughter who is looking after my elderly parents as we work in isolation. She makes it a point to make a video call at 11.30pm every night. My mother is concerned about us, but she wants us to continue our duty,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-warriors-overcome-the-odds-to-fight-virus-in-haryana-101620650958653.html
10-05-2021||Other||Lalu urges PM to ensure free Covid vaccination for all||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad Yadav on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce free Covid vaccination for all. He also said there should be a uniform pricing of vaccine for both the Centre and the states.Out on bail after spending nearly 40 months in jail after his conviction in fodder scam cases, the RJD chief was making his first statement where he spoke in favour of free vaccination. Also Read | Bihar launches virtual learning for classes 9 to 12 on Doordarshan from May 10Citing the success of polio vaccination drive during the stint of HD Deve Gowda as the prime minister, Yadav said the Centre had conducted record vaccination among children then. “At that time, when the country lacked facility and sensitisation towards healthcare, around 127 million children were administered polio vaccine in a single-day drive on January 8, 1997. This is still a world record,” he said.The then JD-led government faced many difficulties, “but the government overcame all the obstacles with its firm determination...It is unfortunate that the present government being led by one with the reputation of being Vishwaguru is unable to arrange the required number of vaccines even after charging the common people for the jabs,” he said.The Centre drew flak from the Supreme Court as well for differential pricing of Covid vaccine for the Centre and the state governments. Chief ministers of many non-BJP government have also been alleging non-availability of sufficient vaccines to carry on intensive drives.Earlier on Sunday, Prasad held a virtual meeting with the party leaders from his RS member daughter Misa Bharti’s residence and urged them to set up Covid care centres in their respective areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lalu-urges-pm-to-ensure-free-covid-vaccination-for-all-101620644058933.html
10-05-2021||Other||Now, Ludhiana Covid patients’ kin scramble for oxygen flow meter||While the oxygen crisis is not over yet, the shortage of flow meters has further added to the problems of Covid-19 patients and their kin, who are now left with little chance to catch a breath during their fight against the virus.An oxygen flow meter is a device that measures the flow of oxygen from an oxygen-dispensing unit to the user of the oxygen. The regulator valve usually has gauges like an oxygen flow and a pressure meter. If they are lucky enough to arrange an oxygen cylinder, chances are they may still end up struggling to arrange a flow meter. The shortage of flow meters and regulators can be gauged from the fact that the suppliers of these equipment are now reaching out to those who have successfully defeated Covid-19 so as to buy back the equipment at double the rates.Not only this, but hospitals are also being contacted to see if they have any broken flow meters or regulators that can be fixed.Lockdown hits supplyRishi Sood, a medical equipment trader, said, “It is an unprecedented situation. Like tocilizumab and remdesivir, there is now an acute shortage of oxygen flow meters and regulators, an essential product to operate the oxygen cylinder.”“The equipment was being supplied from Delhi and Kolkata but due to the lockdown in many places, many of the products are stuck in transit. Now, there is a waiting period of nearly a month for delivery of fresh stock,” said Sood.While the flow meter made in Kolkata is costlier, the ones made in Delhi are sold at affordable rates, said Sood. Hoarding, panic-buying also a problemAccording to Ludhiana district chemist association general secretary GS Grover, hoarding and black-marketing are also leading to the shortage. The equipment which was being sold for ₹1,000 a few months ago is now being sold for ₹2, 500 to ₹3,000 in wholesale markets and for nearly ₹10,000 in retail markets. Rishi Sood added that panic buying is also to be blamed. “Earlier, only those patients who were sick and required oxygen used to buy the product but now residents are indulging in panic- buying, which has also resulted in a shortage,” said Sood. ‘No luck online too’ Vikas Malhotra, a resident of BRS Nagar, said, “I tried medical shops near Dayanand Medical College and Hospital but no one seemed to have a flow meter. I even tried my luck online but it was not available there either. Finally, a friend sourced it through one of his contacts.” Punjab chemist association general secretary GS Chawla said, “The government must look into the matter and take action against those indulging in hoarding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-ludhiana-covid-patients-kin-scramble-for-oxygen-flow-meter-101620592755956.html
10-05-2021||Other||Stalker kidnaps Ludhiana woman, drops her at sarpanch’s house after 22 hrs||A Fatehgarh Sahib resident, along with his cousin and three aides, allegedly kidnapped a 22-year-old woman who had turned down his marriage proposal and later dropped her at the house of the village sarpanch, police said on Sunday.The accused have been identified as Gurmaninder Singh of Lakhanpur of Khamano and his cousin Karan Singh of Samrala. Their three accomplices are yet to be identified.The victim’s mother, who is the complainant in the case, told the police that she, along with her son and daughter, had gone to pay obeisance at a gurdwara on Friday when the accused reached there with his aides. On seeing him, her daughter and son ran towards the house of their relative who lived close to the gurdwara. But the accused followed them and forcefully dragged her daughter out. When her son intervened, the accused assaulted him and drove off with the daughter.The next day, the accused dropped the victim at the village sarpanch’s house and fled.The victim told the police that the accused had taken her towards Bathinda side but had not sexually assaulted her. Her statement has also been recorded before the magistrate.‘Had been stalking her’The victim’s mother, in her statement to the police, said the accused had come in contact with her daughter in Chandigarh where the duo was taking IELTS coaching. The accused had eventually started stalking the victim and even proposed marriage but she turned down the offer. Following this, the accused started harassing the 22-year-old woman. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Surjit Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Section 363 (punishment for kidnapping) and 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. A hunt is on for them, said the ASI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stalker-kidnaps-ludhiana-woman-drops-her-at-sarpanch-s-house-after-22-hrs-101620592275777.html
10-05-2021||Other||22 deaths, 1,729 positive cases in Ludhiana||Shattering all previous records, the number of Covid deaths and positive cases in Ludhiana reached an all-time high on Sunday with 22 residents succumbing to the virus and 1,729 testing positive in the last 24 hours. This is a jump of 506 cases from Saturday’s count of infections. The previous high of daily cases was seen on May 1 when there were 1,600 infections. The number of active cases too reached an all-time high of 12,047. The district’s cumulative case count now stands at 66,995 while the toll has touched 1,550. Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Gill Ahluwalia urged residents to stay indoors and avoid venturing out unnecessarily. Out of the 22 deaths reported, 13 are women while nine are men. The youngest fatality is a 25-year-old male while the oldest is an 84-year-old woman. Three of the deceased, including two men and a woman, were in their 20s, while one of the males who died was in his 30s. Three casualties, of which two were women, were in their 40s. Except for two patients, all other deceased were residents of Ludhiana city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/22-deaths-1-729-positive-cases-in-ludhiana-101620591855824.html
10-05-2021||Other||Punjab doctors on deputation told to return to parent departments||Amid a spike in Covid cases and shortage of experienced health staffers, the directorate of medical education and research has been asked to relieve all doctors working on deputation across Punjab.As many as 20 senior doctors from medical colleges in Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot are working on deputation with the directorate for the past many years.An official revealed that these staffers are posted at different medical departments in these colleges and are doing clerical work while there is an acute shortage of faculty doctors amid the pandemic.“Mostly, the doctors working in the directorate are being given work related to court cases and other clerical work. This arrangement has been continuing even when there is a provision of hiring lawyers for court cases and sufficient clerical staff is available with the directorate after re-structuring of posts from February onwards,” the official said.State medical education minister OP Soni said the services of the doctors posted anywhere on deputation are required in the field to fight the pandemic.“The directions have already been issued to the director of medical education and research to relieve these doctors and send them to their parent departments immediately. Their experience can be effectively availed in such tough times,” he said.Soni added that the government is committed to providing all required logistics to medical colleges and hospitals for proper treatment of the patients.“To overcome staff shortage, the process has already been initiated for recruitment of 200 nursing staff and 200 Class IV employees,” he said.Soni said the state government was monitoring the arrangements at all levels and all the patients, coming from other states are also being given treatment in Punjab hospitals.“All the three medical colleges of Punjab were making significant contribution in the war against Covid-19 and were tending to level II and III patients diligently,” Soni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-doctors-on-deputation-told-to-return-to-parent-departments-101620590955457.html
10-05-2021||Other||Centre to set up O2 plant at Moga civil hospital||The central government is going to set up a pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plant at Moga civil hospital to boost oxygen production in the district.The district administration has already identified a site at the civil hospital for the plant, which will generate around 200 litres of oxygen per minute.As per the local administration, the plant will be established under the PM Cares Fund and would cater to the demand of the live-saving gas for Covid-19 and other patients being treated at the civil hospital.A meeting in this regard took place last week with teams of senior officials of the health department, district administration and Centre visiting the civil hospital.Officials said that the Centre is installing around 551 PSA oxygen generator plants throughout the country and out of these, it has decided to set up one at the government hospital of Moga.Dr Sukhpreet Brar, senior medical officer (SMO) of Moga civil hospital, said, “National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) is supervising the installation of the plant at the civil hospital. NHAI teams and other senior officials had already made two visits to the hospital to finalise the site. The plant is supposed to generate oxygen for up to 200 beds.”As of now, the daily consumption of oxygen at the hospital is around 2 MT. The hospital has over 100 beds, of which 50 are dedicated to Covid patients, the SMO added.Moga sub-divisional magistrate and nodal officer for oxygen management in the district, Satwant Singh said, “The NHAI is taking responsibility for civil and electric work of the PSA plant and it will be completed within a week. Thereafter, the work of installation of the plant will take 10 to 15 days.”Deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans said, “The plant will be greatly helpful in providing uninterrupted oxygen supply to Covid and other patients that require oxygen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-to-set-up-o2-plant-at-moga-civil-hospital-101620590597128.html
10-05-2021||Other||Indian-American Sikh doctor returns to roots to assist in Covid fight||As the nation struggles to contain a second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, this 34-year-old Indian-American Sikh doctor has returned to his roots and is doing his bit in defeating the virus.Harmandeep Singh Boparai, who was working as frontline worker in New York, Unites States, is currently treating Covid patients in his home town Amritsar.His next stop will be a 1,000-bed hospital in Mumbai, where he has been roped in by Doctors Without Borders, an international medical humanitarian organisation. He is scheduled to leave for Mumbai on Monday and will serve at the facility for the next couple of weeks.A specialist in anaesthesiology and critical care, Dr Harman, who did his MBBS in Amritsar Government Medical College before moving to New York in 2011, has also imparted training to many doctors and nurses in the holy city, especially at Dukh Niwaran Hospital, at par with the modalities being used in New York hospitals. He returned to India on April 1 this year.Harman says he would continue extending his help to all those in need until the situation becomes normal in India. His father, RPS Boparai, is an orthopaedic specialist, while his mother, late Gian Kaur, was a gynaecologist. Harman said his mother, who passed away in 2011, had inculcated the value of sewa (volunteer service) in him during his childhood and young age.“As soon as I came back to India, though the cases were not so high at the time, I started talking to the doctors here on how we can build capacity in case cases surge, apart from strengthening the infrastructure to handle any kind of crisis. Soon enough, we saw a catastrophic rises in the cases in India. I have been able to build a capacity for intensive care at Dukh Niwaran Hospital, besides imparting training to the nurses and doctors regarding the Covid protocol that I learnt in New York during the first wave,” Harman said.Dukh Niwaran Hospital, which has now been given on lease, was run by Harman’s father as a charitable hospital.Sharing his views on India’s Covid situation, he said, “We have not been able to contain the spread of the virus for various reasons here, even though we had time to prepare for the bad waves as were seen across the world earlier. We could have vaccinated many more people so far. But, due to issues in the system, help couldn’t reach many in time.”He said, “Doctors in the health department, especially in Punjab, have been working so hard in order to save lives. We must continue to support them and give them our best wishes and solidarity, for this is not an easy job.”He also advocated imposing lockdown to break the chain of transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/indianamerican-sikh-doctor-returns-to-roots-to-assist-in-covid-fight-101620590595656.html
10-05-2021||Other||Now, ₹2,000 fine in Ludhiana for not adhering to distancing norms||Police have pasted at least 1,000 banners and posters across the city to warn the public of the strict action that will follow if they are caught violating Covid safety protocols. Police are already collecting ₹1,000 fine from those found without masks. Now, those not adhering to social distancing at public places will be made to shell out ₹2,000. Special instructions have been issued to shopkeepers and three-wheeler drivers to ensure that they maintain distance among their customers and passengers. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 1) Pragya Jain said apart from the fine, police will also file an FIR against the violators if required.The ADCP said that in Zone-1, they have already lodged 150 FIRs for lockdown violations and issued 900 challans for mask and distancing violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-rs-2-000-fine-in-ludhiana-for-not-adhering-to-distancing-norm-101620590476478.html
10-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana curfew: Shopkeepers all geared up for 5am shift||With the administration allowing all shops – essential and non-essential—to open from 5am to 12 noon, shopkeepers in the city are all geared up for brisk business during the curfew relaxation period.Many have told their staff to report at 5am sharp and not switch off their mobile phones during this time. Amanpreet Singh, a cloth trader near Daresi, said, “I have told my staff to reach the shop on time. It’s too early but what else can we do. We have to follow the administration’s orders. After a weekend lockdown, we are all set to receive our customers on Monday morning.” Rush expected from 9am to 11amMarkets such as Chaura Bazaar, Ghumar Mandi, Old Sabzi Mandi, Field Gunj, Gill Road, Model Town and Sarabha Nagar, which normally open around 11am and see a huge rush in the evenings, have also made special arrangements in keeping with the fresh orders.To tackle the rush, shopkeepers at Chaura Bazar have decided to discourage window shoppers.Chaura Bazaar shopkeepers’ association president Sanjeev Choudhary said, “The time between 9am to 11am will set the tone for the business. We are expecting a huge hush during this time and have informed the administration about it. We have decided that window shoppers will not be entertained.”Baljinder Singh Bunty, president of Kitab Bazar Market Association, said, “We are expecting a busy Monday morning and also anticipating panic buying. So an employee will sit outside the shop to discourage crowding.”Salons encouraging advance appointmentsSimilarly, makeup artists and salon owners are also encouraging appointments in advance. Abhay, the owner of a salon on Mall Road, said, “I have 30 appointments for Monday morning. Salons are opening up after a long time and people are looking forward to visit. But keeping in mind the safety of the staff and customers, we are encouraging prior bookings. We will also be screening the temperature of all those visiting our salon.”Extra stocks at grocery storesSuresh Gupta, a grocery store owner in Ghumar Mandi, said people are worried that the administration may impose stricter restrictions in the coming days and so are purchasing items in bulk. “We witnessed the bulk buying last year as well. So this time, we have kept extra stocks in our stores,” said Gupta.Karan Jain of the convenience store near ATI Road said that as the wedding season is on, they have been receiving a lot of calls from customers, “But due to the lockdown, we could not open the store, so our sales have taken a hit. Now, the administration’s decision to give us a seven-hour window to run our business has provided us some respite. I have told the staff to sleep early so that they can report to work on time,” said Jain.Sunil Vinayak, a fashion designer, said, “Lockdown and curfews are the new normal these days. I have told my staff to be on time as with a limited window, there is no room for laxity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-curfew-shopkeepers-all-geared-up-for-5am-shift-101620590055423.html
10-05-2021||Other||30-bed Moga facility for cops opened to public||A day after HT published a report on hoarding of oxygen cylinders at a quarantine centre for cops in SSMD Ayurvedic College and Hospital, the Moga police and hospital administration on Sunday announced that the life-saving gas and isolation facility can be utilised by the public as well.The facility at Duaneke village here has 30 beds and five oxygen cylinders, but no cops in quarantine.The hospital administration has also decided to hand over these cylinders to the district administration.Earlier, the facility was welcoming only police officers to be quarantined here.Cops claimed that over 150 police officers had got infected with Covid-19 in the district last year, and thereafter the quarantine facility was set up for the frontline workers.Moga SSP Harmanbir Singh said, “The hospital administration has seen us working at the frontline, so it provided us with this quarantine facility of 30 beds and 5 oxygen cylinders. The hospital has made these arrangements on its own. We found it to be a good gesture. We had suggested the hospital administration before about extending the facility to private persons too. The government is already focusing on increasing the number of beds for Covid patients. Therefore, this quarantine centre can be of great help.”SSMD Ayurvedic College principal Dr PS Singla said, “I have had a word with police officials about opening the facility to the public. From now on, we are welcoming everyone. Besides, I will speak to district administration about these cylinders and will hand them over if needed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/30bed-moga-facility-for-cops-opened-to-public-101620589697129.html
10-05-2021||Other||Four open jails await curfew violators in Ludhiana||With Ludhiana set to go into a 17-hour curfew everyday from today, police on Sunday notified four open jails across the city to detain the violators.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the open jails have been set up at New SD School, Bahadurke Road, Indoor Stadium on Pakhowal Road, Guru Nanak Stadium and Valmiki Bhawan in Moti Nagar. He said the curfew violators will be detained here for 24 hours and later shifted to the Ludhiana central jail if needed. The police chief said that ADCP-level officials have been deputed as assistant superintendents of jails at these four locations.Besides, 2, 000 police personnel, including senior officials, will be on ground to ensure the implementation of the curfew orders. Police will also install check points near the main markets and increasing patrolling to keep tabs on the internal parts of the city.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 1) Pragya Jain said that despite stern warnings, residents can be seen roaming around the city. “Even shopkeepers are lax about social distancing and can often be seen allowing people to gather in their shops. If we come to know of any such violations, we will round up the violators and send them to the open jails,” she said.Jain further said police have been charging such violators with Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. In such cases, the accused could avail bail immediately after being arrested.Even in 2020, police had set up open jails to lodge lockdown violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-open-jails-await-curfew-violators-in-ludhiana-101620589695417.html
10-05-2021||Other||Barred from using PUDA land for cremations, Amritsar’s Durgiana committee fumes||The Durgiana temple committee has upped its ante against the district administration for not allowing it to use a plot of Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority (PUDA) land for cremations and related services amid the rush of bodies of Covid victims.The plot, adjoining the Shivpuri cremation ground, is being used by the temple committee for stocking up wooden logs used in cremations. The committee, which manages Amritsar’s two major crematoriums, including Shivpuri, has claimed that Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had announced to give the three-kanal plot to them for expanding the Shivpuri crematorium.As per the committee, a team of PUDA and Punjab Police officials visited the plot on Saturday, and directed to vacate it “forthwith”. Before the second pandemic wave hit the country, 10 to 15 Covid bodies were cremated at the Shivpuri ground. However, the count of bodies has gone up to 45 per day for the past few weeks.He said, “PUDA, with the help of police, has asked us to vacate the land. We are using the plot for public cause in this trying time. We are not asking them to let us use the space for free, but they should at least consider the situation.”“Going forward, we will charge the police for cremating unidentified bodies, for they are helping PUDA to bar us from doing humanitarian work,” he said.Amritsar Development Authority’s chief administrator Palavi and additional chief administrator Amandeep Kaur didn’t respond to calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/barred-from-using-puda-land-for-cremations-amritsar-s-durgiana-committee-fumes-101620589635488.html
10-05-2021||Other||Man held for fake ads about O2 cylinders||Delhi police on Friday arrested a 24-year-old man who allegedly posted fake advertisements on sale of oxygen cylinders for ₹25,000 in Delhi NCR on social media and used to go missing after taking advance payment for the cylinders from prospective buyers.The man has been identified as Pawan Kumar, a resident of Bharatpur in Rajasthan, who works at a grocery shop.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said complainant Ayesha Falaq reported that she had seen an advertisement on a Whatsapp group that oxygen cylinders are available for ₹25,000 per cylinder at Jain Oxygen Agency in Faridabad.Also read | Regulate supply of Covid-19 vaccine shots: Delhi CM Kejriwal writes to health minister Harsh Vardhan“Since she needed an oxygen cylinder for someone she knew who was in need of it, she called the given number and made an advance payment of ₹5,000. Neither did she receive the oxygen cylinder nor did she get back the money. She then lodged a complaint, based on which a cheating case was registered,” Singhal said.During investigation, bank statement and bank account details were obtained and it was found that Kumar had obtained a SIM card by submitting a fake ID. “Analysis of electronic data revealed that a man named Pawan is using the phone. After thorough investigation and analysis of electronic data, our team raided several parts of Bharatpur district in Rajasthan and arrested Kumar,” said the DCP.On further interrogation, Kumar confessed he has been cheating people with the help of his accomplice Salman, a resident of a nearby village. “He said while Salman used to procure fake IDs, obtain SIM cards using them and open bank accounts, he used to trap callers and take payments. The mobile phone and SIM card used in the crime are yet to be recovered. Further investigation is on to arrest his accomplice,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-held-for-fake-ads-about-o2-cylinders-101620588854699.html
10-05-2021||Other||Among unsung heroes: ward boys, attendants, cleaning staff at Covid hospitals||New Delhi While the pandemic has thrown doctors and nurses to the forefront of the fight against the infection in the national capital, supporting their efforts are thousands of ward boys, attendants and sanitation staff who have been working tirelessly behind the scenes.In most hospitals across Delhi, at least two such staff, known as multi-tasking staff (MTS), work in each ward in every shift, sharing tasks including serving food to patients, helping clean them or change clothes, clean the wards, checking oxygen saturation levels, and shifting patients from one ward to another. In many cases, they have also become a medium to connect patients with their family who are not allowed enter the Covid wards.Manoj Kumar Paswan (37), a ward attendant at Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital, looks after at least 20 patients during his regular morning shift. “First I serve breakfast to all the patients. It’s important for them to eat first so that they can have the first dose of medicine for the day. Many of the patients are either very weak or old and require assistance to eat. I also help such patients in changing their diapers, clean them and change their clothes. It’s difficult to work but if we won’t do it, who else will help patients at a time when their own family members cannot meet them,” he said.Paswan said as soon as he comes out of the Covid ward after his duty, the family members of patients’ waiting outside approach him to check the well-being of their loved ones. “I tell them whatever I know. Only doctors can tell the exact situation but I try to ease their pain by talking to them. It is such a helpless situation when a child cannot meet his father or mother, or a wife cannot see her husband or vise versa,” he said. Similar experiences have been shared by attendants in other Covid hospitals. Tirath Ram, a helper at the municipality-run Swami Dayanand Hospital, said that many patients admitted at the hospital belong to economically weaker sections, who do not own smartphones. He said that he does not hesitate in passing on his phone number to their family members so that they can be in touch with each other or at least enquire about the well-being of the admitted patients. “Doctors and nurses are busy and are often not very approachable. When a patient is admitted I often give my personal phone number to family members so that they can enquire about their health. It takes me only a few minutes to go check on them. Covid symptoms are treated by doctors, I can only provide some mental peace to patients and families that are already stressed,” said Ram. Abhishek Singh, an attendant at Lok Nayak Hospital, said that many times, patients seek help to make video calls to their family members. “It feels so difficult to just hold the phone when people at both sides are just weeping. There is hardly any communication between the severe patients and their family members. They just want to see their loved ones...It feels good to help them,” he said.While hospitals do not allow families to come inside Covid wards, these helpers and sanitation workers are also helping patients run small errands, such as buying snacks that they crave or passing on messages to their family members. Thirty-eight-year-old Suresh, who is lovingly called ‘Suni bhaiyya’ at the Hindu Rao Hospital, said that two weeks ago, a 19-year-old patient was admitted to the hospital and she had expressed her wish to eat Parle-G biscuits during his morning cleaning duty. “She was nearly my sister’s age and how much can one eat hospital food. I bought her two packets of Parle-G at my own expense. She was so happy to get it. The situation is so grim these days that all you hear from each ward is news of people dying. These are the small joys that we are holding on to,” Suresh said. Some attendants said they also encountered “misbehaviour” by family members of patients who succumb to the virus. A ward attendant in Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital said, “A few days ago, a patient could not be revived during resuscitation as he was brought in very critical. The family members started to abuse us and the nurses. We tried to make them understand that we did our best but they resorted to creating a ruckus. We had to call in the security.”Meanwhile, many said the fear and guilt of infecting family members is eating at them. Rai, who lives with his family of six including elderly parents, said, “Even as I wear PPE kit all the time in the Covid ward, the fear of infection is always there. So many of our colleagues and their family members have tested positive for Covid-19 since April. Some of them even have even died. If people living in big houses are getting infected, what are the chances of a family of six living in a two-room set of not getting the virus?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/among-unsung-heroes-ward-boys-attendants-cleaning-staff-at-covid-hospitals-101620588794711.html
10-05-2021||Other||Thane societies want to conduct vax drive, TMC says no doses available||Housing societies in Thane city have proposed to conduct vaccination drives on their premises. However, due to lack of vaccines TMC is unable to approve the same. The city did not have any vaccination scheduled on Sunday. Around one lakh citizens are still awaiting their second dose in the city. Over three lakh citizens have been inoculated till now in the city.There are around 700 housing societies that have come forward to conduct vaccinations within their premises. Thane Citizen Foundation (TCF) has prepared an online petition for housing societies to put forth the demand for vaccination centres. “TCF gets the support of 700 housing societies to start a vaccination drive in their premises. All support will be given to the TMC. Some residential complexes like Hiranandani Meadows and Laxminarayan Residency have already started preparations and provisions to convert their clubhouses into inoculation centres. This will save the hassle for many and also help vaccinate as many people as possible systematically. We are only awaiting TMC permission now,” said Kasber Augustine, president, TCF. K Kumar, President, Progressive Thane Residents Association, said, “We have written to the civic body commissioner. There are 20 housing complexes within our vicinity with a population of over 3.5 lakh people. We would like to extend our support to the civic body by providing space at the Vasant Vihar Clubhouse which is centrally located and easily accessible. If our proposal is approved a major population of the city can get vaccinated.” Meanwhile, TMC is reeling under the shortage of vaccination; “We have provisions for 56 centres and can start jumbo centres as well. Plans to come up with Drive-in facilities are also in place. However, there is a shortage of vaccination and our current focus is to provide booster doses to all those who have taken the first dose of the vaccination. If we get ample doses, we shall initiate all of this along with special camps in slum pockets,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-societies-want-to-conduct-vax-drive-tmc-says-no-doses-available-101620588675975.html
10-05-2021||Other||Get doorstep refill of oxygen in Panchkula||In huge relief for coronavirus patients in home isolation, a door-to-door oxygen cylinder refill facility has been launched in Panchkula. Patients can apply for the facility through the portal http://oxygenhry.in. Applicants will have to upload a photograph of their oximeter so as to ascertain their oxygen levels and their Aadhaar Card and provide details such as age and address. Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said demands will be verified by a team of officials, who will telephonically contact the patient and simultaneously seek feedback from the doctor to whom a particular sector has been assigned. Thereafter, volunteers of the Red Cross Society and other non governmental organisations (NGOs) will provide an oxygen cylinder to the patient.The DC has also constituted a team of officials, to be monitored by Magistrate Simranjeet Kaur, to assist the Red Cross secretary in refilling the oxygen cylinders. Rate of O2 cylinder fixedAhuja said the rate for refilling oxygen cylinders has been fixed. “A Type B cylinder will cost ₹185 and Type D cylinder ₹325 and an additional 12% goods and service tax will be levied. Liquid oxygen will be provided for ₹17.5 per cubic metre and 12% goods and service tax will be levied. Another ₹50 will be charged as transportation charges.” The DC said, “The introduction of door-to-door oxygen cylinder refill facility will immensely benefit patients in home isolation as their family members need not wait in queue to get the cylinders refilled. Besides, this will also help us keep tabs on those involved in the black marketeering of oxygen cylinders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/get-doorstep-refill-of-oxygen-in-panchkula-101620588195814.html
10-05-2021||Other||1K mangrove trees likely to be cut for six-lane bridge at Navi Mumbai||An estimated 1,000 mangrove trees are proposed to be cut by the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) for constructing a six-lane elevated bridge between Airoli and Ghansoli. The trees will be cut to make way for 25 load-bearing pillars. In total, an estimated 5,500 mangrove trees, spread over a 4-hectare area, will be affected by the project, officials familiar with the development confirmed. The proposed bridge will connect Sector 14 in Ghansoli to the Airoli Katai Naka Freeway via Airoli-Mulund Bridge, and will help decongest the Thane Belapur Road. The matter has, for the time being, been deferred by the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) for want additional details by the project proponent – NMMC. “The project involves construction of a bridge in the mangrove area along the east bank of Thane creek over a length of 1.05km. As per the approved CZMP (coastal zone management plan), the project falls under CRZ (coastal regulation zone)-I (A) and II areas,” MCZMA observed in its last meeting on April 15, when the matter was considered for CRZ clearance. Part of the project will also cut through 50 metres of the reserve forest buffer zone in Dive village. In a report submitted by NMMC to MCZMA in February, about 810 mangroves trees were slated to be cut for the project, with another 2,640 trees being temporarily affected during the construction phase. However, a subsequent site visit conducted by the forest department’s mangrove cell in March estimated that about 1,000 trees would need to be cut. “As per the report of the mangrove cell, a total number of mangroves affected [will be] about 5,500-6,000 which fall in the alignment of the proposed bridge,” MCZMA observed in its minutes of the meeting. Virender Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF), mangrove cell, said, “We have conducted the site visit and a more detailed survey is yet to be done. Given the damage to the mangroves, NMMC will have to seek clearance from the Bombay high court (HC) and also apply for diversion of forest land under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. The CRZ clearance will be contingent on these compliances.” In light of a September 2018 HC order which barred construction in mangrove areas other than for projects of public interest, MCZMA “decided that NMMC need to submit the explicit note on the public interest involved in the project... accordingly, the matter was deferred for want of said information.” HT reached about to Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar for a comment on the issue but did not receive a response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1k-mangrove-trees-likely-to-be-cut-for-six-lane-bridge-at-navi-mumbai-101620588014615.html
10-05-2021||Other||Where will Congress be in 2024 after poor performance in WB: Sanjay Raut||In a remark that could draw a wedge between state’s two ruling partners, Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut has raised questions on where the Congress will be on a national stage in 2024, following its poor poll performance in West Bengal. While analysing the West Bengal election results in his weekly column RokhThok in Sena mouthpiece Saamana, Raut further said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi can be defeated, but there is no leader to challenge him in Delhi. While batting for a strong leadership, Raut added that key leaders will soon take a decision on forming formidable opposition front. After a brief pause, Raut has reignited the issue of creating a front of opposition parties to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) juggernaut head-on in the 2024 Lok Sabha election. While refraining from naming a leader who could lead the opposition’s front, Raut said that the decision will have to be taken collectively. Earlier, Raut had faced criticism from Congress leaders for backing Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar to become the chairperson of the United Progressive Alliance, which is now headed by Congress president Sonia Gandhi. “In all the state elections, Congress has been left behind. Congress’s Lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the defeat in Bengal is a “humiliating loss”. In the 290-member Assembly, the Congress and Left parties did not win a single seat. We are happy with [West Bengal chief minister] Mamata’s [Banerjee] victory, but the pain of Congress’s decline is equally strong. Where will Congress be on the national stage in 2024? Has Mamata’s victory given a new direction for the general election in 2024? If the opposition decides to come together, then who would lead it? This must be decided with consensus and Congress will have to give its nod,” Raut wrote in his column. Later in the day, Raut clarified that he did not seek a new leadership and added that Congress party would remain the “soul” of the Opposition front. “Everybody wants to create a front that would challenge the government. The soul of this Opposition front will definitely be Congress. No front can be created without Congress. They got seats in Assam but unfortunately couldn’t come to power. They have had some success in Kerala and Tamil Nadu. But Congress needs to lunge forward.... Congress, which is the largest party in the Opposition, has not won any seat in the West Bengal Assembly election. This is really sad for us. If UPA is strengthened, then Congress will remain the soul of it because it is a national party. I spoke to Pawar saheb about it and soon the leaders will arrive at a decision,” Raut said. Speaking to reporters on Sunday, he said that “whenever Congress fails, they get worried”. When asked who does he propose to lead the Opposition front, Raut retorted, “I have not said anything about new leadership. We all have to sit together and decide a leader; everybody thinks he is the leader, but it not so. And aghadis (coalitions) are not created in this manner. The three parties in Maharashtra decided that their leader is Uddhav Thackeray and it is a model front where three ideologically opposite parties have come together. All parties will have to come together to create such a front on a national level.” According to Raut, BJP is not undefeatable but the challenge is a strong leadership against Narendra Modi. He batted for a strong leadership against Modi and BJP. He said that despite back-to-back losses in the Vidhan Sabha elections, Modi and not BJP, is winning the Lok Sabha election. “This is Modi’s victory, because there is no such leader in Delhi that would challenge him. Until such a leader is made, there will be no contest. Results in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala have shown then Modi and Shah can be defeated no matter how much might they put into an election. This means that the idea that Modi is a popular leader to win election is not flawless. The weak leadership and lack of machinery with the Opposition is the political strength of Modi-[home minister Amit] Shah,” he added. Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole said that they do not pay attention to Raut’s statements about their party. “We do not pay attention to what Raut says; whatever we wanted to tell him [about strengthening UPA], we have done it in the past. We have stopped reading Saamana as well. It is better to ignore things where our leaders or our organisation is being criticised. If somebody thinks that their party can get prominence by pointing finger at another party, they must see that four fingers point back at them,” he said. Meanwhile, Maharashtra BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye advised former ally Shiv Sena to look at who they are following. “Congress will respond Sena’s latest criticism. But if they think Congress is doing poorly, then they should see who their ally is,” Upadhye said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/where-will-congress-be-in-2024-after-poor-performance-in-wb-sanjay-raut-101620587956494.html
10-05-2021||Other||NIA to probe 7-kg uranium seizure case in Mumbai||Four days after the Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) arrested two people for allegedly possessing 7.1kg of uranium worth ₹21.3 crore, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the probe into the case on Sunday.“In the presence of an order of the Ministry of Home Affairs, the agency has re-registered the case which was earlier registered by the ATS at the Kalachowki unit in Mumbai under section 24 (1) (a) of the Atomic Energy Act,” an NIA spokesperson said. Thane resident Jigar Jayesh Pandya, 27, and Abu Tahir Afzal Hussain Choudhary, 31, a Mankhurd local, are in police custody till May 12 for the alleged possession of the highly radioactive substance. An NIA team had visited the ATS office to verify the facts. “Now the documents related to the case will be handed over to them for further inquiry. As per the procedure, NIA will approach the court to take custody of both the accused as they are in ATS custody till 12 May,” said an ATS officer. The incident came to light after police inspector Santosh Bhalekar of the Nagpada unit got information about a person planning to sell pieces of uranium illegally. Bhalekar and his team then laid a trap and nabbed Pandya. During interrogation, Pandya revealed that he had got the uranium from Choudhary. Bhalekar then arrested Choudhary on May 5 after questioning several scrap dealers in Mumbai. In the meanwhile, ATS had sent the recovered substance to Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC), Trombay, for chemical analysis. The BARC report confirmed that the seized substance was natural uranium and dangerous to human life. Based on the report, the ATS Kalachowki police station registered a first information report (FIR). “We’ve been interrogating the accused to find out where they had procured the uranium from. It appears that there are many others involved in the case. The uranium is around ₹3 crore per kg in the market,” added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nia-to-probe-7-kg-uranium-seizure-case-in-mumbai-101620587895185.html
10-05-2021||Other||Maratha quota: Outfits not satisfied with committee of retired judges||Maratha organisations are not satisfied with the Maharashtra government’s decision to form a committee under two retired judges of the Bombay high court (HC) to review the Supreme Court’s (SC) decision and suggest the best alternatives to move forward on the issue.The organisations pointed out that they had also recommended names of legal luminaries who have studied the subject in detail, but the government overlooked their suggestions.Virendra Pawar, one of the convenors from Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM), said, “This step was expected when the legal battle for reservation was going on in the Apex court. We had suggested names of Dr Sadanand More (scholar), [retired HC judge] BG Kolse Patil and [retired SC judge] PB Sawant’s names to the government, requesting them to use their expertise by appointing them as advisers, but our recommendations were overlooked.”“If the state government is really serious about granting reservation to the Maratha community, they should then consider incorporating us in the OBC (other backward class) quota,” he added.Sanjiv Bhor Patil, president, Shiv Prahar Sangathana, said the state is just passing time.“We have lost our reservation, so now whatever is required to get it back, should be done at the earliest. We would have hit the streets by now but are not doing so because of the pandemic. We want the government to not waste time anymore,” said Patil.Many organisations are planning to hold state-wide virtual agitations by starting social media campaigns against leaders of the political parties.However, Mansing Pawar, one of the convenors of the Maratha Kranti Morcha, termed the state’s move as a positive development. “It’s definitely a positive development as only two authorities in the country — the Supreme Court and President — can provide us reservation. Individual petitioners are also preparing grounds to go for a review but the petition by the state government will make a difference. Thus I would say that it is a much needed step,” Pawar said.Marathas were given 12% and 13% quota in education and government jobs, respectively, under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018.The Apex court on Wednesday quashed the reservation to the Marathas, stating that people from the community cannot be declared educationally and socially backward just to bring them in the reserved category. The five-judge bench also refused to refer the 1992 Indra Sawhney judgment – that set a 50% cap on reservation – to a larger bench for reconsideration.Following this, the state on Saturday decided to constitute a committee under two retired high court (HC) judges to review the SC verdict and suggest the next course of action. The committee, comprising five-six other members including laws officers, is expected to submit its report in two weeks to the state government.The government also said that they are tapping the option of requesting the Central government to intervene, as the judgment stated that the right to accord the reservation is with the Centre after the 102nd Constitutional amendment.“Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will write to the President and Prime Minister, requesting them to take the steps required for the reservation. The Centre has time and again clarified that the powers of the states have not been nullified even after the amendment, though the SC order has stated otherwise,” state public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maratha-quota-outfits-not-satisfied-with-committee-of-retired-judges-101620587834641.html
10-05-2021||Other||Reviving forgotten passions to beat Covid stress||: Forced indoors due to Covid-19 concerns, people are reviving old passions and interests to divert attention from stress and fear. Instead of watching TV or social media, that are full of news related to Covid disease and deaths, many have revived their interests in forgotten hobbies like gardening, reading books, listening to music and learning to play musical instruments. Some are flying kites while many others are playing carom online. Retired government employee, Syed Mohd Zaki, 72, a resident of old city area in Rani Mandi, for instance, had been a national level carrom player. As he got busy with job and family, carom took a backseat. Recently his sons downloaded carrom game app in his smartphone. Ever since, Zaki has been busy. “Carrom was my passion once and these days, I play the game online. It helps me beat stress and negative thoughts,” he said. Similarly, Savitri Verma, 75, resident of Gangotri Nagar in Naini area, revived her interest in gardening. These days, she spends her time attending to the plants in her garden. “My garden is greener than before,” she said. “I had a passion for gardening since long but was not able to give attention to it due to responsibilities at home. Now, with not much to do, gardening helps me stay engaged,” she added. Khursheed Akhari, 80, a retired lecturer of Persian and Arabic, now spends most of her time reading religious books while Deepak Srivastava, 50, a resident of Katra area, has begun writing a book. “These days the social media is full of negative news. It was having negative impact on me. I used to feel ill myself. I am a writer so now I quit social media and have started writing a book. Moreover, I have collected about a hundred plants on my terrace and am also pursuing my passion for gardening,” Srivastava said. There are many others like them who have either started learning how to cook new dishes or begun flying kites. Some others have started watching old movies or listening to olden melodies on their smartphones. Senior psychiatrist Dr Rakesh Paswan said diverting attention from negative news is the best way to beat stress and depression. “Engaging in other activities will distract people from social media and other news platforms which are full of news about deaths due to Covid which is leaving negative impact on people’s mind and is affecting their immunity,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/reviving-forgotten-passions-to-beat-covid-stress-101620586754670.html
10-05-2021||Other||Ajit Singh’s ashes immersed in Ganga||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Chaudhary Ajit Singh’s ashes were immersed in the Ganga at Brijghat in Garhmukteshwar on Sunday.Ajit Singh’s son Jayant Chaudhary, along with his wife Charu and two more relatives were present during the immersion of the ashes mid-stream of the river with Vedic rituals.Former prime minister the late Chaudhary Charan Singh’s son Ajit Singh succumbed to Covid-19 related complications at a private hospital in Gurugram on May 6. He had tested positive on April 20.An IIT Kharagpur alumnus, Ajit Singh entered politics in 1986 and was elected to the Rajya Sabha. He, thereafter, represented the Baghpat constituency in the Lok Sabha six times and served as a Union cabinet minister four times.Rashtirya Lok Dal state spokesperson Sunil Rohta said party leaders and workers were not informed about the immersion ritual in order to guard against an influx of people in view of the Covid-19 situationHe said people paid tribute to the late leader from their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ajit-singh-s-ashes-immersed-in-ganga-101620586574637.html
10-05-2021||Other||Covid hospital named after Pandit Rajan Mishra to be operational in Kashi from Monday: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the Pandit Rajan Mishra Covid hospital, a 750-bed temporary hospital developed by DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation) at the Banaras Hindu University (BHU) amphitheatre ground here, will start functioning from Monday.Mishra, an eminent musician of the Banaras gharna, died in Delhi on April 25.The chief minister was here to review the Covid-19 situation in Varanasi and the adjoining districts in a meeting with senior administrative and health officials at the BHU central office auditorium. He also inspected the hospital.“The 750-bed hospital developed by DRDO is ready. It has 250 ventilator beds, 250 oxygenated beds, and 250 normal beds. It will start functioning from Monday,” he said, addressing media persons at BHU.He thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the setting up of the hospital and ensuring oxygen supply to the state through Oxygen Express trains.Like the rest of the state, the number of Covid-19 positive cases had decreased in Varanasi in the last eight days, he noted. The number of cases fell by 9285 in Varanasi division and there was a decline of about 4500 cases in Varanasi district alone during the same period, he said. While on normal days, there was a requirement of around 400 metric tonnes of oxygen which medical colleges used to meet from air separators and liquid medical oxygen plants, the demand had increased in the state due to the second wave of Covid-19, he said. At present, the state government was ensuring supply of 1000 metric tonnes of oxygen to different areas of the state, he added. He also said, “We are making efforts to increase infrastructure and resources.”The chief minister praised health workers for striving to control and break the chain of the Covid-19 infection.He appealed to people to follow the Covid-19 protocol and get themselves vaccinated, adding that the jabs will be given to people in the 18-44 age group in 11 more districts from Monday in addition to seven districts, including Varanasi, in which beneficiaries in this age group were being inoculated since May 1.Meanwhile, Prof BR Mittal, director of Institute of Medical Sciences-Banaras Hindu University (IMS-BHU) along with a team of senior doctors, visited the Pandit Rajan Mishra Hospital on Sunday. The team comprised Prof KK Gupta, medical superintendent of Sir Sundar Lal Hospital, and Prof Saurabh Singh, in-charge of Trauma Centre. Major General Dr SK Singh, nodal officer of the hospital, briefed the IMS-BHU team about different sections of the new hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drdo-hospital-to-be-operational-in-kashi-from-today-yogi-101620574273749.html
10-05-2021||Other||Fire, oxygen audits of Covid hospitals in Pune district underway||PUNE Following the divisional commissioner’s order that all private and public Covid hospitals be brought under the ambit of a safety audit, work has started in full swing to audit 700 hospitals in the district. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh has also ordered an oxygen audit of all hospitals in the district. As many as 197 hospitals in PMC, 123 in PCMC and all those hospitals in rural areas and cantonment boards will also have to adhere to the directives.Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “Seven hundred Covid hospitals in the district are being audited and a grant of ₹5 crore has been given to the rural section as part of the updates we have received so far. Fire audit is dynamic process and based on the lacunae pointed out. We are immediately taking remedial steps. Currently the audit is at various stages in PMC, PCMC and rural areas.”The commissioner had appointed a PMRDA chief Suhas Divase as the head of the seven-member committee which has additional collector Vijay Singh, PMC and PCMC commissioners on board, fire chiefs, district medical officer and PWD department chief,and is expected that the report is completed in 15 days’ time.The directions are particularly related to prevention of short circuits as new infrastructure based on electricity supply and oxygen cylinders have been set up to combat Covid-19. Earlier, the Bombay High Court directed the Maharashtra government to ensure municipal authorities conducted an immediate fire audit of all hospitals, nursing homes and Covid-19 care centres across Maharashtra.“We do not want any more fires in hospitals. Please note, these are very difficult times,” the court said.“You have to conduct a fire audit of all hospitals and seek compliance earliest. If you are giving admissions, you should save lives there,” the bench headed by chief justice Dipankar Datta stated.“We have planned oxygen audit of 100 per cent hospitals in Pune district. Professors at engineering colleges have been asked to complete it. They have given training in this respect, about 300 hospitals were also trained,” said Deshmukh.“Tahsildars should serve these orders by tomorrow (May 11) afternoon to all hospitals in their jurisdiction. Tahsildar Pune city and Pimpri Chinchwad shall take help of municipal corporations to serve the orders, “ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fire-audit-of-700-covid-hospitals-in-pune-district-underway-101620571273629.html
