11-05-2021||Other||Meet men who refill cylinders all night to breathe life into Covid-19 patients||At a time when the Covid-19 pandemic is raging across the country, many are braving all odds to serve society and stand firm for their duty. One such noble soul is Vijay Kumar, a small-time worker in an oxygen factory in Bari Brahmana who is working overtime to fill the oxygen cylinders.As the queues of cylinders pile up for re-fill and supply to the hospitals, Vijay, along with three of his colleagues, work the night shift to meet the target. When asked about his job, he smiled and said that when one sees the patients struggling to get oxygen, he feels it is his duty to contribute in his own small way to save lives.He said he is now living mostly within the factory premises along with other workers and adequate care is being taken to ensure their safety by making provisions for kits and sanitizers.While recalling his family who lives in Ramnagar, Vijay hoped that his family is safe and keeping good health, adding that when he is filling the oxygen cylinders, he prays that no one from any family loses his or her battle with the virus. He said it is their duty to ensure that the requirement of different hospitals is met on time and for that losing a little sleep is no big deal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/meet-men-who-refill-cylinders-all-night-to-breathe-life-into-covid-19-patients-101620755607984.html
11-05-2021||Other||FIR against SP spokesman, 2 others for ‘maligning image’ of RS MP||The Lucknow police registered an FIR against Samajwadi Party spokesman IP Singh and two others on Tuesday for their posts on social media ‘maligning image’ of Rajya Sabha BJP MP Sanjay Seth and his family members and circulating ‘wrong as well as disgraceful facts’, said senior police officials.The officials said two other persons made accused in the FIR were Ram Dutt Tewari and Mahendra Kudiya. They said the three were booked under section 67 of Information Technology Act for misusing social media and section 500 of Indian Penal Code for defamation. The MP’s personal assistant Anoop Kumar Pandey lodged the FIR in this connection at Gautampalli police station.The FIR stated that Singh posted ‘wrong and disgraceful facts’ about the MP and his family members after a controversy over suspicious death of a woman from Thailand. The complainant stated that same facts were later circulated and forwarded by Ram Dutt Tewari and Mahendra Kudiya on social media and WhatsApp groups with an intent to malign the MP’s image.The Lucknow police, however, are investigating the matter since Sunday on the basis of facts collected by them. The MP had also written to the police requesting an investigation into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-against-sp-spokesman-2-others-for-maligning-image-of-rs-mp-101620754467403.html
11-05-2021||Other||Now, several bodies found floating in UP’s Ghazipur, Ballia; probe ordered||Close on the heels of partially decomposed bodies of suspected Covid patients washed up on the banks of the Ganga in Bihar’s Buxar district, more unidentified corpses were found floating in the river in Ghazipur and Ballia districts, bordering Bihar, on Monday-Tuesday. Over a dozen bodies were found floating in the Ganga in Bara and Gahmar areas of Ghazipur district on Monday. Similarly, more than two dozen bodies were found from Ujiyar Ghat and Bharauli area of Ballia district on Tuesday. Ghazipur administration has initiated a probe into the matter. “Our officials are present on the spot and an investigation is underway. We are trying to find out from where these bodies came,” district magistrate of Ghazipur MP Singh said. It came to light when local people, traumatised by the sight of floating human bodies in the Ganga and fearing spreading of diseases in the area, informed the district administration officials. Bara town in Ghazipur district shares boundary with Buxar district of Bihar. It is just two kilometres from Gahmar (Ghazipur). “The bodies, found in Gahmar and Bara stretch of Ganga, are different from those found in Buxar of Bihar,” said a Local.Former village head of Gahmar Durga Prasad Chaurasia said that over a dozen bodies were seen floating. Thereafter, locals informed administrative officials. A team of administrative officials reached the spot and initiated a probe, he said. “I received information that two bodies were floating in the Ganga in Bara area of Ghazipur. I along with my team reached the spot and found that two bodies floating in the river. This is a matter of grave concern,” said Ramesh Kumar Maurya, sub divisional magistrate of Sevrai division, who reached the spot along with his team on Monday evening. Maurya said that he had no idea from where the two bodies came. He said that the bodies appeared to be a fortnight old. Maurya, however, refused to comment on Buxar administration’s claim that the bodies found in the Ganga in Buxar had come from UP’s side. A senior police official, not willing to be named, said a vigil would be maintained along the river stretch in Gahmar area of the district. At the same time, the locals have been asked to inform police in case they see anyone immersing a body in the river. Meanwhile, a social worker and village head of Mubarakpur in Ghazipur district, Shyamnarayan Singh said that he heard that a few bodies (four bodies) were immersed in the Ganga by the families of the dead as they couldn’t afford to buy wood required for cremation. “Such incidents are being reported for the last one week from several villages in the area,” he claimed. Ex-village head of Gahmar Gahmar Durga Chaurasia also backed it. “In rural pocket, this has been taking place for the last one week,” he said. Over two dozen bodies were also found floating in the Ganga at Ujiyar Ghat and Bharauli area of Ballia district, locals said. On being informed by locals, a team of administrative officials along with police personnel reached the spot and took out six bodies from the Ganga’s Bharauli stretch, and remaining from Ujiyar area, according to reports. According to ANI, Ballia district magistrate Aditi Singh said few bodies were found near the banks of the river Ganga under the Ballia-Buxar bridge last evening. Last rites of these bodies were performed by police and local administration. The incident of corpses floating in Bihar has sparked fears about the scale of the Covid crisis in the country. Authorities believe the relatives of those succumbed to the virus may not have been able to find space for the last rites. On Tuesday, Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat had termed the incident as “unfortunate” and asked concerned states to take immediate cognizance. “The incident of corpses found floating in the Ganga in Buxar region of Bihar is unfortunate. This is definitely a matter of investigation. The Modi government is committed to the cleanliness ‘mother’ Ganga. This incident is unexpected. The concerned states should take immediate cognizance in this regard,” Shekhawat tweeted. (With agency input)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-several-bodies-found-floating-in-up-s-ghazipur-ballia-probe-ordered-101620754288356.html
11-05-2021||Other||UP govt scheme to assist kids rendered orphan by pandemic||Children who have lost their parents due to the pandemic will be extended all assistance, including financial, by the state government under its sponsorship scheme. “The state government has decided to tweak rules of the scheme as it mandated to assist only two children of a family. Now, all affected children of a family will be provided financial assistance even if they are more than two,” Manoj Rai, director, department of women and child development. In a virtual meeting on Tuesday, Rai apprised all district probation officers of the state about the government’s plan regarding rehabilitation of the children rendered orphan due to the Covid.The state government is collecting details of all such children below 18 years of age who have lost both their parents or either mother or father to Covid. Instructing the district probation officers to collect details of such children, Rai apprised officials of the government’s plan to extend immediate assistance to such children through the sponsorship scheme. Rai also asked officials to contact Covid hospitals and incharges of Covid command centres of their respective districts to collect details of Covid-orphaned children and provide this information to child welfare committees. Child Line (1098), special juvenile police units, district child protection units and nigrani samitis (monitoring committees) in rural and urban areas are also assisting the district magistrates in preparing the list of such children. “Efforts must be made to rehabilitate such children under the care of any family and sending them to a child care shelter must be the last option,” Rai told officials. During the meeting, he also told officials to collect details of frontline workers who have succumbed to Covid so that financial assistance could be provided to their family members too. The department of women and child development has also asked officials to take adequate steps to prevent child marriages and take necessary steps if any such incident is reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-scheme-to-assist-kids-rendered-orphan-by-pandemic-101620754167207.html
11-05-2021||Other||‘Emergency Medicine dept’ to come up at MLNMC, proposal sent||A new ‘Emergency Medicine Department’ will be established at Motilal Nehru Medical College (MLNMC) soon and will start functioning from the next academic session. The MLNMC administration has already sent a proposal to the state government for approval, medical college officials said. “A detailed proposal has been sent to the state government. We have also requested sanctioning of new posts for this proposed department at the MLN Medical College,” said SP Singh, principal, MLNMC, while confirming the development. As part of the exercise, a facility of 30 beds will be added to SRN Hospital – the hospital associated with MLNMC – including six beds having intensive care unit (ICU) facilities. One operation theatre and one plaster room would also be part of this new department, he explained. SRN Hospital currently has a 1,400-bed capacity, besides a trauma centre. Students enrolling in the MBBS course from session 2022-23 will also have to study ‘Emergency Medicine’ as a subject as stipulated by the National Medical Commission (NMC)— the regulatory body that governs medical education and medical professionals in the country, they added. Noting the importance of the field of emergency medicine, the NMC had made this new department mandatory for all medical colleges from the 2022-23 academic session. It had also issued a notification in this regard on October 19, 2020, laying down the particular manpower and equipment requirement etc so that medical colleges could take necessary steps in this regard.For this new ‘Emergency Medicine Department’, sanction of one post each of professor, associate professor and assistant professor has been sought by the MLNMC administration so that proper teaching work can be undertaken. At present, the MLN Medical College has 12 departments: medicine, surgery, orthopaedics, obstetrics and gynaecology, pulmonary medicine, paediatrics, dermatology (skin), pathology, microbiology, biochemistry, anatomy, social and preventive medicine and ENT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/emergency-medicine-dept-to-come-up-at-mlnmc-proposal-sent-101620753987284.html
11-05-2021||Other||No new clothes, sewain parties; it’s going to be a quiet Eid||Not just the fear of Covid-19 but also the numerous lives lost has put a shadow on the joy of Eid-ul-Fitr, the biggest festival of Muslims across the world. Many families have decided not to wear new clothes on the occasion or hold ‘sewain parties’ as a mark of solidarity with those who lost their loved ones to the pandemic.Abid Ali, a resident of Kareli, returned to Prayagraj from Mumbai when Ramzan began, hoping to celebrate a grand Eid-ul-Fitr with his two sons, Amir and Danish, who also flew back from Dubai. Abid Ali’s hopes were shattered as Covid-19 started claiming lives of people. Although none in his family was infected with Covid-19, Abid Ali and his family members were shocked over the large number of deaths, including many in their locality and in their extended family. Upset by the tragedy, the family has decided not to wear new clothes this Eid.Many local leaders and religious heads have also urged community members to mark Eid with simplicity and focus on helping the needy around them who are still fighting for survival.Imam Jama Masjid and former Sheher Qazi Sayyad Maqbool Hussain urged Muslims to offer Eid-ul-Fitr prayers at home. As prayers at home will be without an Imam, only ‘namaz shukrana’ should be offered by individuals, he said. Muslims should pray for the well-being of those suffering from the pandemic and also for those who have lost their lives, he added.With just a few days are left for Eid-ul-Fitr, the Muslim-dominated Old City areas seem lacklustre and subdued, which at this time of year used to be brimming with life. With the strict implementation of lockdown, no markets are open for shopping but people are also staying away from purchasing clothes etc online.Former Samajwadi Party MLA Haji Parwez Ahmad and his family used to organise grand Eid celebrations every year. This year, the family has cancelled all festivities.“My family and I used to distribute new clothes among the poor on Eid and celebrate the occasion with friends and relatives. With the pandemic claiming so many lives this year, patients have been helped and all celebrations have been cancelled,” the former MLA said.With deadly disease playing havoc, celebrating Eid is not only unwise but also meaningless, says MA Ansari, a senior High Court advocate, whose family has recently recovered from Covid-19.Hundreds of deaths in Old City localities of Atala, Shahganj, Akbarpur, Roshanbagh, Dariabad, Rasulpur, Rani Mandi, Daira Shah Ajmal, Kareli, Khuldabad etc have been reported in the second wave of the pandemic. Many infected are still fighting for their lives and their families are praying for their recovery.“Traditionally, Eid is not celebrated in homes where a member has recently died. Prayagraj has been a symbol of mixed culture and its citizens have always shared their joys and sorrows. With so many deaths this year across the city, it is impossible for Muslims to rejoice. Religious heads have already urged to offer special Eid-ul-Fitr prayers at home,” Syed Mohd Askari, a Samajwadi Party leader said.Principal of Madarsa Jammatul Abbas Maulana Kalbe Abbas Rizvi said Muslims should pray not only for themselves but also for all human beings suffering due to the pandemic.Contractor Arif Khan, a resident of Rasulpur, returned from Delhi, expecting to celebrate Eid with his large family of eight brothers. However, with the disease claiming so many lives, Arif and his kin did not purchase new clothes and other items for Eid. “Our dining table used to be full with varieties of ‘sewain’ prepared by the women in our family. Our family, relatives and friends used to flock to the house throughout the day. We will miss the festivities but will pray for a happy Eid next year,” Arif said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-new-clothes-sewain-parties-it-s-going-to-be-a-quiet-eid-101620753807217.html
11-05-2021||Other||Prayagraj’s MLN Medical College microbiology lab to get more staff, RT-PCR testing machines||The Motilal Nehru Medical College’s (MLNMC) microbiology lab will soon get more trained staff as well as five more RT-PCR testing machines that would help in the fight against deadly coronavirus in an efficient way, said medical college officials.MLNMC’s microbiology lab is the only government facility in the district to conduct the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction tests for suspected corona patients. The move is part of preparations amidst talks of possible third wave of the deadly pandemic.“We would now be having seven RTPCR testing machines in place of existing two and of the five machines two have already arrived and rest would be available soon,” said head of department Dr Monica.Moreover, the present strength of 30 staff members of the department, including 18 lab technicians, would be increased to 41. Recently, when over half of the trained technicians were infected with the virus, the lab was forced to work with bare minimum staff. The move will speed up the RT-PCR testing and with that the treatment of the infected patients too. “We are now putting in place the mechanism to strengthen the facility to fight the pandemic as in future, if the infection spreads, the department would be ready for the challenge,” said MLNMC principal Dr SP Singh. “Besides additional machines, the department will now also have more trained staff to support the existing staff,” said Dr Singh. Recently, around 6,000 tests were being conducted daily in the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagrajs-mln-medical-college-microbiology-lab-to-get-more-staff-rt-pcr-testing-machines-101620752007114.html
11-05-2021||Other||Indirect rural polls may be deferred till Covid subsides||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh government is unlikely to hold the indirect panchayat elections to elect the district and block panchayat chiefs for now due to the second wave of the Covid-19 wreaking havoc everywhere, even as lobbying by political parties and potential candidates is already in full swing in villages. As per the Allahabad high court order of February 4, 2021, the state government and the state election commission are supposed to hold indirect elections to the posts of zila panchayat and kshetra panchayat chairpersons, completing the exercise by May 25 after holding direct elections by May 10. The four-phase direct elections in which around 12 crore rural voters exercised their franchise to elect village pradhans, village ward members, kshetra panchayat and zila panchayat ward members are over with counting of votes last week. Now, 75,852 kshetra panchayat members and 3,050 zila pachayat members elected in the recent direct polls will vote to elect 75 zila panchayat and 826 kshetra panchayat chiefs respectively in the final round. The state government, according to people dealing with the issue, has decided to not hold indirect elections till the pandemic subsides in the state and it may soon seek the court’s permission for the same. “Having drawn a lot of flak for not deferring the three-tier panchayat polls despite the devastating second wave of the Covid-19, the government has got cold feet about its plans to hold indirect rural polls this month”, they disclosed. Indicating that the indirect rural polls may be put on hold for now, minister panchayati raj, Bhupendra Singh Chaudhary said that the government’s entire focus, as of now, was on winning the fight against the pandemic. “The current time is not conducive to holding polls and the government wants to focus on its fight against the Covid-19 that has started spreading its tentacles in rural areas as well,” he said before adding, “But no final decision on polls has been taken yet.” Additional chief secretary panchayati raj, Manoj Kumar Singh also said the issue was under consideration. “A final call on this issue will be taken soon,” he said. Another senior official, however, disclosed that the government would soon file an affidavit in the high court, stating that due to the pandemic it was not advisable to hold indirect rural polls at this juncture. “The hearing of the case filed in January is already scheduled to be held on May 27 by the court and the government is most likely to submit an affidavit the court the same day, explaining why it could not comply with its earlier directives for holding indirect elections by May 25,” sources revealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/indirect-rural-polls-may-be-deferred-till-covid-subsides-101620748646851.html
11-05-2021||Other||Max number of Covid +ve cases from Meerut||MEERUT The district topped in the state for testing a maximum of 2190 corona positive people in a day on Monday. Ten people died during treatment. The health department’s daily bulletin on corona released late night on Monday mentioned that 4656 samples were tested out of which 2190 were found positive. This shows that every second person in the total number of samples tested positive, which was the highest positivity in a day. Earlier, 1678 people tested positive in a single day on May 4 out of 7177 samples, which indicated that almost every fourth person was tested positive. Previously, on April 22 for the first time 1634 people were found positive out of 6635 samples. The analysis shows that in spite of every possible effort, surge in infection is continuing in the district and stricter measures are required to control the spread. So far 13,081 people have \tested positive in the first 10 days of the month and 78 patients lost their lives in the same duration. On Monday, 10 patients died during treatment. The number of deaths mentioned in the bulletin, however, mismatches the bodies cremated in a single day at the Suraj Kund crematorium. An Acharya who performs last rites at the crematorium said on condition of anonymity that on an average, 60 to 70 bodies were being cremated, including those who died of coronavirus. Presently, the district has 17682 active cases of corona and so far 542 people have died of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/max-number-of-ve-cases-from-meerut-101620748466846.html
11-05-2021||Other||4 black fungus cases in Meerut||MEERUT After Maharashtra and Gujarat, the potentially fatal and rare ‘ black fungus’ infection has been detected in four Covid-19 patients here. These are perhaps the first cases of black fungus among corona patients in the state. Black fungus or mucormycosis is caused by exposure to mucor mould which is ubiquitous. It affects the sinuses, the brain and the lungs and can be life-threatening.Assistant chief medical officer ( ACMO) Dr Pooja Sharma confirmed to the media on Tuesday that the rare fungal infection had been detected in two Covid -19 patients undergoing treatment in a private hospital here. She said one patient was from Muzaffarnagar and another from Bijnor. Chief medical officer ( CMO) Dr Akhilesh Mohan said that he had sought a report from the hospital in this regard. Two other patients with black fungus infection reported at an eye hospital and were cured. Dr Shakeel Ahmad, chairman and chief medical director of Vision Care Superspeciality Eye Hospital, said that it was a rare and potentially fatal fungal infection called mucormycosis. Dr Shakeel said that last week he also came across two patients in his OPD who developed black fungus infection after recovering from Covid-19. One of the women patients, above 60 years of age, was from neighbouring Hapur district. “I am unable to recall the native place of the other patient right now,” said Dr Shakeel. In one patient the infection was at an advanced stage and cured through surgery while in the other it was in a preliminary stage and cured with medicines. Dr Shakeel explained that use of high flow of oxygen during treatment of Covid-19 patients infused moisture inside, which caused serious problems starting with nasal congestion. In many cases it badly affected the eyes and could be detected and cured by keeping a close examination of eyes and nasal obstruction during treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-black-fungus-cases-in-meerut-101620748286886.html
11-05-2021||Other||Yet another serving prof in AMU dies||Agra Yet another serving professor in Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) of Aligarh Muslim University died on Tuesday. Noted physician Prof Shoaib Zaheer, 55, died in Delhi where he was undergoing treatment for past the 20 days. The exact reason for his death is not known. To note, 15 AMU professors have died of Covid and three of non-Covid ailments in the past 20-25 days. AMU spokesperson Prof Shafey Kidwai confirmed the death but said, “We are yet to know the exact reason behind death of professor Mohammad Shoaib Zaheer who was under treatment in Delhi.” “His demise robbed the JNMC and university community of someone with a deep understanding of general medicine. Prof Shoaib Zaheer was a popular physician and teacher who extensively trained medical students into successful doctors,” said AMU Vice chancellor, professor Tariq Mansoor. Prof Shahid Ali Siddiqui (principal, JNMC) said, “Under prof Shoaib Zaheer’s guidance, students thrived, and young teachers made great educational and professional strides. He will be remembered for advocating the finest healthcare for all and for exemplary services at the JNMC”. It may be recalled that till Monday, 18 serving faculty members at AMU have died, out of whom 15 died because of Covid-related reasons. The cause of three other deaths was non-Covid. “There are more deaths, which include retired faculty members and staff at Aligarh Muslim University,” said Dr Rahat Abrar, the public relations officer of AMU. “These deaths have taken place in the past 20 to 25 days. Concerned by this, the AMU vice chancellor has written to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for genome sequencing of the virus active on the campus,” Dr Abrar said. On Sunday, AMU vice chancellor Tariq Mansoor wrote to ICMR director general Balram Bhargava, requesting a study to find out if a particular virus variant was circulating around the Civil Lines area of Aligarh, in which AMU and many adjoining localities are situated. The Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) is affiliated to AMU and situated on the university campus. There are about 5,000 non-teaching staff and around 1,700 teaching staff at AMU. In all, 18947 people have tested Covid positive in Aligarh till date and 98 deaths have been reported, as per government sources. Meanwhile, chief minister Yogi Adityanath spoke to AMU vice chancellor prof Tariq Mansoor on phone on Tuesday. Yogi asked the VC to ensure measures to prevent Covid-19 infection among staff members who lived on the campus. He stressed on the need to increase vaccination among people between 18 to 44 years of age and assured all possible help from the government to break the chain of Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yet-another-serving-prof-in-amu-dies-101620748046837.html
11-05-2021||Other||Bihar mandates rural stint for fresh MBBS graduates||PATNAFresh medical graduates from state government colleges will have to go through compulsorily posting in rural areas on a contractual basis, the state cabinet decided on Tuesday in a meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar.The cabinet approved the health department’s proposal for creation of 2,580 floating posts for rural areas for those acquiring the MBBS degree from the state government colleges.Additional chief secretary (cabinet) Sanjay Kumar said the provision would come into effect immediately since the current phase of Covid pandemic required proper handling of rural healthcare facilities. An equal number of medicos are likely to get the MBBS degree this month.The cabinet also gave its nod for distribution of ₹9,999 crore, allocated by the Central government in the light of recommendations of the 15th finance commission, among the urban local bodies (ULBs). TThe cabinet also cleared the urban department’s proposal to release ₹592.40 crore as assistance grant to all ULBs for the current fiscal as per the recommendation of the state finance commission. A total of 133 proposals, including distribution of free foodgrains among ration card holders, release of ₹1000 crore for procurement of vaccines against Covid, etc, were approved by the cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-mandates-rural-stint-for-fresh-mbbs-graduates-101620747027424.html
11-05-2021||Other||Blow to Covid vaccination as private facilities go off the list||Ruchir Kumar ruchirkumar@hindustantimes.com PATNA: The government’s recent order stopping free supply of Covid-19 vaccines to private healthcare facilities and asking them to procure the vaccines directly has dealt a blow to the vaccination drive, forcing private facilities to pull out of the exercise. Vaccination at all 44 private facilities in Patna has been shut since May 1, after the state government order, said Patna district immunisation officer Dr SP Vinayak. Against a peak of 3.75 inoculations in a single day in March, the state vaccinated 1,46,493 people on Tuesday, taking its total tally to 84,08,557. The state health department had now asked private healthcare facilities interested in vaccination to register with the civil surgeon of the respective district. This despite the fact that many private centres were involved in the vaccination process between January 16 and April 30. The Mahavir Vatsalya Hospital, which reached out to the Serum Institute of India (SII) to procure Covishield vaccines, was on Monday told to wait for another three to four months for the vaccines, said Dr Upendra Prasad Sinha, nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination. “The firm’s Mumbai office has told us to access the vaccines when it becomes available in the private market supply chain channels, which will take about 3-4 months from now,” added Dr Sinha. “The medical representative of the Serum Institute has communicated the head of paediatrics department Dr Vijay Ranjan that our hospital is among the four private centres shortlisted by the firm for giving vaccines in Patna because of our bulk consumption of children vaccines for other diseases,” said Acharya Kishore Kunal, secretary of the Mahavir Mandir Temple Trust, which runs a series of hospitals in Bihar. The hospital used to vaccinate around 100-150 people till April 30. The government move has also dissuaded the Ruban Memorial Hospital in New Patliputra Colony. “I am not keen to continue with the vaccination now that the government is not providing us the vaccines. Taking it as a social commitment, we provided our infrastructure and manpower to help the government in its vaccination drive. If the government expects us to buy the vaccines on our own and administer it to people, I don’t think we are interested in it because our hands are full in management of Covid-19 cases,” said Dr Satyajit Singh, managing director of the Ruban hospital, accredited to the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH). The Ruban used to vaccinate an average 250-400 people per day, he claimed. The Paras-HMRI Hospital, another private facility accredited to the NABH said it was clueless where to get the vaccines from. “We are cluless at this point where to get the vaccines from. The state health department is also not clear about it. Our Gurgaon office wrote to the Serum Institute of India for the vaccine, but it has not responded yet. If the government provides us the Covid-19 vaccines, we are ready to administer them to people,” said Dr Syed Asif Rahman, medical superintendent, Paras-HMRI Hospital, Patna. The hospital, he said, used to administer an average 150-200 vaccine doses per day till April 30. Meanwhile, the NTPC, a public sector undertaking, wrote to the Patna district magistrate (DM) Chandrashekhar Singh on Tuesday requesting him to establish Covid-19 vaccination centre at NTPC Barh to facilitate its employees take the jab. “We have around 320 employees below 45 years of age at NTPC Barh who may please be vaccinated at utmost priority,” said Onkar Nath, deputy general manager (HR), in his letter to the Patna DM. Earlier, on May 5, regional executive director East-1, Praveen Saxena wrote to the Bihar chief secretary, urging him to establish Covid-19 vaccination centre at various NTPC plants of Bihar to facilitate NTPC employees and its associates take the shot. COVID WATCH Bihar reported 10,920 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the state’s cumulative tally to 6,12,570 It reported 72 deaths, taking the total death toll to 3,429. Patna contributed to 18 deaths on Tuesday, taking its total death count to 989 With 1,702 new infections, Patna topped Tuesday’s case tally, followed by Samastipur 782, Purnia 579, Begusarai 511, Muzaffarpur 452 and East Champaran 442 Bihar’s case recovery rate inched up to 82.77%, the best this month, after 13,852 were discharged from facilities after recovery, taking the total recovery to 5,07,041 Bihar’s test positivity ratio (TPR) dipped marginally to 10.2% on Monday. It was 10.3% on May 9, after recording a high of 16.1% on April 30. The state has imposed lockdown from May 5, when its TPR was 15.6%, to May 15 1,46,493 people were vaccinated on Tuesday, taking the total tally to 84,08,557||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/blow-to-covid-vaccination-as-private-facilities-go-off-the-list-101620747026905.html
11-05-2021||Other||71 bodies fished out from Ganga river near Buxar||At least 71 bodies have been fished out of Ganga river so far in Bihar’s Buxar district, where a large number of bloated and partially decomposed bodies were found floating in the river on Monday, triggering panic among locals and widespread outrage.The bodies were netted from the river near Mahadeva ghat of Chausa, which borders Uttar Pradesh.Buxar’s district magistrate Aman Samir, while confirming that 71 bodies had been recovered so far, said he had proposed for an autopsy of all the bodies. “But the doctors refused as the bodies are in a highly decomposed condition and seem to be five to six days old,” Samir said, adding that DNA of corpses would be preserved for any future need.“Here at Buxar, as in Bihar in general, there is a custom to burn bodies after death on a funeral pyre. But when a team was sent to neighbouring Ghazipur district of Uttar Pradesh, it found some people there believe in throwing the bodies into the river,” the Buxar DM said.Bihar’s water resources minister Sanjay Kumar, a key aide of chief minister Nitish Kumar, also weighed in, claiming the bodies had flown downstream from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh.“The Bihar government is seized of the matter... The bodies have floated into Bihar from UP,” Jha tweeted, adding that doctors had confirmed that deaths had taken place four-five days ago.Meanwhile, the DM said preparations were underway for last rites of bodies. “The religion of the dead is not known and bodies are in decomposed condition. So, it has been decided to bury all the bodies. For this, large pits have been dug,” he said.According to agency reports, corpses were found floating in Ghazipur district of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday.“Our officers are present on the spot to investigate and ascertain where they came from. A probe into the matter is underway,” MP Singh, Ghazipur’s district magistrate, told ANI.Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat termed the whole episode “unfortunate” and asked the states concerned to take immediate cognizance.“The incident of corpses found floating in Ganga in Buxar region of Bihar is unfortunate. This is definitely a matter of investigation. The Modi government is committed to the cleanliness of ‘mother’ Ganga. This incident is unexpected. The concerned states should take immediate cognizance in this regard,” Shekhawat tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/71-bodies-fished-out-from-ganges-near-buxar-101620746967371.html
11-05-2021||Other||Pappu picked up for flouting lockdown, packed off to Madhepura in 32-year-old case||PATNAAmid high drama, former Madhepura MP and Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) chief Rajiv Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, one of the most visible faces touring hospitals and helping Covid-19 patients, was arrested by the Patna police on Tuesday morning from his residence in the state capital for alleged violation of lockdown and handed over to Madhepura police in the evening in connection with the 32-year-old kidnapping case.A police team from Madhepura led by Udkishanganj subdivisional police officer Satish Kumar reached Gandhi Maidan police station in Patna and took custody of Pappu Yadav in connection with the kidnapping case in which a Madhepura court had recently issued property attachment order and an arrest warrant against him.Ranjit Vats, the station house officer (SHO) of Gandhi Maidan police station, confirmed Yadav was handed over to Madhepura police team.A case was also lodged against Yadav with Pirbahore police station in Patna on a statement by magistrate Ras Bihari Dubey, who alleged that the former MP and his supporters had visited the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) around 7.45am on May 11 and created a “scene”. SHO of Buddha colony police station in Patna, Kaisar Alam, said Yadav was arrested Tuesday morning and driven in his own SUV to the police station for further investigation. Yadav, however, claimed his arrest was politically motivated. “They’ll tell you why I have been arrested. I have helped [needy] families for [the last] 1.5 months despite recently [undergoing] an operation. The government and Nitish babu (a reference to chief minister Nitish Kumar) will know what this is. Arrest doesn’t take place for violation of lockdown,” he said while being taken the police station. Yadav recently accused the BJP MP from Saran, Rajiv Pratap Rudy, of apathy, claiming the 24 ambulances funded by MPLAD (Member of Parliament Local Area Development) scheme lay abandoned in Saran instead of serving Covid-19 patients during the current crisis. One of Rudy’s supporters later filed a complaint against him for “trespassing” and “vandalizing” the ambulances.Yadav’s activism had drawn praise from many belonging to poor families who credit him for intervening in time to get them admitted to hospitals during the present crisis. While being taken to Madhepura, Yadav said he had been made a scapegoat. “Nitish is working on the instructions of the BJP,” he said. Meanwhile, political parties, including HAM-S and Vikasheel Insaaf Party (VIP), which is part of the NDA government, criticized the arrest. “If a public representative is serving the people and he is arrested for that, it is dangerous for humanity. Let there be a thorough probe,” said former CM and HAM-S president Jitan Ram Manjhi. VIP leader and minister in the state, Mukesh Sahni, called it “insensitiveness” of the government while CPI-ML state secretary Kunal demanded immediate release of the former MP. “The arrest has exposed the claim of Nitish Kumar government regarding good governance and rule of law,” said Arun Kumar Yadav, an RJD leader from Purnia.JAP spokesperson Rajesh Yadav said the arrest was anti-democratic and totally illegal. (With inputs from Aditya Nath Jha in Purnia)BoxThe curious caseThe case of kidnapping dates back to 1989. Yadav has secured bail but failed to follow the order of regular submission in court. On March 22, 2021, the court of additional chief judicial magistrate-1 cancelled his bail and issued property attach warrant against Pappu Yadav for failing to appear in the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pappu-picked-up-for-flouting-lockdown-packed-off-to-madhepura-in-32-year-old-case-101620746967963.html
11-05-2021||Other||Covid patient’s wife says molested at hospital, police probe||PATNAThe Bhagalpur police have constituted a three-member team to probe the case of alleged sexual harassment of a woman who was taking care of her Covid-infected husband at a private hospital in Bhagalpur. In a video that has gone viral on social media, the woman is seen wailing and appealing to people not to trust hospitals. Narrating her ordeal, the woman is heard saying she was molested by an employee at the Glocal Hospital in Bhagalpur, who she identified as one Jyoti Kumar. The woman’s husband, a software engineer, was later brought to a private hospital in Patna where he died on May 8. The woman has alleged that a doctor at the Patna hospital too molested her and the hospital administration deliberately switched off the oxygen supply in the ICU to force people to buy oxygen cylinders. Talking to media persons in Patna, the woman said her family, living in Noida, had come to Bhagalpur to celebrate Holi and decided to stay back as Covid cases began rising across the country. On April 9, her husband fell ill and got himself tested twice for coronavirus, but the results were negative. Later, a doctor in Noida asked him to get a chest CT scan done, which showed infection in the lungs. The man and her mother were admitted to Glocal Hospital in Bhagalpur. The woman said Jyoti Kumar, an attendant at the hospital, molested her several times. She said that in the meantime, her husband’s condition worsened, after which he was referred for treatment to Mayaganj government hospital, but doctors there refused to attend to him. “We then decided to take him to a hospital in Patna and admitted him in the ICU on April 26. However, doctors there did not even visit the ICU. One of them inappropriately touched me several times during his visit to the ICU. I could not gather courage to shout as I feared for my husband,” she said. She alleged the hospital staff cut off her husband’s oxygen supply and she was forced to buy oxygen cylinders from the black market. The hospital sold an oxygen cylinder for ₹50,000 each, she alleged. When contacted, Glocal Hospital at Bhagalpur accepted that a person by the name of Jyoti Kumar worked in the hospital. “We have removed Jyoti Kumar from the services and the police are free to probe and take action,” said Dr Ajim, the hospital’s managing director. Meanwhile, Bhagalpur’s senior superintendent of police Natasha Gudia said a three-member team headed by city SP Puran Jha would probe the incident. The SSP said she spoke to the woman and asked her to send a written complaint about the incident. Meanwhile, Patna High Court advocate Sama Sinha mentioned the incident before the court and urged it to take suo motu cognizance. Sinha said she had sought an urgent hearing in the case. All India Progressive Women’s Association (AIPWA), Bihar, demanded that the guilty be arrested at the earliest and hospitals in question be blacklisted by the government. “It’s a matter of great shame for the entire health sector. Where will the women go if such incidents occur at the hospitals during this crisis?” said Mina Tiwari, national general secretary of the AIPWA. Shashi Yadav, state secretary of the AIPWA, demanded immediate arrest of culprits and said the hospitals concerned should be blacklisted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-patient-s-wife-says-molested-at-hospital-police-probe-101620746966850.html
11-05-2021||Other||Four black fungus cases reported in Covid-19 patients in Meerut||After Maharashtra and Gujarat, the potentially fatal and rare ‘ black fungus infection has been detected in four Covid-19 patients in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut, officials said. Assistant chief medical officer (ACMO) Dr Pooja Sharma confirmed to the media on Tuesday that the rare fungal infection had been detected in two Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at a private hospital. She said one patient was from Muzaffarnagar and another from Bijnor. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Akhilesh Mohan said that he has sought a report from the hospital in this regard. Two other patients with black fungus infection were reported at an eye hospital and were cured. Dr Shakeel Ahmad, chairman and chief medical director of Vision Care Superspeciality Eye Hospital, said that was a rare and potentially fatal fungal infection known as mucormycosis. Dr Shakeel said that last week he also came across two patients in his OPD who developed black fungus infection after recovering from Covid-19. One of the women patients, above 60 years of age, was from the neighbouring Hapur district. “I am unable to recall the native place of the other patient right now,” said Dr Shakeel. In one patient the infection was at an advanced stage and was cured through surgery while in the other it was at a preliminary stage and was treated with medicines. Dr Shakeel explained that the use of high-flow of oxygen during the treatment of Covid-19 patients often infuses moisture inside which may cause serious problems, starting with nasal congestion. In many cases, it badly affects the eyes and could be detected and cured by keeping a close examination of eyes and nasal obstruction during the treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-black-fungus-cases-reported-in-covid-19-patients-in-meerut-101620746727346.html
11-05-2021||Other||Security lapse? Aadhar card, mobile phone numbers on vaccination centre notice boards||PUNE Vaccination centres displaying private information like Aadhar card numbers and mobile numbers on notice boards have raised concerns among citizens as they fear the information being out in the public domain.At every vaccination centre in Pune and Pimpri and Chinchwad — a list on the notice board is displayed about slots which they have booked.“The practice is followed at all the centres. Outsiders also visit the centre to find out their slots and such practices should be avoided,” said Sachin Londhe, joint treasurer, Pimpri-Chinchwad Cooperative Housing Societies Federation.When Londhe tried to inform medical officals at New JijaMata Hospital, Pimpri, he was informed that it is a common practice.“The medical officials are downloading the information from the CoWin app directly, but they should mask the mobile number and Aadhar card number for safety purposes,” added Londhe.Hitesh Rahandale, who also visited the vaccination centre added, “Private data exposed to third parties could turn out to be a major problem for anybody as the mobile number and Aadhar number can be used to hack bank accounts.”Vignesh Ghule from Kothrud said, “I also asked medical officials about why they are disclosing Aadhar card numbers and they told us we are following what was instructed. Now such loopholes are coming out.”Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation commissioner Rajesh Patil said, “This error will be rectified and we will be masking such data on all the centres”.On Monday, PCMC had allowed vaccination drives at the eight centres only for the age group of 18-45 years.“The vaccine stock is likely to improve after May 15,” tweeted Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/security-lapse-aadhar-card-mobile-phone-numbers-on-vaccination-centre-notice-boards-101620745946669.html
11-05-2021||Other||Forest dept to handover idle manufacturing unit in Pune within 3 days for vaccine production||PUNE After the Bombay high court directed the state government to hand-over a vaccine manufacturing unit located in Pune district to an associate of Bharat Biotech for vaccine production, the forest department said it will complete the process within the next three days. A division bench of Justices K K Tated and N R Borkar on May 6 heard an application filed by Karnataka’s Biovet Private Limited, seeking direction to the Maharashtra government to hand over possession of the manufacturing unit at Manjari Khurd village in Pune. Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forest (Pune division), said his department, which owns the land, will cooperate with the procedure while formalities related to the hand-over will be completed in two-three days, following which the pharma company can make arrangements for vaccine production. The unit was first being used by Intervet India Pvt Ltd, a multinational and subsidiary of Merck & Co, after land was granted to it in 1973 to manufacture vaccines for the foot and mouth disease. Later Intervet decided to exit business operations in India and entered into an agreement with Biovet for the transfer of the land and manufacturing unit. However when Biovet sought the Maharashtra government’s approval for the transfer, the forest department claimed the land was reserved and the initial 1973 grant itself was a violation. Biovet later approached the Bombay High Court challenging the forest department’s order.“The land belongs to the forest department. Now according to the HC order it will be given to them temporarily to manufacture Covid vaccines,” said Patil.Patil clarified that the use of this manufacturing unit is approved on a temporary basis to produce life-saving vaccines during the pandemic. “That land was assigned to the company before. Infrastructure is ready on that land. As per the court order we will handover it to the concerned party,” said Patil. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that the process to activate the vaccine plant in Pune will be expedited. “We want to vaccinate everyone in the state to defeat the virus. I have directed the Pune Collector to make the land available for Bharat Biotech’s vaccine plant,” said Ajit Pawar in Mumbai at an online event. The vaccine manufacturing facility is situated in a village in Manjari Khurd in Haveli taluka, on land measuring 11.58 hectares. Advanced oxygen plant in KolhapurMinister of state for home and information technology Satej Patil, has announced the setting up of an advanced oxygen plant on the premises of the Gokul dairy brand in Kolhapur, amid a dire need for oxygen during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Gokul is a prominent milk brand from the Kolhapur District Co-operative Milk Producers Union. The plant will fulfil the additional requirement of oxygen for Kolhapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/forest-dept-to-handover-idle-manufacturing-unit-in-pune-within-3-days-for-vaccine-production-101620745346674.html
11-05-2021||Other||Cyber Police Kashmir saves 13 lakhs lost in cyber frauds, scams||In a swift action, Cyber Police Kashmir saved 13 lakhs which was lost in cyber frauds and scams, officials said, adding that the police force received complaints regarding various online frauds, scams and other cyber crimes on a routine basis.“During the past one month, Cyber Police Station Kashmir Zone, Srinagar, received multiple complaints wherein complainants had been duped by fraudsters in OTP and UPI frauds. In one incident, a complainant was duped of ₹2 lakh through UPI scam when all he wanted was a refund for the cancellation of his ticket. He was struggling to find a customer care number and obtained a number from Google search results. He received a call and was asked to download a mobile application called Team Viewer Quick Support on his cell phone. After following the steps told by the fraudsters, he was duped of ₹2 lakh from his bank account. The victim immediately reported the fraud,” the police spokesman said in a statement.He said that Cyber Police Kashmir was able to recover the money from the fraudsters.“In OTP frauds, multiple complaints were received regarding vishing (OTP) scams wherein the complainants get phone calls from fraudsters claiming to be bank officers. These fraudsters convince the complainants and inform them that their debit cards have been blocked and are due for renewal. In order to renew the debit cards, the complainants are asked to share the card details along with six digits OTP received on their cell phones. The gullible victims end up sharing their card details along with OTP and fall prey to such scams. An amount of ₹11 lakh was duped similarly,” the police said.Police said amid the Covid-19 pandemic, when the public is dependent on cyber platforms, the vulnerability of getting trapped into cyber scams/frauds gets increased.“Public is advised to refrain from downloading any remote access apps like Team viewer quick support, Anydesk App etc. or dialling fake helpline or customer care numbers found on Google search engine. These legitimate apps are remote software tools which provide a third party with complete hold of the users’ cell phones and computer. People are advised to be aware of these latest scams and not to fell prey to these fraudsters. If you or your family member get infected from Corona, you may receive a fraud call from cyber criminals that Covid-19 help will be provided, moreover, fraudsters may also ask for an advance payment and promise to provide an oxygen cylinder via home delivery, vaccines etc,” the police statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyber-police-kashmir-saves-13-lakhs-lost-in-cyber-frauds-scams-101620743847101.html
11-05-2021||Other||Post 11am, Katraj-Dehu rd bypass turns into bustling market; police to crack down on vendors||PUNE It’s been a risky affair for vehicles and daily commuters travelling from Katraj via the bypass to Dehu road.The bypass turns into a market after 11 am daily. Currently, due to the strict restrictions, people are allowed to step out only between 7am and 11 am when essential stores and vegetable markets are open. Despite this order, roadside vendors are seen on the bypass and highway doing brisk business. “This bypass is a major road which connects several parts of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. There is round- the-clock traffic movement on this bypass road, but now due to lockdown traffic is less. Still, after 11am, there are hundreds of roadside vendors selling fruits, vegetables, bags, caps and sun-glasses. It is risky for them as well,” said Atul Namekar, secretary, Sinhagad road-Warje residents association. Currently there are several road repair and service works going on the bypass by the National Authority of India (NHAI). This has decreased the width of the road.Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said, “There is round-the-clock checking done by traffic policemen and after 11 am no one should come out of their houses unless it’s an emergency. We will check the roadside vendors on the bypass and take action accordingly with the help of the PMC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/post-11am-katraj-dehu-rd-bypass-turns-into-bustling-market-police-to-crack-down-on-vendors-101620743306551.html
11-05-2021||Other||Low depression over Arabian Sea likely to intensify into cyclonic storm by May 16: IMD||PUNE As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), a low depression over the Arabian Sea is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 16. One of the factors for the increase in cyclone intensity and frequency is warmer sea surface temperature (SST), said IMD scientists. Studies have also highlighted that pre-monsoon cyclones in the Arabian Sea are increasing.Dr Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general, said that normally the frequency of cyclones in the Arabian Sea is one every year.“However, for this cyclogenesis, it is very early to say what path the cyclone will take and what the intensity will be. We have issued an early warning so that fishermen can be cautioned from venturing out to sea from May 14. IMD will be issuing updated forecasts of the same, from time to time,” said Dr Mohapatra.Vineet Kumar Singh, a scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), who has published a paper on warmer sea surface temperatures (SST) and subsurface temperatures being responsible for the rapid intensification of cyclones that India has witnessed in the recent past, said that we can expect the Arabian Sea to witness more cyclones each year.“The intensity of cyclones in the Arabian Sea is also rapidly increasing due to warmer sea surface temperature. In 2020, we witnessed the Nisarga Cyclone, which was a category 1 cyclone. Though it is early to predict the path of this upcoming cyclone, the weather department has issued a warning to inform fishermen not to venture out to sea,” said Singh.He added that based on various national and international models, there is a possibility that this cyclone will be more intense than Cyclone Nisarga.“However, the intensity of the cyclone can be predicted only in the next few days, as the conditions get clearer. Due to the rotation axis of the earth, many cyclones in Arabian Sea take a path towards Yemen and Oman,” said Singh.He added that in 2007, Cyclone Gonu which was developed in the pre-monsoon Arabian Sea was a category 3 cyclone and had a wind speed of about 180-200km per hour.“It is the Arabian sea where an increase in intensity of cyclones is observed,” said Singh.Another study by Researchers at University of Virginia, USA, published in the journal Nature in 2011 states that there is an increase in the intensity of pre-monsoon tropical cyclones in the Arabian Sea during the period 1979–2010. The study shows that the change in storm strength is a consequence of a simultaneous upward trend in anthropogenic black carbon and sulphate emissions.Cyclone watch* A low pressure area is likely to form over southeast Arabian Sea around May 14* Likely to move north-north-westwards across southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep area and intensify into a depression around May 15. * It may intensify into a cyclonic storm over east central Arabian Sea around May 16 and continue to move north north-westward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/low-depression-over-arabian-sea-likely-to-intensify-into-cyclonic-storm-by-may-16-imd-101620742826541.html
11-05-2021||Other||Citizens accompanying beneficiaries see vax centres over-crowded, Covid norms defunct||PUNE The civic authorities are finding it difficult to manage crowds at vaccination centres given the number of people accompanying the beneficiary. Social distancing and crowding norms imposed by the state government and the health department are difficult to enforce.At least two or three persons are accompanying beneficiaries to vaccination centres in the eastern parts of Pune. A case in point is the Annasaheb Magar Hospital in Magarpatta, run by PMC, where a large number of citizens were seen on Tuesday, far more than the 500 pax the hospital can hold with Covid norms in place ar vaccinations. Malhar Bhosale, a staffer at the Annasaheb Magar booth said, “At least two persons come with the vaccinate candidates and there are people with influential contacts who come in threes and fours. We request citizens to come alone and if it is a senior, then one family member can accompany, but youngsters can manage themselves. Crowds lead to confusion and hampers our work.” Similar scenes were seen at vaccination centres in Kondhwa, Hadapsar, Undri, Mohammadwadi, Kharadi, Kalyani nagar and Mundhwa. Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol said, “Social distancing and following the guidelines of the government is essential. We have received information about the issue and a detailed meeting on the subject will be held with the administration. I also appeal to residents to exercise restraint while stepping out for vaccination and only one person must visit the booth which makes the task easier.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/citizens-accompanying-beneficiaries-see-vax-centres-over-crowded-covid-norms-defunct-101620741747887.html
11-05-2021||Other||Web channel scribe in Ludhiana booked for spreading fake news||The Model Town police on Monday booked web channel reporter, along with six other unidentified persons, for spreading fake news about the death of two Covid patients at Krishna Charitable Hospital, Model Town.The accused was identified as Sandeep Kumar Sharma, a scribe of Jan Hitaishi, a web channel.The case was registered on the complaint of Khushbakht Rai, president of Krishna Charitable Hospital, Model Town.The complainant said that on Monday around 10am, attendants of two patients, who had succumbed to the virus, entered the Covid 19 ward with bouncers and started creating ruckus. The attendants allegedly started spreading rumours that their kin had succumbed due to shortage of oxygen. They also called some media persons, who started flashing the unverified claims on their web channel. A health department team, led by district family planning officer Dr SP Singh, conducted a probe into the allegations of oxygen shortage and found no merit in it. “There is no shortfall of oxygen in the hospital. Further, the patients were being treated under the level- 3 (critical) categorically,” said Dr SP Singh, who is also member of the oxygen monitoring committee.Model Town station house officer, inspector Inderjit Singh said a case under Sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot—if rioting be committed—if not committed), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 499 (defamation), 500 (defamation) and 505 (1) (whoever makes, publishes or circulates any statement, rumour or report) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused. The police will arrest the accused soon, he added.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal and deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma condemned the incident and appealed to people against spreading rumours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/web-channel-scribe-in-ludhiana-booked-for-spreading-fake-news-101620679341571.html
11-05-2021||Other||Noon curfew spoils the broth for eateries||Eatery owners in the city say the seven-hour curfew relaxation in the morning is of no use for them as most of their orders come post noon, and demand that the administration should allow them to make home-deliveries throughout the day. Amarvir Singh, president of the hotel and restaurant association of Ludhiana, said that most of the eateries had zero business on Monday due to the curfew.“The hospitality industry accounts for just 3% of the industry sector in Ludhiana. While all other industries have been allowed 24x7 operations, we have been neglected. The district administration should allow us to at least run home-deliveries throughout the day.”He revealed that residents rarely order cooked food before 12pm as it is perishable and can’t be stored till night. Amarvir said that most eateries are reporting a rise in orders for fish dishes. “We got more than 100 orders for fish-based dishes but could not deliver it due to the 12pm curfew,” he said.Navjot Singh, the owner of Navjot Chicken, located near the inter-state bus terminal, said that they get the delivery of raw chicken by 9am and it takes almost two hours to cook the dishes, which leaves no time for delivery. “We got only three customers today and they too came around 11.45am. As we did not get any orders for home delivery, I distributed the cooked chicken among my relatives and friends,” he said, adding that he won’t be opening up his eatery till the administration allows home delivery services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noon-curfew-spoils-the-broth-for-eateries-101620679040720.html
11-05-2021||Other||Covid rampage continues in Ludhiana as 30 more succumb||Just 24 hours after the district recorded its highest-ever single-day death count, Ludhiana reached yet another grim milestone on Monday with 30 fatalities. This is a 36% jump from Sunday’s tally of 22 deaths. The district’s toll now stands at 1, 580.Apart from that, 1, 470 residents also tested positive and took the cumulative count of cases to 68,465. The surge in deaths and cases sent a shockwave across the city on the first day of the imposition of the 17-hour curfew.“The writing is on the wall. Authorities are working day and night to control the spread but residents also need to act responsibly. The rate will come down only when people stop venturing out unnecessarily and stay indoors,” said deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma.Of the 30 who succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, 19 are women. The youngest fatality is a 26-year-old woman of Rahon Road while the oldest is a 91-year-old woman from Khalsa School Road. A 27-year-old woman from Kishan Pura also lost the battle.Ten of the total 30 deceased were in their fifties, while five were in their forties and another three in their thirties and two in their 20s. The rest ten were above the age of 60.Shockingly, three of the total deaths are from Shimlapuri alone.One of the deceased is from Doraha while the rest belong to different residential areas across the city.29 in Samrala, including 20 children, found +ve in 2 daysIn the past two days, 20 cases have been reported in which children aged between 1 and 12 years were found infected. Another nine, aged between 16 and 18, also tested positive.While 15 children, living in a factory unit in Lall Kalan village in Manopur block near Neelo, tested positive two days ago, another five children were found positive on Monday. All belong to families of labourers and reside in the migrant quarters on the factory premises.In addition to this, a 12-year-old boy from near Utalan village was found infected and is said to be critical.Karanveer Singh, the uncle of the child, said that boy had undergone a Covid test last Wednesday when the family fell ill. Seeing the condition of the child, he was shifted to Ludhiana, where he was undergoing treatment. Dr Tarikjot Singh, senior medical officer, Samrala Hospital, confirmed the five fresh cases of Covid-19 among children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-rampage-continues-in-ludhiana-as-30-more-succumb-101620678801260.html
11-05-2021||Other||7-hr curfew relaxation spells doom as Ludhiana residents throng roads, markets||The district administration’s decision to impose a 17-hour curfew to control the infection spread proved to be an exercise in futility as residents thronged the city roads and markets during the seven-hour relaxation window between 5am and 12pm. Maddening crowds were witnessed in stores, especially those selling groceries, around 11am – one hour before the curfew was to kick in. The situation went out of control at noon, prompting panic-stricken shopkeepers to bring their shutters down to prevent more people from entering the shops. Some even closed their stores as early as 11.30. Massive traffic jams were witnessed across the congested roads of Chaura Bazar, Kesar Gunj Mandi, Saban Bazar, Kitab Bazaar, Ghumar Mandi, Field Ganj and Jawahar Nagar camp market. At Chaura Bazar and Nanu Halwai Chowk, commuters could be seen yelling at each other to clear the passage. The infuriated traders who were busy loading and unloading the goods in their vehicles complained that if the stress of Covid-19 was not enough, the awkward timing of curfew relaxation only added to their miseries.While commuters continued to remain stranded in the jam, there were no cops to streamline the traffic flow. Panic buying was witnessed at grocery shops with buyers scrambling for trolleys and essentials, and then standing in queues to pay the bill. “Is this how Covid can be curbed? I am scared of coming out now as the virus will spread fast in such a closed environment with so many people,” said Ankita, a college student. At one time, more than 50 buyers were present in a closed environment in a grocery-cum-departmental store in BRS Nagar. “On one hand gatherings are banned and on the other, shops are witnessing huge crowds due to the narrow relaxation window,” said Naresh, a trader. While grocery store owners made saw good sales, those dealing with cloth, utensils and kitchen appliances complained of low footfall. Representations of the various market associations also expressed their reservations over the move. “It is an absolutely bizarre decision to let everything open in the morning. The timing of curfew has done more harm than good. Though the markets began to open by 7am, the customers started to arrive at 10am. By 11am, there was utter chaos and shopkeepers began closing their shops. If in other districts shopkeepers have been allowed to open their establishments from 8am to 2pm, why can’t the same be implemented here. There were almost negligible sales at garment shops due to the odd timings,” said Sanjeev Choudhary, the owner of a garment shop and president of the Chaura Bazar Market Association.In Ghumar Mandi market, which is famous for garments, jewellery and utensils stores, the shops were decked up but there were hardly any customers.Pawan Kumar Batra, president of Ghumar Mandi market shopkeepers, requested the authorities to allow shops to be opened on alternate days. Darshan Kumar Sharma, a mechanic, also demanded a change in timing. “This relaxation will not work. It is absolutely ruining our business. Customers began arriving at 9am and no one came after 11am. And those getting their vehicles fixed also started panicking when the curfew timing was nearing,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7hr-curfew-relaxation-spells-doom-as-ludhiana-residents-throng-roads-markets-101620678621229.html
11-05-2021||Other||12,400 more birds culled at Kila Raipur poultry farm||On the second day of culling operations at Kila Raipur poultry farm where bird flu has been confirmed, as many as 12,400 birds were culled on Monday by the rapid response teams of animal husbandry department. Besides, 7,200 eggs were also destroyed. The approximate number of birds to be culled is 75,000. On Sunday, 19,200 birds were culled. The National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, had confirmed avian influenza in samples of birds sent from a poultry farm at Kila Raipur on May 7 prompting the administration to order culling of birds. The samples were collected after owner of Suba Singh Poultry Farm informed the administration about the mysterious death of 1,500 birds. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma has already declared one-kilometre radius area around the farm as infected zone and up to 10km as surveillance zone. He also constituted a nine-member committee to oversee the process and ensure that no bird, unprocessed poultry meat, eggs, feed or any other material was taken out from the poultry farm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12400-more-birds-culled-at-kila-raipur-poultry-farm-101620678081150.html
11-05-2021||Other||Four oxygen plants to be set up in Patiala||The process to install four oxygen generation units in Patiala district has been initiated, officials said on Monday.Patiala deputy commissioner Amit Kumar said two oxygen plants will be set up at Mata Kushalya Hospital, while the remaining two will be commissioned at Nabha civil hospital and Model Town dispensary, respectively. He directed the officers concerned to complete the work on priority.Kumar said that one unit each was being set up by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Nabha Power at Mata Kushalya Hospital, while Torrent Gas was setting up oxygen units at Nabha civil hospital and Sarbat Da Bhala Trust in Model Town.“The installation work of the medical oxygen unit being set up by DRDO at Mata Kushalya Hospital has been started. It will be able to generate 10,000 litres of oxygen per day. The estimated cost of the work is ₹10 crore,” the DC said.He said that foundation-cum-platform was being set up for commissioning the unit and after that the unit would start production, soon after installing the machinery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-oxygen-plants-to-be-set-up-in-patiala-101620676100899.html
11-05-2021||Other||Kotkapura firing: Tough task ahead for new probe team||The newly constituted three-member special investigation team (SIT) of the Punjab Police to probe the 2015 Kotkapura firing case has an uphill task ahead to examine what its predecessor termed a “conspiracy”.The high court on April 9 had quashed all the reports filed by the previous SIT headed by inspector general of police (now retired) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh into the Kotkapura firing — police had opened fire at people protesting over the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib in Bargari village of Faridkot district. Acting on the HC orders, the state government constituted the new three-member SIT headed by additional director general of police (vigilance bureau) LK Yadav, who will be assisted by Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal and Faridkot range DIG Surjit Singh.The new SIT has been directed to complete the investigation within six months.An official, who is part of the government’s legal team, said that the Yadav-led SIT needs to find something beyond call records to prove the conspiracy theory. “Kunwar Vijay’s team had mainly relied upon the records of telephone calls to prove this was a conspiracy hatched by the cops and politicians, but there is not one substantiate evidence to prove the nature of conversation on record. So, the new SIT needs to look into other angles to back this theory as right now evidence only limits to cops being present on the spot,” the official said.To claim conspiracy between then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA and then senior police officers, Kunwar Vijay relied upon call records exchanged between them on October 14, 2015. His SIT named former SAD MLA Mantar Singh Brar as accused claiming it was probing the contents of 157 calls he exchanged with the chief minister’s office (CMO), then DGP office, some ministers and local administration officials on the night before the firing took place.However, the high court had stated that the SIT had claimed that then CM Badal talked through the phones of his principal secretary and OSD. “However, none of their versions have been taken on record by the SIT to substantiate the nature of conversation. No other witness is stated to have even remotely suggested that then CM conspired to kill the protestors by police firing,” the court had said.“Mere factum of a CM talking to the district administration or DGP in a situation where the law and order is disturbed, in itself, would not be sufficient to infer his conspiracy to kill or injure anybody through firing by the police upon the protestors, unless there is some other material collected by the investigating officer to establish a prior meeting of minds for conspiracy and then directly linking the CM to such conspiracy,” the court had added.Role of protesters to be looked into The new SIT will investigate the role of the protesters as the high court has observed that police firing was not “unprovoked”. Sources said that the probe team will also investigate the role of Sikh preachers who were declared “innocent” by Kunwar Vijay’s SIT.Kunwar Vijay’s team had declared Sikh preachers Bhai Panthpreet Singh, Bhai Ranjit Singh Dhadrianwale, Amrik Singh Ajnala, Harjinder Singh Manjhi, Giani Kewal Singh, and 18 others as innocent in the Kotkapura violence case registered in 2015 claiming they were framed by cops. On October 14, 2015, police registered an FIR against 15 Sikh preachers and unknown persons at Kotkapura city police station for allegedly instigating the protesters to attack the police with sharp-edged weapons and opening fire on cops.The high court said the magistrate present on the spot had assessed the situation and granted permission to use tear gas in the first instance, lathi charge thereafter, and the gun firing at the third stage. “Before that, as per records, the protestors were recorded on video to have chased and attacked the police, even with swords. Therefore, the conclusion that the protestors were sitting peacefully when the police started firing and also, the conclusion that firing by the police was unprovoked is against the record even on this count,” the HC had said.A total of 77 medico-legal reports (MLRs) of policemen who were injured in the firing incident are on the record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kotkapura-firing-tough-task-ahead-for-new-probe-team-101620675804064.html
11-05-2021||Other||Doctors on Covid duty seek vaccine for children on priority||Even as the Punjab government has started Covid-19 inoculation drive for the 18-plus category in the state, doctors working in the field have sought vaccines for children on priority.They claimed that as they are working with infected patients, going home to their family, especially children, is fraught with risk of the latter contracting the virus.“We are working hard to save people from the virus. However, the worries about our children increase anxiety because we spend the nights at home. Every day that a doctor and other health staff return home after work, there is high risk of them carrying the virus. Though I have got a vaccine shot, my young daughter is not entirely safe till she gets vaccinated too. The government should think about our families,” said a senior government doctor not wanting to be named.Dr Amandeep Aggarwal, executive member of Indian Medical Association’s Sangrur chapter, said risking their own health and lives, all health workers are doing their best to treat Covid patients in these difficult times, but their families are exposed to threat too.“The government must make necessary arrangements for taking responsibility for the best treatment of doctors and their family members. It’s unfortunate that even a fully equipped hospital per district hasn’t been reserved for doctors and their families. The government has not even offered priority vaccination to the family members of health workers,” added Dr Aggarwal.Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir said that the concerns of doctors and other staff will be taken up with the state government to address their demand. However, vaccines for the 18-plus population will be available in a short period, he assured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doctors-on-covid-duty-seek-vaccine-for-children-on-priority-101620675800738.html
11-05-2021||Other||Army to run Covid facility for civilians at Patiala hospital||With the Covid-19 patient load rising by the day, the army has stepped in to assist the Patiala district administration in providing medical treatment to infected patients.A team of 70, including seven doctors of the army’s Western Command, has landed in Patiala to take over the 100-bed super-specialty wing of the Rajindra Hospital, where it will run a Covid treatment facility.Army doctors Major Suleman, Major Gaurav, Major Ramneek Kaur and others visited the site and took stock of medical facilities. Ramneek hails from Patiala and has served in many sensitive places, including Kashmir.It was after the appeal of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh that the army decided to join the administration in the fight against the virus.Patiala Development Authority chief administrator Surbhi Malik, who is the coordinator between the army and the hospital authorities, said the forces will run a facility independently at Rajindra Hospital. “This initiative will further boost the Covid treatment facilities at Rajindra Hospital, which is catering to a huge population of the state,” she said.The army is already deployed at the hospital to handle the bodies of Covid victims.Meanwhile, the Jalandhar police commissionerate has opened its hospital to civilians to ensure vaccination of all citizens against Covid-19. “Due to a deadlier second pandemic wave, it is imperative that all eligible citizens be inoculated, so the police hospital has opened doors to the public for the same,” said police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar. He added that till now 3,168 people have been vaccinated at the police hospital out of which 789 were cops and 2,236 were civilians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/army-to-run-covid-facility-for-civilians-at-patiala-hospital-101620675740851.html
11-05-2021||Other||Maharashtra to treat mucormycosis for free under MJPJAY scheme||The state government on Monday decided to treat patients suffering from mucormycosis under health scheme Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY), health minister Rajesh Tope said. Mucormycosis is a rare fungal infection that is found in immunodeficient patients.“In a few districts, patients suffering with Covid-19 and high diabetes have been found infected with a fungal infection called mucormycosis. Taking a serious cognisance of it, the state government has decided to provide free treatment to those infected with the disease under MJPJAY,” Tope told reporters in Jalna on Monday. “There is no need to panic as patients will have to keep diabetes under control by means of proper diet, regular exercise and advice from the doctors,” he added.He said the state has also decided to create public awareness drive about the disease. “A delay in its treatment results in respiratory problems. It is also found to have an adverse effect on the brain and eyes. Its early diagnosis is necessary, and hence a public awareness drive will be undertaken,” Tope said.MJPJAY facilitates cashless treatment of needy patients at government-empanelled hospitals for 1,100 diseases and surgeries . The state also made Covid-19 treatment free under the scheme. Transfers put on hold till June 30The state government on Monday decided to hold the transfers of all its employees till June 30 amid the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state. “Considering the rise in cases, no transfer, be it regular or those in exceptional cases, of the officials and employees will be made till June 30. Only those to be made for filling up vacant positions against retirement, necessary to deal with pandemic, or in case of a serious complaint should be allowed,” stated a government resolution by the general administration department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-to-treat-mucormycosis-for-free-under-mjpjay-scheme-101620675320132.html
11-05-2021||Other||Aviation ministry should vaccinate crew on priority basis, say pilots||As the country fights the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, frontliners employed with various Indian airlines are facing the brunt. Sources from various airlines said that as pilots and cabin crew were not vaccinated on a priority basis, they are contracting Covid-19. Sources in Air India said in Mumbai and Delhi alone, six senior pilots are in intensive care units (ICU) fighting the virus. A senior Air India pilot said, “At least six of our pilots are critical and many are getting treated for Covid-19. We recently lost our fellow pilot to the virus, and this has brought fear among the pilots and their families.”Meanwhile, international carriers Etihad and Singapore Airlines vaccinated all their pilots and cabin crew in February. In March, Qatar Airways operated the world’s first fully vaccinated flight with all 188 passengers, two pilots and 18 cabin crew having received the vaccine. The airline has been advertising the same in order to assure safety to its customers.Blaming the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) for not making it mandatory for airlines in India to vaccinate their pilots on priority, pilots across the airlines said the situation of the crew is currently grim because they are not being vaccinated on time.“Crew across airlines are either home quarantined or hospitalised. These include the ones in critical condition too. We operated flights with life-saving drugs and cargo materials throughout the pandemic only to see our colleagues lose their battle to Covid-19,” said a senior private airline pilot, adding that they are facing the brunt due to a delayed action by authorities. While MoCA had not responded on the matter till the time of going to press , an Air India spokesperson said, “The vaccination programme is charted out after an elaborate study carried out by the government in the best interest of all. Air India is following all the guidelines in this regard and is determined to stand by its employees during this crisis. We have mobilised all resources to counter the crisis. A fully 24-hour Covid assistance cell manned by medical department has been set up to cater to the needs of the affected. A network-wide vaccination plan was in place and eligible employees were being vaccinated. The moment government announced vaccination for citizens from 18 years, Air India rolled out a schedule with a deadline to vaccinate every employee by May end.”MoCA had on May 6 issued guidelines to ensure vaccination of all stakeholders (airline crew, ground staff and air traffic controllers) after civil aviation secretary TK Pandey wrote to states to accord priority status to vaccination in the first week of May. While private airlines have begun vaccination drives, Air India is expected to commence drives from May 15. However, it seems that the airline is facing issues for arranging the drive, at least in Delhi. An internal message sourced from Air India on Monday read, “The proposed vaccination camp at GSD complex IGI (Indira Gandhi International Airport) on 11.05.2021 and 12.05.2021 stands cancelled because govt authorities have expressed inability to hold these camps due to non- availability of vaccines. Fresh dates will be notified once we get re-confirmation from govt authorities (sic).”The guidelines issued by MoCA advised airport operators to establish dedicated vaccination facilities at their respective airports to facilitate expeditious vaccination for aviation personnel. They came in days after pilots of Air India, earlier this week, threatened to stop work if the airline failed to set up vaccination camps across the country for its flying crew.“We’ve been writing to MoCA and our management to vaccinate the crew on priority since long. If our crew would’ve been fully vaccinated by February, the situation would have been much better,” the senior pilot said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aviation-ministry-should-vaccinate-crew-on-priority-basis-say-pilots-101620675080107.html
11-05-2021||Other||No pre-arrest bail to Mumbai man for failing to supply ₹17.6-L gloves to trader||The Bombay high court (HC) recently rejected the anticipatory bail application of a man who was booked for allegedly defrauding a trader from Mumbai of ₹17.6 lakh in connivance with two others. The trader lodged the complaint in February after his order for 5,000 A+ quality Nitrile gloves, for which he had made the payment, did not reach him though the applicant had showed him documents pertaining to the dispatch. Though the applicant claimed that he was cheated by another supplier, the court held that as he portrayed himself to be the seller and had issued fake documents of the delivery of the gloves, he could not be granted anticipatory bail. A single bench of justice Prakash Naik, while hearing the anticipatory bail application of Saiyed Faiz Hasan, was informed by advocate Shahid Pathan that after the complainant had placed the order for gloves with his client in January, Hasan had contacted another supplier of the gloves at Greater Noida who agreed to supply the order. Hasan then issued the invoices, e-way bills and LR copy (lorry receipt) to the complainant, based on which he remitted ₹17.6 lakh to the accused. Pathan informed the court that Hasan had transferred the complainant’s payment to Shoeb Khan and Atif of Sabri Enterprises, and they had issued the tax invoice and railway transport bill with the railway parcel booking services on January 14. However, after the goods did not reach Mumbai on January 16, the complainant inquired with the railways and found that the documents were forged. Pathan submitted that his client was willing to cooperate with the investigation and was not the main perpetrator. However, the complainant’s advocate and the state opposed the anticipatory bail application, stating that Hasan was not traceable at his office and residence addresses. After hearing the submissions, the court observed, “There is every likelihood that the applicant and Shoeb Khan and Atif acted in connivance to deceive the complainant.” HC held that the transaction appeared to be suspicious and as Hasan was not agreeable to pay the complainant over ₹20 lakh (the money paid for the gloves and the expenses incurred for the case), his application was rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-pre-arrest-bail-to-mumbai-man-for-failing-to-supply-17-6-l-gloves-to-trader-101620675020062.html
11-05-2021||Other||After plaints, University of Mumbai postpones LLM exams to June||The University of Mumbai (MU) has pushed the exam schedule for Master of Law students after they complained that admission to the course was still going on and there was not enough time between the process and the exams. While the LLM exams were earlier scheduled to start on May 17, the university on Saturday issued a revised schedule announcing that exams will kick off on June 1. Confused with the university’s decision to hold exams on May 17 – which would have affected at least 800 students across six LLM divisions of MU – many had approached the examination department for clarity. A spokesperson from the exam department said that the dates have been pushed to accommodate the demands of students. However, law students are not too happy with the decision as the revised schedule does not provide breaks between the exams. “We have been telling the university that we need gaps between exams. We never asked for a postponement. Now the university has postponed exam and tests will be held every day. When will students have the time to prepare,” said Sachin Pawar, president of Student Law Council. Ashutosh Choughle, one of the LLM students, said, “Our online classes have barely started and we are already staring at an exam schedule with no breaks in between.”After a long wait, MU had declared dates for commencement of exams across departments and courses in the first week of April. Considering the delay in admissions to the undergraduate law (three-year and five-year) courses, exams for the first-year LLB students had been pushed to June, while those for LLM students were scheduled to begin in mid-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-plaints-university-of-mumbai-postpones-llm-exams-to-june-101620674960092.html
11-05-2021||Other||Mumbai doctor couple collects 20kg of unused Covid-19 meds in 10 days||A doctor couple from Cuffe Parade has collected 20kg of unused Covid-19 medicines from recovered patients in just 10 days. These medicines will be donated to the primary health care centres in rural districts across India for the timely treatment of the underprivileged, who are infected with Sars-CoV-2 – the virus that causes Covid-19. On May 1, Dr Marcus Ranney and his wife Dr Raina, both aged 37, started Meds For More — a citizen initiative to collect unused medicines from Covid-19 recovered patients – from their apartment building Atur Terraces. Since then, residents from around 100 buildings have donated their unused, unexpired medicines for the campaign. “Covid-19 patients all across the country are facing an acute shortage of medicines. So why waste even a single dose? These can be used for treating those living in rural and tribal areas, who are the most affected. Through this initiative, we want to help such underprivileged people,” said Dr Ranney, who along with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), worked in the slums of Dadar for the screening and treatment of Covid-19 patients during the first wave of the pandemic last year. Meds for More collects all kinds of unused medicines such as antibiotics, Fabiflu, pain relief, steroids, inhalers, vitamins, antacids, among others, that are being used to treat Covid-19 patients. Additionally, they are also collecting basic medicinal equipment like pulse oximeters and thermometers.“All donated medicines are segregated and checked for expiry dates. We have collected around 2kg of Fabiflu, 1kg of steroids, 6kg of vitamins, 4kg of acetaminophen like paracetamol, among others,” said Dr Ranney. With the growing awareness about the initiative, residents from neighbouring buildings have started volunteering to collect medicines. Colaba resident Meghna Chhabria, who is a volunteer, said, “I wanted to help underprivileged people in this pandemic but I was too scared to go on the field as I haven’t been vaccinated yet. So when I got to know about this initiative, I helped in collecting the unused medicines from my building and neighbours.” The 39-year-old also handles the social media account of the campaign to raise awareness about the cause. The team has tied up with different non-government organisations (NGOs) to dispense medicines to needy patients. They have also finalised their first consignment which will be sent to the tribal residents in Gujarat. “At present, our first priority will be tribals from Maharashtra and Gujarat. We will then gradually, expand it to other states,” Dr Marcus said. The initiative is not only limited to south Mumbai. “Any recovered patient from any part of the city can send us their unused medicines. There are no geographical restrictions. We want to extend the initiative all across the city. It is extremely feasible and can be also replicated in other cities,” said Ruchie Kothari, 37, a team member.Those interested in donating their unused medicines, can contact medsformoreindia@gmail.com or reach out to their Instagram page @medsformore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-doctor-couple-collects-20kg-of-unused-covid-19-meds-in-10-days-101620674840044.html
11-05-2021||Other||Mumbai civic body to procure 5mn vaccines from global market||In order to ensure a speedy vaccination process of citizens, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will float a global tender to procure Covid-19 vaccines directly from the international market. Currently, BMC gets Covishield and Covaxin vaccine doses of domestic manufacturers from the Central and state governments. BMC also issued detailed guidelines allowing housing societies and private establishments to tie-up with private hospitals for vaccinating residents and employees, respectively, in their premises.“Looking at the need for adequate vaccines to ensure that vaccination is swift and efficient, after discussing the issue with CM (chief minister) Uddhav Thackeray ji, as guardian minister of Mumbai, we have asked BMC to explore possibilities of global procurement of vaccines (sic),” Mumbai suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted.“Today the @mybmc has also issued guidelines for vaccination policy of housing societies partnering with hospitals for vaccination within society complexes,” read Thackeray’s tweet.A circular signed by civic body commissioner IS Chahal stated that it is necessary to expand the number of vaccination centres in Mumbai and also ensure swift vaccination before the third wave hits. “Our efforts to increase vaccination centres are constantly on going and the BMC shall be having a centre in every municipal ward, along with a drive-in vaccination centre across all zones of Mumbai. I request all other cities to also have the drive-in vaccination for citizens above the age of 65 for their ease and comfort,” Thackeray said in another tweet.According to BMC officials, the civic body will explore possibilities to get vaccines including Pfizer, Johnson and Johnson and Russia’s Sputnik V and the tender to procure around five million doses will be floated in a week’s time.Additional civic commissioner Suresh Kakani said that all the manufacturers who have licences will be allowed to supply vaccines directly to the city. According to BMC guidelines, the payment for each dose would have to be mutually decided by the private hospital and workplace/housing society. Workplaces and societies are required to designate one of their senior staff as nodal officers to coordinate with private centres. The nodal officer shall oversee and facilitate all aspects of vaccination at the workplace/ society like registration of beneficiaries and availability of physical and IT infrastructure. The beneficiaries must be registered on CoWIN app prior to the vaccination drive. In case of a workplace, on-the-spot registration shall be available only to employees, while their family members have to register on CoWIN.Each team from a private vaccine centre should compulsorily have a doctor, a vaccinator and a vaccination officer who will verify the CoWIN details and an additional officer to manage the crowd. An ambulance has to be stationed at the place of the drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-civic-body-to-procure-5mn-vaccines-from-global-market-101620674780157.html
11-05-2021||Other||Active cases data in Meerut not matching up with health dept figures||Mismatch in active number of Corona cases and patients undergoing treatment in home isolation and hospitals has raised doubt about the actual number of cases in the district. The daily bulletin of health department about Covid showed that till May 9 the district had 16,238 active cases, that included 2009 patients in 27 hospitals and 6020 in home isolation. This adds up to 8029 active cases which is 8209 short of the cases shown by the health department bulletin. Responding to the issue of difference in numbers, chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Akhilesh Mohan described it as a discrepancy in managing the data. He claimed that many hospitals, who admitted and discharged patients, didn’t upload their data. Therefore, data of active cases are showing more than actual number of patients undergoing treatment. He also mentioned that his office was facing shortage of staff as more than 150 staff members were infected. But he assured to “look into the issue”. Meanwhile, 6927 samples were tested on Sunday in which 1365 tested positive while 6 persons succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/active-cases-data-in-meerut-not-matching-up-with-health-dept-figures-101620673819949.html
11-05-2021||Other||300 oxygen plants coming up in state, says UP CM||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said the process was on to set up 300 oxygen plants in Uttar Pradesh to make sure there was no oxygen crisis in the fight against Covid-19. He was in Ayodhya to review medical arrangements made by the district administration there.“The state government is in the process of setting up 300 oxygen plants which will be made operational soon. Out of this, 18 are coming up in Ayodhya division and six of them have already been installed,” he said to reporters.“The state’s sugarcane department is also installing one oxygen plant in each district across the state,” he said.On the increasing demand for oxygen, the chief minister said: “In normal situations, there was a requirement of 300 metric tonnes (per day) of oxygen in the state. But the second wave of Covid-19 has posed a challenge before us.”Adityanath also said that the state was getting 1000 metric tonnes of oxygen (per day).He said 2000 ambulances had been engaged in the state for ferrying Covid patients.Commenting on the Covid vaccination drive, the chief minister said: “At 4,300 vaccination centres, people have been vaccinated. From May 1, those above 18 years are being vaccinated at places where there are more active cases.” The CM also issued an appeal to people not to venture out of their homes unnecessarily and to step out only after wearing mask. He urged them not to take the pandemic lightly.Earlier, the CM inspected Covid-19 command centre at Vikas Bhawan and then presided over a meeting at the collectorate to review arrangements of fight the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/300-oxygen-plants-coming-up-in-state-says-up-cm-101620673639897.html
11-05-2021||Other||Bombay HC refuses admission to MMS course aspirant by creation of supernumerary seat||Mumbai The Bombay high court (HC) last week refused to grant admission to a student to the master’s in management studies (MMS) course at Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies (JBIMS) by creating a supernumerary seat under the Children of Indian Workers in Gulf Country (CIWGC) category. The student, Dev Karthik, had moved HC contending that his name appeared in the merit list prepared and displayed by the state common entrance test (CET) cell on January 28, but JBIMS illegally refused to admit him to MMS course under the CIWGC category. His lawyer pointed out that the petitioner had approached the institute on January 25 but was asked to wait for the merit list prepared by the CET cell. He submitted that the petitioner, though having secured position in the merit list prepared by the CET cell, has been deprived of an admission to the course purely on account of the illegal manner in which the admission process was implemented by JBIMS. He had, therefore, urged the court to direct JBIMS to create a supernumerary seat in CIWGC category and give him admission for the course. Advocate Rui Rodrigues, who represented Mumbai University (MU), which runs JBIMS as an autonomous institution, pointed out that admissions under CIWGC category are made at the institute level and the CET cell had no role to play in it. Rodrigues opposed the petition contending that the petitioner was entirely at fault for not having participated in the admission process initiated by the institute, which was given due publicity. He also pointed out that the list prepared by CET cell was just a list of candidates seeking admission through CIWGC category and not a merit list. Besides, advocate Rodrigues also pointed out that the course had started in January and from April 1, even the summer internships had started. Thus, the petitioner, who moved HC on February 10, was way late for seeking admission. The division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice CV Bhadang accepted the arguments advanced on behalf of the institute and the university, and rejected the plea for interim relief. The bench took note of the fact that the foot note of admission notice for CIWGC category candidates instructed them to directly approach the institutes where such quota seats were available for admission but the petitioner did not formally apply to JBIMS and therefore, no case for creation of the supernumerary seat was made out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-refuses-admission-to-mms-course-aspirant-by-creation-of-supernumerary-seat-101620672619722.html
11-05-2021||Other||AU finalises promotion formula for students sans exams||After deciding to promote all second and third year students of undergraduate courses of AU and its constituent colleges for the academic session 2020-21, the Allahabad University (AU) authorities have now derived a formula for granting this promotion. Under this, the students getting promoted will be given an extra 7 per cent numbers in each subject over the marks scored by a student in the previous year’s exam which he or she has passed. The examination committee has approved this promotion formula and the same has been uploaded on the official website of AU, said central varsity officials. Public relation officer (PRO), AU, Jaya Kapoor said, “As per the formula developed by the varsity, the graduating third year students will be passed with an additional 7 per cent marks granted over marks obtained in the second year. This additional score will be awarded in each subject. Apart from this, the students of BA and BSc who had to appear in backpaper will also be given 7 per cent extra marks in each subject over the marks obtained by him/her in second year.” Students of BCom and BSc home science will be given these additional marks in each subject, considering the average marks obtained in the first and second year of graduation, she explained. “If there are two papers in a subject in the second year of graduation and three papers in the third year, then the average marks obtained in the two papers of second year will be taken as the basis for the marks in the third paper,” said the PRO. In addition to this, if maximum marks of a subject paper is 50 in the second year of graduation and the maximum marks in the third year is 75, then the simple scaling procedure will be adopted. Apart from this, it has also been clarified those marks of viva-voce and practical exams will be given by the department concerned, Kapoor said. “The results of UG backpaper examination of BA, BSc, BCom and BSc home science will be declared by May 30 and similarly the result of examination for BCA, MCA, PGDCA will be held in online mode in this very month and results will also be declared by the end of this month”, said the PRO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/au-finalises-promotion-formula-for-students-sans-exams-101620672319740.html
11-05-2021||Other||Varanasi ESIC Hosp gets oxygen plant from Israel||An oxygen plant from Israel has been set up at ESIC Hospital Varanasi on Monday. NDRF team brought the plant from Delhi to Varanasi and its technical team helped install it here. The oxygen plant has capacity of producing 500 litres of oxygen per minute. Responsibility to carry the oxygen plant from Delhi to Varanasi was given to NDRF, said NDRF officials in a press statement. NDRF, Varanasi, Commandant Manoj Kumar Sharma said that the oxygen plant was brought to Varanasi by road and has been set up at ESIC Hospital by technical team of NDRF with the cooperation of hospital management. The plant will help provide smooth oxygen supply to the patients at the hospital, he added. NDRF is also carrying out sanitization at various places and helping local administration in its fight against Corona.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-esic-hosp-gets-oxygen-plant-from-israel-101620672199657.html
