12-05-2021||Other||Govt hosps in Meerut division to start video calling facility||MEERUT Government hospitals in different districts of Meerut division will soon provide video calling facility for family members of those Covid patients who are critical and undergoing treatment in intensive care units (ICU). Divisional commissioner Surendra Singh shared that they had received 40 mobile phones from different companies through corporate social responsibility (CSR). These phones would be activated and provided to different government hospitals to facilitate video calling between patients in ICU and their family members. Singh said that it would be mandatory for deputed hospital staff to arrange video calls between patients and their family members. “ Such an initiative would help family members to know the condition of their patients”,said Singh who has initiated many other measures in the past one week to streamline treatment facilities and availability of oxygen in different districts. People have been demanding video calling for quite some time as they have been deprived of receiving update about health condition of their patients admitted to ICU and other wards. The demand grew stronger after a patient admitted to LLRM Medical College of Meerut died a day after he was admitted to covid ward on April 21. Hospital staff kept on updating his daughter about his health till May 3 and the same evening other staff told her that no such patient was admitted to the ward. Investigation into the incident later revealed that confusion was created because two patients of similar names were undergoing treatment. Meanwhile, Singh issued an order to all DMs and CDOs of the divisions to ensure that oxygen cylinders got refilled at ₹400 instead of the earlier prescribed refilling charge of ₹600. “ Though I have ordered to reduce ₹200 filing charges per cylinder, it may vary in districts because of the varying transportation cost,” he said and explained that in Ghaziabad it would be ₹350 plus GST and in Bulandshahr it would cost ₹450 plus GST. “ The uniform charges would prevent people from being exploited,” said Singh. He further shared that distribution of oxygen had been streamlined different districts of the division and presently 210 metric ton oxygen was available everyday to meet demand in hospitals. He said maximum demand was in Noida followed by Ghaziabad, Meerut, Hapur, Bulandshahr and Baghpat. Meanwhile, officials’ initiative to establish three oxygen filling centres in Meerut city to cater to individuals undergoing treatment in home isolation has also yielded fruitful results. Caretakers of patients deposit their cylinders in these centres with required documents and receive filled cylinders after some time. “Initially we delivered filled cylinders in 24 hours and the time was reduced to 5 hours on Tuesday. We hope to deliver hand to hand in coming days,” said Singh who shared that hospitals were warned of action if they asked family members to arrange oxygen cylinders because they were being supplied sufficient gas. He claimed that 10 per cent beds had been added after streamlining availability of oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-hosps-in-meerut-division-to-start-video-calling-facility-101620839985549.html
12-05-2021||Other||‘UP has purchased 22L MT wheat from farmers so far, paid ₹2933.34 crore’||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh government has purchased around 22 lakh MT wheat from farmers so far amid spread of Covid-19 to rural areas. This is nearly double the wheat procured during the corresponding period last year. “We have purchased 21.45 lakh MT wheat from 4,20,948 farmers and have already paid ₹2933.34 crore to them while ₹4237.50 crore will be credited to their accounts very soon,” said commissioner, food and civil supplies, Manish Chauhan. “The government procured 12.11 lakh MT wheat during the corresponding period previous year,” he pointed out. The Centre has fixed the minimum support price (MSP) for wheat at ₹1975 per quintal for the current procurement season. For the first time, the state government fixed no wheat purchase target this year, deciding to purchase all the wheat brought to the purchase centeres during the procurement season. “The target was not fixed but we expect to purchase around 50-55 lakh MT wheat by the end of the procurement season in mid-June and funds are being arranged for the same,” another official revealed. He said the wheat purchase progress was quite satisfactory despite the challenges posed by the deadly second Covid wave in the state. “We are taking all the precautions for farmers as well as the staff at the procurement centres,” the official claimed. The state government has installed electronic point of sale (EPoS) machines at all the 6,000 procurement centres that have been set up across the state to buy wheat from farmers, to do away with complaints related to weighing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-has-purchased-22l-mt-wheat-from-farmers-so-far-paid-rs-2933-34-crore-101620839684431.html
12-05-2021||Other||‘UP govt to promote entrepreneurship culture at school level’||Lucknow: The government was planning to inculcate the culture of entrepreneurship in students at school level to make them learn its virtues during early years of their education, said minister of state for IT and electronics, Ajit Pal Singh said here on Wednesday. Speaking at a virtual conclave on Start up, ‘AARAMBH’, organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry in collaboration with Nabard and SIDBI, Singh said: “Tinkering labs in schools, e-cells in colleges and incubators in institutes of higher learning and centres of excellence will be set up to promote research and development in areas of emerging technologies.” Singh also informed that the government was planning to set up 100 incubators across the state and at least one in every district. This ecosystem would help to promote at least 10,000 startups, he added. Also speaking on the occasion, Sanjay Agarwal, president, PHDCCI, said startups and entrepreneurship were important for economic development. The Uttar Pradesh government came up with ‘Startup Policy 2020’ to promote startups in the state. Nikhil Agarwal, CEO, Incubation, IIT Kanpur; Rajiv Kumar, general manager, SIDBI, DS Chauhan, chief general manager, Nabard and Mukesh Bahadur Singh among others also expressed their views.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-to-promote-entrepreneurship-culture-at-school-level-101620839504417.html
12-05-2021||Other||DRDO’s Covid hospital in Panipat to admit patients from May 16||The first phase of 500-bed dedicated Covid hospital near Panipat refinery will be made operational to admit patients from May 16.The first phase of the hospital will have capacity to admit 300 patients and the second phase for 200 patients will be completed by the end of this month, officials said.Panipat deputy commissioner Dharmender Singh said nearly 80% work for the first phase of 300-beds has completed and doctors and paramedical staff from different hospitals and other medical colleges across state have started arriving to join duty.He said that the hospital will admit patients from May 16 after a trail of two days.This temporary hospital, around 500m from the oxygen plant of IOC’s Panipat refinery is being set up by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in collaboration with the Haryana government.The hospital will be funded by the Centre and the state government will make arrangements for doctors, nurses and other staff of EASI hospitals and students from medical and nursing colleges.The hospital will have direct piped supply of oxygen from the oxygen plant and opening of the hospital will come as a major relief to people in Covid-hit NCR districts of Haryana, who are facing acute shortage of hospital beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drdos-covid-hospital-in-panipat-to-admit-patients-from-may-16-101620838664784.html
12-05-2021||Other||98 inmates of Karnal district jail test positive for Covid||Spread of Covid-19 in jails has raised concerns of authorities as 98 inmates, including nine women, of Karnal district jail have tested positive for Covid.Jail authorities said the infected inmates have been shifted to a special ward created for infected prisoners and they will be provided basic medical care.Amit Kumar, superintendent of Karnal district jail, said that of total 1,772 inmates in their jail, 98 inmates have been found infected in the last few days.He said that a special ward has been set up for them and they are being provided proper medical care under the guidance of the Karnal civil surgeon.However, containing spread of the virus in jails has become a challenge for authorities as around 550 inmates from 12 jails in state have tested positive in the past couple of days.According to figures prepared by the Haryana prisons department in April last year, there are around 18,897 prisoners, including 630 women who are lodged in 19 prisons in state which have a total capacity of 19,306 prisoners.Eleven prisons in state, including Sirsa, Sonepat, Kaithal, Jind, Gurugram, Panipat, Kurukshetra, Bhiwani and central jail II Hisar, Narnaul and Rewari are accommodating more prisoners than their capacity.Officials said government had issued instructions for the infected inmates, especially in Covid centres.“Our jail has 300 more prisoners than its capacity and recently 30 of them tested positive. They were sent to Covid ward created by the government but it is challenging to protect inmates and staff members if the jail is overcrowded,” said a superintendent of a district jail, pleading anonymity.Director general prisons Shatrujeet Singh Kapoor refused to comment on the efforts being made to contain spread of Covid in jails of Haryana.As per the jail authorities, the instructions have been issued to create a separate ward for the infection pensioners if a jail has enough space otherwise the inmates from overcrowded jails will be sent to a special section of Rewari jail dedicated to Covid inmates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/98-inmates-of-karnal-district-jail-test-positive-for-covid-101620838604700.html
12-05-2021||Other||76-year old Covid victim opens eyes minutes before cremation in Baramati||PUNE A 76-year-old Covid-positive woman in Mudhale village of Baramati taluka, became conscious and opened her eyes moments before she was to be cremated.The woman, whose name is being withheld, tested positive for Covid-19 a few days ago. She was home quarantined and then fell unconscious in the ambulance on the way to the hospital.The ambulance staff concluded that she had died and informed her family.She was immediately rushed to the crematorium. The incident took place on May 10Village health officer Somnath Lande said, “ The incident is confirmed and we sent to the spot after receiving the information. The family has requested us not to share any more information on the grounds of privacy “The family members began preparations for her last rites, however, minutes before she was consigned to the flames, they heard her crying after which opened her eyes. The Wadgaon Nimbalkar police station confirmed that the incident took place in Mudhale village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/76year-old-covid-victim-opens-eyes-minutes-before-cremation-in-baramati-101620834163228.html
12-05-2021||Other||Mandis closed for two days to protest Pappu Yadav’s arrest||PATNAWholesale markets of fruits and vegetables at Bahadurpur will remain closed for two days to protest the arrest of former Madhepura MP and Jan Adhikar party chief Pappu Yadav alias Rajiv Ranjan. Shashikant Prasad, who heads the association fruits and vegetables wholesalers in Patna, said, “We have decided to close wholesale mandis from May 13 to May 14 against the arrest of Pappu Yadav, who stood with the helpless relatives of Covid patients at hospitals round the clock.” “Pappu Yadav was also supplying medicines, oxygen cylinders, ambulances, ventilators, Remdesivir injections to the poor and would reach out to patients without any discrimination. Away from his wife and children during the pandemic, he was providing food to the families of Covid patents at important hospitals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mandis-closed-for-two-days-to-protest-pappu-yadav-s-arrest-101620834104406.html
12-05-2021||Other||Pappu Yadav goes on hunger strike in jail||PATNAFormer Madhepura MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav started a hunger strike on Wednesday, alleging lack of hygiene and drinking water in Supaul jail where he was brought late Tuesday night in connection with a 32-year-old kidnapping case following his arrest in Patna earlier in the day for alleged violation of Covid-19 lockdown norms.Late Tuesday night, Yadav was sent to 14-day judicial custody by a Madhepura court, which also cancelled his bail bond in a case of kidnapping of one Rajkumar Yadav in 1989. Yadav alleged there was no clean drinking water and complained of unhygienic conditions in the prison toilet and washroom. He also tweeted on Wednesday morning that jail authorities were not providing him with proper medical treatment for an old wound in one of his legs.Tuesday night, Yadav had pleaded before the Madhepura court to send him to sadar hospital on medical grounds. He also cited his petition pending before the Patna High Court, challenging the non-bailable warrant issued against him in the kidnapping case. However, the court did not oblige.Yadav, who heads Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik), was arrested in Patna on Tuesday morning for violation of lockdown guidelines but given bail hours later at Pirbahore police station.His wife Ranjit Ranjan, a former Congress MP from Supaul, said she “feared” for her husband’s life and alleged a “big conspiracy” behind his arrest. She said she would hold the state government led by chief minister Nitish Kumar responsible if anything untoward happened to Yadav in custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pappu-yadav-goes-on-hunger-strike-in-jail-101620833863863.html
12-05-2021||Other||Bihar reports first Covid death with suspected black fungus||PATNABihar reported its first death due to suspected mucormycosis or black fungus when a 58-year-old male from Kaimur died at Patna’s AIIMS on Wednesday. The patient was suffering from coronavirus and was admitted to the AIIMS Covid ward on Tuesday. “The patient suffered multi-system organ failure. Clinically, he was a suspected case of mucormycosis as his eyes were involved and nose had Mucor-like findings. However, given the patient’s serious condition, though we sent samples for fungal culture, we could not complete radiological investigations like MRI of brain to establish mucormycosis,” said Dr Kranti Bhawna, additional professor and head of ENT department at AIIMS-Patna, who evaluated the patient on Tuesday. Bihar has reported eight cases of mucormycosis in the last one week, seven of them at AIIMS-Patna and one at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS). Among them, two are from Patna and one each from Nalanda, Saran, Gopalganj, Samastipur and Muzaffarpur. Two patients — one at AIIMS and another at IGIMS — are still battling Covid-19, while five have suffered post-Covid mucormycosis. “Most of these patients have severe diabetes and are immuno-compromised. In coronavirus, cases of mucormycosis get aggravated either because of indiscriminate use of steroids or thrombosis (clotting) of blood vessels, leading to decreased immunity. When such patients inhale the fungus present in the environment or through unclean oxygen pipeline and oxygen humidifiers, which use piped water supply, their problem gets accentuated because their capacity to fight the fungus is already reduced. The fungus enters through the nose, goes to the eye and then brain. The fatality in mucormycosis is 30%-80%,” said Dr Bhawna, currently treating five cases of mucormycosis. “I am planning to operate upon two such patients from Patna tomorrow,” she said. Dr Saurabh Karmakar, associate professor of the pulmonary medicine department at the AIIMS-Patna, is treating one such case. “We sampled the black fungus Mucor in a patient from Samastipur using fibreoptic bronchoscopy, a diagnostic modality. The patient was earlier admitted at AIIMS-Patna for 5-6 weeks and treated for coronavirus. The patient had poor diabetic control, persistent cough and was spitting blood with cough. He is now on oral medication. We have called him for follow-up in our outdoor patient department (OPD) after three weeks,” said Dr Karmakar. A 52-year-old woman from Muzaffarpur, having Covid-19 with diabetes, blood pressure and cellulitis with eye infection, admitted at IGIMS on May 6, was also diagnosed with mucormycosis. “She is being treated with anti-fungal drugs and has improved over the last three days. If required, our doctors will perform endoscopic nasal surgery, a facility we have at the institute,” said Dr Manish Mandal, medical superintendent of the IGIMS.Manoj Kumar, executive director of State health Society, Bihar, did not respond to phone calls and text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-reports-first-covid-death-with-suspected-black-fungus-101620833803145.html
12-05-2021||Other||PMC seeks written explanation from ward offices on interference with vax procedures||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has sought a written explanation from concerned ward offices where officials have not followed procedures. The move comes two days after HT reported how public representatives were interfering with the vaccination process. A report in the May 11 edition highlighted how corporators are distributing tokens to citizens to get vaccinations. Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner, said, “I have held a meeting of all zonal medical officers and assistant medical officers on Wednesday and gave them instructions to give vaccines to those with Cowin registration first. It is not acceptable to give a token to particular person or deny it to others. I have ordered them to submit a written explanation.” Agarwal accepted that the PMC has received complaints from various citizens about not being able to get a vaccine slot, despite in queue. “I have appealed to political parties to stop such practices in case they are doing it,” she said. Prashant Jagtap, NCP city president said, “Administration should have to curb such kind of interference at vaccination centres. They should release information online so that people can know the exact details of the immunisation programme.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-seeks-written-explanation-from-ward-offices-on-interference-with-vax-procedures-101620833683164.html
12-05-2021||Other||Clerics appeal to faithful to stay indoors for Eid||PUNE Muslim community leaders and clerics have appealed to the community to stay indoors on the occasion of Eid Ul Fitr, on May 13.Announcements from mosque loudspeakers, and via social media have been made for Muslims to stay at home. This is the second year that communitarian prayers will not happen in the festival day, given the state’s Covid restrictions in place. Cleric Qari Idrees, president, Jamiat Ulema E Hind, Pune, said, “We have appealed to Pune Muslims this time to offer Eid namaaz at home, following the statewide Coronavirus lockdown. During the entire holy month of Ramzan we asked community members to break their roza (fast) at home and refrain from coming to the masjids. We fully support the state and city health department in ensuring that the Covid-19 chain is broken,” he said.All the 1,000-plus seminaries-cum-mosques in the city have appealed to mMuslims to offer Eid namaz at home. Maulana Abbas Amir Hamza of the Jama Masjid im Kondhwa Budruk said, “We have been advising muslims of Pune to offer Eid prayers in their homes as a safety shield against Covid-19, as large congregations are unsafe. It is easy task in today’s world of digital media to listen to Eid prayers on a ‘live’ stream. We have received a positive response from the masses.” Altaf Shaikh, MIM youth wing leader, said, “The community members have adhered to the calls to offer prayer indoors. I will be offering prayers inside my house and listen to the khutba (sermon) ‘live’ along with my children.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/clerics-appeal-to-faithful-to-stay-indoors-for-eid-101620832423044.html
12-05-2021||Other||Covid fatalities spur Muslim, Christian demand for completion of sanctioned Vishrantwadi cemetery||PUNE Given the spike in fatalities due to Covid-19 in Pune, members of the Muslim and Christian community believe the Pune municipal corporation should complete its work on a cemetery plot in Vishrantwadi.The 400,000 sq ft plot was sanctioned by the PMC land department in 2003, to be divided equally as a graveyard for both, the Muslims and the Christians in the city.The plot on survey 115, opposite Madhuban Housing Society, has been marked as a public amenity space by the land department. While the Muslims and Christians have cemeteries in the city community leaders claim that the current graveyard space is likely to run out.Social worker Sarfarz Shaikh said: “Survey 119 has been earmarked for twin graveyards. There are some technical issues which need to sorted out. Currently, due to Covid, there are space issues in all the graveyards.”Samuel Fernandez, a Christian social worker, said, “The plot has been allocated, then why the delay?”Rekha Tingare, corporator from Vishrantwadi, said, “The graveyard land has been sanctioned and a possession receipt has been given. Fifty per cent of the work is done and the remaining will be done soon. An agreement has to be signed. The plot has been equally divided.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-fatalities-spur-muslim-christian-demand-for-completion-of-sanctioned-vishrantwadi-cemetery-101620831582854.html
12-05-2021||Other||Sutradhara’s tales: Aniconic form assumes pride of place on Pune’s altar of faith||Did you know, the “numero uno” house in Pune belongs to a deity and not a person?The deity is the village guardian deity (now city guardian) of Pune, the Kasba Ganpati in Kasba peth. The inhabitants of most Indian villages and towns which have origins in a historical past practised establishing a guardian spirit or “sthan devata”. These tutelary deities act as patron, protector and guardian of the settlement and its inhabitants, and are revered by locals.The story of Kasba Ganpati starts with an allegory, in which Thakaar (one of the principal families of Pune in the 16th century) dreamed that the Lord is under the Shami tree alongside the Ambil Odha stream which originally flowed roughly along the present Bajirao road. Being a staunch devotee of Ganesha, this Brahmin searched the stream and rescued the anionic slab of stone which represented lord Ganesha.This aniconic form (tandala) of Ganesha was then established in a stone sanctum and worshipped started around the 15th-16th century CE.Traditionally, the management of the temple and priestly functions are looked after by the Thakaar family itself, even today. The earliest documentary reference to this temple is from 1613-14, and 1618. It was a part of the Ahmednangar Nizamshah territory. Haibatkhan and Malik Amber, the Nizamshahi ministers had granted Inam to Vinayak Bhat Thakaar for protection and “varshasan”, annual expenses, of the deity and temple. Pune was destroyed and abandoned after Rayarao’s attack under Murar Jagdeo’s orders in 1631 and the temple seems to have suffered a great loss. The idol, till 1637 CE, barely managed to survive in a modest temple of unbaked bricks. Revival and re-settlement of the settlement of Pune was undertaken by renovating and restoring the gram devata - Kasba Ganesha - before laying the foundations of the Lal Mahal - the residence of Rajmata Jijabai and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. They made a donation in the form of a Sanad (decree) on March 19, 1647, for this purpose to Vinayak Bhat Thakaar. The Sanad mentions the Kasba Ganpati as “Jayati Gajaanan”. There exists an older idol of Ganesha on the same premise which was in the private worship of the Thakaar family. It was buried in the niche of foundation of a house around the present temple at distance of 50ft from the sanctum.The present main idol is around 3.5-feet tall and has two diamonds decorating the eyes and a ruby in the navel of the aniconic form. The temple today is enclosed in a high-walled prakara with a wood-carved nagarkhana (drum house) acting as the entrance facade. The plan of temple has an octagonal sanctum or garbhagriha with a small rectangular pillared sabhamandapa in stone masonry. This is the oldest part of the temple. The smaller mandapa have peculiar pillars which retain the later yadava characteristic mouldings and inverted serpent capitals. The sanctum is the oldest part of the temple along with stone mandapa and houses minor modern sculptures of other deities, including nagas.It is followed by an open wooden two-storeyed mandapa with a balcony on the first floor which was typically reserved for women. Gajananrao Sadashiv Dikshit, a Dakkhani Sardar, added this typical Peshwa style sabhamandapa adorned with cusped arches, cypruss columns and banana flower motifs. The Lakde family added a pavement all around the temple and dharmshala which serves as a rest-house and place for dining and gatherings. The shikhara of the temple is done in typical Peshwa style (brick stucco) though the original painted motifs are lost. However, the changes over time, have made it difficult to distinguish other older structures.In 1877, a public cistern was built in the temple yard which was later covered. The brick prakara was built in later times along with the ornate wooden façade gateway at the entrance. During the Peshwa period, the temple enjoyed a monthly allowance of Rs10 from the Parvati temple revenues, and the expenses of the yearly celebration of the Ganpati festival on Ganesh Chaturthi were also paid from the Parvati grant.The public form of the Ganeshotsav celebration of Kasba Ganpati was started in 1896. Even today, it is the first to receive an invitation of marriage or any important function in the family life of Punekars. Various political party representatives flock to the temple during elections to kick-start their campaigns. The temple is abuzz with students seeking blessings during exam season. Throughout the day, it has a steady flow of devotees.From the Yadava period herostones depicting Ganesha as the tutelary deity, to the strong Ganpatya tradition in Chinchwad founded by Moraya Gosavi and his disciples, the history of Ganesha worship goes way back in time for Pune. No wonder, the Bhat Peshwa family too extended their patronage and became devout Ganesha followers when they made Pune their residence. Archives published by Dadasaheb Onkar inform us of a long tradition of Ganpatya (followers of Ganesha sect), which include Nanasahib Peshwa and Madhavrao Peshwa, the then prime ministers of the Maratha Empire. Kasba Ganpati is the most venerated deity for Punekars. It is called “Manacha Pahila Ganpati” (one which deserves the first respect). It, thus, has the honour of leading the Ganpati procession during the Pune Ganeshutsav every year.The Kasba Ganpati temple campus is of a modest stature, but has played significant role in the lives of Punekars. Pune suffered great crises over the centuries - droughts, political upheavals, attacks, epidemics and floods. Kasba Ganpati has stood with Punekars and boosted their morale through the high and lows of history.In an ever-expanding Pune city, things have not changed. The core of the city has been providing positivity in the face of adversity through the cultural identity of a collective space; symbolised by Kasba Ganpati. It is a perfect representation of a stable divine force existing on ancient grounds, for believers, yet an unassuming form in today’s changing, glittery world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sutradharas-tales-aniconic-form-assumes-pride-of-place-on-pune-s-altar-of-faith-101620815556212.html
12-05-2021||Other||Bird flu at Kila Raipur: 50% of culling target completed in 3 days||On the third day of culling operations at Kila Raipur poultry farm where bird flu has been confirmed, as many as 8,760 birds were culled on Tuesday by the rapid response teams of the animal husbandry department. Besides, 4,110 eggs were also destroyed. The approximate number of birds to be culled is 75,000. On Sunday, 19,200 birds were culled and another 12,400 birds were culled on Monday, making it a total of 40,360 birds culled in three days.The National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, had confirmed avian influenza in the samples of birds sent from a poultry farm at Kila Raipur on May 7, prompting the administration to order culling of birds. The samples were collected after the owner of Suba Singh Poultry Farm informed the administration about the mysterious death of 1,500 birds. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma has already declared one-kilometre radius area around the farm as infected zone and up to 10km as surveillance zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bird-flu-at-kila-raipur-rapid-response-teams-complete-50-of-culling-target-in-3-days-101620763648558.html
12-05-2021||Other||In frenzy to stock up, distancing goes for a toss at Ludhiana mandi||The curfew and seven-hour relaxation window seem to be doing more harm than good if one goes by the scenes witnessed at the New Sabzi Mandi near Jalandhar bypass. Since Monday, the mandi has been seeing a mad rush of people – comprising vegetables vendors and buyers—during relaxation hours. The situation goes completely out of control around 10am when the crowd density peaks. Residents can be seen pushing and shoving each other while they make a dash to stock up on reinforcements, with scant regard for social distancing or mask norms. Though the authorities had put in place stringent measures to ensure crowd control last year during the lockdown, no such measures have been introduced this time. Odd hours to be blamed Darshan Lal Baweja (Laddo), president of the New Sabzi Mandi market committee, said the relaxation window is to be blamed. “The odd hours at which the relaxation is being offered is the reason behind the crowding at mandi. Due to the limited window, vendors and residents gather here in large numbers, which leads to chaos. Authorities should rework the relaxation timings.” Curbs have triggered bulk-buying frenzy Rachin Arora, vice-president of Sabzi Mandi vegetable arthiya association, said the curfew announcement seems to have triggered a bulk-buying frenzy among the residents. “People live in constant fear that the government may bring in more restrictions or announce a complete lockdown. So they rush to the market to stock up at every chance they get,” he said, adding that the existent weekend lockdown is also to be blamed. “Most vegetable and fruit vendors run of stock by the end of the week. So they rush to the mandi to replenish their stocks on the first and second days of the week,” he said. He added that this problem can be eased if the administration allows the vendors to make sales even during curfew hours. He added that a change in relaxation timings may also help ease the rush. Perishable items Sanjay Kumar, a vegetable vendor, said, “We have to buy and sell the produce within a limited time frame of seven hours. We start our day at 4am, but it is difficult to sell the product by noon.” Rajinder Singh, a local fruit vendor, said, “As vegetables and fruits are perishable items, we can’t store these for long. We try to sell as much as possible, but we hardly have any buyers in the early morning hours. The crowds swell up after 9am and by noon everyone is in a hurry to get back home. We also don’t want to be caught by the police, so we pack up and leave quickly,” said Singh. No lessons learnt The vegetable mandi had remained the epicenter of the virus spread in Ludhiana last year. At least four out of the 93 cops deployed here for crowd control had tested positive in the initial months following which the infection spread further. In April, the city lost an ACP, Anil Kumar Kohli, who was deployed at Sabzi Mandi, to the deadly disease. The ACP’s wife and gunman had also tested positive. Further, the district mandi officer, who had come in contact with the ACP, also tested positive, and subsequently, her family members had also caught the infection. Following this, the sabzi mandi had remained closed for over a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-mad-dash-to-stock-up-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-at-ludhiana-vegetable-mandi-101620763349285.html
12-05-2021||Other||Deadliest day in HP as virus claims 64 lives||Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday witnessed the deadliest day since the outbreak of the coronavirus after 64 patients succumbed to the contagion, the highest single-day fatality. The death toll has now reached 1,989. The highest 21 deaths were reported in Kangra, the most populous district and worst-hit by the second wave of Covid. Twelve people died in Solan, 10 in Mandi, seven in Shimla, four each in Sirmaur and Una, three in Chamba, two in Hamirpur and one in Kullu. Kangra alone accounts for 27% of the fatalities, followed by Shimla (20%) and Mandi 11%. The state has a case fatality ratio of 1.41%. Meanwhile, the state recorded 4,977 fresh infections, taking the state’s tally to 1,40,759. Of the new cases, 1,526 were recorded in Kangra, 881 in Mandi, 583 in Shimla, 443 in Hamirpur, 335 in Bilaspur, 313 in Una, 274 in Solan, 266 in Chamba, 213 in Sirmaur, 117 in Kullu, 29 in Lahaul-Spiti and 19 in Kinnaur. RECOVERIES BREACH 1L MARK Recoveries in the state breached the 1 lakh mark as on Tuesday. A total of 1,02,499 people have recovered in the state. The highest number of people have recovered in Kangra, followed by 15,222 in Mandi and 15,011 in Shimla. There are 36,232 active cases in the state, of which Kangra (10,745) has the highest, followed by Mandi (3,936), Solan (3,841) and Shimla (3,537). In terms of total case count, Kangra, is the worst-hit district with 29,310 infections and is followed by Mandi with 19,390 cases and Shimla 18,966. These three district share about 60% of the disease burden of the state. Solan’s case tally has reached 17,058, Sirmaur 10,718, Hamirpur 7,826, Una 9,222, Bilaspur 8,553, Kullu 6,870, Chamba 6,450, Lahaul-Spiti 2,224 and Kinnaur 2,172.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/deadliest-day-in-hp-as-virus-claims-64-lives-101620763168517.html
12-05-2021||Other||Govt-aided school in Ludhiana opens for teachers in violation of curfew orders||Throwing all norms to the wind, RS Model Senior Secondary School, a government-aided private school in Shastri Nagar, has been calling its entire staff of over 50 teachers to the campus, in violation of the curfew orders. Interestingly, the district education officer (DEO) is a member of the school’s managing committee.As per information, the school authorities have made it mandatory for teachers of all classes – LKG to Class 12 –to come to the school to conduct online classes for students. Each class has six sections. The teachers are expected to stay in school till 3.30pm, three-and-a-half hours into the curfew. The fresh curfew orders by the district administration permits only government school teachers to come to school and that too from 8am to 11.15am. All other schools are forbidden from opening. However, in addition to circumventing the rules, RS Model School continues to be open despite the fact that a number of its teachers have isolated themselves as their close relatives tested positive for Covid-19.While the school’s staff is understandably apprehensive to come to campus amid the rapid spread of infections, they face the additional problem of returning home during curfew hours. “In school, we are scared of sitting in the staff room as pens, books and furniture could be infected. While we maintain social distancing, the staff eats lunch together. All this has created a lot of panic as we have children and elderly parents at home. Moreover, on our way back home, we are constantly worried that the police may catch us for curfew violations,” said a teacher of the school while requesting anonymity.When contacted, school principal Suneeta Devgan abruptly disconnected the phone saying the school’s director Mohan Lal Kalra should be contacted as he was responsible for calling the staff. “Don’t contact me,” she said and immediately disconnected. When contacted for his comment, Kalra offered his justification by asking why the administration had allowed government schools to call their staff during relaxation hours in morning. “Why have they closed all other educational institutions?” he asked while claiming that his too was “a government school”.When pointed out that RS Model School was not a government entity but only a recipient of government aid and therefore was not allowed to open, Kalra then remarked that the curfew orders imposed by the administration were irrational and there should not be any difference between government and private schools. “Only some family members of the teachers have tested positive, but not the teachers,” he said.“We will be taking strict action against the school and ensure such violations do not occur,” said Lakhvir Singh, district education officer.“All educational institutions are ordered to be closed during curfew hours. There is no question of any private or government-aided private school opening. Only govt schools can open at 50% strength from 8am to 11.15am. If any violation comes to light, the erring school will be ordered to immediately shut down,” said Varinder Kumar Sharma, deputy commissioner.“We will be asking education department to look into the matter,” said police commisioner Rakesh Kumar Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govtaided-school-in-ludhiana-opens-for-teachers-in-violation-of-curfew-orders-101620763108536.html
12-05-2021||Other||J&K govt extends help to senior citizens, orphans, daily-wage workers hit by pandemic||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Tuesday announced several measures to help those of lost their loved ones to the pandemic and also daily-wage workers hit by the pandemic in the Union territory on Tuesday.“The J&K government has taken several measures to help those who unfortunately lost their loved ones to Covid. Senior citizens who have lost only earning member of the family will be provided special pension for life. Children who have lost their parents to the pandemic will be provided with special scholarship by the government,” Sinha’s office announced on Twitter.The government said it has decided to reach out to each and every such family and they will be provided with financial assistance for self-employment.“At a time when this global pandemic has rendered daily workers jobless, the government has decided to provide ₹1,000 per month to all registered construction workers, ponywalas, palkiwalas, pithuwalas for the next two months,” it added.The government has directed all officers concerned to ensure the supply of ration to all ration card holders on priority.Instalments of social welfare schemes such as old-age pension, Laadli Beti and PMAY, MGNREGA and other welfare schemes will be released immediately, it added.In these challenging times, the old-age homes and orphanages will be extended all the support from the government including rations, the government said.“Our biggest priority is to defeat this pandemic. I urge all of you to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and get vaccinated. We will soon prevail together over this pandemic,” it added. Sinha said all deputy commissioners will be asked to issue death certificates to the people who died due to Covid on priority and ₹55 crore will be released, of which ₹2 crore will be released to all 20 DCs , ₹5 crore to both divisional commissioners and ₹5 crore to the Jammu and Kashmir Police for emergency use under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-govt-extends-help-to-senior-citizens-orphans-daily-wage-workers-hit-by-pandemic-101620762689333.html
12-05-2021||Other||Lightning strikes 2 dead in Rampur; 24 sheep, goats washed away in Bharmour||Two Nepalese workers were killed after being struck by lightning in Mashnoo panchayat, Rampur, in Shimla district on Monday night.The victims are Resham and Vishal, of Rapti Anchal, Nepal. They worked in the orchard of one Sishupal of Mashnoo. Rampur sub-divisional police officer Chander Shekhar said the duo were returning from work when it started raining, forcing them to seek shelter under a tree that was struck by lightning rendering them unconscious. The injured were rushed to a hospital in Sarahan where the doctors declared the victims dead on arrival. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under the Section 174 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).Flashflood wreaks havocIn another incident, at least 24 sheep and goats were washed away in a flashflood triggered by heavy rainfall in Poolan panchayat of the tribal Bharmaur sub-division in Chamba district.Police said Madan Lal, a shepherd, was camping in the fields with his livestock on Monday night when they were struck by a flashflood. Lal escaped but around two dozen of his livestock were washed away. Bharmour sub- divisional magistrate Manish Kumar Soni said a team of revenue official had been sent to the spot to assess the loss.Pandoh receives heaviest rainfall At 31mm, Pandoh in Mandi district witnessed the highest rainfall, followed by Chamba (16 mm), Keylong (15 mm), Seohbag in Kullu (12 mm), Mandi town (11mm) and Bajaura and Kheri 10mm each.Keylong and Kalpa were the coldest in the state with a minimum temperature of 6.7°C each. Una was the warmest with a day temperature of 36.7°C.The meteorological department has forecast rain and thunderstorm across the state till May 15. A yellow warning for thunderstorm, lightening, hailstorm and gusty winds (30-40km/hr) has been issued in low and middle hills for May 12 and 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lightning-strikes-2-dead-in-rampur-24-sheep-goats-washed-away-in-bharmour-101620762088364.html
12-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana: 60 deaths in two days send alarm bells ringing||Covid-19 continued to wreak havoc in Ludhiana as 30 more patients lost their battle to the virus in 24 hours, taking the district’s two-day toll to 60. Besides, 1,386 persons also tested positive, taking the active cases in the district to 11,480 on Tuesday. The district toll since the pandemic outbreak has now touched 1, 610 while the total number of cases is 69,851. Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma described the situation as ‘critical’ and reiterated that people should not take the matter lightly. “The situation is very critical at the moment. The cases and deaths are rapidly rising. As of now, we are not short of oxygen, but we don’t know what will happen if the situation fails to show improvement in the coming days. Hospitals are choked to capacity, we are witnessing such a high number of deaths daily and still some people are not serious,” he said. The DC added that the state is short of vaccines and oxygen supply, but officials are leaving no stone unturned to ensure that lives are saved. Sharma added that the current situation calls for a complete lockdown, but the administration has given a relaxation due to economic considerations. “There were worries that the poor may not be able to survive another lockdown, so a relaxation has been given in the morning hours to help them earn a livelihood. But that does not mean people start crowding public places and markets,” he said. Of the 30 deaths reported on Tuesday, the youngest is a 26-year-old woman of Sandhu Nagar while the oldest is also a woman, an 88-year-old from Civil Lines. A total of 23 men and seven women are among those who succumbed to the virus. Eight of the fatalities were in their 50s, eight others were in their 60s, seven were in their 70s and two in 80s. Three persons who died were in their 40s while two other victims were aged 33 and 26. High efficiency gas chamber started for cremationsDue to escalation in death rate in Punjab, a new type of LPG gas fired cremation chamber with enclosed stainless-steel structure, which can withstand high temperature, has been designed by a team of engineers headed by Ranjodh Singh, managing director, GST group, Ludhiana. The whole cremation will take less than an hour with very little emission and low gas consumption. The first cremation making use of this chamber was performed on Tuesday at Ramgarhia Shamshanghat, Dholewal, Ludhiana, of Uma Pati, aged 60, who succumbed to Covid-19 at civil hospital, Ludhiana. So far, Ramgarhia cremation ground, under the management of Ramgarhia Educational Council (regd) has performed 739 Covid cremations, of which 138 were in May alone. Ranjodh Singh said, “We will supply the LPG gas chambers to other crematoriums in Ludhiana and Punjab, at cost-to-cost basis.” Panel to streamline O2 supply to private individuals, NGO’s With the rising number of Covid critical care patients, there is an increased demand for oxygen by private individuals as well as NGOs. As per the order dated May 2, oxygen prescription to private individuals in home isolation has been prohibited. Despite these orders, a lot many people are approaching oxygen plants directly to get oxygen cylinders, said the DC. To streamline this system, a committee, headed by nodal officer Dr Hatinder Kaur Kaler, has been formed to streamline the system to issue oxygen cylinders to individual patients and NGOs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/60-deaths-in-two-days-send-alarm-bells-ringing-101620761969552.html
12-05-2021||Other||9 arrested for poaching in Maharashtra’s wildlife sanctuary||The wildlife department arrested nine people in the past week from Akole taluka in Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar district for their alleged involvement in what officials claim is an “inter-district” wildlife poaching ring. Another four accused, who have been identified as residents of Thane and Raigad districts, are currently absconding, said a forest department staffer who is a part of the investigation.The wildlife department also recovered an undisclosed quantity of wild boar meat from the home of one of the accused, in addition to various nets which were allegedly used to trap boar and possibly other small animals, said officials. Samples of the meat have been sent to a laboratory for testing.The matter came to light on the morning of May 3 when department officials in the Rajur forest range of Kalsubai Harishchandragad Wildlife Sanctuary received a tip-off that wild pigs were being hunted with rifles in the area.As these animals are protected under Schedule 3 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, two response teams, one from Rajur forest range and another from Bhandardara forest range, were roped in to investigate. “We got some credible information that a man in Somalvadi village was hunting pigs. After getting a search warrant and finding the evidence, the accused was remanded to police custody for three days, during which we also recovered photos and videos of him in the act [hunting], using a small bore rifle,” said Girish Ranadive, assistant forest conservator, Akole.During the interrogation, officials learnt of the involvement of at least 12 more individuals – four of whom were residents of Thane and Raigad and another nine who are Akole residents. “The locals have been arrested and they admitted to have engaged in hunting frequently. However, the primary weapon used was a rifle which is not in their possession. We have informed teams in Thane and Raigad as well, but the four main accused are still at large,” Ranadive said. Those arrested have all been booked under the relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act and the Indian Forest Act, 1927. Officials said a maximum penalty in the given scenario could extent up to seven years in prison with a fine of ₹25,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/9-arrested-for-poaching-in-maharashtra-s-wildlife-sanctuary-101620761547760.html
12-05-2021||Other||Mumbai to face 10% water cut from May 17-21||The city will face 10% water cut from May 17-21 owing to a repair work at the Pise Dam, which supplies water to the city. “It’s an emergency repair work related to pneumatic valves on Pise Dam,” a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. In a statement issued on Tuesday, BMC said, “Due to this repair work, 10% of water will be cut from Mumbai’s water supply from Monday, May 17, to Friday, May 21. It is appealed to the citizens of Mumbai to store water properly and use water sparingly during this water cut period and also to cooperate with the administration.”BMC supplies around 3,700 million litres to the city against its demand of around 4,200 million litres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-to-face-10-water-cut-from-may-1721-101620761307818.html
12-05-2021||Other||Mumbai Mall fire: Report blames 2 fire officers, mall and hospital management||mehul.thakkar@htlive.comIn a rare instance, a report by the civic body in the fire at Bhandup’s Dreams Mall has recommended a thorough probe into lapses by top fire brigade officials. The report also recommended action against the owner/management of the mall and the hospital inside it, and a criminal case against the safety audit agency. The inquiry report into March 25 level-4 fire at Bhandup’s Dream Mall, which had killed nine Covid-19 patients at Sunrise Hospital housed inside the mall, has recommended a full-fledged departmental enquiry (FFDE) against Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB)’s assistant divisional fire officer Rajendra Ghadge and the then chief fire officer SA Kale for “not following the rules and carrying out a proper inspection” of the mall last November. The report has also stated that a criminal case be filed against the owners/management of Dreams Mall and Sunrise Hospital, holding them responsible for the incident.The report, which was submitted and approved by municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal on Tuesday, has blamed the hospital and mall management for non-compliance of several norms and stated that both failed to take proper precautions as per the Maharashtra Fire Safety Act, 2006. The report has also asked the civic body to have MFB follow up with the police on the criminal cases filed against the hospital and mall’s owner/management for lapses in complying with fire safety norms. The probe report prepared by disaster management cell’s deputy municipal commissioner Prabhat Rahangdale has stated that a private firm – a licenced agency tasked with ensuring the mall’s fire safety compliance – had submitted a report that the firefighting equipment of the mall was working and all compliances were looked into for the period between July 1 and December 31, 2020. However, the preliminary report stated that on the day of the fire, none of the firefighting equipment was working.The report has recommended that the private agency’s licence be cancelled by the director of the Maharashtra Fire Services, and asked the chief fire officer to file a criminal case against the company. The report has also asked the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to take action against the banquet owner on the malls’ second floor for storing 45 LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) cylinders, despite having permission to only store two.According to the report submitted to Chahal, BMC had asked for an audit of all malls after the blaze at City Central mall in south Mumbai last October. “As per the circular issued by BMC chief in 2018, the J fire compliance form issued by assistant divisional fire officer (ADFO) Rajendra Ghadge was to be given with signature of chief fire officer, but Gadge gave it without the CFO’s sign. On asking the reason, Ghadge said he did the same on oral instructions from the then CFO SA Kale. This was in violation of rules. Kale was the deputy CFO of that region and holding charge of CFO. It was expected that he should have followed the circular issued by the municipal commissioner in 2018. An FFDE is recommended against the two,” the report stated. Kale was not available for a comment despite repeated attempts. It further added that after carrying out the mall’s inspection in November 2020, Ghadge had given 60 days to submit a compliance report that was submitted in February 2021, as he was down with Covid-19 in January. According to MFB officials, instead of taking further action on the compliance report by visiting and checking the compliance, Ghadge submitted the report to BMC. When contacted, Ghadge said, “I forwarded the compliance report because I was told via control message to do without CFO’s sign. More than 700 forms by fire officials were submitted without the signature of CFO. Also, I did not go for inspection because the mall did not come under my purview directly. Hence, I forwarded the report to the fire station concerned for further compliance.” The report has blamed the mall and hospital management for ignoring warnings from the fire brigade and BMC and not taking any corrective action. “It is recommended to cut off the water and electric supply of the mall and file a criminal case against the owners and directors of Dreams Mall, and Sunrise Hospital’s owners Ms Privilege Healthcare, as they are to be blamed for the incident,” Rahangdale said in his report.When contacted, Sunrise Hospital in a statement, said, “The fire report clearly stated that no fire incident occurred at Sunrise Hospital. The hospital is delinked from the mall and had all compliance in place. The report prepared by BMC and fire brigade dept clearly states that the fire was due to faulty electric circuit in shop No 140 on the upper ground floor of the mall. The spread of the fire is attributed to the lack of functioning sprinkler system of the entire mall. It must be noted that the said lapses are attributable to the administrator of the mall Rahul P Sahasrabuddhe, who was appointed by NCLT Mumbai vide order dated 31.08.2019 with the specific mandate to look after the mall premises and ensure that the same is not hazardous to its occupants.”However, Sahasrabuddhe said, “The said report holds up all the irregularities at Dreams Mall which was brought up by the administrator time and again before various authorities including MCGM (BMC). All my complaints filed with the government authorities about non-availability of water and electricity in the mall, leakage by the hospital and banquet hall, use of cylinders by the banquet hall was never redressed. I have protested about giving permission to the hospital without following any safety measures to MCGM and fire brigade, time and again, but no action has been taken. Had my complaints been heard by authorities in time, the tragedy would have certainly been avoided.”As part of its recommendations, the report has said that the existing standard operating procedure (SOP) be tweaked to adjust to Covid-19 pandemic situation. The report has also recommended that a new fire hazard response and mitigation plan be created for Mumbai. The report has recommended that it is not possible to follow conventional fire safety norms in all old hospitals. There should be water mist systems installed in all ICU wards urgently and two firefighters from licenced agencies must be deployed at all times at these wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-mall-fire-report-blames-2-fire-officers-mall-and-hospital-management-101620761187721.html
12-05-2021||Other||Maratha reservation: Maharashtra CM writes to President, PM||Six days after the Supreme Court (SC) quashed the Maratha quota in government jobs and education, the state government wrote a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi over the issue. Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday evening to submit the letter addressed to the President and Modi. CM said they will also be meeting Modi to seek the quota for the community. Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday evening to submit the letter addressed to the President. “Today’s meeting with the Governor was in the backdrop of the SC’s last week decision in which it said that the states didn’t have an authority to grant reservation to a community. This right is with the Centre and the President. In response to the verdict, I had said that the state government will approach the President and the PM. To make the request and express our feelings, we met the Governor. He assured to convey [about the letter] to the President at the earliest,” CM told reporters outside Raj Bhavan.Thackeray led a delegation comprising senior ministers and leaders from all the three ruling parties — Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress. He was accompanied by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan, home minister Dilip Walse Patil, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, urban development minister Eknath Shinde, state NCP chief Jayant Patil and Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole to meet the Governor.“SEBC Act was unanimously passed by the state legislature. It wasn’t just our decision but that of the entire state. We believe that the community should get its right. We will soon be meeting the PM in this regard and request him to take a decision,” he added.In his five-page letter, Thackeray requested the President to taking appropriate steps to grant 12% and 13% reservation to the Marathas in education and government jobs, respectively, by referring to the Apex court’s May 5 decision that the authority of identifying a community as ‘Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC)’ and providing them reservation lies only with the President and the Central government since August 2018 following the 102nd Amendment in Constitution.It also narrated the ways the state government had adopted for providing reservation to the Maratha community – from promulgating an ordinance in 2014 to holding legal battles in the Bombay high court and subsequently in the Apex court till May 5 – till the quota was quashed. SC had observed that people from a community cannot be declared educationally and socially backward just to bring them in the reserved category.“Resultantly, the aforesaid statute (SEBC Act) passed unanimously by both the Houses of the state legislature of my state on November 30 after the 102nd Constitutional Amendment has been held unsustainable. In term of the aforesaid majority of the SC on and from August 15, 2018, the day on which the Constitutional Amendment has been brought into force, the President alone (i.e. the Central Government) under Article 342 (I) by reason of Article 367 read with section 3(8) (b) of General Clauses Act, has jurisdiction, authority and power to identify and declare Maratha community of my state to be a SEBC. Also, it is held that an appropriate exercise in this regard is to be conducted by the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC), in consultation with our state (sic),” stated the letter, dated May 10, to the President.“As a consequence of the aforesaid majority view of the Supreme Court, it is the President i.e. the Union government alone, which can identify and notify the Maratha community of my state as SEBC, enabling it to enjoy reservation in education and public employment. This is therefore, to earnestly request you that appropriate steps be taken, albeit in accordance with law, declared by the SC to identify and declare Maratha community of my state as SEBC to enable them to claim reservation in education and public employment at least to extent of 12% and 13% respectively (sic),” it added.Meanwhile, the state government on Tuesday also constituted an eight-member panel headed by Dilip Bhosale, retired chief justice of Allahabad HC, to examine the Apex court judgment in detail and prepare a comprehensive guidance and analysis till May 31 which will help the state in taking the next course of action. The panel comprises of senior law expert Rafique Dada, former advocate general of Maharashtra Darius Khambata, retired bureaucrat Sudhir Thakre, senior law advisor of law and judiciary department Sanjay Deshmukh, secretary (legislation) law and judiciary department Bhupendra Gurav, advocate Ashish Raje Gaikwad and joint secretary BZ Sayyad. The government has also appointed two more advocates — Akshay Shinde and Vaibhav Sugdare — who will assist the committee over the matter.The demand for reservation in government jobs and education has been a long-standing demand of the Maratha community since the 1980s and there have several agitations for it. It culminated in SEBC Act, 2018, which introduced 16% reservation for the community. The law was challenged in Bombay HC, which brought down the reservation to 12% and 13% in education and jobs, respectively.The CM made it clear that states should not be deprived with their authority and power to provide reservation to a particular community. “The authority to grant reservation to a community shall remain with the states. The matter is not related to just one state [Maharashtra in this case] but involves many others. We are expecting deliberation and decision on the same,” said Thackeray.He also praised the Maratha community for showing ‘self-restraint” and not holding any agitation against the Apex court verdict or the state government. “We are expecting a reply on the letter and also a decision, as granting the reservation to the Maratha community was a unanimous move. Even BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) may not have any objection on this,” he said.The CM also took a dig at his predecessor Devendra Fadnavis over the latter’s claim that SEBC Act was “fool proof”. “Had it been true, we would have not come here to meet the Governor in this regard,” Thackeray said responding to a question.Thackeray’s visit to Raj Bhavan comes after a year amid an ongoing a tussle between his Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and the Governor. The last time the CM had called on Koshyari was after being elected as the member of the legislative Council on May 18, 2020. He was accompanied by his wife Rashmi and son Aaditya, who is also the state environment minister.Meanwhile, many organisations are planning to hold state-wide virtual agitations by starting social media campaigns against leaders of the political parties in Maharashtra as a mark of protest and to create pressure for taking decisions to bring back reservation for the community.Ex-Maharashtra CM Ashok Chavan to evaluate Congress’s poll debacle in 5 states A day after the Congress Working Committee (CWC) decided to form a leaders’ group to evaluate the party’s debacle in the recently-concluded Assembly polls in five states, Maharashtra’s former chief minister (CM) Ashok Chavan has been appointed to lead it. Senior Congress leaders Salman Khurshid, Manish Tewari, Vincent H Pala and Jothi Mani are the other members of the group.In the CWC meeting at New Delhi on Monday, party chief Sonia Gandhi had proposed to form a group to evaluate the party’s performance in Kerala, Assam, West Bengal, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu polls. Gandhi had said the party has to put its house in order by “facing reality and drawing lessons” from the setback it received in the polls.“Honourable Congress president has constituted a group to evaluate the results of the recently-concluded Assembly elections with immediate effect. The group will submit the report within two weeks,” a press statement signed by party general secretary KC Venugopal read.Chavan’s appointment is seen to be significant for the leader, known to be a party loyalist. “I’m thankful to the party president for the responsibility. We’ll present the report on party’s performance in the elections by speaking to the candidates, officer bearers and key workers from the respective states,” Chavan, who is the state public works department minister, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maratha-reservation-maharashtra-cm-writes-to-president-pm-101620761007756.html
12-05-2021||Other||2 die of mucormycosis in Kalyan-Dombivli||Two Covid-19 recovered patients have died due to mucormycosis in Kalyan-Dombivli limits so far. As per the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) records, a total of six patients, admitted in a private hospital in Dombivli, are suffering from mucormycosis, of which two have succumbed and two are undergoing treatment in the intensive care unit (ICU). The 69-year-old man, a resident of Daudi village, was infected with Covid-19 on May 1. He succumbed to the fungal disease on May 7, while, the 38-year-old man, a resident of Mharal village, Kalyan-Murbad Road, was admitted at a Dombivli hospital on May 9, succumbed to the disease on Tuesday. “There are two deaths due to mucormycosis reported in our vicinity as of now. We are also inquiring with other hospitals if there are such cases in their records. However, as of now, there are six such patients admitted at a hospital in Dombivli,” said Ashwini Patil, medical health officer, KDMC. “Mucormycosis is an opportunistic infection which is caused by a fungus. This particular disease is found in those with low immunity. Some of the symptoms of the disease are pain and redness in eyes, fever, headache, coughing, breathing issues, vomiting of blood and altered sensorium,” said a KDMC official, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-die-of-mucormycosis-in-kalyandombivli-101620760049236.html
12-05-2021||Other||Five of 13 inmates who escaped Rewari jail arrested||Five inmates of 13 infected with Covid-19, who had escaped from Rewari jail on Saturday night, were arrested, police said on Tuesday.Those arrested are identified as Naveen Sharma alias Golu, Ajit alias Neta, Rajesh alias Kalia, Abhishek and Ashish.Rewari superintendent of police (SP) Abhishek Jorwal said three inmates were arrested by Narnaul CIA and one each was arrested by the Bawal and Model Town police of Rewari. “We are searching to nab the eight other inmates,” the SP added.As per information, four of the five inmates were booked on murder charges. So far, no action was taken against the security officials so far for their alleged negligence.The inmates were lodged in the section designated for Covid patients and fled after cutting grill of their barracks on Saturday.“One staff member was deployed inside the barrack and another outside, and both were sleeping when the incident took place,” Jorwal said, adding that there was negligence on part of the jail staff.“These inmates were sent there after they tested positive for Covid. Most of them came from Nasibpur jail where 284 inmates had contracted the infection,” he added.The Rewari jail was recently turned into a dedicated centre for inmates testing positive for virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-of-13-inmates-who-escaped-rewari-jail-arrested-101620758728180.html
12-05-2021||Other||Police serves notices to six accused to join probe in Tikri rape case||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the rape case of a 25-year-old woman from West Bengal, who later died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh, has served notices to all six accused and Sanyukt Kisan Morcha leaders to join the investigation.Bahadurgarh DSP Pawan Kumar Sharma said they have served notices to all six accused and some farm leaders, including Yogendra Yadav to appear before the SIT in connection with the sexual assault case of a woman from West Bengal, who came to join farmers’ protest at Tikri on April 11.“One of the accused, Yogita Suhag, had appeared before the SIT. She confessed that she along with others made a video of the victim in which she alleged that Anil Malik, who is associated with Kisan Social Army had misbehaved with her when they were coming to Tikri from West Bengal in a train,” the DSP said.“We have formed three teams to arrest them. Four persons were booked apart from the two accused as the victim’s father had mentioned the role of these six persons in the case. If any of them is found to be innocent, we will give them a clean chit,” the DSP said.The SIT also interrogated Yogendra Yadav . “Police recorded my statement. I shared information about the case and assured full cooperation as the truth should come out,“ said Yadav.The DSP added that they have searched the farmers’ tents at Tikri border after co-accused Anup Singh’s video came to fore in which he was seen sitting in a tent.Meanwhile, co-accused Anup has said that they were sleeping in the train when Malik misbehaved with the victim.“The woman had narrated the incident to her father once we reached Tikri. Her health started deteriorating and the farm leaders decided to send her back with Malik and me. When we reached Hansi, Yogendra Yadav asked us to come back and start her treatment at any hospital in Delhi so we returned. There was no abduction. I have no role in the case and am ready to face probe,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-serves-notices-to-six-accused-to-join-probe-in-tikri-rape-case-101620758609194.html
12-05-2021||Other||Panipat plant per day production reaches over 270 MT to meet O2 need in country||Faced with unprecedented demand of medical liquid oxygen, hundreds of workers at the oxygen plant of the Indian Oil Corporation’s Panipat refinery are working tirelessly to ensure that the life-saving oxygen reaches hospitals.With efforts of the officials, the plant is running round-the-clock and stretching itself to meet the sky-rocketing demand of medical oxygen from thousands of hospitals across country, especially Delhi.As per officials, the plant has crossed it’s per day production capacity of 240MT and now producing 270 MT medical oxygen. Of this, 80 MT is being supplied to Haryana, 20 MT to Punjab and the rest is left for Delhi.“Soon after the second wave of Covid hit the country last month, there was a huge pressure to meet the demand of liquid medical oxygen in multiple states, we have never faced such a situation but are working hard to ensure that no patient dies due to lack of oxygen,” said a senior official of the refinery.He said in the face of a massive surge in demand for medical oxygen, Indian Oil has diverted high-purity oxygen used in its mono ethylene glycol unit to produce medical-grade liquid oxygen at the Panipat refinery.K John Prasad, chief general manager (corporate Communications) IOC, said that the throughput of the unit has been scaled down to serve the more critical cause and the Indian Oil is converting 14 LNG tankers of 17 MT each into medical grade oxygen carriers to strengthen the medical oxygen logistics in country.“By next week, over 20 road tankers and 25 ISO containers of about 820 MT combined capacity will be pressed into action by the corporation,” he said, adding that over the next six months, they will manufacture 10 cryogenic road tankers at heir cryogenic plant in Nasik.To further streamline the medical oxygen supply scenario, they have launched a single-window app, Sanjeevani Express, to enable real-time monitoring of liquid oxygen supply.On whether the supply will be increased as a 500-bed Covid hospital is being set up near the plant, he said, “We are producing as per capacity and since the hospital is being set up in Haryana it will have oxygen supply from Haryana’s allocation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panipat-plant-per-day-production-reaches-over-270-mt-to-meet-o2-need-in-country-101620758433710.html
