13-05-2021||Other||After criticism, Deoria DM withdraws appeal to public for funds||Deoria district magistrate Ashutosh Niranjan has withdrawn his appeal to people to contribute to the District Social Responsibility Committee (DSRC) fund to fight Covid-19, the district administration said.The withdrawal comes days after DM’s appeal attracted criticism from people in various parts of the country on social media.The district magistrate had issued the appeal on May 10 to the residents of the district. He had stated that those who wished to contribute to the district administration’s plan to fight the pandemic could donate to the DSRC fund that would be utilised for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in the district. The name of a bank and the DSRC account number were mentioned in the appeal.Niranjan said, “Several people from various walks of life met me in the office with the request that they wished to donate to the district administration fund for health facilities for Covid patients. In view of the pressure of the local people, I issued an appeal. To make the donation transparent, I gave the account (number) of DSRC, which is audited annually.”Shiv Kumar Jaiswal, a member of the Deoria traders’ organization, said earlier too residents of the district, including traders and professionals, had donated money to DSRC during floods or the outbreak of diseases, including Japanese encephalitis. “The fund was utilised for public work. The DM gave the details of the utilisation of the fund to members of the committee at review meetings. It’s a unique initiative by local people to assist the administration in public work. We have urged the DM to permit the people to donate to DSRC fund,” Jaiswal said.On Wednesday, 387 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Deoria. The tally of active Covid cases in the district was 2,931. The DM said the recovery rate of Covid patients in the district was 89.3% whereas the positivity rate was 7.5%. After the second wave, the district administration arranged 350 beds in Level-2 government facilities and 450 beds in private hospitals in Deoria, the district magistrate said.There are 18 ventilator beds and 10 BiPap beds in Deoria district. “The sample test target of the district is 2,000 per day, but we are doing 3,500 sample tests daily. The trace, test, track and treat campaign has been launched in the rural areas of the district,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-criticism-deoria-dm-withdraws-appeal-to-public-for-funds-101620930531736.html
13-05-2021||Other||Post-Covid illnesses on the rise, the recovered need oxygen||Private hospitals are reporting an increased footfall of patients who developed lung fibrosis and severe pneumonia after recovering from Covid-19 and need immediate hospitalisation with oxygen support.According to Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, the state nodal officer for tertiary care of Covid-19 patients, and who is also a lung and respiratory disease specialist at the Post Graduate Institute Medical Sciences- Rohtak, since the magnitude of the second Covid-19 wave has been massive, such cases have increased everywhere.“It is mostly seen in patients who were admitted to intensive care units (ICUs) for treatment after testing positive. Such patients require a sufficient number of days to recover. But, to manage beds and to accommodate other patients, many people are asked to leave hospitals and home-isolate without complete recovery. Therefore, 10 to 15% of the recovered patients develop lung infections and need to be put on oxygen support,” said Dr Chaudhary.The district administration also hiked the oxygen quota for hospitals treating such cases.“Post-Covid care and treatment are most important and the number of people complaining of lung (illnesses) and pneumonia has increased. The administration is aware that such cases are on the rise. Therefore, we have increased the oxygen quota by nearly 30% so that hospitals can cater to such patients and store additional oxygen for emergency purpose,” said Yash Garg, Gurugram deputy commissioner.The administration has been supplying oxygen to at least 82 hospitals in the district.Dr Vikram Singh, the director of Aarvy Hospital, said that due to the current burden on hospitals to admit seriously ill patients, many people are asked to remain on oxygen support system at homes. “If required, they are admitted to hospitals. At least 30-40% recovered patients develop lung fibrosis and are suggested to remain on oxygen support at their homes,” said Singh.Dr Neeraj Gupta, a pulmonologist and the head of ICU care at W Pratiksha Hospital, is currently treating at least three recovered Covid-19 patients who developed pneumonia and are admitted to the ICU. “Such patients have high oxygen demand as their lungs could not heal properly even after recovery. Many patients have to be given immediate treatment in hospital, while some are suggested to remain at home and continue with treatment.”Gupta said she comes across at least nine such cases every day, of whom two to three people develop serious symptoms.Causes for post-Covid illnessDr Mohit Mathur, associate director of critical care at Max Hospital, Gurugram, said, “The scar tissue which replaces the diseased lung tissue after the infection is not capable of the original function to transfer oxygen into the blood. Such patients are left with a persistent oxygen requirement,” said Mathur.In many cases, people discharged from hospitals said that they found it difficult to walk even 10 steps.Swati Saxena, 34, a resident of MG Road, said that she was discharged from the ICU on April 28 within seven days of getting admitted. She was later admitted again on May 2 and discharged earlier this week. “I had heart rate issue, breathlessness and chest pain. It took three days to recover from the pain. Four oxygen cylinders were used daily and the volume of oxygen given to me was high, as compared to when I was first admitted for Covid-19,” said Saxena.“Basically, in many cases compromised lung capacity or poor lung function due to this infection has been causing further multiple complications even after recovery,” said Dr Satish Kaul, head of the department and director, internal medicine, Narayana Hospital.Detecting the illnessAt present, there is no certain way to definitely say which patients will eventually develop lung fibrosis, doctors said. A few existing studies show that age, severe illnesses, prolonged ICU treatment, need for mechanical ventilation, a history of smoking and chronic alcoholism may increase the risk of developing lung fibrosis after recovery from Covid-19.“CT chest and restrictive pattern on pulmonary function test are some of the ways to detect this problem. The bigger challenge is that apart from few anti-fibrotic agents which are of doubtful efficacy, there are not many drugs to address this problem. Therefore, recovery becomes a slow process, extending over months,” said Mathur, who is treating 10 such cases on average every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/postcovid-illnesses-on-the-rise-the-recovered-need-oxygen-101620927171495.html
13-05-2021||Other||Five Covid patients escaped from SNMMCH, FIR lodged||Five Covid positive patients and residents of Bihar escaped from Shahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College Hospital (SNMMCH) in Dhanbad late Wednesday night.However, three of them were later caught by the police on main road near Police Line. Hospital observer Dipak Kumar, deployed by district administration for supervision of Covid patients, has lodged an FIR against all five patients with Saraidhela police station under Sections of Disaster Management Act. “District police have launched a hunt for other two patients,” he said.SNMMCH official said all five patients were admitted at fourth floor of PG Block Covid ward. Around 12.30 am, health staff found them missing from their beds. The patients locked the doors from inside and escaped through window space kept open for AC. The patients who escaped have been identified as Rajesh Kumar, Prakash Kumar, Navneet Kumar , Nand Kishore Yadav and Suresh Yadav. They are residents of Banka District of Bihar and reportedly belong to same family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-covid-patients-escaped-from-snmmch-fir-lodged-101620924411349.html
13-05-2021||Other||Tej Pratap visits Shahabuddin’s native place, meets son||PATNARJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son and state’s former health minister Tej Pratap Yadav on Thursday visited the family of former Siwan MP Mohammed Shahabuddin, who died recently in Delhi, at their native village Pratappur in Siwan district.Shahabuddin, a strongman, had represented Siwan Lok Sabha constituency for RJD several times. He was lodged in Tihar jail in the national capital following his conviction in a murder case. Close aides of Tej Pratap said he has had a long chat with Shahabuddin’s son Osama. RJD MLAs Awadh Bihari Choudhary, Jitendra Rai, Chotelal Rai and Surendra Yadav were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tej-pratap-visits-shahabuddin-s-native-place-meets-son-101620924351284.html
13-05-2021||Other||Pappu shifted to DMCH, wife holds fort in Patna||PATNATwo days after his arrest in Patna, former Madhepura MP and president of Jan Adhikar Party (JAP), Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, was shifted to Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) from the prison ward of Birpur jail in Supual on Thursday. He was shifted to DMCH after a team of doctors examines his health following the direction of Madhepura court and found he should be treated at a hospital where CT scan and MRI facilities are available, Supaul’s district magistrate Mahendra Kumar said.Yadav was arrested in Patna on Tuesday in connection with a 32-year-old kidnapping case following an order from a Madhepura court. The case relates to alleged abduction of Rajkumar Yadav and Umakant Yadav on January 29, 1989.Rajkumar, however, came before media at a press conference held by Pappu Yadav’s wife and former Congress MP Ranjeet Ranjan in Patna on Thursday and claimed it was a case of confusion and he was never kidnapped.Ranjan hit out at the Nitish Kumar government and the BJP and threatened to go on a hunger strike if her husband was not released. “My husband exposed Saran MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy in the interest of common people of Bihar who are struggling to find ambulances. Rudy was keeping over three dozen ambulances from his MP fund like his private property. Instead of an FIR against Rudy, the state government, under the pressure of BJP, arrested my husband,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pappu-shifted-to-dmch-wife-holds-fort-in-patna-101620924291310.html
13-05-2021||Other||6 more bodies fished out of Ganga in Buxar, 82 so far||BUXAR/ARASix more bodies were fished out of Ganga at Chausa in Bihar’s Buxar district late Wednesday evening, taking the total number of corpses recovered so far to 82, even as the National Human Right Commission (NHRC) issued notice to the Centre, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and sought an action-taken report within four weeks.Buxar district magistrate (DM) Aman Samir said continuous patrolling was being done at Chakki, Simri, Brahmpur and Chausa ever since the bodies were first spotted floating in the river. “People are being advised to avoid taking bath in the river. Since all bodies are floating downstream from UP side, it is not known what disease claimed them,” he said.Top Bihar government officials have raised the matter with their counterparts in UP. “I spoke to home secretary of UP while DGP held talks with his UP counterpart. Clearly, the bodies have floated downstream as most of them were 5-6 days old. Ever since we put the net, bodies are not floating to Bihar side,” said Bihar’s additional chief secretary (home), Chaitanya Prasad. Meanwhile, In a statement, the NHRC said it seems the public authorities have failed to take concentric efforts in educating the masses and checking the immersion of half burnt or unburnt dead bodies into the Ganga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6-more-bodies-fished-out-of-ganga-in-buxar-82-so-far-101620924231240.html
13-05-2021||Other||People reluctant to appear for testing in rural areas of Hisar||Hisar has emerged as the most affected district in Haryana with 641 deaths till May 12, prompting the health authorities to start testing in villages where people are complaining of Covid-like symptoms.The district had reported 334 deaths till March 31, 106 in April, and 201 deaths till May 12. The district has 9,109 active cases and 77.4% recovery rate.Haryana’s largest village Sisai saw 39 deaths, of which nine are confirmed Covid-19 deaths since April 20, and yet people are reluctant in appearing for testing.Hansi SDM Jitendra Ahlawat said 39 people have died at Sisai, of which nine died of the virus since April 25 and 30 other deaths occurred due to fever and other reasons.“No Covid death was reported in the village in the first wave and there was no need for sampling at that time. In the second wave, 15 people died due to Covid. Health teams are continuously collecting samples but the villagers are appearing in a less proportions. We had held many meetings with villagers urging them to appear for testing in large numbers but to no avail,” the SDM added.A senior medical officer, who is looking after sampling at Sisai village, said the village has a population of over 20,000 and only 223 persons appeared for testing in a week and 6% of them were found infected.“People have high fever, cough, wheezing but they are approaching quacks for treatment instead of appearing for Covid test,” the doctor added.Balbir Singh, acting president of the Sisai municipal committee, said 54 persons have died in the village since April 24, of which 15 have died of Covid-19.“The health department is including deaths which have taken place in the district only. More than 30 deceased had high fever and cough but none appeared for testing. Many of their family members had refused testing. The villagers have a mindset that if they test positive, they will not get a bed in government hospitals. We had sanitised the village on our own level,” he added.Parminder Singh, representative of Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja’s native village Parbhuwala, said the village saw 18 deaths, of which three are confirmed Covid deaths.Sarpanch Om Prakash, who is leading Talwandi Badshahpur village until new panchayat forms, said more than 16 persons have died in the last three weeks. “Three of the deceased were cremated by doctors following Covid protocol,” he added.Hisar deputy commissioner Priyanka Soni has directed to start testing in villages where people are suffering from high fever and asked village nambardars to help health teams ensure proper testing.“We have asked the villagers to adopt Thikhri pehra in their areas to stop the spread of the virus,” the DC added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/people-reluctant-to-appear-for-testing-in-rural-areas-of-hisar-101620924173176.html
13-05-2021||Other||Thousands of health workers call off stir after HC intervention||PATNAFollowing the intervention of the Patna High Court, the Bihar State Contractual Health Employees’ Federation called off its “home isolation” and resumed duty immediately on Thursday. The court directed the state government to file its response to the interlocutory application filed by the Rashtriya Swasthya Mission Karmchari Sangh, Bihar, within four weeks. On Wednesday, over 27,000 health workers had gone on “home-isolation” alleging apathy of the state government towards their old demands, threatening to derail health facilities across the state. Sangh secretary Lalan Singh said they had returned to work on court’s order and the government’s assurance. Experts’ committee report Earlier in the morning, the court directed that the report of the committee of experts be shared with all the counsels appearing in the proceedings on Covid management. The three-member committee had been constituted by the Centre on the directive of the Patna HC to examine the facilities available at the hospitals in Patna and the status of oxygen supply. The team was headed by Dr Umesh Kumar Bhadani of AIIMS, Patna. Advocate General Lalit Kishore will file the response to the court within the next four working days. Meanwhile, the state government informed the court that the management of Medanta Hospital had agreed to open their institution at Patna with effect from May 17, 2021, by making provision for at least 50 beds to be utilized only for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thousands-of-health-workers-call-off-stir-after-hc-intervention-101620924171941.html
13-05-2021||Other||IT ministry sends Covid care vans to Patna, Nalanda||PATNAThe ministry of electronics and information and technology has dispatched Covid Care vans to rural areas of Patna and Nalanda districts to facilitate doorstep registration for vaccination against coronavirus of the 18-44 years age group. The pilot project, executed through Common Service Centre (CSC) e-governance under the Digital India, aims to provide internet access and facilitate the 18-44 years target age group pre-register for vaccination in the two districts. The two districts have a population of roughly 49.27 lakh, of which Nalanda accounts for 28.77 lakh and Patna 20.5 lakh (source: Census 2011). The health ministry has made it mandatory for those in 18-44 years age group to pre-register for Covid-19 vaccination. Unlike those 45 years and above, walk-in and on-spot registration for vaccination is not allowed for the younger age group. “Bihar has vaccinated 85,50,682 beneficiaries so far,” said Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s additional chief secretary, health, at a press conference on Thursday. It has a target population of 7.51 crore to vaccinate, of which 5.39 crore are in the 18-44 age years group and 2.12 crore in the 45 years and above age group. “We have sent out one van in each of the districts of Patna and Nalanda to reach out to the rural people in the 18-44 years age group and facilitate them pre-register for Covid-19 vaccination. Our vans are equipped with large TV LED screen, laptops and generator set,” said Santosh Kumar Tiwari, state head CSC, Bihar. The CSC has also offered to help the Bihar government distribute Covid-19 kits, containing basic medication and thermometer, to patients under home isolation and also test suspects using rapid antigen kits. The state health department, however, has not responded to this initiative of the CSC so far, said sources. Should the state health department agree, it has to provide to the CSC Covid-19 medication kits for patients and rapid antigen kits for on-spot testing of Covid suspects. This will, in turn, help the health department increase its daily testing and reach out with Covid medication kits to a larger rural population, where the second wave of the pandemic has now extended to. Of late, more new Covid-19 cases are being reported from rural than urban areas in Bihar. The Covid vans would also offer Aadhaar-enabled banking services and allow an individual withdraw up to a maximum of ₹20,000 per day, said Tiwari. There are 40,000 CSCs also referred to as village level entrepreneurs in Bihar. These are physical facilities for delivering Centre’s e-services like booking railway tickets, applying for PAN card, Aadhaar, etc. to rural and remote locations.Headline: Vaccination in BiharIntro: The state has vaccinated 11.31% of its population against Covid-19 since the inoculation began on Jan 16Target population: 7.51 crore 18-44 age group: 5.39 crore 45-plus: 2.12 croreVaccinated so far: 85,50,682||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/it-ministry-sends-covid-care-vans-to-patna-nalanda-101620924171315.html
13-05-2021||Other||Bihar extends lockdown till May 25, tightens curbs||PATNAThe Bihar government on Thursday further extended the lockdown for 10 days, from May 16 till May 25, after reviewing the positive impact of the lockdown imposed from May 5 till May 15 amid the surge in coronavirus cases in the state.An announcement to this effect was made by chief minister Nitish Kumar on Twitter. “Reviewed the ongoing lockdown in Bihar with ministerial colleagues and officials. We can see that the lockdown is having a positive impact. Therefore, we have decided to extend the lockdown in the state for 10 days, from May 16-25, 2021,” a rough translation of Kumar’s tweet, posted in Hindi, read.“The lockdown is showing desired results. After taking opinion of the district magistrates, it was decided to extend the lockdown,” said chief secretary Tripurari Sharan. Meanwhile, according to a health department bulletin on May 13, the state recorded 7,752 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday and the number of active cases stood at 96277. The state reported 90 deaths in last 24 hours.“During this period, the state government has modified its earlier order by advancing the timings for opening different shops. Now the shops selling milk, vegetables, non-vegetarian items and other essential commodities will open from 6 am till 10 am in urban areas and from 8 am till 12 noon in rural areas,” said additional chief secretary (home) Chaitanya Prasad. Earlier, these shops were opening from 7 am till 11 am.The government has also revised the number of guests for marriages from 50 to 20 only. “All other restrictions enforced earlier will remain in place,” said Prasad. The 11-day lockdown has brought some relief for state government which was facing all-round flak following shortage of beds in hospitals, irregular oxygen supply, shortage of medicines, exorbitant prices being charged by ambulances, etc. “The positivity rate which stood at 15.7% on May 2 has come down to 8.9% on May 12,” said additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-extends-lockdown-till-may-25-tightens-curbs-101620924111316.html
13-05-2021||Other||Of all Covid deaths at PGIMS, Rohtak since virus outbreak, 51% are since March 31||The Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak has witnessed a spike in Covid-19 deaths and a total of 465 persons have succumbed to the contagion at the institution since March 31.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said 903 persons have died at the institution between May 1, 2020 and May 12, 2021. Of these, 465 deaths (51%) were reported since March 31 this year, she said.“Last year, 10 persons lost their lives due to Covid at PGIMS in May last year, 25 in June, 36 in July, 41 in August, 84 in September, 45 in October, 127 in November and 52 in December. Similarly, this year, 13 deaths were reported in January, two in February, three in March, 268 in April, and 197 till May 12,” she added.She said that the death toll witnessed a sharp rise in April, 2021.“Many patients reached here after their lungs got infected and their saturation level dipped. Such patients died after they got admitted for one to two hours. People are not coming here for testing and are moving in after their health completely deteriorates. We have 113 ICU beds and doctors are making all efforts to save lives of every patient undergoing treatment. Also, people had lowered their guard this year which resulted in rise of caseload and deaths,” she added.A senior doctor at PGIMS, requesting anonymity, said that there is rise in Covid-suspected deaths. “Hospitals are admitting patients who have RT-PCR positive reports and there are patients with false negative, whom hospitals are refusing admission. Such patients are also dying,” the doctor added.The doctor added that they have seen a rise in patients from rural areas visiting PGIMS for treatment.“In the first wave, few patients from rural areas came for treatment here but the transmission has spread its tentacles in villages. Since April last week, we are receiving calls from villages seeking to help in admitting severe patients. This is happening because people are not appearing for tests in villages and are approaching us after their lungs are found infected in CT reports,” the doctor added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/of-all-covid-deaths-at-pgims-rohtak-since-virus-outbreak-51-are-since-march-31-101620923993824.html
13-05-2021||Other||City’s Covid situation likely to affect Metro completion deadlines: Maha-Metro GM||PUNE Despite the severity of the second wave of Covid-19 in Pune, the Maharashtra Metro railway corporation (Maha-Metro), has been able to keep 3,200 labourers working in the city. This is 40 per cent of its workforce in Pune.Now there is uncertainty about meeting the deadlines on the priority Metro routes - PCMC to Phugewadi and Vanaz to Deccan Gymkhana. Hemant Sonawane, general manager, Maha-Metro, said, “Work is going on at different stages. We just have crossed beneath the Mula river. On the Vanaz to Ramwadi stretch, the Nal stop multi-storey flyover work is underway, while on the PCMC to Swargate stretch, Phugewadi station has been completed 90 per cent. But, due to Covid-19, we may miss the deadline. There will be delays due to slow work as we don’t know what the situation will be ahead.”In June 2020, of the metro’s 6,500 labourers, only 800 were on duty after the government made arrangements for trains. “This year, there are no restrictions on traveling and trains are also available,” said Sonawane.“We haven’t been affected badly this time. We vaccinated labourers and provided medical facilities, which helped us to keep a maximum number behind,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/citys-covid-situation-likely-to-affect-metro-completion-deadlines-maha-metro-gm-101620919431005.html
13-05-2021||Other||Pune-Mumbai special train cancelled due to poor response||PUNE The Pune Railway Division has cancelled the special train between Pune and Mumbai (02123/02124) from Friday, May 14. The train was running in place of the Deccan Queen Express. Due to a poor response, the Pune railway division took the decision. “The daily special train running between Pune and Mumbai, to and fro, was getting very few bookings. Occupancy was hardly 10 per cent. So it was decided to cancel the train from May 14 onwards, rather than face losses,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson. “This train was running as per the timings of the Deccan Queen Express. Our appeal to passengers is not to panic as there are several other trains running between the two cities. These are the connecting trains and run at different times throughout the day,” added Jhawar. In April, other trains were cancelled due to poor response. These include the Pune-Nagpur weekly special train, Pune-Ajni weekly special train, Pune-Amravati weekly special train and Kolhapur-Nagpur bi-weekly special. All these trains were originating from the Pune railway division, but due less occupancy of less than 15 per cent, were cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punemumbai-special-train-cancelled-due-to-poor-response-101620918770989.html
13-05-2021||Other||Cyclone watch: Low- pressure area in Arabian Sea forecast to develop into storm by May 16||PUNE As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), a low pressure area has formed over southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Lakshadweep area on Thursday morning. This low-pressure area is likely to become well marked over Lakshadweep by May 14 morning and concentrate into a depression over the same region by May 15, intensifying into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. As per the met department, this depression is likely to move north-north-westwards towards Gujarat and adjoining Pakistan coasts. It is likely to reach the Gujarat coast by the evening of May 18, as per officials. “Light to moderate rainfall at many places with heavy rain fall at isolated places is very likely on May 15; and heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few paces on May 16 and May 17 is forecast,” said IMD officials. Met officials said that wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph i0s likely along south Maharashtra and Goa coasts on May 15. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting, IMD, said that four divisions of Maharashtra will witness light to moderate rainfall. “In Konkan and Goa, there are chances of heavy rainfall after May 15. Ghat areas in Madhya Maharashtra will also experience heavy rainfall on and after May 15. Parts of Marathwada and Vidarbha will also be experiencing rainfall till May 16, with thunderstorm and lightning and gusty winds,” said Kashyapi. As per the weather department, Pune during this time, will witness cloudy weather towards evening and light rain with thunderstorms and lightning till May 18. Pune on Thursday reported a maximum temperature of 35.2 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature was 22.4 degrees Celsius, as per IMD. The highest maximum temperature in Maharashtra on Thursday was reported at Chandrapur, at 42.8 degrees Celsius. The lowest minimum temperature was 17.6 degrees Celsius in Mahabaleshwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyclone-watch-low-pressure-area-in-arabian-sea-forecast-to-develop-into-storm-by-may-16-101620917930923.html
13-05-2021||Other||Complaints of crowding, no Covid norms followed at Kondhwa, NIBM and Salunke Vihar||PUNE Residents of Kondhwa, NIBM and Salunke Vihar are defying lockdown norms, flouting social distancing and not wearing masks.Mornings see the market areas crowded with a large number of hawkers on road spaces not allocated for business. On NIBM road hawkers and residents are out till late in the afternoon.Sudhakar Bhosale, senior citizen and resident of the area, said, “The market at Salunke Vihar is overcrowded and neither PMC nor the police department wants to take any action. Citizens feel that they have every right to break restrictions.”Social activist and resident of Kondhwa, Sameer Khan, said, “Kondhwa and NIBM road have become spots of overcrowding and violation of social distancing norms. We want authorities to act in the larger interests of public health and safety.” Inspector Sardar Patil, incharge of the Kondhwa police station, said, “Based on the information received about overcrowding, action will be taken against violators.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/complaints-of-crowding-no-covid-norms-followed-at-kondhwa-nibm-and-salunke-vihar-101620917390835.html
13-05-2021||Other||State approves sale of Balewadi land for Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar Metro route||PUNE The state government has approved the sale of land in Balewadi for the Pune Mahanagar Regional Development Authority’s (PMRDA) Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar Metro route.This route is being developed as a joint venture between the Tata group and Siemens. On Wednesday, at a state cabinet meeting, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray passed the proposal to sell 4.75 hectares for commercial use to Tata and Siemens at a concessional rate. Suhas Diwase, chief executive officer (CEO) of PMRDA said, “The companies will use the land for commercial purposes. At present, work on a casting yard is on. Actual work on the metro corridor will start soon.”The state is using the “design, build, finance, operate and transfer (DBFOT)” model for such land acquisitions. Earlier, PMRDA had declared that a metro facility between Shivajinagar and Hinjewadi will be operational by March 2023. However, due to a delay in acquisition of land, it took time to start actual work. PMRDA has estimated 30,000 passengers per hour during peak hours in its detail project report (DPR) on this route. PMRDA needs to acquire a total 9,579 sqkm from various establishments. Till date, PMRDA has acquired 1,94.9sqm from the Khadi Gram Udyog. They have also sent compulsory acquisition notices to the remaining land owners under Section of 11 of the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act.Vivek Kharwadkar, chief engineer, PMRDA, said, “Work is going on in full swing.”In 2018, the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) signed a contract with Tata and Siemens for the project to be developed on a public- private partnership model to decongest traffic in the city by improving connectivity within the metropolitan region. The proposed route is 23.3km elevated track between Hinjewadi and Shivajinagar. It will take less than 40 minutes to cover the distance from the civil court in Shivajinagar to the Hinjewadi IT Park.The route will have 23 elevated stations. The project is estimated at ₹8,100 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-approves-sale-of-balewadi-land-for-hinjewadi-to-shivajinagar-metro-route-101620916910810.html
13-05-2021||Other||Man held for firing outside Bansode’s office files complaint of attempted murder against MLA’s son||In light of a case of attempted murder of Pimpri legislator Anna Bansode, two separate cases of attempted murder have now been registered against Bansode’s son, Siddharth Bansode, by the Pimpri Chinchwad police on Wednesday.Tanaji Pawar (39) a resident of Santnagar in Moshi was arrested for firing at the legislator in his office on Wednesday afternoon. He was detained and the weapon in his possession seized.Pawar is a supervisor-manager at a company called AG Enviro which takes up contracts from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. After the firing, Bansode spoke with the local journalists to state that Pawar had come to his office in the Fintech building in Kalbhornagar, Chinchwad, for a meeting. However, Pawar told the police that Bansode’s son and his accomplice had kidnapped him from his office in Akurdi and brought him near Bansode’s office in Chinchwad.While Pawar was booked with two other people, identified as Sanket Shashikant Jagtap and Shrinivas Biradar, Siddharth Bansode was booked along with 10-15 others.Pawar told the police that he was picked up from his office by Siddharth Bansode and his supporters around 11am on Wednesday. He was allegedly beaten up with with a leather belt, metal rods, wooden rods, and a long blade, according to his complaint.While Pawar was booked under Sections 307, 504, 506, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 27 of the Arms Act; Siddharth Bansode and associates have been booked under Sections 364, 207, 504, 506, of the IPC, and relevant sections of the Arms Act, Epidemic Diseases Act, National Disaster Management Act, and Maharashtra Covid19 Regulations, 2020. A case has been registered against Siddharth Bansode at Pimpri police station.Additionally, an employee at Pawar’s company has lodged a separate complaint based on which another case was registered at the Nigdi police station against Siddharth Bansode and MLA Bansode’s personal assistant.She mentioned in her complaint that 10 men arrived in two cars and one motorbike at their office near Hegdevar Bhavan in Akurdi and assaulted four employees. The female complainant claimed that the men kept asking for whereabouts of Pawar and threatened to kill him.A case under Sections 307, 325, 452, 269 and other relevant Sections of IPC, Criminal Law Amendment Act, Epidemic Diseases Act, National Disaster Management Act, and Maharashtra Covid19 Regulations, 2020 was registered against Bansode at Nigdi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-held-for-firing-outside-bansode-s-office-files-complaint-of-attempted-murder-against-mla-s-son-101620915470719.html
13-05-2021||Other||Retired ACP denies accusations of assault against SC/ST community member||PUNE A case of assault and atrocity against a person from a community belonging to the scheduled caste and scheduled tribes has been registered against a retired assistant commissioner of police at Wakad police station. The retired ACP, GS Madgulkar has, however, refuted all claims against him.“This is all imaginary and (it is a) bogus matter, (the case has been) deliberately registered by the complainant. The truth will come out in the police investigation,” said Madgulkar in a text message on a public social media group.A case under relevant Sections of Indian Penal Code and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, has been registered at Wakad police station.The case was registered based on a complaint by Vishal Nany Waghmare (32), a resident of Wakad.The cause of friction is the ownership of a disputed piece of land in Wakad gaonthan, which Madgulkar allegedly purchased recently.As per the complaint, on February 25, Madgulkar and four others allegedly tried to run over Waghmare with a car that one of them was driving.Madgulkar and the others then allegedly beat up Waghhmare and broke bottles on his head. His brother Tushare Waghmare, who tried to stop the fight, was also beaten up by Madgulkar, according to the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/retired-acp-denies-accusations-of-assault-against-sc-st-community-member-101620914810726.html
13-05-2021||Other||27-yr old Chembur resident held for cheating people posing as IT officer||PUNE: A 27-year-old man has been arrested by the Pune police crime branch for posing as an income tax officer, and duping multiple people. While he is involved in three cases, he is suspected to have duped at least 10 others in various parts of the country.The man has been identified as Rahul Kiran Sarate (27), a resident of Siddharth Colony in Chembur, according to police. The man is in the custody of the crime branch until Friday, according to police.“He was found to have told people about him being an income tax officer and accepted money through Google Pay and cheated multiple people. At times, he had also mimicked the voice of a female GST officer and cheated people,” read a statement from the Pune police crime branch.He was arrested under Sections 385 (extortion by putting any person in fear of injury); 419 (impersonation); and 170 (impersonating a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, registered at Hadapsar police station. A complaint in the matter was lodged by a jeweller in Hadapsar area who claimed to have received a call from an unknown number. The caller identified himself as income tax officer Rajendra Kadam.Sarate then told the jeweller that he had received a complaint from a female customer that the gold jewellery she had bought was of lesser quality than was promised to her, according to the complainant.In order to prevent the shop from being sealed, the man demanded ₹37,200.Upon his arrest, two other cases were brought to light - one each in Andheri police station of Mumbai and Bengaluru city police station. Both the cases were registered in the past few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/27yr-old-chembur-resident-held-for-cheating-people-posing-as-it-officer-101620914390723.html
13-05-2021||Other||Journo booked for alleged extortion of ₹5 lakh from doc running Pimpri Covid centre||PUNE A 43-year-old journalist working at a local Marathi newspaper has been booked by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Thursday, for allegedly accepting ₹5 lakh from a doctor who worked at the Covid centre run by the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) at the Auto Cluster in Pimpri.The man’s identity is being withheld.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Dr Amol Ashok Holkunde (38), a resident of Sparsh Hospital in Somatne, Maval.The accused allegedly threatened the doctor and his colleagues with negative news articles against the working of the Covid centre. The stories, he threatened, would be used to get the contract of the Dr Holkunde’s hospital with the PCMC to run the Covid centre cancelled.The administrator of the centre, Vinod Adaskar, has text and WhatsApp messages from November 27, 2020 and December 8, 2020, allegedly from the accused, that he has started raising complaints about the Covid centre and would ensure bills of the hospital do not get cleared.On February 23, the officials of Sparsh hospital allegedly paid ₹2 lakh in cash and moved ₹3 lakh to Bhakre’s private account through an NEFT transfer, according to the complaint.Sub inspector Sawan Kumar Waghmare of Pimpri police station, who is investigating the case, said, “We have not yet arrested the person. He is a reporter at a Marathi daily newspaper. We are not sure why the doctors did not come forward earlier. We are investigating the claims.”A case under Section 384 (extortion) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/journo-booked-for-alleged-extortion-of-rs-5-lakh-from-doc-running-pimpri-covid-centre-101620914030650.html
13-05-2021||Other||Lion found Covid-19 positive at Rajasthan’s Nahargarh Biological Park||Tripur, a lion at Rajasthan’s Nahargarh Biological Park, was found Covid-19 positive on Thursday, a state forest department statement said even as the park has been closed since April 17 on the government’s directions.The confirmation of the infection came days after samples of lions (Tripur, Tara, and Shristi), and tigers (Rambha, Mehak, Nahar, Rani), white tiger (Chinu), and panther (Krishna) at the park were sent to Bareilly’s Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) for Covid-19 testing on the directions of Central Zoo Authority. The animals were asymptotic when their samples were taken. The IVRI has asked for fresh samples of Chinu, Tara, and Krishna.Also Read | UK variant of Covid-19 detected in samples sent from Rajasthan for genome sequencingThe statement said the animals are having a normal diet and remained asymptomatic and that they were being given medicine to boost their immunity.Chief Wildlife Warden ML Meena said they were following the guidelines and the person feeding the animals wears personal protection equipment.Eight Asiatic lions at the Hyderabad Zoo tested positive this month for Covid-19, in the first such case in the country, prompting the Union environment ministry to order the closure of all national parks, sanctuaries, and national zoological parks in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lion-found-covid-19-positive-at-rajasthan-s-nahargarh-biological-park-101620908990921.html
13-05-2021||Other||Guest column: As Goa battles Covid storm, nobody steering the ship to safety||As many as 75 persons died due to Covid-19 in Goa on Tuesday, May 11, making it the highest single-day death toll for the state in the pandemic so far.The total death toll caused due to the pandemic now stands at 1,805. The state also recorded as many as 3,124 Covid positive cases on the same day (May 11), taking its total active cases to 32,836. The positivity rate in the state till a few days ago, was hovering around the 50 per cent mark (every second person was testing positive), the highest in the country. For the smallest state in India, with a population of just 1.5 million people, these are very scary statistics indeed. Why does Goa find itself in this situation? Gross negligence and mismanagement of the Covid crisis by the state government. The BJP chief minister, Dr Pramod Sawant, the late Parrikar’s blue-eyed-boy, despite being a trained Ayurveda doctor, has displayed extremely poor leadership qualities in the face of the crisis. To make matters worse, both he and the state health minister, Vishwajit Rane, have never been on the same page ever since this pandemic began. They have held contrary views and opinions and have worked at cross purposes, sadly at the cost of human lives. Sample the latest. Rane made a striking statement to the local media on Tuesday (May 11) that 26 Covid patients had died in the state’s premier medical institution, Goa Medical College (GMC), due to oxygen supply problems. Instead of rolling up his sleeves and solving the problem, which is his ministry’s biggest challenge, Rane has chosen to take three steps backwards and instead has sheepishly asked the Bombay High Court (Goa bench) to conduct a probe into the matter of poor oxygen supplies at the GMC. The chief minister on the other hand, in response to the poor oxygen supply situation at GMC simply accused the hospital administration of “mismanagement”, refusing to acknowledge the repeated pleas of the GMC administration of inadequate oxygen supply. To make matters worse, Sawant has directed his ire at the lone company entrusted with the task of supplying oxygen to all state government medical facilities, blaming them for poor support. With the two worthies mentioned above having maximum executive powers to turn things around, but shrugging their basic responsibilities, the common man in Goa, whether in towns or villages, is at his/her wit’s end. However, this mismanagement of the Covid crisis in Goa began several months ago. Unknown to many, the Goa government’s financial status is at best precarious. Local media reports have consistently pegged the state’s current debt at a staggering ₹20,000 crore. Not surprisingly, Sawant opened up the tourism gates in October 2020. The big blunder, however, was that he did not insist on Covid negative certificates from visiting tourists. People in other parts of India welcomed this opportunity to let their hair down, and came in droves. The photographs of tourists cramming the north Goa beaches in the last week of December 2020, was akin to a mini-Kumbh Mela. Cheek by jowl and unmasked, tourists made merry on the beaches with zero policing by the state government. When the local media repeatedly badgered the chief minister for his continuing reluctance to insist on Covid-negative certificates from tourists, he would simply repeat his favourite line in Konkani, ad-nauseam, “Bhivpachi garaz naa!” (There is no need to be scared!) This lowering of the guard and non-insistence of a Covid-negative certificate had its obvious repercussions. Several staff members working on the casino boats on the river Mandovi tested positive for Covid. Believe it or not, but the Goa government actually granted permission to a casino to host a boxing tournament featuring India’s leading professional boxer Vijender Singh, complete with spectators, in mid-March this year.Also, as recently as April this year, local media consistently reported of bars and restaurants in north Goa crammed with tourists sans masks and no Covid SOPs in place, thanks to zero policing from the state government.To make matters worse, post the first Covid wave, the state government has also been guilty of not working to enhance local oxygen manufacturing facilities, increase hospital beds and recruit additional medical staff, despite several reminders and warnings from the state’s medical establishment. The result: Goa is facing its biggest health crisis to date and scarily, there does not seem to be anyone in charge. The author, a former newspaper editor and national-award winning journalist has been living in Goa since 2015. He can be contacted at writerrahul@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/guest-column-as-goa-battles-covid-storm-nobody-steering-the-ship-to-safety-101620901790681.html
13-05-2021||Other||Kolhapur with highest Covid fatality rate in Maharashtra; experts visit city||The Maharashtra government has sent a team of doctors and experts from the divisional task force to Kolhapur as the district witnessed a sharp rise in the Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR). The spike in CFR, the proportion of people who die from a disease among all diagnosed with it, is the highest in the state.According to Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, for a week now, Kolhapur has been witnessing a surge in the number of daily Covid cases and the average CFR is also above 3.4% against the state’s 1.3%. During the previous wave too, Kolhapur’s CFR touched 4%. “Team of experts from divisional task force, including state advisor for Covid Dr Subhash Salunkhe, Dr Arti Kinikar and Dr Dilip Kadam, visited Kolhapur to assess the reasons why its CFR is on the higher side. The team will submit its report within two days,” said Rao. Also Read | Maharashtra extends Covid-19 lockdown till June 1, mandates negative RT-PCRAs of Wednesday, Kolhapur district reported total 82,763 cases with 2,840 fatalities. From April 28 to May 4 and from May 5 to May 11, the state’s CFR was 1.34% and 1.32% respectively. “Kolhapur’s CFR from the same period was 2.3% and 2.9% respectively. But if we see the average, it is above 3.5%,” said Rao.Rao said there a pattern being witnessed with districts with fewer cases are now reporting higher numbers. “The surge in Pune district stated relatively earlier than any other districts in the division. Pune was followed by Solapur, Satara, and Sangli where cases saw a sharp rise, however, Kolhapur was at the lower side then. We are expecting that is going to follow the same trajectory,” he said.Among the reasons behind the high CFR, Rao said, could be late reporting, and migration of people from other destinations.In the first wave also, in the initial phase, the CFR of the Kolhapur district was on the higher side. “[During the first wave], there were complaints that senior doctors were not visiting patients. The task force was sent to avoid a repeat of that situation,” he said.“The team is also checking if there is any other variants in the region,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kolhapur-with-highest-covid-fatality-rate-in-maharashtra-experts-visit-city-101620896510350.html
13-05-2021||Other||Day after, authorities swing into action, send team to Ludhiana school to conduct probe||A day after it was reported in these columns that RS Model Senior Secondary School in Shastri Nagar was open till 3.30pm for staff despite curfew, the school ordered shut down following intervention of the education department. The decision came after the deputy commissioner sent a team of the education department to the school premises to conduct an inquiry. The school was found open for the third consecutive day on Wednesday. While the school closed at 11am instead of the usual 3.30 pm, authorities later sent a message to their staff stating that the school will remain closed from now onwards. The directions to close the school were issued by DC Varinder Kumar Sharma. “We had sent a team to the school and directed them to shut down as no private school is allowed to remain open. We will take action if they still remain open,” said district education officer (DEO) Lakhvir Singh. It was reported on May 11 that tossing all Covid norms to the wind, the government-aided private school had been calling its entire staff of around 70 teachers to school daily for taking online classes from the school premises despite strict curfew orders. Interestingly, the district education officer is on board on the school’s managing committee. The district administration only permits government school teachers to come to school at 50% strength and that too from 8 am to 11.15 am. The school remained open from Monday till Wednesday despite a number of its teachers isolating themselves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/day-after-authorities-swing-into-action-send-team-to-ludhiana-school-to-conduct-probe-101620852106926.html
13-05-2021||Other||Covid cases breach 71k-mark as 1,215 more test positive in Ludhiana||With the second wave of the coronavirus not letting up, the district clocked 28 more deaths and 1,215 cases on Wednesday. The fresh cases catapulted the total infections reported in Ludhiana over the 71,000-mark. So far, 71,066 cases have been reported in the district, of which 12,278 are active, and 1,638 patients have succumbed to the pandemic. Of the 28 deaths reported, 14 were men and 14 were women. The youngest victim was a 30-year-old resident of Kidwai Nagar while the oldest was a 78-year-old resident of Vishal Nagar. Most fatalities were reported among people in their 50s (13), four victims were in their 30s, five in their 60s and four in their 70s.Three deaths were reported from Shimla Puri, two from Kidwai Nagar and one fatality each from Gurdev Nagar, Aggar Nagar, Model Town, Civil Lines and GLADA Heights Society.Think of families shattered, casual behaviour to blame: DC Concerned over the district’s high death rate, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said, “As many as 168 people have lost their lives in the district in the last seven days, with an average 24 deaths per day. The casual behaviour of a certain section of people is to be blamed for the rapid surge in cases.” “So many families have been devastated but it is not enough to jolt people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and refrain from crowding,” he said, while interacting with the public on his weekly Facebook live session on the official page of DPRO Ludhiana.‘Ludhiana more critical than other districts‘On the difference in relaxation timings for Jalandhar and Ludhiana, he maintained that the situation in Ludhiana was more critical. “Do not compare apples and oranges,” he said. “Ludhiana is the biggest and most populated district of the state and comparing the restrictions imposed here with other districts is unwarranted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-cases-breach-71k-mark-as-1-215-more-test-positive-in-ludhiana-101620851446891.html
13-05-2021||Other||Avian flu: 9,780 more birds culled in Kila Raipur, 50,000 in last four days||As culling operations entered the fourth day at poultry farms in Kila Raipur where an avian flu outbreak has been confirmed, 9,780 birds were culled on Wednesday.
13-05-2021||Other||At least 29 ‘black fungus’ cases in AIIMS, Ganga Ram spark worry||New Delhi: Hospitals are recording a spike in cases of mucormycosis, a potentially deadly fungal infection, as the surge in Covid-19 cases has led many people to be prescribed steroids and immunomodulators, which leave some people vulnerable to other pathogens. Mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, has been seen among those who have uncontrolled diabetes, whose immunity is compromised or those who are given excessive steroids or immune-modulating drugs such as tocilizumab. According to doctors, if left untreated, it may kill 80% of those infected. If not detected early, it affects the orbit of the eye and the mouth, resulting in people losing their vision or jaw during debridement — the process of removing dead tissue from an infection or wound.At least 10 patients suspected to have contracted mucormycosis are currently admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Doctors said the centre used to see only two such cases a month previously. “We have 10 patients admitted in the ENT department who, we suspect, have mucormycosis. Now, we are seeing reports of opportunistic infections like mucormycosis from Gujarat and other areas where it (tocilizumab) was used a lot. Many Covid-19 patients either have underlying diabetes or their blood sugar levels became uncontrollable because of the steroids given for treatment. Some of them (Covid patients) also receive medicines, such as tocilizumab and itolizumab, which furthers the aggressive decline in the immune system. All this leads to a very high chance of opportunistic infections,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director of AIIMS, in a webinar. Dr Alok Thakar, head of the ENT department at AIIMS, said, “We are seeing a surge over the last week or so. The last time we saw a surge in mucormycosis cases was when Covid-19 cases increased but this time, the number of cases is greater. Since last year, we are treating probably three to four patients a month and now, we are treating four patients a day at times. For the last three days, we have been getting four to five patients a day.” “It generally occurs a couple of weeks after the onset of Covid-19 infections. However, it is still rare even among Covid-19 patients ; very few who have recovered will get it,” said Thakar. He said people should maintain basic hygiene after recovering from Covid-19 to ensure that they do not get any infections, stay away from soil, and also get their blood sugar levels tested.Another 19 people with mucormycosis are admitted at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said Dr Ajay Swaroop, head of the ENT department at the hospital. “Before Covid-19, I would have seen as many cases probably in five years. We get one patient with the fungal infection in three to four months; that too because we are a big tertiary-care facility. Now, we are hearing of patients in other city hospitals who have contracted mucormycosis and who want to move in here for treatment.” The sudden increase has also resulted in a shortage of anti-fungal medicines used for treating the infection. “The anti-fungal drugs are not freely available and there is a shortage because the demand has gone up again,” said Dr Guleria. Dr Swaroop said, “Although I don’t know the current situation about the drugs, but it stands to reason that if 35 people need it instead of the usual five, there will be a shortage. The lypholised (freeze-dried) drug that is slightly better and less toxic to other organs was anyway difficult to get.” Black fungus infection numbers went up 2.5 times last year between September and December across 16 centres in the country, said Dr Arunaloke Chakrabarti, head of the department of microbiology at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh. He is part of the Fungal Infection Study Forum and is one of the members who drafted the government advisory on mucormycosis. “It is likely to go up further this time; we are planning to conduct another study,” he said. Chakrabarti added not much is known about whether the immune dysregulation caused by Covid-19 could be causing the secondary fungal infection but there are three known reasons for it. “One, uncontrolled sugar in Covid-19 patients; nearly 7 to 20% of Covid-19 patients who have diabetes may be at risk of contracting the infection (mucormycosis). Two, for those without diabetes, high use of steroids may lead to poor glycemic control after Covid-19, thereby leading to the fungal infection. Three, the ferritin levels go up during a Covid-19 infection. Ferritin is known to contain iron which is a good food for mucormycosis,” said Dr Chakrabarti. The study done by his team found the infection usually happens 18 days after the onset of Covid-19. “So people should look out for pain in left or right side of the face, nasal blockage, nasal discharge, especially black discharge. Loosening of teeth has also been seen this time among Gujarat patients. If a diagnosis is delayed and the infection enters the eye orbit, it causes double vision, blurring, or protrusion of the eye. It can also cause ulcers in the palate of the mouth,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-least-29-black-fungus-cases-in-aiims-ganga-ram-spark-worry-101620849405898.html
13-05-2021||Other||HC says high time to fix MRP of oxygen concentrators, summons all booked for hoarding to attend virtual hearing||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Wednesday told the Centre that it was “high time” to fix maximum retail price (MRP) of oxygen concentrators and other equipment used for the treatment of Covid-19 patients to stem out alleged malpractices such as hoarding and black marketing.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli also issued contempt notice to every person, including businessman Navneet Kalra, named in over 50 FIRs lodged between May 2 to May 8 in cases of alleged hoarding and black marketing, and directed them to appear before the court virtually on May 19. The bench said the notices will be served to the people named in the FIRs through the station house officers (SHOs) of the police stations where the cases are registered.The court directed that the notices will also be sent to individuals whose name were added to the FIR during the course of investigation.“We direct issuance of court notice to all accused in said cases...This should be served to SHO of local police stations concerned where cases are registered… Issue notice to accused name in FIR and those added as accused in course of investigation…,” the court said in its oral order.The discussion on the price of the oxygen concentrators began after advocate Sanjeev Sagar, counsel for one of the petitioners, Manish Chauhan, said public prosecutors and judicial officers were unaware of the May 2 order of the bench. Chauhan, a resident of Delhi, was seeking court’s directions to the government to declare medicines and medical equipment meant for Covid treatment as essential items under the Essential Commodities Act. Sagar told the court that a trial court has said that offences cannot be “made up” against such individuals and the option was to book them for contempt of court if they are selling medicines or equipment at exorbitant rates.The bench was shown media reports which said that the concerned trial court, while hearing the anticipatory bail filed by restaurateur Kalra, in connection with the seizure of oxygen concentrators from his restaurants, said that first a law has to be made to regulate prices, and people cannot be penalised in a hurry because the high court wanted steps to be taken.Amicus curiae and senior advocate Rajshekhar Rao said the trial court cannot be blamed since a price cap has not yet been fixed for a majority of the imported equipment, and the central government has to inform the high court what steps it has taken.Central government standing counsel Amit Mahajan told the court that the issue was under consideration, and sought time to inform the bench as to what decision has been taken. He assured that a decision will be taken soon.The court asked Sagar to prepare a note on fixing prices, for informing public prosecutors and judicial officers in the subordinate courts, and said it will be circulated by the Delhi government.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who, along with several hospitals, sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the city.The notices to those named in the FIR were issued in accordance with a May 2 order of the bench in which it warned of contempt action against all those indulging in hoarding of medical equipment or medicines, or selling them at prices above MRP. It said that the issue of fixing the price for the oxygen concentrators and other equipment has been pending with the Centre since June 2020, but no concrete decision has been taken so far. “It is high time that MRP for oxygen concentrators and all other equipment for the treatment of Covid is fixed so malpractices are immediately stemmed,” the bench said.The matter will be now heard on May 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hcsays-high-time-to-fix-mrp-of-oxygen-concentrators-summons-all-booked-for-hoarding-to-attend-virtual-hearing-101620849345921.html
13-05-2021||Other||Cameroonian resident held for duping 40 people of ₹9 lakh||New Delhi: In a first known case of alleged involvement of foreigners in a Covid-related scam in Delhi, a woman from Cameroon, along with her boyfriend, duped more than 40 Covid-19 patients and their family members of nearly ₹9 lakh on the pretext of offering remdesivir injections, said police on Wednesday.Remdesivir is a key anti-viral drug used in the treatment of Covid-19 and is currently in high demand in the national capital due to the unprecedented surge in infections. While the woman, Ashwingwo Ashelly Azenmbuh , has been arrested from a rented flat in south Delhi’s Devli Khanpur, her boyfriend, Elumara Christian alias Emeka from Nigeria, is on the run. A total of 12 bank accounts that the couple had been operating in Delhi and other states were identified and blocked, said police. Deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said the couple had uploaded details of a fake company “Global Suppliers”, along with a cellphone number, on social media. They introduced themselves as supplier of remdesivir injections. The Covid patients or their relatives who contacted them were asked to deposit an advance in bank accounts for the delivery of the injections, said Singh.“The suspects withdrew the money within minutes of the patients and their family members depositing the money in their bank accounts and thereafter, avoided receiving their calls. They even blocked the callers who paid the advance. The couple has cheated about 40 people across India on the pretext of providing remdesivir injections,” said the DCP adding that so far, they have identified 23 victims who were (collectively) cheated of nearly ₹7.5 lakh. Police said that on May 5, one Rakhi Gupta from Rohini filed a complaint alleging that she was duped of ₹25,000 that she paid to obtain five vials of remdesivir injection needed for her Covid-positive relative. Gupta said since the injections were not available with chemist and pharmacy shops, she started looking for possible leads on social media from where she got the number of a supplier, said police. “Gupta contacted the person, who asked her to provide with the prescription slip of the patient and demanded ₹5,000 for each injection. The person tricked her into depositing ₹25,000 in a bank account. Thereafter, the person neither delivered the injections nor refunded the money. A case of cheating was registered on Gupta’s complaint,” said Singh.Through technical surveillance and intelligence gathering, the police traced the suspects to a flat in Devli Khanpur in south Delhi. It was learnt that a couple from African origin lived in the flat. A police team went to the area after receiving information that the suspected woman was in the house on the night of May 8. The team members waited the entire night for the male suspect but he did not turn up.“On the morning of May 9, the team raided the flat and arrested the woman. Our teams are taking efforts to nab her boyfriend who is on the run,” said Singh. The police said that 10 SIM cards, five cellphones and two wi-fi hotspot devices that were being used for the crimes were seized from the flat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cameroonian-resident-held-for-duping-40-people-of-9-lakh-101620849166480.html
13-05-2021||Other||NGO joins forces with CMCH to set up 50-bed Covid facility||Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) and Police Public Foundation (PPF), an NGO, have teamed up to set up 50-bed Covid facility for needy patients in the city.With the help of PPF, comprising police officials and prominent industrialists, a defunct building at CMCH will be converted into a level-2 centre for infected persons.In this regard, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between CMCH director Dr William Bhatti and PPF office-bearers on Wednesday. According to Mridula Jain, a senior member of PPF, to begin with, the industry will contribute ₹65 to establish the facility.“Our objective was to start the facility in a medical institute and CMCH agreed to our proposal. Proximity to tertiary care at the hospital will help in timely shifting of patients from the proposed level-II centre if their condition deteriorates,” said Jain.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the centre will be equipped with state-of-the-art facilities.Neeraj Satija, senior vice-president of PPF, said they would ensure that the all required infrastructure is provided to the centre to ensure smooth operations. PPF also plans to earmark 10 beds for poor patients.The facility is likely to be operationalised in 10 days. Also, PPF is in talks with various companies to set up an oxygen generation plant here.Another helping hand Radha Soami Satsang Beas has also come forward and offered its premises located on Chandigarh Road near Fortis Hospital for setting up a 120-bed Covid facility. Sharing details, Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar thanked Satsang Bhawan zonal secretary for offering the space. He said all necessary facilities, including beds quilts, soaps, portable water, food, cooler and others items will be provided to the patients inside the premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ngo-joins-forces-with-cmch-to-set-up-50-bed-covid-facility-101620847966699.html
13-05-2021||Other||PGIMER’s herbal antiseptic working wonders on animal wounds too||After showing promising results among humans, ‘Sepil’, a new herbal antiseptic is effectively treating animal wounds as well, as per authorities of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) here.Sepil has been developed by Prof Vikas Gautam, department of medical microbiology, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, after extensive research spanning over a decade. The innovative drug has been granted patent and licence.“The antiseptic was able to heal even bad wounds of dogs after application,” says Dr Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor, GADVASU.He revealed that owing to the initial success of Sepil in chronic non-healing human wounds, we started using it on animals at the veterinary hospital here.Clinicians noticed up to 80% healing of wounds within six days among dogs.The V-C said one could barely recognise that there ever was a wound at the site after the application of Sepil along with the initial use of systemic antibiotics for five days.“The filling of the void created by the bite, no scarring and the normal hair appearance in the follow up were clearly visible. With this herbal formulation, debridement surgeries can be avoided. Moreover, pet owners can skip physical visits to the vet amid the Covid pandemic. They can apply Sepil at home and need not come to the hospital for dressing, debridement etc,” said the V-C.“The results have been encouraging with quick healing and good rejuvenation of around 5X2 cm deep wounds,” said Dr Navdeep Singh, head of veterinary surgery department at GADVASU.He stated that testing was going on in more animals and soon concrete data would be compiled.Sepil is likely to be the much-awaited solution for non-healing wounds, said Prof Vikas Gautam, the inventor of this formulation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pgimers-herbal-antiseptic-working-wonders-on-animal-wounds-too-101620847607269.html
13-05-2021||Other||Don’t search for helpline numbers on Google, cautions Ludhiana cyber cell||Creating awareness among residents regarding online fraud, the cyber cell of Ludhiana police has cautioned internet users against searching customer care numbers of banks and other financial institutions on Google or other search engines.Sub-inspector Jatinder Singh, in-charge cyber cell-2, said that there have been a slew of such incidents where fraudsters used a fake phone number listed on Google to scam people. Complainants claimed that they lost money after making calls on such numbers.He said that fraudsters have made fake websites and displayed contact numbers on them. When someone searches for a customer care or helpline number, the search engine throws up these numbers in the search results too. Upon calling these numbers, the scammers posing as customer care executives, seek personal details of the callers and steal money from their bank accounts.The SI appealed to the residents to never share their bank details with anyone. In the event of being duped, they should immediately contact the cyber cell and lodge a complaint, he said.He also advised people to visit only the authorised websites of companies or banks concerned to get the customer care numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dont-search-for-helpline-numbers-on-google-cautions-ludhiana-cyber-cell-101620847606220.html
13-05-2021||Other||Minister Ashu reviews arrangements at Jawaddi Covid centre in Ludhiana||Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu on Wednesday visited the newly set up 50-bed Covid care centre at Jawaddi community health centre to take stock of the arrangements.The staff at the centre apprised the minister and MP of the facilities being provided to Covid patients. They also interacted with doctors, nursing staff and others and lauded them for their selfless service to humanity in this hour of crisis.They said the district administration and officials were working tirelessly to augment health infrastructure to deal with the spike in virus cases. They added that 50 beds with oxygen support have been set up at this level-II Covid treatment centre.Appealing to the people not to be complacent about Covid guidelines, the cabinet minister said, “We must strictly adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour as the first line of defence against the infectious disease.”Ashu said there is no dearth of oxygen, Remdesivir and other vital drugs and would not tolerate hoarding.Stating that there was no need to panic, MP Bittu said the Punjab government was better prepared to deal with the pandemic and pulling out all stops to tackle the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minister-ashu-reviews-arrangements-at-jawaddi-covid-centre-in-ludhiana-101620847547307.html
13-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana admn salutes nurses for exemplary service amid Covid pandemic||On International Nurses Day, the district administration expressed gratitude towards the frontline health staff who have been working round the clock, putting their lives at risk and taking care of millions of patients suffering from Covid-19.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and doctors from top medical institutions of Ludhiana on Wednesday saluted their indomitable and undying spirit in the war against the contagion on the occasion.In a video message to all nurses working at the forefront, the DC said that they have risked their lives to save others from the scourge of this infectious disease by putting extraordinary efforts.At Ludhiana civil hospital, Dr Hitinder Kaur, nodal officer of Covid unit, and senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Amarjit Kaur appreciated the efforts of the nursing staff, especially those on Covid duty. “They are putting their lives at risk to serve humanity. Many of them don’t even get to see their families for days. The staff at mother and child hospital and those working in the emergency department are doing a commendable job,” said the nodal officer.Secretary of Dayanand Medical College and Hospital managing society, Prem Kumar Gupta acknowledged the whole-hearted cooperation and dedication of the nursing staff in treating patients amid the second wave crisis.At Hero DMC Heart Institute, a felicitation programme was held to mark the occasion. Vice-principal and chief cardiologist Dr GS Wander along with medical superintendent Dr Bishav Mohan and other faculty members said nurses have critical roles and responsibilities and will continue to be on the frontline of patient care.Prof Pennamma Ranadive, principal of College of Nursing, Christian Medical College and Hospital, said that the nurses are at the centre of our health system and this pandemic has shown that they are playing an important role in keeping people healthy.Every year, International Nurses Day, which commemorates the birthday of Florence Nightingale, the first “professional nurse” is observed on May 12. The theme of this year is “Nurses: A voice to lead - A vision for future healthcare”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-admn-salutes-nurses-for-exemplary-service-amid-covid-pandemic-101620847486720.html
13-05-2021||Other||AFMEC starts 350-bedded Covid hospital in Agra||The Agra Footwear Manufacturers and Exporters Council (AFMEC) led by president Pooran Dawar extended their support to health authorities and started operating a 350-bedded Covid hospital within 15 days in the outskirts of the Agra district. The district magistrate of Agra, Prabhu N Singh extended full support to the hospital which started functioning on Wednesday. “The 350-bedded hospital is the outcome of the cooperation extended by various government departments and encouragement by the district magistrate Prabhu N Singh. The municipal commissioner Nikhil Tikaram Funde, managing director of DVVNL Sudhir Kumar Verma, chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey extended full support making the idea of the Covid hospital a reality,” stated Puran Dawar, the president of Agra Footwear Manufacturers and Exporters Council (AFMEC). “It took 15 days to make the hospital operational at the trade centre of AFMEC at Seengna on Agra Mathura road about 20 kilometres from Agra city,” said Dawar. “This hospital would serve as the ideal model of public private partnership (PPP) and district administration will provide one and half dozen doctors to serve the patients admitted here,” informed district magistrate Prabhu N Singh. “Additional chief medical officer (ACMO) and deputy CMO would be responsible and Dr Jitendra Lavania from the health department has been named as nodal officer. The hospital would work as L-1 and L Plus category hospital. In near future, the facilities would be upgraded to the L-2 category for serious problems,” informed Dawar. “Sixty beds of the hospital will have oxygen line connection, oxygen concentrator at 200 beds and 15 beds in the ICU. The hospital would be connected to Covid Command Center and the helpline number of the hospital would be 9557597705,” he said. “A proper diet chart has been prepared including breakfast, lunch and dinner beside fruits, juices, tea/coffee etc. Yoga and meditation for one hour have been included for the total well being of patients and spiritual music would be played at the hospital,” said Dawar. “The need of hospital was felt given the sharp surge in Covid cases and we as an organisation at AFMEC believed that all cannot be left on government in such times of pandemic and various social and industrial organisations will have to join hands with the government, administration and doctors to serve those in need and as such we hope that this Covid hospital will serve the purpose,” stated Pooran Dawar at a press conference held at the hospital. The office-bearers of AFMEC including Rubi Sehgal, Captain AS Rana members Vijay Nijhawan, Chandra Mohan Sachdeva, Aniruddh Tiwari besides others were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/afmec-starts-350-bedded-covid-hospital-in-agra-101620847005535.html
13-05-2021||Other||82-yr-old patient goes missing from Covid centre, dies in another centre||An 82-year-old patient undergoing treatment at a Covid care centre, in Varun Industrial Estate has reportedly gone missing. On Wednesday, three weeks after the incident, a relative approached the police and filed a missing complaint with the Waliv police, only to find out he had died in another centre.Ramchandra Das stays alone in Vasai. Das along with his distant relative was admitted to a Covid hospital on April 22. On May 5, his relatives were informed about his discharge. However, after his relatives reached the centre to take him back home, he was found missing.“Das’s condition worsened on April 25 so the medical staff shifted him to the Tulinj Civic hospital, but he died on April 26,” said confirmed Satish Lokhande,Commissioner,VVMC. “As the body was unclaimed and the deceased was Covid-19 positive, we cremated him at the civic crematorium and the staff took photos of the dead body of Das. As soon as I got the information,I ordered the hospital to check the CCTV footage and we found Das being moved to the Tulinj civic hospital.”According to sources, while shifting from Varun centre no transfer papers were made, which left the relatives confused. “I have ordered Kishore Gawas,Deputy Commissioner to conduct a detailed enquiry and take punitive action against those found guilty,” said Lokhande.Gorachand Mukherjee, a relative who admitted Das, said, “I questioned the medical staff and searched the hospital, where around 600 patients undergoing treatment for the virus but did not find my uncle.”“On May 11, I complained to the commissioner of Vasai civic body and am still awaiting a reply. It is shocking how a senior citizen can go missing from the centre. The hospital even did not bother me to revert or update me about my uncle’s treatment. I have demanded to hand over the CCTV footages,” Mukherjee said.Kishore Gawas, deputy commissioner, Vasai civic body said, “This is a serious matter. I will take action against the staff for negligence and will also question the doctors attending to the missing patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/82yrold-patient-goes-missing-from-covid-centre-dies-in-another-centre-101620846945555.html
13-05-2021||Other||UP govt says it’s in touch with suppliers for quick delivery of vaccines||LUCKNOW The Uttar Pradesh overnment has opened communication channels with prospective suppliers to ensure quick delivery of Covid-19 vaccines to boost the inoculation drive for the 18-44 years’ age group as well as those above 45 years, the health authorities said.The move comes about a week after the state government floated a global e-tender on May 5 to procure 40 million (four crore) doses of the Covid vaccine.Health and family welfare minister Jai Pratap Singh said the state was going to have a pre-bid qualification meeting with any prospective supplier.“After that, the bids are scheduled for May 21. The companies (those who are interested) would mention the delivery schedule then,” he said. While the state government was running the vaccination drive, supplies were an issue.“We are getting supplies from two Indian companies so far for all age groups. But we foresaw that they will not be able to supply all that is needed. The state could not do statewide vaccination for the 18+ age group. It is going on in 18 districts. That’s why the state decided to go for global tender for 40 million doses,” he added.A health department officer said, “We are in touch with international vaccine manufacturing companies. The companies will have to supply the vaccines to the warehouses set up by the department on schedule. The manufacturers should also have cold chain transportation facility.” The state government had already placed orders for the supply of one crore Covid vaccine doses —50 lakh doses from Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited that manufactures Covaxin and 50 lakh doses from the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) that makes Covishield.Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said the state government had received 3.50 lakh doses of Covishield from SII and three lakh doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech till Sunday. The Uttar Pradesh government has made advance payment to both the Covid vaccine manufacturers. The state will get the required vaccine doses from both the companies soon, he said.Vaccine wastage down The health and family welfare department was working to check the wastage of vaccines, he said, adding that earlier the wastage was 20% in the initial stages. The state government then reviewed and monitored the working of vaccinators and gave fresh training to them to cut the wastage, he added.“Now the vaccine wastage has been brought down to less than 2% for Covishield and less than 3% for Covaxin. Efforts are being made to reduce the wastage further,” he said.Prasad said, till May 11 the state government had given 1,11, 63,988 first doses to people above 45 years and 29,35,660 second doses as well to people in this age group (45+).A total 1,40,99,648 vaccine dose had been given to the people above 45 years. The vaccination for the people between 18 and 44 years was launched on May 1. Till May 11, 2,16,897 beneficiaries between 18 and 44 years received the Covid vaccine jabs, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-says-it-s-in-touch-with-suppliers-for-quick-delivery-of-vaccines-101620846106063.html
13-05-2021||Other||UP govt asks all DMs to ensure oxygen supply to home isolation patients in need||The state government on Wednesday issued an order for oxygen supply to Covid-19 positive patients staying in home isolation and needing the medical gas.Principal secretary (Food Safety and Drug Administration) Anita Singh sent a letter to all the divisional commissioners and district magistrates, directing them to ensure oxygen supply to the people whose sample test report is positive or are presumptive Covid patients. A patient whose sample test report is not positive, but the blood sample, X-ray and CT scan report show Covid infection, will also get oxygen supply in home isolation, she said.Covid positive people will have to submit a signed prescription of a medical practitioner emphasising that the patient needs oxygen during home isolation. The district administration officials will ensure that oxygen cylinder was made available to the needy patient, she said.The DMs will also ensure that oxygen cylinder was not given to patients who are admitted in a Covid hospital. To streamline the supply of oxygen cylinder to patients, the district administration will fix more than one supply spot in each district. The officers will obtain a copy of the Aadhaar card of the patient, the family member who collects the oxygen cylinder and the mobile phone number. Each oxygen cylinder given for home isolation will have a mark.On May 10, there was a requirement of 56 MT (metric tonnes) oxygen for patients in home isolation in the state, according to a report submitted by the DMs of all the 75 districts of UP.“If there is an increase or fall in the demand, the DMs will inform the control room established in the state home department for the online monitoring of oxygen supply across the state,” Singh said.In a press statement, the state home department said in the last 24 hours, 1014.53 MT metric tonnes) oxygen was supplied to hospitals and oxygen refill centres across the state.Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi monitored the supply of oxygen from the control room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-asks-all-dms-to-ensure-oxygen-supply-to-home-isolation-patients-in-need-101620845445955.html
13-05-2021||Other||Civil Hospital in Lucknow gets post-Covid ward, telemedicine facility||LUCKNOW: The Civil hospital has started a post Covid ward and telemedicine services for patients. The post Covid ward is of 14 beds in the ICU, including isolation, while telemedicine service is available for five departments. “Several patients after defeating Covid suffer health issues hence they need post-Covid treatment. We have started a dedicated post-Covid ward for such patients and a telemedicine service which they can avail while remaining at the homes and consult the experts,” said Dr Sc Sundriyal, director of the Covil hospital. Cardiologist Dr Babu Ram Jaiswal is the nodal incharge of the post-Covid ward. “The post-Covid ward will facilitate 24-hours service to patients,” Dr Jaiswal said. A helpline number 9412667503 has also been started. Also, the telemedicine service has been started that runs between 9 am and 3 pm. Helpline number 7307579964 for medicine and psychiatry, 7307585529 surgery and orthopaedic, 7307578336 for skin and ENT, 7307576508 paediatric and chest physician, 7307578297 for gynaecology and dentistry and 0522 4027513 for post-Covid services. The hospitals is also running fever clinic and follow up OPD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civil-hospital-in-lucknow-gets-post-covid-ward-telemedicine-facility-101620845265364.html
13-05-2021||Other||SRN Hospital in Prayagraj gets much-needed 80 oxygen ventilators||allahabad.htdesk@hindustantimes.com : On behalf of the Government of Uttar Pradesh, a total of 80 oxygen ventilators procured under Prime Minister’s Relief Fund were handover to Swaroop Rani Nehru (SRN) hospital of Sangam city by the deputy chief minister, Keshav Prasad Maurya, on Wednesday. With these additional machines, the hospital would now have a total of 230 ventilators. The machines were handed over to the principal of MLN Medical College (SRNH being its associated hospital), Dr SP Singh in a simple event organised at the hospital, on Wednesday. Few days back, the state government had provided 100 monitors to be installed at ICU beds of the hospital. Speaking on the occasion, the deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said that the state government was continuously making all possible efforts for the benefit of the general public in the ongoing war against the infection of Corona. The health workers were being equipped with the state-of-the-art medical equipment which would surely be a game changer and if we were confronted with the third wave of the pandemic, we would be able to beat it, he claimed. He also said that new measures would also be taken at the earliest for the expansion of Swaroop Rani Hospital campus. In addition to this, construction of another alternative route for coming to the hospital and an oxygen generating plant for the hospital were also in the pipeline. Moreover, efforts were on to relocate the postmortem house to the new place, he said. On this occasion, the principal of MLN Medical College, Dr SP Singh said that the state-of-the-art equipment being provided by the government not only encourages all the staff and doctors of the hospital but also enhances their ability to fight all kinds of medical ailments. “This assistance of the state government further increases the capacity of the hospital”, said Dr Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/srn-hospital-in-prayagraj-gets-much-needed-80-oxygen-ventilators-101620845085350.html
