14-05-2021||Other||Maharashtra CM’s ‘courtesy visit’ to Bombay HC chief justice raises eyebrows||In a rare move, Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray drove to the Bombay high court (HC) to meet chief justice Dipankar Datta on Friday. The meeting has raised several eyebrows, but officials from the chief minister’s office (CMO) said that it was a “courtesy visit”. When the CM reached the HC premises in the afternoon, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief Iqbal Singh Chahal was present at the court premises. The meeting between the CM and justice Datta is said to have lasted for 20 minutes. Incidentally, the visit came after the HC had pulled up the state government over its Covid-19 management in rural parts. Thackeray was due to meet Datta over the vaccination drive for lawyers and court staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-cm-s-courtesy-visit-to-bombay-hc-chief-justice-raises-eyebrows-101621015979888.html
14-05-2021||Other||Covid patient’s kin seek action against Bhiwani hospital ICU in-charge||The husband of a Covid patient, who is undergoing treatment at Bhiwani’s Chaudhary Bansilal Government Hospital, alleged that intensive care unit (ICU) in-charge Dr Raghubir shifted his wife from ICU bed to wheelchair for an hour on Thursday to shift one of his relatives even as his wife’s saturation was around 60.The incident took place at around 3.15pm, he added.Complainant who is a resident of a Hisar village said that his wife is undergoing treatment at the Bhiwani hospital since May 9 after she tested positive.“She was on oxygen support and when her situation deteriorated, she was shifted to an ICU bed. On May 13, the ICU in-charge shifted her to a wheelchair to admit his relative. My wife fell unconscious for an hour and we raised an alarm,” he said.“Then the doctors shifted her to another ICU bed but they did not even change the bedsheet. I had tweet about this by tagging the PMO, Haryana health minister Anil Vij, state agriculture minister JP Dalal and the CMO but no action has been taken against the doctor so far,” he added.Bhiwani civil surgeon Dr Sapna Gehlot said the matter has come to her notice. “We have started probe into the matter and strict action will be taken against the doctor if found guilty,” she added.Dr Raghubir could not be reached for a comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-patient-s-kin-seek-action-against-bhiwani-hospital-icu-incharge-101621011842207.html
14-05-2021||Other||Farm leaders slam Khattar for blaming their agitation for spread of Covid||Farm leaders have condemned Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar for his statement that farmers’ protest turned a few villages into Covid-19 hotspots in state.In a video message, BKU Haryana president Gurnam Singh Charuni slammed Khattar for blaming farmers’ agitation for spread of Covid and said that the virus is killing people due to “mismanagement and poor facilities provided by the government”.“Earlier also, the government had taken steps to end the agitation but failed. Now they are blaming farmers’ agitation to hide their own failure to contain the virus,” he added.“This is propaganda of the BJP government to suppress the agitation but the stir will continue till the government accepts their demands to withdraw the Centre’s three farm laws which allow private players in procurement of agriculture produce,” he said.Charuni blamed people from NCR districts who work in Delhi, Gurugram and Faridabad and travel home regularly for the virus spread in villages.“Farmers cannot be blamed for spread of Covid as not even a single farmer was found infected so far at Delhi borders,” he added.Charuni, who is member of Sanyukta Kisan Morcha which has been leading the agitation at Delhi borders since November last year, has urged farmers to continue their support to the protest.Ratan Mann, Haryana president of BKU (Tikait), said spread of the virus is due to failure of the government which has failed to provide even basic health and medical facilities to people.“The protesting farmers are following all Covid norms. The CM’s allegations are false and will not help government to end our agitation,” he added.Meanwhile, Yamunanagar farmers affiliated to BKU (Charuni) and other farm unions burnt effigies of Khattar and state education minister Kanwar Pal at Milk Majra toll plaza on Jagadhari road.They said the government wants to hide its mismanagement in tackling the Covid situation by blaming farmers.BKU district president Sanju Gudiyana said the ruling party leaders organised public rallies in poll-bound states when there was spike in cases but are now blaming farmers for spread of Covid.“They can’t even provide medical oxygen and medicines to patients and want us to be held accountable for the crisis,” the leader said.FARMERS REFUSING TO GET TESTED: VIJState health minister Anil Vij said that due rise in cases in rural areas, the department has made arrangements to screen every villager.He said villagers are cooperating with the teams, but not the farmers.“Farmers are not getting themselves tested. We have sent many health teams to the protest sites and a meeting took place between farm leaders and officials, but the farmers refused to get tested,” Vij said.He added that at a vaccination camp, just 1,900 farmers got the jab in the last 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farm-leaders-slam-khattar-for-blaming-their-agitation-for-spread-of-covid-101621011600796.html
14-05-2021||Other||Tomato-growers blame Covid restrictions for wholesale price drop||Tomato farmers in vegetable belts of northern districts of Haryana face losses as the wholesale prices have declined to around ₹2 per kg.The harvesting of this widely-grown vegetable has just begun in the region and farmers said they are not even able to bear the harvesting and transportation cost.“I sold 20 crates (25kg per crate) at ₹80 per crate to a local dealer who then sold it at around ₹120 per crate,” said farmer Nasib Singh, of Ladwa, who has grown tomatoes on four acre.Another farmer Som Prakash of Indri in Karnal said, “Bulk prices are around ₹2-3 per kg and at this cost we will not be able to earn even the production cost which is around ₹30,000 per acre.”The government had announced that farmers can sell their produce even during lockdown but traders and farmers blame Covid-19 restrictions and the lockdown behind fall in prices.“Delhi is the biggest market for vegetables, especially tomato, and now transporters are hesitating to travel to Delhi due to rise in Covid cases,” said vegetable trader Ravinder Kumar.He said even the transporters have increased the transportation charges and most farmers are unable to take their produce to Delhi.According to farmers, last year also the prices of tomatoes had remained around ₹5 per kg during the lockdown as traders from Delhi, who open purchase centres in Haryana for direct purchase from farmers, are not coming in.As per figures of the state horticulture department, the state has around 32,000 hectare under tomato crop this year and the production is likely to remain at around 6.50 lakh tonnes.HARYANA AIMS TO SET UP OVER 1,000 FPOS
14-05-2021||Other||Secy among 36 persons at health min’s office booked for ‘forcibly’ getting Covid vaccine||An FIR has been lodged against Jamshedpur office in-charge of health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta on charges of forcing vaccination team to administer Covid-19 vaccine to 35 persons below the age of 45 years on May 11, three days before the vaccination drive for 18-44 years age group started in the state from Friday, officials said.“An FIR has been lodged against Sanjay Tiwari and 35 other named accused for forcing a vaccination team to give them Covid-19 vaccine doses at Kadma New Farm Area communiy hall on May 11, despite all of them allegedly being below the age of 45 years, thus violating the state government as well as central government’s guideline and rules,” Manoj Thakur, Kadma police station officer in-charge (OC), said on Friday.The OC said the FIR was filed late Thursday evening on the basis of a complaint lodged by incident commander cum executive magistrate Chandradeo Prasad on Tuesday. “The FIR was also filed for threatening the executive magistrate and three members of vaccination team, under Sections 188, 504 and 506 of IPC, 51 Act and 60, 61 of Epidemic Act,” said Thakur.The matter was also reported to civil surgeon Dr AK Lal, district vaccination nodal officer Dr BN Usha and SDO Nitish Kumar and the complaint was filed as per their direction. “I filed the FIRs after finding allegations made in a written complaint by three female members of the vaccination team to be true. Sanjay Tiwari was told that vaccination was for people above 45 years of age at the centre, but he and 35 others forced the staff to administer them the vaccine,” said Prasad. In their complaint, the three female members of the vaccination team also requested district authorities to shift them from the said vaccination centre in view of their safety and security.As per the complaint, Sanjay Tiwari, health minister Banna Gupta’s personal secretary and office in-charge in Kadma, forced the vaccination team to give doses to 35 persons below the age of 45 years by signing and stamping in columns meant for authorised officers. Prasad filed another complaint late Thursday evening against Tiwari and 25-30 others, accusing them of manhandling, misbehaving, abusing and threatening him. “Tiwari and 25-30 other persons intimidated me again at Kadma New Farm Area vaccination centre Thursday when I reached there around 12.15 pm,” he said.When contacted, Tiwari, however, dismissed the allegations against him by terming them to be concocted and baseless. “I didn’t administer the vaccine to anyone. Who am I (to do that)? Moreover, none from 18-44 years age group can be given vaccine without slot booking,” said Tiwari, conveniently overlooking the fact that no such restriction is there for people above 45 years of age. He also denied intimidating the executive magistrate and said it was some “irate” people who created a ruckus over computer operators reaching late at the centre. “In fact, the operators came at 1.30 pm while people were waiting in the queue since 10am,” said Tiwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/secy-among-36-persons-at-health-min-s-office-booked-for-forcibly-getting-covid-vaccine-101621008239460.html
14-05-2021||Other||10 persons issued vaccination certificate without getting the jab in Jamshedpur||The third round of Covid-19 vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44 years hit a hitch at the outset after at least 10 persons were issued vaccination certificates without being administered the dose in Jamshedpur on Friday, as vials “broke”, officials said.“At least 10 persons were not given Covaxin dose at the vaccination centre at Tata Workers’ Union School in Kadma because vials broke after falling on the ground. They will be given the jab in the first session of 9am-11am on Saturday,” Abhishek Kumar, district vaccine manager, said. However, the 10 persons, who were duly registered on Co-Win app, were issued the vaccination certificate.Following the incident, a fresh batch of Covaxin vials were sent to the centre, but the computer operator and nurses allegedly left by 4.32pm, hours before the session ending time of 6pm, said district vaccination nodal officer Dr BN Usha and incident commander at the centre Chandradeo Prasad. However, the computer operator Anay denied the allegation. “We were told to come at 9am Saturday after the vials broke. We still waited for over an hour as we were told another batch of vials were on way. But, the nurses left around 4.30pm after a computer operator called them repeatedly,” one of the 10 registered vaccine beneficiaries Gautam Dubey said.Earlier in the day, the third phase of the vaccination drive in the city started with first dose to one Rekha Singh and Trishit Mazumder at the vaccination center at St Roberts School in Parsudih. The city administration targeted to vaccinate 3,500 persons on the first day at 13 centres. Meanwhile, BJP leders Dinesh Kumar, Anil Modi and Devendra Singh demanded to increase the number of centres in the city, given its population of over 10 lakh. “There’s not a single centre in Jamshedpur (East) assembly segment, while there are two in the health minister’s assembly segment Jamshedpur (West) alone,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10-persons-issued-vaccination-certificate-without-getting-the-jab-in-jamshedpur-101621008240131.html
14-05-2021||Other||Villagers allege problems in cremation as police hike vigil on Bihar-UP border||Buxar/Bhabua The recovery of 82 bodies from river Ganga from near Chausa since Monday and the subsequent blame game between officials of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh has compounded problems for residents of border villages, who say the UP police were not allowing them to cremate bodies at ghats they have used in the past. People from villages in Kaimur district of Bihar often use nearby Jamania Ghat in Ghazipur district of UP for cremation of bodies.On Wednesday and Thursday, some of the villagers going to Jamania from Baraura village of Kaimur district for cremation were stopped by the UP police. “They pleaded that they had got instructions not to allow bodies to enter UP for cremation,” said a family member of Hari Kishore Singh who was accompanying his body for funeral. The family had planned cremation at Jamania. Four such families were denied entry, he said.Jamania subdivisional magistrate (SDM) Ghanshyam dismissed the charge. “There is no ban on cremation. Only, people are being asked not to dispose bodies in Ganga as it will pollute the river. Some mischievous elements are trying to portray a different picture and create unnecessary tension between the two states,” he said. The tension between two states mounted after Buxar district administration put a big net to prevent bodies from flowing downstream Ganga from UP into Bihar. Boat patrols even entered UP areas reportedly to see if any body is being dumped in Ganga in night.The Buxar administration has formed a team to keep an account of bodies and from where they are coming. “The bodies are coming from the direction of flow of the river,” said the SDO (Sadar) K K Upadhyay. Three bodies recovered in BhojpurAlthough no body were found in Ganga near Buxar on Friday, three bodies were recovered further downstream near Sinha Ghat in Bhojpur district.“Two bodies have been recovered in a decomposed state,” said Barhara block development officer (BDO) Jaivardhan Gupta. Buxar district magistrate Aman Samir said on Friday that 80% of the bodies fished out at Chausa were covered with shrouds used during cremation. “No body was found wrapped in hospital or PPE kits,” he said. Samir said there are only 30 Covid positive cases in Chausa area while Buxar district has 1,033 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/villagers-allege-problems-in-cremation-as-police-hike-vigil-on-bihar-up-border-101621008119535.html
14-05-2021||Other||Shortage of 45+ vaccines forces Bihar to cut vaccination sites||PATNABihar would be forced to reduce its Covid-19 vaccination session sites as it has only a few vaccines remaining to inoculate its 2.12 crore population of 45 years and above. The state was left with 3,28,530 doses of vaccines for the 45+ population, as per government figures till May 13. After Friday’s consumption, the vaccines were not even enough to last a day if the state were to achieve its average daily vaccination target of 2.50 lakh. The state was left with 1,57,880 doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and 1,70,650 doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India for the 45+ age group, as on May 13. Given the fact that the consumption rate of Covaxin was slow, the state was hard pressed to manage future vaccination for this age group, said officials. The state had received an allotment of over 10 lakh doses of vaccines for the May 1-14 fortnight. It was, however, yet to hear from the Centre about the allotment of vaccines for the fortnight beginning May 15. “We are managing with whatever quantity of vaccines is available with us. We are firefighting on a daily basis. Depending on the availability of vaccines, we may have to decrease the number of session sites,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director, State Health Society, Bihar. Given the vaccine shortage, the state had already decreased the number of vaccination session sites from 3,000 on May 12 to 1,950 on Friday. “We may have to reduce the vaccination session sites further tomorrow as some districts don’t have the vaccines,” said another officer associated with the vaccination programme of the health department. The health department had slowed down its pace of vaccination and shut down many centres after May 12. Bihar had so far received 7,14,960 doses of Covaxin and 80,62,430 doses of Covishield free of cost from the Centre for the 45+ population. It had consumed 5,57,080 doses of Covaxin and 78,91,780 doses of Covishield. The vaccine wastage was 3.7% in case of Covaxin and 1.4% in case of Covishield, said officials. In contrast, the state had more number of vaccines to inoculate the 18-44 years age group, having 5.39 crore population in the state. It had 5,51,140 doses of the two vaccines, of which Covaxin accounted for 56,120 doses and Covishield 4,95,020 doses. It was only on May 12 that the state had received 5 lakh doses of Covishield from Pune. “The state has made available funds for direct procurement of vaccines from the manufacturers for the 18-44 years population,” said Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s additional secretary, health. Covid-19 cases go down Bihar reported 7,494 new cases of coronavirus, the lowest single-day cases this month, and 77 deaths on Thursday. The cases have been on a decline over the last three days. Patna reported 967 cases and six deaths during the day, the lowest this month, after recording a high of 3,665 cases on May 6 and 30 deaths on May 2. Purnia contributed 441 cases, Katihar 389, Gopalganj 387, Gaya 350, Muzaffarpur 291, Begusarai 273 and Supaul 268 among others. Bihar’s case recovery rate also went up to 85.38%, the highest this month, after 14,131 people were discharged from different health facilities across the state. Drugs for black fungus not available Liposomal Amphotericin B injection, a specific drug for treatment of cases of mucormycosis or black fungus, was not available in Bihar, claimed the Ruban Hospital, where two cases of the fungal infection were reported on Wednesday. “We have written to the state drug controller to make available the drug for us so that it can be administered to our patients. We did not find the drug anywhere in the state,” said Dr Satyajit Singh, managing director of the Ruban Memorial Hospital in Patna’s Patliputra Colony. Ruban, an NABH-accredited hospital, has been treating cases of coronavirus, and has reported two cases of black fungus as secondary infection developed during the treatment of Covid-19. “A private doctor residing at Rajendra Nagar locality of Patna and suffering from mucormycosis is serious and in intensive care unit. He contracted the fungus as secondary infection during treatment of coronavirus. He was operated upon yesterday for removal of fungus, but is showing signs of multi-organ failure,” said Dr Singh. “Another woman in her mid-40s, with the fungal infection is recovering well,” he added. The number of cases of mucormycosis or black fungus, reported from the state, had gone up to 12, after the two cases at Ruban Hospital and two at Paras-HMRI hospital in Patna recently. Earlier, seven cases of mucormycosis were reported at AIIMS-Patna and one at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shortage-of-45-vaccines-forces-bihar-to-cut-vaccination-sites-101621008060124.html
14-05-2021||Other||Covid-19 positive family’s house burgled in Darbhanga||DARBHANGAThieves broke into a house here whose owners are away in Patna for treatment after being infected with Covid-19 and decamped with valuables Thursday night. “It is difficult to assess the stolen valuables in the absence of the house owner,” said a police official who visited the house in Laxmi Sagar locality under University police station on Friday morning. “The almirah in all five rooms downstairs in the two- storied building were found open and the culprits had switched on the lights. The house has been ransacked,” he said.Neighbours said the entire family had gone to Patna after being tested positive for coronavirus on April 28. They were staying in home isolation there. Unfortunately, the family’s host in Patna, a CA by profession, who had taken second dose of vaccine on April 29, died of Covid-19 complications in Paras hospital on Thursday morning. “The family is shocked after death of its relative and now we have learnt about the theft in our house”, said a grieving family member. Darbganga SSP Babu Ram people in the neighbourhood gave information about the burglary on telephone. A police team was sent to spot to investigate the case. Police were awaiting return of family from Patna to lodge a formal complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-positive-family-s-house-burgled-in-darbhanga-101621008059510.html
14-05-2021||Other||Bihar police arrest 5 more; say LJP leader’s murder solved||Police claim to have solved Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Anil Oraon’s kidnap-murder case in Bihar’s Purnia with the arrest of five, including the prime accused, on Thursday. Four persons, including a woman, were arrested earlier in this case.Confirming the arrest of prime accused Ankit Yadav, sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Anand Kumar Pandey said five persons involved in the crime were arrested from Kasba area. “They were trying to escape to Nepal in a four-wheeler when arrested,” he added.The men arrested are: Ankit Yadav, Satish Kumar, Vikash Kumar, Mukesh Kumar, and Vishal Kumar.” Also Read | LJP leader’s body found three days after abductionTwo pistols, 12 live cartridges, five mobile phones were seized from the men apart from their four-wheeler. “Altogether nine persons have been arrested in this case,” police said.“Yadav has confessed to the crime and we may take him on remand for further interrogation,” said police.LJP leader Oraon went missing on April 30, later his body was recovered 10 km from his residence in Purnia on May 2 after his family paid a ransom of ₹10 lakh as demanded by the abductors in exchange for his release.The killing triggered violence in the city with protesters not only vandalising public property but also damaging police vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-police-arrest-5-more-say-ljp-leader-s-murder-solved-101620991499066.html
14-05-2021||Other||HC stays Telangana govt order restricting Covid ambulances from other states||The Telangana high court on Friday stayed a circular issued by the state government restricting the entry of ambulances and other vehicles from other states carrying Covid-19 patients into Telangana. A division bench headed by chief justice Hima Kohli issued interim orders to this effect, after hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by retired Indian Revenue Service officer Garimella Venkat Krishna Rao. The bench asked the governments of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh and the Centre to file their counter-affidavits within two weeks and posted the case to June 17. While announcing the 10-day lockdown in Telangana beginning Wednesday, the Telangana government issued a circular stating that patients from other states would be allowed into Telangana, only if they have prior tie-up with the hospitals in Telangana for the purpose of Covid-19 admission. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar pointed out in the order that Covid-19 patients from neighbouring states were coming in ambulances and personal vehicles without any prior arrangement with any of the hospitals. “As a result, patients not only lose valuable time moving from one hospital to other, but also potentially spread the infection of different strains,” the order said. It said the hospitals in Telangana should apply in the prescribed format to control room set up for this purpose, furnishing basic patient details. Only then would the control room authorise patients to travel, said the order.Finding fault with the Telangana government order, the high court said patients could seek the assistance of the control room in finding the right hospitals, not for permission. Also Read | EC defers MLC polls in Andhra, Telangana due to second wave of CovidAndhra Pradesh state government advisor Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy wondered why the Telangana government was objecting to the entry of Andhra patients, when there were no such restrictions in going to Chennai and Bengaluru for better treatment. In the morning, several ambulances carrying Covid-19 patients from different parts of Andhra Pradesh into Telangana for better treatment in Hyderabad were turned away by the Telangana police at the inter-state borders, stating that they had no permission to enter the state. At least 40 ambulances were denied permission to enter the Telangana at Pullur check-post on the borders of Kurnool of Andhra and Jogulamba Gadwal district of Telangana on Hyderabad-Bengaluru national highway. “We have strict instructions from the higher-ups not to allow any vehicles that do not have e-pass from the Telangana government,” a senior police official of Jogulamba Gadwal district said on condition of anonymity. Kurnool MLA Abdul Hafeez Khan, who came to know about ambulances stranded at the Telangana border, rushed to the checkpost and eventually made alternate arrangements for some of the seriously ill in Kurnool government hospitals. Similar incidents were witnessed at Ramapuram check-post in Telangana’s Suryapet district bordering Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh on the Vijayawada national highway. Telangana state medical and health director G Srinivasa Rao said no patient from other states with a prior understanding with a hospital in Hyderabad and an e-pass from the police was denied entry into Telangana. “Our intention is not to create troubles for any patient from any state. In fact, 45% of the hospital beds in Hyderabad are occupied by patients from other states. Already 80% of the ICU and oxygen beds in the state are fully occupied,” he said. He said the second wave of Coronavirus pandemic had put tremendous pressure on the hospitals in Hyderabad in providing oxygen, medicines and other facilities. “We have the responsibility to cater to the needs of the patients from Telangana as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sans-permit-ambulances-ferrying-covid-patients-stopped-at-telangana-border-101620990299051.html
14-05-2021||Other||Global Village Idiot: What world needs right now is leaders who put people first||He’s my little cousin brother. We speak maybe once a year. Sometimes, once in two years. A medical transcriptionist by profession, Shubhankar Banerjee has a 69-year-old mother, a 30-something wife and a 13-year-old son. He has lost colleagues, friends and acquaintances to Covid-19, but doesn’t think twice when someone calls asking for assistance. Night or day, he responds to every call.Shubhankar lives in a quaint society called Nivedita Enclave in Paschim Vihar, New Delhi. There are 195 flats in that society, and everyone knows everybody else. Covid-19 has hit the society hard. Between April 25 and May 6, the society lost one person every day to the pandemic. They are families that have grown together for three generations in the past four decades - parents, grandparents, uncles, aunts, children, grandparents. Now, many of the younger generation are working in other cities or in foreign countries. Shubhankar is one of the younger generation who has stayed back in Nivedita. With many in the society quarantined, elders reach out to Shubhankar and others of the younger generation for help. Some days they run around to get someone to a hospital, other days for medicine, yet other days for a slot at the crematorium.I called him last week to see how he’s doing, and ended up asking why he takes the risk. “Can’t think so much when someone calls in an emergency. If a life can be saved or if suffering can be eased, that’s the only thought. The situation has improved this week, in the sense that it has climbed back from worst to bad,” he said.“Right now, there isn’t much we can do if one falls ill. You can’t go to a hospital because there’s no place there. If you do get a bed in a hospital, there isn’t much they can do except put you on oxygen. Doctors and healthcare staff are under extreme pressure. But, trying and getting to a hospital makes the family feel less helpless - you feel that at least I was able to get my patient to a hospital,” he says in acceptance of the current situation in Delhi.Back home in Pune, April was somewhat similar for Sunil Gate. For those who know Sunil Gate, he’s a go-to person when you are in need. A corporate communication consultant with two decades of experience in different industries, Gate is a connector and a helpful person at heart. Even in an impossible situation, he will usually tell you, “Ruk, mai kuch karta hoon.” Throughout the past few months, Gate has been talking to hospitals, civic officials, business people, media and people in general to try and do his bit, always in the background. April was particularly taxing, with hourly requests for help with hospital admissions, information on how to get oxygen, medicines… May has so far been all about how to get vaccine shots. I have called him for Remdesvir injections and ICU with ventilator, for family and friends. Also in Pune, almost at the outskirts really, there’s a housing society in Kalewadi Phata, called Rhythm that is doing quite a creditable job of keeping its diverse range of cosmopolitan members informed and advised about matters related to Covid-19. There is a competent and well-informed committee led by chairperson Dr Ritu Awasthi, running the society with people from varied backgrounds bringing their expertise to the table. The society works well as a cohesive unit, marshalling resources and connections and as a result, there are sanitisation and fumigation drives regularly. There is a daily flow of information and interaction on the WhatsApp group. The society uses Zoom effectively. For the past few weeks, everyone is busy sharing information and helping each other get vaccination slots. It’s a delight to log into the group and see the level of engagement and ownership from the committee members and residents alike. Many agree that a good bit of the credit for the efficient dissemination of useful information, marshalling of resources, and effective execution of protocols lies with the society’s young secretary, Abhijit Garad. A software manager at an IT firm, Abhijit is patient with opinions, focused on providing data, endeavouring to facilitate plurality of opinions, while providing actionable information. And he has a sense of humour Punekars would be proud of. Earlier this week, a society member asked him if one was allowed to cross district borders. Abhijit replied: “You can get e-pass and travel. You can mention the reason that it has been a year without Kolhapur’s tambada and pandhara rassa, so application should be considered to travel to Kolhapur. Attach a blood report showing less tambada index.”Most of us know at least a few people like Shubhankar, Sunil, and Abhijit. I can think of many others who are quietly doing what needs to be done in cities and towns across the globe. They get on with what needs to be done and keep their sense of humour, balance and sanity intact. They get the job done and are always aware that there’s more to be done. They don’t do it for the accolade or the glory, and are always patient with the inevitable scepticism. They are content to be in the background and have the courage to be centre-stage when things are difficult. They are constantly evaluating matters on merit in the context of the greater good, but always exercising the wisdom of discretion to address individual matters that can redefine what the greater good is.What the world needs right now are leaders like them; leaders who put people first.Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/global-village-idiot-what-world-needs-right-now-is-leaders-who-put-people-first-101620988919263.html
14-05-2021||Other||Bihar has lost many writers, artistes to second Covid wave||The second wave of Covid-19 pandemic has claimed lives of over a dozen writers, painters, musicians and archaeologists in Bihar the last few weeks. The names include Bihar Gaurav Gaan writer Dr Shanti Jain; Padma Shri awardee, writer Dr Ravindra Rajhans; former Bihar Sangeet Natak Akademi vice-chairman, Prof Shaileshwar Sati Prasad; and Sukant Nagarjun, veteran journalist and son of the noted writer, Nagarjun. On Thursday, Avinash Das, a teacher in the applied arts department at the Patna-based of Arts and Crafts, also succumbed to Covid. “We lost Maithili theatre artist Kumar Gagan a few weeks ago. Then, Manoj Manuj, yet another bright star of Maithili theatre, died. Almost every day, we are losing an artist or writer to Covid,” Umesh Mishra, secretary of the Chetana Samiti, a Maithili organisation, said. Also Read | Bihar extends lockdown till May 25, test positivity rate dips to 8.9%Mourning the loss of Dr Shanti Jain, cultural activist Abhijit Kashyap said, “It has caused a big void in the world of art and culture...she penned the Bihar Gaurav Gaan and for years, rendered the Ramcharit Manas on Akashwani.” Eminent artist Dr Rama said, “We also lost Dr Ravindra Rajhans...I still remember his poetry and the street plays that he used to present during the JP movement [political movement started by Jayaprakash Nayaran, or JP, against state government’s misrule].” The state also lost many musicians in the second wave of Covid. “Recently, Banaras gharana Tabla player, Shiva Kumar Singh, died due to Covid. He had groomed Grammy award winning Tabla player, Sandip Das. We also lost classical singer Ustad Irshad Khan,” she said. Kathak dancer Raghav Shah is also not doing too well, she added.Among those who succumbed to Covid were archaelogist Anil Kumar, archivist Vijay Kumar, and writer Surendra Yadav. Dr Rama said the state is fast losing its gems of art and culture due to Covid and something should be done to support the families of those who need economic support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-has-lost-many-writers-artistes-to-second-covid-wave-101620971757710.html
14-05-2021||Other||25 lose battle to virus in Ludhiana, most below 60 years||The district saw 25 more deaths in the last 24 hours, of which at least 17 patients were below the age of 60. Of the total, seven patients were in their forties, two were in their thirties and another eight in their fifties.Besides, six who died were in their sixties and two were in their seventies. Also, 17 of the fatalities were males while eight were females. Another 1,355 people tested positive with the total number of positive cases since the beginning of the pandemic reaching 72,421.The youngest to succumb is a 33-year-old woman of Khud Mohalla while the eldest is a 74-year-old resident of Sahnewal.On Wednesday, of 28 fatalities, most victims were in their 50s (13), four victims were in their 30s, five in their 60s and four in their 70s. On May 11, as many as 17 of the total 30 fatalities were above the age of 60.A number of deaths were in the surrounding rural areas or nearby towns and villages of Khanna, Sahnewal, Mullanpur Dakha and Pakhowal.In Ludhiana, both Shimla Puri and Model Town continue to figure prominently on the death list with several deaths being reported from these areas every day. The district’s current stands at 1,663. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma reiterated that the situation is critical and people should not venture out of their homes unless absolutely necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/25-lose-battle-to-virus-in-ludhiana-most-below-60-years-101620937913014.html
14-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s vaccine stock dries up again, no inoculations today||For the fourth time in three weeks, Ludhiana has run out of its vaccine stock. While only a few inoculations were carried out on Thursday, the health department has announced that the drive stands suspended on Friday.Earlier, the district had run out of the stock on April 27, May 1 and May 4. In view of the shortage, the health department had stopped the supply of vaccines to private hospitals on May 3.So far, as many as 6,15,001 people have received the jabs in the district. On May 11, as many as 10,348 inoculations were carried out while on May 10, as many as 9,656 residents received the jabs.Due to the shortage, the health department has also temporarily suspended the online registration sites for vaccination. District immunisation officer Dr Puneet Juneja said, “We had been getting repeated complaints from residents that on reaching the vaccination sites, they find out that the vaccine is not available. So, we have temporarily suspended the registration sites.”Dr Juneja also confirmed that the drive has been suspended on Friday. “We are hoping to receive the fresh stock of vaccines by Saturday,” the immunisation officer said.Munish Dogra, a resident who had visited a vaccination site on Thursday said, “As the online registration process was not working, I visited a vaccination site hoping for walk-in registration but the staff there said they had suspended the drive for the day. They were also clueless about when the drive will resume.”Saurabh Sharma, another resident, said, “At a time when people are dying, the health department has run out of vaccine. The government should have stocked up adequately so that people could be vaccinated at the earliest.” The state secretary of Pradhan Mantri Jankalyankari Yojna Prachar Prasar Abhiyan, Vineet Pal Singh Monga wrote to deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma and demanded that the vaccination process must be streamlined. “People in the 45-plus age category are not able to get the second dose of the either Covishield or Covaxin even after the lapse of 28 to 45 days from the day of first dose. This is total mismanagement,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-vaccine-stock-dries-up-again-no-inoculations-today-101620936532104.html
14-05-2021||Other||Free pick-and-drop facility to jab centres remains a non-starter in Ludhiana||The free pick-and-drop service initiated by the Ludhiana police to facilitate the vaccination of elderly beneficiaries against Covid-19 has failed to take off amid unavailability of jab slots across the city.The district administration has been facing an acute shortage of vaccine doses due to which the beneficiaries are unable to book online slots for inoculation.Under the scheme, the police had roped in NGO Humhain for providing free rides to elderly persons to the jab centres.Darbara Singh, who is operating the service for the NGO, said they get 250 to 300 calls daily regarding the rides, but the requests are turned down due to lack of online appointments for vaccination.“Elderly persons are making calls to book rides to vaccination centres, but in the absence of confirmed online appointments, we are unable to chauffeur them around as there it is uncertain if they would get the jab or not amid vaccine shortage and freezing of online booking,” he said.As the NGO is trying to engage more volunteers for the service, some city residents have offered to provide their vehicles for the cause. “We will definitely provide free rides to those elderly persons who have confirmed booking of jab slots,” said Singh.Joint police commissioner Deepak Pareek said that the initiative is meant to help people, especially elderly persons. “Once the vaccine stock is replenished and online booking is back on, the NGO will provide the free service as committed,” he said.Dr Puneet Juneja, district immunisation officer, said as soon as vaccination centres receive sufficient vaccine doses, they would start giving online appointments.On May 11, the police had launched the free pick-and-drop service for senior citizens seeking Covid vaccination. A helpline number (9577744447) was also issued for booking the free rides.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal had then announced that the senior citizens who had booked vaccination slots could call for the vehicles, which would pick them up from their homes and drop them back after the vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/free-pick-and-drop-facility-to-jab-centres-remains-a-non-starter-in-ludhiana-101620935752826.html
14-05-2021||Other||Ex-chief of gurdwara panel booked for molesting minor in Ludhiana||The former president of the management committee of Gurdwara Singh Sabha of Jassowal village has been booked for allegedly molesting a minor girl on the pretext of giving her religious education. The incident took place on May 5 on the gurdwara premises and was caught on closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras. The current president of the gurdwara’s management committee lodged a complaint after the footage of the incident started doing the rounds of social media. Complainant Baljit Singh, the current president, said the management committee had come to know of the incident through the CCTV footage. They had summoned Jugraj for clarification but he did not appear before the panel. In the meantime, the footage went viral on social networking sites following which they lodged a complaint at Sudhar police station. Sudhar station house officer, inspector Jasvir Singh said a case under Sections 295 (injuring or defiling a place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class) and 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused. Jugraj is currently on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exchief-of-gurdwara-panel-booked-for-molesting-minor-in-ludhiana-101620935452776.html
14-05-2021||Other||With 4,937 fresh cases, Himachal’s May tally shoots past 50K||Himachal Pradesh’s coronavirus tally for the month of May zoomed past the 50,000-mark on Thursday, with the state recording a whopping 4,937 fresh infections. The small hill-state’s total case count has reached 1,50,673. So far, 51,386 cases have been reported this month, the highest since the outbreak in March 2020. Sixty-three patients succumbed to the contagion, taking the total death toll to 2,118, making May the deadliest month as 634 people have already lost their lives in merely 13 days. The state had recorded 35,682 infections and 449 deaths in April. However, the tally was surpassed within the first fortnight of May. Of the new cases, 1,279 were reported in Kangra, 694 in Solan, 632 in Shimla, 505 in Sirmaur, 375 in Chamba, 357 in Mandi, 327 in Hamirpur, 321 in Bilaspur, 300 in Una, 86 in Kullu, 33 in Kinnaur and 30 in Lahaul-Spiti. As many as 29,193 patients have recovered in the state this month, taking the tally of recuperated people to 1,08,503. With 3,817 people discharged, the hill-state also logged the highest single-day recoveries. However, the high number of cases resulted in the recovery rate slipping to 72%.The tally of active cases shot up to 40,008. As many as 21,583 active cases were added to the tally this month—an increase of around 117%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-4-937-fresh-cases-himachal-s-may-tally-shoots-past-50k-101620935394102.html
14-05-2021||Other||4,356 new virus cases, 55 deaths in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 55 new deaths and 4,356 new infections, pushing the death toll to 2,967 and case count to 2,33767 on Thursday.The UT has already recorded around 60,000 new cases and 685 deaths in the first 13 days of this month. As many as 2,965 people patients were discharged, taking the month’s recoveries to 32,465. The fatalities were10 less than Wednesday when 65 people had succumbed to the contagion. As the second wave of infections rage across the UT, May has overtaken September 2020 when the virus was at its peak during the first wave during which 478 persons had lost their lives to the virus besides recording 37,300 infections. In April , the monthly cases in the UT had crosses 45,000 and 289 fatalities were recorded. February had the lowest 1,935 infections and 21 deaths.Of the 55 deaths, 35 were reported in Jammu division and 20 in Kashmir while 2,585 infections were detected in Kashmir and 1,771 Jammu. For the past week,cases in Kashmir Valley have been declining.Officials said with 872 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 624 in Jammu. The number of active cases has reached 51,848, officials said. Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 98,496 cases. Jammu has now taken over as the one with highest number of 758 fatalities, followed by Srinagar with 651 deaths.As the curfew has started reaping results, officials said the curfew could be extended across the UT, especially in the districts of Kashmir that have reported a high caseload in the last month. However, the rising death tally is cause for worry in summer capital Jammu, which had seen fewer fatalities during the first wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4356-new-virus-cases-55-deaths-in-jk-101620934675573.html
14-05-2021||Other||Blood banks’ stock depleting as camps, donations see marked decrease||Blood banks in the state capital are left with limited stock as blood donation camps and voluntary donations have witnessed a marked decrease amid the second wave of the pandemic. For instance, the state blood bank at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) has only about 700 units left with it against a normal stock of between 2,500 to 3,000. Due to the lack of stock, KGMU is issuing nearly 60 units of blood per day these days. Normally, it gives between 200 and 250 units of blood every day. “Voluntary blood donation and camps have gown down considerably. In fact, there have been no camps after the first week of April while there are only a few voluntary donations per week these days,” said prof Tulika Chandra, HoD, transfusion medicine, KGMU.At Syama Prasad Mukherjee (Civil) hospital, there were only 22 units of blood as opening stock on Thursday morning while at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences, the stock was below 300 units against the normal stock of at least over 700 units.Experts say blood donation is safe and can be done by all healthy people. “By donating blood, you get yourself checked for various disorders. From hepatitis to HIV, all infections are checked in the donated blood while it saves lives as blood components such as plasma, platelets, RBC are separated and issued for different patients,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director, Healthcity hospital.“At the Lucknow Nursing Home Association blood bank, the present stock is 412 against the normal stock of 650 units,” said Dr Anoop Agrawal of the nursing home cell of IMA.“Voluntary blood donation is key to maintaining good stock in the blood bank as replacement donors (who come and donate to get one unit blood or blood component in exchange) do not add to stock and in some exchange donors the blood has to be discarded due to infection. Majority voluntary donors are healthy,” said prof Chandra. Also, blood is donated to the destitute and pregnant women without exchange.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/blood-banks-stock-depleting-as-camps-donations-see-marked-decrease-101620934011984.html
14-05-2021||Other||Record 1031.43 MT of oxygen supplied in UP||A record 1031.43 metric tonne (MT) of oxygen was supplied to medical colleges, hospitals and oxygen refilling centres across UP in the last 24 hours.National Institution for Transforming India (NITI) Ayog lauded UP model of oxygen supply. In a tweet, the NITI Ayog said, “The Uttar Pradesh government has established oxygen hubs and developed dashboard–Oxytracker through which tankers can be tracked in real time. This allows quick and smart allocation of oxygen. The result is that 1,000 MT of oxygen has been lifted instead of 250 MT before.”Giving this information, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi, who is monitoring the oxygen supply across the state from the control room set up in the home department, said with the sudden spike in Covid cases, the state government started working to stabilise the situation as quickly as possible and stop it from getting worse.“Oxygen being one of the most critical elements for clinical treatment had to be managed at a war footing. The state government focused on the most important metric-location of assets and managing the movement of assets to carry as much oxygen as possible with an underlying focus on optimisation,” he said on Thursday.Within 24 hours, the state government activated the teams all over the state and other sourcing states like Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha to intercept the trucks carrying oxygen cylinders, deployed an application that was downloaded on smart phones which were placed in each truck without disturbing its ongoing route for live locations. The GPS device was not used as it would have taken four days to install it and would have meant loss of lives at an exponential scale, he said.Uttar Pradesh worked on stealth approach- speed and scale. Key macro decisions were taken to deploy the rail network to bring oxygen supplies from the eastern states to UP and airlift empty cylinders with the help of the Indian Air Force, using airports located at Agra, Hindon and Lucknow for refilling, Awasthi added.The information of oxygen supply was fed into live dashboard which displayed all the trucks carrying oxygen and helped the decision makers address the allocation gap smartly and swiftly to stabilise the firefight for the oxygen supply, real time information on tankers and their movement being the most critical element of the oxygen supply chain was displayed using the dashboard. The dashboard called Oxytracker was used to visually flag the efficiency of the entire fleet with one sweep of the eye, he said.The UP government created five major hubs in UP— Modinagar, Agra, Kanpur, Lucknow and Varanasi— as primary hubs while Gorakhpur and Bareilly were developed as secondary hubs for optimising the entire oxygen supply chain, Awasthi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/record-1031-43-mt-of-oxygen-supplied-in-up-101620933772548.html
14-05-2021||Other||Elgar Parishad: Submit Sudha Bharadwaj’s health report by May 17, Bombay HC tells authorities||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the authorities of Byculla women’s prison to submit the health report of activist and lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj – an accused in the Elgar Parishad case – by May 17. The directions were issued after hearing the interim bail application filed on medical grounds by Bharadwaj’s daughter Maaysha Singh. A division bench of justice KK Tated and justice Abhay Ahuja, while hearing the petition filed by Singh, was informed by advocate Yug Mohit Chaudhary that Bharadwaj was being kept in a prison ward with 50 other women and that the conditions were extremely unsanitary and there was no possibility of physical distancing. Chaudhary further submitted that Bharadwaj has comorbidities, and due to issues of overcrowding in the prison amid the Covid-19 pandemic and lack of proper treatment to inmates, the petitioner was seeking the release of her mother on interim bail on health grounds. When the bench asked for a fresh report on Bharadwaj’s current health condition, additional public prosecutor JP Yagnik for the state prison authority submitted that they would take the accused to Sir JJ Hospital on Thursday for a medical examination and submit a report within a week. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) was entrusted with the Elgar Parishad case probe last January. The agency’s lawyer, advocate Sandesh Patil, said that there is no urgency in the matter and that it was unable to file a reply on Singh’s petition within a week due to the pandemic situation. The bench responded, “We understand that officers are working at 15 % capacity. Let us see the medical report first.” The court directed the prison authority to file a report of medical examination by May 17 and it will hear the plea next on May 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elgar-parishad-submit-sudha-bharadwaj-s-health-report-by-may-17-bombay-hc-tells-authorities-101620931613126.html
