15-05-2021||Other||Bhiwani village imposes self-lockdown for five days||Residents of Bhiwani’s Behal village, which shares its boundaries with Rajasthan, have decided to impose curfew which is stricter than the state government’s lockdown till May 20 after the village witnessed a surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths.This is the second village in district to impose self-lockdown after Mundhal Khurd amid rise in cases.The decision was taken after youths, elderly people, and shopkeepers held meeting, and called Behal naib tehsildar Surender Kaushik and local police station SHO Surender Pal to apprise them of their decision. The officials announced to provide cooperation to break the chain. It was decided that all shops except those selling medicines will remain closed for the next five days.Behal shares boundaries with Rajasthan and many people used to visit here every day to purchase items.There are more than 75 active cases in the village and there are many suspected cases, who are not appearing for testing.More than 30 people have died in the village in the last 20 days and five of them were reported as Covid deaths.“To break the chain, we have imposed curfew for the next five days. We have asked the administration to impose a penalty on those trying to violate the norms. It will impact our livelihoods but we want to save lives. Local transport services will also be affected,” said Purshotam Bholan, who attended the meeting.Naresh Lakhlan, who runs a grocery shop, said they are ready to accept financial crunches and the curfew was need of the hour.“The residents have decided to set up isolation centres on their own, apart from the ones established by the state government,” he added.Behal naib tehsildar Surender Kaushik said they support the locals’ decision to impose strict measures for the next five days. It will help keep check on rise in cases, he said.“The village has seen rise in Covid cases and more than 15 people died in last two weeks, five of them have died of Covid. We are urging people to appear for testing,” he added.Behal SHO Surinder Pal said they are checking every vehicle and only allowing those who are going a long distance and those visiting hospitals.“We have sealed the village from all sides and issued challans to the violators,” the SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bhiwani-village-imposes-self-lockdown-for-five-days-101621098124954.html
15-05-2021||Other||People dying of Covid in rural areas of Haryana, says Surjewala||Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Saturday alleged that the BJP government is responsible for forcing farmers to continue their agitation against Centre’s three farm laws amid the Covid-19 pandemic as it has failed to address their grievances.“The government did not hold talks with the farmers for the last many months and forced them to continue their dharna at a time when Covid-19 cases are increasing across country,” he added.Making a sharp attack on the BJP-JJP government, Surjewala said the Haryana government has failed to provide healthcare facilities to its residents and has left them alone to arrange doctors, medicines and cylinders on their own.“I don’t know what the BJP-JJP government is doing. The Delhi government is getting 700 MT oxygen on 85,000 active cases while the Haryana government is receiving 282 MT oxygen in papers and actually getting less than 225 MT. Twelve of 22 districts in Haryana are receiving only 0.5 MT oxygen each,” he added.He, along with party’s Haryana affairs in-charge Viveik Bansal, launched Congress’ ‘Seva and Samarpan’ campaign in Jind to provide oxygen and medicines to the needy.“More than 18,000 people have died in rural areas in Haryana over the past few days as per media reports and people have no testing, tracing or treating facility in villages,” he said.The Congress leaders distributed masks and sanitized the city. “Ministers, MPs and MLAs of the BJP-JJP government are not receiving phone calls of people who are reaching out to them for oxygen, beds and medicines,” Bansal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/people-dying-of-covid-in-rural-areas-of-haryana-says-surjewala-101621098064491.html
15-05-2021||Other||Deoghar admn starts bike ambulance service for Covid patients||In a first, the Deoghar district administration on Saturday launched five bike ambulances to provide timely and accessible service to Covid-19 patients in rural areas.Flagging off the service, deputy commissioner (DC) Manjunath Bhajantri said, “The bike ambulance will not only provide primary health service to people but will also save time on congested lanes and roads where general ambulances get stuck.”Officials concerned have been directed to ensure masks, sanitizers, and PPE kits to riders of bike ambulances, the DC said.Deoghar recorded 1,396 active cases after discovering 81 new cases till Friday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/deoghar-admn-starts-bike-ambulance-service-for-covid-patients-101621097826903.html
15-05-2021||Other||Shahabuddin’s aide shot dead||PATNAA history sheeter, an ex-aide of former Siwan MP Mohammad Shahabuddin who died of Covid a fortnight back in New Delhi while in incarceration, was shot dead by unidentified assailants near Siwan on Saturday.The deceased was identified as Mohammad Babar. “Babar faced around 24 criminal cases. His name recently cropped up in connection with abduction of one Mohammad Riyajuddin,” said a police official.Siwan’s superintendent of police Abhinav Kumar said the incident took place around 7 am when Babar was going somewhere. “His vehicle was intercepted by other vehicles in which the assailants were travelling. Before Babar could understand anything, they started firing indiscriminately. Around 25 rounds were fired.” Babar died on the spot. The SP said preliminary probe pointed to the involvement of Riyazuddin, a rival of Babar. “In April, Riyazuddin was abducted after being released from jail. Babar was the named accused in the case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shahabuddins-aide-shot-dead-101621097704015.html
15-05-2021||Other||Change in Covishield dose interval throws vaccination plan off-gear||PATNAThe Centre’s decision on Thursday to increase the gap between the first and second dose of the Covishield vaccine against coronavirus to 12-16 weeks has thrown Bihar’s vaccination plan awry. Bihar, which planned to vaccinate aggressively its 7.51 crore target population of 18 years and above by setting up vaccination centres at schools, similar to polling booths during elections, now finds that many of its beneficiaries, who took the first jab in March, are still not eligible for the second dose. Given the reluctance among the rural populace to take the vaccine, it is still not easy to get them to the vaccination centres. As a result, footfall at vaccination centres is dwindling. “Our planning has been hampered by recurrent changes in vaccination guidelines for Covishield. This is the third time in three months that the Central government has widened the interval between Covishield doses. This has also created confusion among the public,” said an officer associated with the vaccination programme in the state. Patna district immunisation officer Dr SP Vinayak said many people were enquiring why the interval between doses of Covishield was being changed frequently while that of Covaxin was constant (4-6 weeks). “We tell them we have to follow government guidelines,” he said. The revised recommendations come as several states, including Bihar, experience a shortage of vaccines. Bihar could vaccinate 124,104 people on Saturday as against 116,441 on Friday. A few high caseload states of coronavirus like Maharashtra and Karnataka have halted vaccination for their 18-44 years population and diverted vaccines for 45 years and above people, especially those who have received the first shot, but couldn’t take the second jab due to paucity of vaccines. Though Bihar has no immediate plans to curb vaccination for the younger age group, its vaccine availability is low. The Centre had communicated an allocation of 7,64,850 doses of Covishield and 2,52,040 doses of Covaxin for the first fortnight of this month. However, the state was yet to receive 1,27,040 doses of Covaxin for the 45 years and above population till May 14, said sources. Similarly, in the 18-44 years age category, Bihar’s allocation of Covishield was 16,39,250 doses, but the state had received 8,85,000 doses. For Covaxin, the allocation was 4,12,450 doses, but it had received 1,12,450 doses. The state was left with 3,28,530 doses of vaccines for the 45+ population and 5,51,140 doses for the 18-44 years age group, as per government figures available till May 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/change-in-covishield-dose-interval-throws-vaccination-plan-offgear-101621097644741.html
15-05-2021||Other||Bihar, UP border districts resolve cremation issues||BHABUAOfficials of bordering districts of Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh and Kaimur in Bihar have resolved the problem of cremations along the banks of river Ganga that the locals were facing ever since bodies were recovered from the river in the area.As per an agreement between the administration of the two neighbouring districts, people from Bihar would be allowed to use nearby cremation ghats in UP if they have made arrangements of firewood and related material for a proper funeral, said Kaimur’s superintendent of police Rakesh Kumar.The arrangement included firewood and other materials needed during the funeral.Bihar Police have also set up checkpoints on roads approaching UP where officials were registering the names, addresses and phone numbers of people accompanying a body. They share the information with their UP counterparts to allow the funeral. The arrangement has been made to ensure bodies are not disposed of in Ganga river without cremation, SP Kumar said.Ghazipur SP Dr Om Prakash Singh said there was no ban on entry of bodies from Bihar for funeral. The administration was only ensuring bodies are not thrown in Ganga, he said.Singh said urban local bodies in towns and block development officers in rural areas have been directed to arrange firewood for bodies whose kin were helpless and unable to purchase it. People in Kaimur and Rohtas districts of south-west Bihar traditionally go to Varanasi to cremation of their loved ones, but the waiting time at their preferred Manikarnika ghat in Varanasi has gone up to 20-24 hours due to rising Covid deaths. Now, the people from these districts prefer to go to Zamania in bordering Ghazipur district in UP for cremations. Because of the sudden surge of crowds, firewood has become dearer at Zaminia, tehsildar Ghanshyam said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-up-border-districts-resolve-cremation-issues-101621097645310.html
15-05-2021||Other||Quackery adds to Covid toll in rural areas||ARARavi Shankar Singh (30), an employee of Indian Oil Corporation at Gidda in Bhojpur district, developed fever a few days back. Instead of consulting doctors, he just visited the medicine shop and took medicines as advised by the shop owner. There was no relief and suddenly his oxygen level went down after a few days. He was rushed to Ara Sadar Hospital on May 10 but died on May 11, said his cousin R R Singh.Chandan Singh of Chandi village said his uncle Arun Pratap Singh (45) developed fever, cold, cough and breathing problem in the last week of April. He took medicines as advised by quacks for a day and was rushed to a private clinic the very next day at Ara. All along, his oxygen level kept on falling. He was referred to Ara Sadar Hospital where he died.In Chandi village of Bhojpur district alone, 10 people have died over the last three weeks, mostly affected with Covid symptoms, including falling oxygen level. Pramod Singh of Chandi village said, “Out of them, seven to eight had breathing problems. Most of them instead preferred to take advice from quacks present at Chandi market. Those who died were mostly in the age group of 40 to 60 years.”Jaga Kushwaha, a social activist and resident of Chandi, who also lost a relative to Covid-19, said almost 90% residents of adjoining villages had been suffering from fever, cough and breathing problems. “There is no doubt that the facilities of testing and treatment are limited, but the people at large are wary of getting tested for Covid-19. They rely on local quacks,” he says.Kushwaha also blames the non-functional health centres as the reason behind people’s growing reliance on quacks.“There is a health and wellness centre at the village, but they are run by ANMs (auxiliary nursing midwifery). Doctor never comes,” he said. Manju Devi, a resident of Narhi, adjacent to Chandi village, said the administration should distribute masks and sanitize the village, but it has not been done. Dr Navin Kumar, in-charge of the nearest primary health centre at Koilwar, said health centres are run by ANMs themselves. “There are three doctors at PHC Koilwar. Doctors are not appointed at health centres. It is not possible for doctors to reach at each and every health centre under the PHC of Koilwar regularly. I have no information about deaths in large numbers at Chandi village,” said Dr Kumar. Of late, Covid cases in districts with more rural population have been increasing. For example, on Friday, Begusarai reported 334 cases, Gaya 285, Madhubani 360, Samastipur 392, Vaishali 353 etc., to name a few.Bhohpur reported 29 cases on Friday and its total active cases stood at 602. The district has so far reported 28 deaths.Leader of Opposition in Bihar assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, had recently raised the issue. “76% of the affected people in Bihar are now in rural areas, but there is no facility,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/quackery-adds-to-covid-toll-in-rural-areas-101621097644074.html
15-05-2021||Other||BKU to prepare list of corona deaths in villages||MEERUT The Bharatiya Kisan Union( BKU) leaders and activists will expose the alleged under reporting of Covid-19 deaths in villages by collecting and compiling details of victims. The state government launched a special drive from May 5 to detect corona cases in villages and claimed to be carrying out adequate testing and treatment. But BKU leaders alleged that the situation was grim in villages and due to resource crunch, the government was under-reporting corona deaths. BKU’s state spokesperson Dharnendra Malik said that villagers were fearful and the government had failed to provide facilities of proper testing and treatment. People were suffering from fever and dying in villages and in most of the cases deaths are being under reported, with hapless villagers silently cremating bodies of their dear and near in villages. Malik said that taking stock of the situation, the BKU had directed its activists in villages across the state to collect details of suspected Covid 19 deaths in their villages and send them to the union. “ Union activists and leaders have already started collecting details and hope that lists from villages would be made available in a week or so”, said Malik. BKU Saharanpur division’s general secretary Raju Ahlawat claimed that the situation in villages was grim, but officials had their own way of functioning. They overlooked complaints and concerns shown by union leaders and instead of understanding pain and sufferings of people. Citing example of his village Bhainsi in Muzaffarnagar district, Ahlawat claimed that the village had panchayat poll on April 19 and barely a few days after that people started showing corona symptoms. “At least 18 people died in one month in the village and hundreds are still suffering from fever,” said Ahlawat, expressing anger for under-reporting deaths in villages. He said, “ We need actual data of deaths and people suffering from Covid 19 so that the real situation of villages may be known.” He questioned how a government could evolve policies and facilities with fudged data. Harnam Singh Verma, BKU Lucknow division president, said that he had also mobilized union activists in villages to prepare the list and hoped that it would be prepared within a week. He also said that there was a mismatch between data of Covid-19 deaths released by the government and reality. Verma said that his village Naubasta Kala was situated barely 2 kms from Chinhat and more than two dozen people had died after showing corona like symptoms, but government data showed very few deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bku-to-prepare-list-of-corona-deaths-in-villages-101621096804016.html
15-05-2021||Other||Chitrakoot jail shoot-out:Jail staff hand suspectedin smuggling pistol inside||Lucknow: The way notorious shooter Anshu Dixit managed to get a pistol smuggled inside Chitrakoot jail despite multiple checks at the entrance round the clock, had puzzled investigators, said senior police officials privy to the probe. Anshu used the pistol to kill two gangsters Mukeem alias Kala and Meraj Ahmad alias Merajudeen inside the prison before being shot dead in police firing on Friday. The officials said preliminary investigation hinted towards the involvement of jail personnel, as no outsider was allowed inside. To note, the family members of prisoners are not allowed to visit since the pandemic outbreak in March 2020. The state government has already suspended jail superintendent SP Tripathi and jailor Mahendra Pal, holding them responsible for the security lapses initially and ordered departmental enquiry. A senior official said initial probe hinted that there was only way to smuggle a firearm inside the jail: by hiding it in eatables and ration packets supplied for prisoners. He said the sequence of the incident also hinted that Dixit was provided the firearm during the breakfast hour. “Breakfast was given to prisoners at around 9.30 am on Friday. At the same time, we heard a bullet staccato and rushed towards the high security barrack where Anshu Dixit and Meraj Ahmad were lodged together since the latter was shifted to Chitrakoot jail on May 7,” said the official, sharing the statement given by a jail guard during the probe. The official said Anshu Dixit opened fire on Meraj Ahmad after two other inmates gave him breakfast and left his barrack.. “After shooting Meraj Ahmad, Dixit walked towards the near-by barrack where Mukeem alias Kala was lodged along with some other prisoners and shot him dead after a short conversation. Dixit was later gunned down in police firing when he held some prisoners hostage after returning to his barrack,” he said. Planned shoot-out ? No specific motive, unprovoked firing as well as open latches of the barrack’s gate were some points suggesting a planned shoot-out, said senior officials privy to the investigation. “So far we are had unable to find any motive behind Anshu Dixit killing the two gangsters. No personal or gang rivalry has surfaced during the probe,” he an official said, adding, “There was nothing to suggest that Anshu was asked to eliminate the duo and was provided the firearm inside the jail.” He said the gates of Anshu’s as well as Mukeem’s barrack were found open during the incident. He said Anshu came out of his barrack after shooting dead Meraj Ahmad and then entered Mukeem’s barrack. The question is : were the gates of the two barrack intentionally left open? Sources also claimed that CCTV cameras installed in the gallery where the incident happened were not functional for many months. They said the investigators had not able to find any video footage of the incident that could help in solving the mystery behind the unprovoked firing by Anshu. Anshu ensured death of both The post-mortem examination of the bodies of the three gangsters killed in the shootout revealed that Anshu shot Meraj Ahmad thrice before pumping over 10 bullets into Mukeem’s body. He himself was later killed in police firing. The post-mortem examination revealed that Anshu suffered over 16 gunshots. Anshu had over two dozen bullets The investigation suggested that Anshu fired over 15 rounds of bullets to eliminate Meraj Ahmad and Mukeem and over 10 rounds when he held five prisoners hostage and police team was asking him to surrender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chitrakoot-jail-shoot-out-jail-staff-hand-suspectedin-smuggling-pistol-inside-101621096623951.html
15-05-2021||Other||245 convicts released to decongest jails in HP amid second Covid wave||A total of 245 convicts have been released either on bail or on parole in Himachal Pradesh between January 1 and April 30 in a bid to decongest jails amid the second wave of Covid-19. Acting on the recommendation of a high-powered committee, constituted on the Supreme Court’s direction, the jail authorities released the convicts. This was stated during a virtual meeting of the committee, headed by justice Ravi Malimath, the executive chairman of State Service Authority, on Friday. The meeting was also attended by justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan as special invitee, additional chief secretary (home) Manoj Kumar, director general of police (prisons) N Venu Gopal D and Prem Lal Ranta, a member secretary. In a release issued later, Ranta said it was once again ordered to decongest the prisons by releasing the inmates on interim bail or parole. At present, 71 inmates are out of jail on parole. Besides, 33 life convicts have also been prematurely released from jails on the recommendations of the HP State Sentence Review Board. “It has been resolved that convicts, who are at present on parole, will be granted special parole, according to the decision of the high-powered committee. Those who surrendered on time will be entitled for an additional period of 90 days,” he said. It has been directed that inmates and jail staff are entitled to medical facilities and Covid-19 safety equipment such as masks, sanitisers and PPE kits when required, according to the health department’s protocol. “The jail superintendents shall maintain appropriate levels of hygiene and sanitation in the jails and suitable precautions be taken to prevent the transmission of diseases among inmates,” Ranta said. Last year, from April 1 to December 31, 2020, as many as 236 convicts were released on parole, four undertrials were released on bail and 15 life convicts were prematurely released on the recommendation of the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/245-convicts-released-to-decongest-jails-in-hp-amid-second-covid-wave-101621082704128.html
15-05-2021||Other||15 lakh poppy plants destroyed in Himachal’s Mandi district||In a three-day operation, the Himachal Police have destroyed poppy cultivation on 66 bighas of forest and private land in Mandi district’s Chuhar ghatti, which is infamous for opium cultivation. Acting on a tip from the public, three teams was sent to recce the area to verify whether poppy was being cultivated illegally on May 12, said Mandi superintendent of police Shalini Agnihotri. On confirmation, four teams headed by the Padhar station house officer and sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) were mobilised and at least 15 lakh plants were destroyed. “TActing on a tip from the public, three teams was sent to recce the area to verify whether poppy was being cultivated illegally on May 12,” Agnihotri said. While heavy rain and hailstorms impeded the teams’ movement, the party continued with the operation. The teams had to trek for three hours to reach the first hill top. “When the news of the police reached the people, locals started uprooting the poppy plants at one of the spots,” the SP said. Around 66, 14, and 13 bighas of government and private land was found to be under illegal cultivation of poppy plants over the three hills. “The operation started with an initial recce on May 12 and the final raid began on May 13. The teams left the police station Padhar (Drang) at 8:30am on May 13 and the last team returned at around 3pm on Friday. The raid took around 17 hours amid heavy rain and hailstorms,” the SP said. Four cases have been registered so far under Section 18 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) Act. As per estimates, around five to six kilograms of opium is produced on a bigha of land. Around 330kg of the narcotic could have been produced in the area.” I have congratulated the teams, great efforts were made by the teams to detect and destroy the opium,” director general of police Sanjay Kundu said. Any tipoffs about drug trafficking can be directly shared with SP Mandi on 93172-21001. The name and identification of the informer shall be kept secret.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15-lakh-poppy-plants-destroyed-in-himachal-s-mandi-district-101621021801760.html
15-05-2021||Other||With 3,027 cases, J&K clocks lowest daily spike in May||With 3,027 fresh infections, Jammu and Kashmir logged the lowest single-day spike in infections this month on Friday even as 60 people succumbed to the virus. The drop in cases detected can be attributed to the fewer tests conducted as only 31,500 tests were conducted on Friday against the average of 44,000 tests being conducted daily for the past 10 days. Owing to Eid, fewer people ventured out to get themselves tested. Of the 60 deaths in J&K, 39 were reported in Jammu division and 21 in Kashmir and of the new cases, 1,516 were detected in Kashmir, 1,511 from Jammu and 56 were travellers. The Union territory has logged 3,027 fatalities and 2, 36,790 cases so far. May has proved to be the worst month for Jammu and Kashmir in terms of Covid cases and deaths as the monthly infections reached 60,707 and fatalities to 745 even as 36,321 patients recovered this month.Dr Yasir Rather, professor, department of psychiatry, GMC, Srinagar, said that the Covid pandemic and its second wave had created fear and anxiety among the people, which had taken a toll on their mental health.“It is equally important to take care of mental health as well as the respiratory system,” he said. “People should not focus on the issues which are beyond their reach. They should spend time with family and children, create innovative ways and hobbies for interaction ,” he said.Officials said with 534 cases, Jammu had the highest number of new infections, followed by 379 in Srinagar district, 308 in Budgam, 221 in Udhampur and 197 in Kathua. Dr Yasir stated that due to the panic, people keep hoarding essential items including oxygen which affects others who are in need of them. “This practice aggravates the situation and creates further pani,” he said. He stressed on the routine of physical exercises and brisk walk. “Exercises and brisk walking release endorphins and keep the mood of a person elevated and helps to overcome and alleviate anxiety”. As many as 1,81,762 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 76.76 % against around 98% in the first fortnight of February. Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 99,700 cases and 1,436 deaths. After 3 Jammu doctors succumb Three Jammu doctors succumbed to the coronavirus on Thursday. The doctors are former Poonch chief medical officer Dr Akram Malik, Dr Busharat Hussain Shah of Mendher and Dr Tahir Haroon Mirza of Rajouri. Mirza, 51, had been posted at the Emergency Hospital, Chowki Choura, Akhnoor and was undergoing treatment at the Command Hospital in Udhampur. Malik succumbed at the Narayana Superspeciality Hospital in Kakryal. Shah, an ISM practitioner, was serving in Uttarakhand, where he succumbed to the virus. Citing the three deaths, Udhampur deputy magistrate Indu Chib urged the public to follow all coronavirus protocols “at least for their sake.”2nd wave highly virulent, fatal: ExpertDr Sandeep Dogra, microbiology consultant, Government Medical College, Jammu said, “The Covid virus variant from the second wave is more transmissive and more fatal than the previous one. If we do not stop its chain of transmission, nothing can stop the virus from mutating further and producing deadlier variants.” Dogra said that while the first wave mostly affected the middle aged, the old and the sick, the second wave is targeting all age groups and is more transmissive on the whole. He says that the second wave has reached far into the rural areas of the country unlike the first one. Cong welcomes expert team’s visit to JammuCongress has welcomed the Centre’s decision to send a team of experts to assess the Covid situation in Jammu hospitals amid high mortality rate and a large number of daily casualties for the last several days. Last week, the Congress had asked the government to send a team of experts from AIIMS and PGI Chandigarh to ascertain the causes behind spiraling Covid deaths in Jammu. The issue had also been raised with lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha by Congress president G A Mir and chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma. Ladakh postpones Sindhu Darshan FestivalAfter the Ladakh administration’s decision to go ahead with the Sindhu Darshan festival despite the being in the midst of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic came under fire, officials on Friday said the event had been postponed. Tourism and Culture secretary Mehboob Ali Khan clarified that the review meeting convened on May 12 to review the progress of the ongoing work at Sindhu Ghat and Indus River Front was not related to organising the Sindhu Darshan event. Initially, the darshan was scheduled to be held from June 19 to 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-3-027-cases-j-k-clocks-lowest-daily-spike-in-may-101621021502445.html
15-05-2021||Other||Pak drone drops pistol, AK-47 in J&K’s Samba||JAMMUA day after India and Pakistan armies exchanged sweets and pleasantries on the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district, Border Security Force personnel recovered a payload of arms and ammunition dropped by a Pakistani drone along the International Border in Samba on Friday. The drone is suspected to have flown back into the Pakistani territory after it dropped the consignment 250m inside Indian territory, officials said.BSF Jammu frontier deputy inspector general of police (DIG) SPS Sandhu said, “BSF troops recovered a consignment of arms and ammunition meant for overground workers working with terrorists near the Regal Post of the BSF along the IB in Samba at around 12.15am.” The consignment, which was wrapped in polythene, included an AK-47 assault rifle, a 9mm pistol, a 9mm magazine, 15 pistol rounds and a wooden frame used to support the payload in the drone, Sandhu said. Sandhu said, “We immediately lodged a protest note with the Pak Rangers, but they always remain in a denial mode.”Congratulating the troops, IG, BSF Jammu, NS Jamwal termed the recovery as a “big achievement”, and said the force is ever alert and vigilant on the IB to thwart away the nefarious designs of Pakistan. The weapons were recovered from the same area where a trans-border tunnel was detected on November 22 and a Pakistani intruder was killed on May 5, he said. On April 24, two Pakistani drones had entered Indian territory in Arnia sector of Jammu district. After the BSF guards opened fire, they flew back into Pakistani territory. On May 3, after truce was upheld for around two months, Pakistan had breached the ceasefire agreement with unprovoked firing at the Border Security Force (BSF) patrol in Ramgarh sector of Jammu’s Samba district. On May 10, around 9.55pm suspected terrorists hurled a grenade at a police picket at Nud in Samba that exploded but missed the intended target.  The BSF had also shot down a Pakistani hexa-copter carrying a huge cache of arms and ammunition on June 2020 in Kathua.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pak-drone-drops-pistol-ak-47-in-j-k-s-samba-101621021023545.html
15-05-2021||Other||Himalaya Bridge at CSMT likely to be ready by mid-2023: Mumbai civic body||If everything goes according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) plan, the Himalaya Bridge near Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) will be ready for pedestrians by mid-2023, civic officials said. The BMC’s standing committee on Friday finalised the contractor for the construction of the bridge that had collapsed in 2019 killing seven. The contractor has been given a period of 15 months – excluding the monsoon period – for the construction, at a cost of around ₹6.5 crore. Earlier, the plan was to have the bridge constructed by the end of 2022, but the tendering took time owing to the second Covid-19 wave. The standing committee approved the construction almost five months after bids for the purpose were floated. BMC has proposed the Himalaya Bridge’s length to be 33m and width to be 4.4m. The construction is expected to be done using stainless steel that will be supported by pier. As per the draft design prepared by BMC, there will be three entry and exit points for the bridge.Congress corporator Javed Juneja, who is a member of the standing committee, said, “I had suggested that the BMC should have drawn plans in a way that there was an entry and exit from either side of the FOB (foot overbridge) considering that the current design leads a person directly into the railway station premises and the bridge will not be useful for crossing roads. But BMC said the heritage committee would have a problem with it.”The Himalaya Bridge was constructed by BMC in 1988 and was mainly used by rail commuters. Prior to its collapse, the civic body had carried out the bridge’s beautification – including colouring and replacement of tiles with granite – in 2016. BMC had also appointed a private consultant for a structural audit of the bridge in 2017-18. The audit report declared that the bridge needed minor repairs. However, the structure collapsed on March 14, 2019, and BMC’s engineering department was blamed for the mishap, and a chief engineer was jailed. Following this, BMC ordered the reaudit of hundreds of bridges in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himalaya-bridge-at-csmt-likely-to-be-ready-by-mid-2023-mumbai-civic-body-101621017779913.html
