16-05-2021||Other||52-yr-old dies of black fungus infection in pvt hospital||LUCKNOW: A 52-year-old man suffering from black fungus infection died in a private hospital in Chowk area here. “The Covid positive man was brought to our hospital from Gorakhpur in a serious condition late on May 14 and he died the next day, about 24 hours after he got admitted,” said Dr RK Mishra of SIPS hospital, where the man was admitted. Black fungus or mucormycosis is an uncommon opportunistic invasive fungal infection which occurs in immunosupressed patients. Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment with steroids are at heightened risk of mucormycosis. Dr Mishra said, “The eyes and brain of the man were infected with black fungus, and he was put on ventilator support soon after reaching here. Unfortunately, he died during treatment.” The city has at least 20 black fungus patients under treatment at different medical facilities, including King George’s Medical University where 13 patients are under treatment. Lohia institute also has three black fungus patients. Earlier, death of a suspected black fungus patient, a woman, had been reported in Lucknow. “We have four other black fungus cases of which two are being treated in OPD and two are admitted. Of the latter two, one has been operated to remove dead tissues,” said Dr Mishra. Experts said Covid patients with history of diabetes were particularly at risk. “Black fungus is a risk for those Covid patients who have a history of diabetes and are spending long time in hospital for recovery. Any other comorbidity is also a risk factor,” said Dr Suryakant, HoD, respiratory medicine, at the King George’s Medical University. Chief medical officer of Lucknow Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar did not respond despite repeated calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/52yrold-dies-of-black-fungus-infection-in-pvt-hospital-101621189267625.html
16-05-2021||Other||Another AMU prof passes away||Agra : Professor Mohammad Nasiruddin of the department of pharmacology, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC), Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), passed away in Aligarh. He was 55. The reason for his death is not known. “We are not in a position to assign reason for death of prof Nasiruddin,” said AMU spokesperson Dr Rahat Abrar. To note, 17 serving professors in AMU have died so far. On his recent visit to the varsity, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had condoled these deaths and had stressed on vaccination. “Prof Nasiruddin’s demise is a great loss to the university. He was an excellent teacher, held in high esteemed by the students,” said AMU vice chancellor, professor Tariq Mansoor. Prof Rakesh Bhargava (Dean, Faculty of Medicine) said that Prof Nasiruddin taught and mentored students and helped them achieve success. Prof Nasiruddin was also associated with various committees and organisations. He had been the coordinator of ADR Monitoring Centre at JNMC, under the aegis of Pharmacovigilance Programme of India (PvPI), Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India. He also published many papers in peer-reviewed journals, authored academic books, wrote book chapters, and edited many books.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/another-amu-prof-passes-away-101621189087433.html
16-05-2021||Other||Ghazipur man launches firewood bank to help cremate bodies||Lucknow: Sanjay Rai (50), a native of Sherpur village in Ghazipur district, has launched a ‘firewood bank’ near the cremation grounds located on the bank of river Ganga to assist the poor people in the last rites of their near and dear ones. Rai, who runs a business in Kutch area of Gujarat, was in his village when he came to know that villagers were dumping bodies of suspected Covid -19 patients in the Ganga as they were unable to perform the last rites due to poverty. The issue was highlighted by the media. Photographs of bodies floating in the river were carried in both print and electronic media and environmentalists expressed concern over increase in Ganga pollution. “People from various parts of the country called me to know the facts. The dumping of bodies as well as floating corpses in the river seemed disgraceful,” Rai said. “I discussed with my associates and family members how to assist the poor people in cremating the bodies. We decided to launch a firewood bank on the nine ghats located near the river. We informed the district administration about the plan and after getting the nod we transported firewood from various parts of the districts, procured from the timber merchants. On May 14 the firewood bank was launched near the nine cremation grounds,” he said. The poor people visiting the ghats for cremation got wood free from the bank and volunteers were working round the clock, distributing the firewood and maintaining the stock at all the ghats. “Along with assisting the needy, we are also working to protect the Ganga from pollution, Rai said. An official said the district administration had launched an awareness campaign in the villages located near the Ganga, urging the people to not dump the bodies in the river. The flood company of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) was regularly patrolling the river to check dumping of bodies. The administration had told the newly elected gram pradhans that if the villager has no money to perform the last rites of dead family member, the administration would assist them. The initiative of Sanjay Rai had helped the administration in reaching the rural masses and assisting them in cremation, he said. Rai has also launched Youth Rural Entrepreneur Foundation in his village to enlighten the farmers about new agriculture technology and marketing of products. “We are also assisting the youths in education, skill development and entrepreneurship,” Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ghazipur-man-launches-firewood-bank-to-help-cremate-bodies-101621188967526.html
16-05-2021||Other||Keep tabs on riverine areas for people dumping bodies: Adityanath tells cops||Noida: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday asked the police and provincial armed constabulary (PAC) jawans to keep strict vigil on the last rites of bodies in their areas so as to ensure bodies are not be found disposed of in or near rivers in the state.Addressing the press at the NTPC Institute in Noida’s Sector 16A, Adityanath said Sunday that even village-level officials have been asked to ensure that no corpses are thrown in the waters. “As per our policy, the state government is paying ₹5,000 to each poor family to cremate or bury the bodies. The police and PAC jawans have been asked to intensify patrolling in the riverine areas to stop this inhumane practice, in which families are reportedly abandoning the dead bodies for fear of Covid-19,” he said. The CM’s statement came in the light of media reports that several bodies of possible Covid victims were found in or near rivers in the state. On reports of exorbitant prices allegedly being charged by private hospitals from Covid patients, the chief minister asked the Gautam Budh Nagar administration to take stern actions against anyone found doing so. “The admin has also been asked to arrange separate hospitals for the free treatment of women and children. At the same time, the admin has been asked to take a tough stand in enforcing the Covid curfew as it is the only way to break the virus’ chain,” he said. Earlier, meeting with the MLAs and the MP of the district, the CM said that oxygen consumption at private hospitals will be audited. “The districts must have a Covid team on the lines of the state, which can keep a constant tab on the situation. Every vaccination centre should also have a call centre that can intimate the beneficiaries on time about their slots,” he said.The Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Jewar, Dhitendra Singh, requested the CM to give priority to local residents in vaccination and hospitalisation. “It is really heart-breaking that even those, who had given their ancestral land for the construction of the hospitals, are running pillar to post,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/keep-tabs-on-riverine-areas-for-people-dumping-bodies-adityanath-tells-cops-101621188607392.html
16-05-2021||Other||J’khand doc threatens to ‘thrash’ state health minister, video goes viral||Furore rose over a viral video in which a doctor and owner of an Adityapur-based private hospital said he would have “beaten up a health department’s team and health minister Banna Gupta” on whose alleged “verbal” order the team went for a probe to his hospital on Saturday.“Had there been not seven Covid-19 patients and two patients on ventilator in my hospital, I would have beaten up the probe team led by the district civil surgeon and the health minister. They kept me stuck in their frivolous probe for hours while patients needed me urgently. The government is spending crores on ministers and politicians but has fixed ₹7,000 for common people. Do they know the cost of medicines and equipment?” Dr OP Anand, owner of 111 Save Life Hospital, was heard saying in the viral video.According to Dr Anand, the probe team wanted to investigate alleged exuberant service charges at his hospital. “They didn’t have any written order from the health minister. When I asked for the package fixed by the government, they couldn’t produce that. The government has not provided any such package to us detailing cost of medicines and processes involved in treating Covid-19 patients either. So, what will they probe?,” Dr Anand said. Seraikela-Kharsawan district civil surgeon in-charge Dr Barial Mardi, who led the probe team, said on Sunday that he reported the matter to the health minister and filed an FIR against Dr Anand and hospital management for not allowing them to investigate, misbehaving and threatening the probe team. “I am sending a detailed report to the health minister and further action will be taken as per the health department’s guidelines. I have also lodged a FIR against Dr Anand for obstructing government work, threatening us and violation of the Epidemic Act, DM Act and government orders,” Dr Mardi.The civil surgeon said the probe came after repeated complaints against 111 Save Life Hospital management for levying exuberant and arbitrary charges on Covid-19 patients despite the state government’s fixed rates for such patients being treated in private hospitals. “We sought details of patients, payments charged and received from them and the detailed bills therein after the health minister asked us to investigate the matter. But, Dr Anand didn’t show any documents. Moreover, he kept us waiting. We were also threatened and abused,” alleged Dr Mardi. Health minister urges Dr Anand to do dutyMeanwhile, health minister Banna Gupta refused to be dragged into the controversy and urged Dr Anand to focus and perform his “doctor’s’ duty”. “This is no time to get into any debate or war of words. We all are busy in fighting Covid-19 emergency and arranging facilities for the spiralling number of cases across the state. I believe in constructive work and not bothered about who is abusing me or threatening to beat me up,” said Gupta.The minister, however, said law will take its own course in the matter. “We have been receiving complaints of exuberant charges by 111 Save Life Hospital and Uma Mukti-speciality Hospital following which I directed probe. Suitable legal action will be taken against people found disobeying government orders,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jkhand-doc-threatens-to-thrash-state-health-minister-video-goes-viral-101621181647123.html
16-05-2021||Other||5,221 new Covid-19 cases, 62 deaths in Pune district on Sunday||PUNE As per the state health department, Pune district reported 5,221 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday. The district also reported 62 deaths due to the infection. This takes the total case count in the district to 0.973 million, of which 0.80 million have recovered.The death toll for the district stands at 10,434 and currently, 82,397 active cases are undergoing treatment in hospital or are in home isolation. Pune rural reported 2,990 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count up to 2,64,984. With 18 deaths, the toll in rural areas went up to 2,795. Pune city reported 1,359 new cases, which takes the progressive count up to 4,73,076. With 44 more deaths, the toll stands at 6,040. PCMC reported 872 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 2,35,625. No deaths were recorded in PCMC, where the death toll stands at 1,541.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5221-new-covid-19-cases-62-deaths-in-pune-district-on-sunday-101621179847105.html
16-05-2021||Other||Petrol station staff assaulted for refusing fuel to mask-less customers; 6 booked||PUNE The Pimpri Chinchwad police have booked six men for assaulting a petrol-pump worker who refused to give them fuel, as they had not worn masks. The incident happened on Friday afternoon at 1:30pm at Shubham Bharat petrol pump in Mhanlunge, Khed.Two of the six people have been identified as Shambhu Bhosale and his mother, according to the complainant.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Namdev Dilip Jare (27), a resident of Varale in Khed.The others working at the petrol pump, who were also assaulted by the six, have been identified as Lakshman Mamde, Gajanan Mhase, Kiran Jare, and Ashwini Jare.The accused allegedly used wooden rods and stones to beat up the petrol pump workers.Assistant police inspector Madhukar Pansare of Mhalunge police outpost is investigating the case.A case under Sections 324 (voluntarily causing hurt); 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace); 506 (criminal intimidation); 188, and rioting of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Mhalunge police outpost of Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-station-staff-assaulted-for-refusing-fuel-to-mask-less-customers-6-booked-101621177027001.html
16-05-2021||Other||Sewage water flowing via Chakan canal directly into Bhima river||PUNE Farmers on the outskirts of Chakan have complained about sewage water flowing directly into the Bhima river, affecting their crops. An entire river stretch flowing from Agarkarwadi, Rakshewadi, Patharwadi, until Kalus, which is a village one-km from the Bhima Askhed dam, is allegedly polluted with chemicals and sewage, creating a bluish tinge on the surface of the water. Foam has also filled the canal (odha) running through Chakan city.“My family is part of the farmer’s group in Kalus and I own 2.5 acres of farmland. Initially, this odha was a narrow one, but with expansion and population growth all the water flowing through reaches the Bhima river faster,” said Vicky Koutkar, a lawyer and farmer.Factories and manufacturers, in MIDC and the small scale industries set up along the Chakan nagar parishad area, are being blamed for releasing pollutants into the odha.“One can see a sticky, thick greenish hue on the top layer of the water near the dam, while every day, we see soapy bubbles and foam running through the odha,” added Koutkar.Nanasaheb Kamthe, CEO, Chakan nagar parishad, denied chemical waste was floating through the odha, but agreed that sewage water from residential areas is being released into the canal.“I am aware that sewage water from the Chakan area is flowing into the odha and we are working towards a solution. We already have a work order to build an underground drainage line for the entire Chakan city. Besides this, a sewage treatment plant is also in the pipeline. I have taken over six months ago and this nagar parishad is fairly new, formed in 2015; hence, we need time to plan and implement basic things,” said Kamthe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sewage-water-flowing-via-chakan-canal-directly-into-bhima-river-101621176726997.html
16-05-2021||Other||PMC takes 150 beggars of the streets for vaccination and tests||PUNE As many as 150 beggars, picked up by the anti- encroachment cell of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and housed in a facility for the homeless, are now awaiting guidelines for vaccination.The PMC has housed the beggars in its 150-bed Niwara facility, and will out vaccinations and Covie tests. The initiative started on Thursday after PMC teams fanned out to Moledina road, Yerawada, Navi peth and Bopodi.During the last lockdown, as many as 1,800 beggars and homeless persons were brought to PMC schools, including 150 to the Niwara facility, for temporary rehabilitation. Madhav Jagtap, head of the anti-encroachment cell, who looks after the welfare of homeless, said, “PMC has taken the responsibility of vaccinating the beggars and also conducting tests. We are awaiting guidelines.”Dr Dilip Patil, the state vaccination chief and deputy director of health, said, “The beggars don’t have any documentary proof and have no proof of residence. How can they be registered? The state government has sought guidelines from the centre and till date it has not sent any such information.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-takes-150-beggars-of-the-streets-for-vaccination-and-tests-101621176187031.html
16-05-2021||Other||4 arrested for Bibwewadi murder||PUNE The Pune Police arrested four people late on Saturday night for the murder of 28-year-old Madhav Hanumant Waghate in Bibwewadi on Saturday morning. The deceased is a resident of Sahakarnagar.The arrest was confirmed by inspector (crime) Anita Hivarkar of Bibwewadi police station.The arrested men have been identified as Gopal alias Aba Ganesh Dhaware (30); Shubham Sachin Tanpure (21), Sunil Bhausaheb Ghate (22), and Pawan Satish Gawali (25), all resident of Ota Scheme in Bibwewadi.Dhaware, Tanpure, and Ghate were arrested by a team of Sahkarnagar police station officials, led by assistant police inspector Rajesh Usgaonkar, from a rickshaw stand in upper Indiranagar.Gawali was arrested by a team of Unit-5 led by inspector SV Tasgaonkar. The arrested men have also revealed names of three others involved in the murder.Waghate was attacked with tubelights, metal rods and cement blocks while he was waiting for a friend. Waghate’s friend, who had asked him for help, had gotten into a fight with a man over a WhatsApp status. The man with whom Waghate’s friend was in a fight, is on the run. A case under Sections 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code, along with Section 37(1) with 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act has been registered at Bibwewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-arrested-for-bibwewadi-murder-101621175767033.html
16-05-2021||Other||SPPU’s second semester exams to begin from June 15||PUNE The second-semester examinations of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), for its diploma, graduate and post graduate courses, will begin from June 15.The exams will take in phases and soon, registration for the exam will be open.Currently, first-semester exams, which began on April 10 online, are going on. These exams are for 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) being conducted by the university’s own Edutech Foundation. For the second-semester exams, other methods of conducting the exams are being explored by the SPPU. “This important decision to explore the ways of conducting the exams for the second semester was taken at the SPPU’s board of examination meeting, held on Saturday. Discussions were held about the pattern and how to make it more transparent. The exam will be held online mode and registration will start soon,” said Mahesh Kakade, head of the SPPU examination and evaluation department. “Students demanded that the second-semester exams be held immediately, as most need to take further admissions for higher studies, and need the results for job opportunities,” he added. Meanwhile, the SPPU instructed all affiliated colleges to conduct practicals and internal tests before June 15, and to submit the marks by June 25, as the university cannot declare the results without practical and internal marks from the colleges.Shweta Karale, a Science student said, “Most students were demanding that both semesters be held together. Now, second-semester exams will go on till August and results will be declared after that. There are various courses for which students want to take admission and there process starts from June.” Law student Jay Adwani said, “It is good that SPPU is conducting back-to-back exams for both semesters. It will not create pressure on students. We get time to study.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sppus-second-semester-exams-to-begin-from-june-15-101621175406910.html
16-05-2021||Other||SPPU forms committee to explore new methods of conducting exams||PUNE With the second semester exams to be held from June 15, the Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) board of examination has formed a committee to study and explore new options to conduct the exams. Methods like open-book exams, projects and work-based assignments will be explored by this committee. Despite using a proctored test method for the first-semester exam, 362 cases of cheating were discovered. Students were using electronic gadgets and the internet to answer the online exams. Many students have suddenly got high marks, so to make the examination more transparent, new alternatives are been explored.“In the online exams conducted by the SPPU, the number of students appearing has increased and similarly, the passing percentage is also high. We noticed a large number of cases of cheating in the proctored method. As a solution, a decision to form a committee to study and explore examination methods and continuous evaluation has been taken,” said SPPU vice-chancellor, Prof Nitin Karmalkar. While Karmalkar will appoint the experts on this committee, it will explore 22 options of conducting the exams. The recommendations given by the committee are likely to be implemented in the next academic year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sppu-forms-committee-to-explore-new-methods-of-conducting-exams-101621174746932.html
16-05-2021||Other||70 persons arrested for taking part in bike procession for funeral of man killed in Bibwewadi||PUNE The Pune police, on Sunday, arrested 70 of the 150-200 people booked for organising and participating in a bike rally from Dhankawadi to Katraj, after death of a man named Madhav Hanumant Waghate (28).Waghate, who has a record of cases of physical violence, was killed by a mob of 10 people in Bibwewadi on Saturday.A complaint in the matter was lodged by sub-inspector Harishchandra Kenjale of Sahakarnagar police station.“We have arrested 70-75 people. Our senior police inspector and officers have to take a decision about what to be done about their custody (until they’re produced in court),” said su-inspector BS Khengare of Sahakarnagar police station.The rally began from the Balajinagar area of Dhnakwadi around 12:45pm, and went on till 1pm, when it reached Katraj.A Pune police order, in light of the Covid-19 pandemic, prohibited public gatherings or vehicle movement without an emergency reason. The number of attendees at funerals was capped at 20 by the local administration.The participants of the rally flouted multiple provisions of the standing police orders.A case under Section 143 of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 37(1)(3)with 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act has been registered at Sahakarnagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/70-persons-arrested-for-taking-part-in-bike-procession-for-funeral-of-man-killed-in-bibwewadi-101621174326859.html
16-05-2021||Other||Time to make laws dealing with hoarding, black marketing more strict||Even though the second wave of Covid-19 seems to have peaked, the numbers are still high and the downward journey is expected to be long. Besides, unlike the first wave, this time the virus is spreading rapidly in rural areas with poor health infrastructure. So the gap between demand and supply in terms of hospital beds, medicines, medical devices will continue to be wide, giving hoarders and black marketers ample opportunities to fish in troubled waters. The rural markets will also give all those rapacious gangs selling fake medicines and oxygen cylinders, a wide opening.Going by the huge haul of fake Remdesivir being ‘manufactured’ and sold in different parts of the country, including Delhi, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra, the racket seems widespread. While the Gujarat variety, which was also supplied to consumers in Madhya Pradesh, resulting in the death of at least ten patients, contained glucose and salt, those seized in Nagpur had plain water. More recently, there are reports of cheap antibiotics being sold as Remdesivir in rural areas of Uttar Pradesh. There are also cases of fire extinguishers being sold as oxygen cylinders in different parts of the country. The need of the hour, therefore, is continuous and consistent action to curb not just black marketing of beds and essential medical supplies, but also sale of fake medicines and medical devices. And such action can no longer be limited to urban areas, but should extend to rural India. This requires all agencies enforcing different applicable laws such as the Indian Penal code, the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, the Essential Commodities Act, the Prevention of Blackmarketing and Maintenance of Supplies of Essential Commodities Act, the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, the Epidemic Act and the Disaster management Act, to come together and set up an exclusive cell to deal with all covid related unfair practices. Besides their own investigations, these cells in each state should follow up on consumer complaints of overpricing and fake drugs provided through toll-free telephone and WhatsApp numbers .It is equally important to hand over the maximum punishment to those found guilty through summary trials and fast track courts set up exclusively for the purpose. While retired police personnel can be called back to take some load off the enforcement agencies, retired judges and even lawyers could adjudicate over these cases. Even though the laws provide for imprisonment (can go up to seven years under the Essential Commodities Act ) or fine or both for hoarders and blackmarketers, the quantum of fine prescribed under the Essential Commodities Act is too meagre and the Centre needs to provide for higher penalty through an ordinance.The financial penalties should be stiff enough to pay for the following: reimbursement of the extra amount collected from consumers, remunerations for the extra staff required for enforcement work and the running of the fast track courts and also contribution towards Covid relief work. Where it is possible to establish a direct link between hoarding and black marketing and loss of life, the financial penalty should also cover compensation to the victim’s family.Under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, sale of spurious drugs likely to cause death or grievous hurt carry a sentence of ten years to life, besides fine of ₹10 lakhs or three times the value of the drugs seized. This fine also needs to be increased. The law provides for compensation to the victim or his family.In addition to jail term, those convicted should also be made to work in Covid wards for at least a fortnight, cleaning toilets and wardsLastly, adequate publicity should be given to each of these cases , particularly the severity of the punishment, so as to create the fear of the law in these Covid vultures. Today, these people are emboldened by the paralysis that seems to have gripped many governments. It’s time the governments showed that political will and determination to end the menace and instill confidence in the people that the state will protect them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/time-to-make-laws-dealing-with-hoarding-black-marketing-more-strict-101621166406623.html
16-05-2021||Other||Himachal cabinet extends state curfew till May 26||The Himachal Pradesh cabinet on Saturday decided to extend the Covid-induced curfew in the state till May 26. It has, however, allowed all shops dealing in construction materials to remain open twice a week — Tuesday and Friday—for three hours, to check the exodus of labourers.Residents will not be allowed to book any marriage palaces, community halls or tent houses, catering or DJ/Band services for functions. However, marriage functions at home are allowed with a gathering of 20 persons, and in court. Procession of baarat has also been barred.Vans for dead bodiesThe cabinet also gave a go-ahead to all medical colleges, zonal and regional hospitals with a bed capacity of over 200 to hire dead body vans. All municipal corporations will also be allowed to hire such vans. It was decided that the forest department will provide free wood for cremation of Covid victims. Other key decisionsThe cabinet also reviewed the progress on projects announced by the chief minister and decided that each minister will have the responsibility of reviewing the projects pertaining to their departments within 15 days, and ensure that the works are started within three months. The cabinet gave its consent to fill up 219 posts of different categories on contract basis under the National Health Mission. The cabinet also gave its nod to procure CT scan 128 slice and MRI 1.5 Tesla Machines worth ₹20 crore for Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru Government Medical College, Chamba. It accorded ex post-facto permission for executing agency of makeshift Covid-19 hospital at Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Ner Chowk, Mandi, to include construction of a labour room and an operation theatre. It also decided to open a health sub-centre at Sartyaula in Mandi along with the creation of requisite posts to man the sub-centre. The cabinet gave its nod to construct a new rest house at Dhanotu in Sundernagar tehsil of Mandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-cabinet-extends-state-curfew-till-may-26-101621111866400.html
16-05-2021||Other||J&K announces ₹2.94 crore relief package for tourism sector||As Kashmir’s tourism sector is witnessing constant decline and losses due to the second wave of Covid-19, J&K government has announced a package of relief for the people associated with trade, especially shikarawalas and tourism guides.On Friday, J&K’s Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha approved a package to the tune of ₹2.94 crore. The money will deduce from the J&K Relief Fund.For the past many months, people associated with the tourism sector, which is one of the biggest trades in Kashmir, have been demanding a relief package, especially for those who make meagre earnings. Even big hoteliers and trade and travel agents have suffered heavy losses.As per the government notification, issued by deputy director, budget finance, the relief of ₹2,000 will be transferred to 4,444 shikarawalas, 1,370 tourist guides, 6,663 ponywalas, 2,150 dandiwalas/sledgewalas/palkiwalas for two months.“The relief will be transferred to only who are registered with the tourism department,” said an official.“The package doesn’t have anything for travel agents, house boats adventure sports operators, tourist transport operators and hotels as well. This package should have an amnesty for power and water bill related to tourism infrastructure,” said Dr Umar Nazir Tibet Baqal, member, TAAK travel agents association of Kashmir, and coordinator, IATA forum, Kashmir International Air Traffic Association.President KCCI, Shiekh Ashiq said that announcement of relief package is welcome but all the people who are daily earners in all sectors should be part of this package be it transport, vendors, small time shopkeepers, artisans and weavers registered with handicrafts department. “We hope the Lt Governor will increase the amount of financial assistance and free ration to all people who are below poverty line also,” he said.Tourism in Kashmir had a good beginning with the start of New Year but as the second wave of Covid-19 wracked havoc across the country, the tourist inflow suddenly started to dry up and most of the advance bookings got cancelled.According to people associated with trade, winter was very good but it now they are back to square one. With the start of summer in April many tourists from states like Gujarat and Maharashtra visited the Valley. The tourism had nosedived in Kashmir since August 5, 2019 when the special status of the erstwhile state was revoked and restrictions imposed on movement of people and communication shut for months. The situation was then further aggravated by the Covid-19 lockdown after mid-March 2020.“This year we were expecting a bumper tourism season which would break all past records. From December onwards I think more than 1.5 lakh tourists have visited the valley already. Unfortunately the second wave hit the region and the season is gone,” said officer bearer of a tour and trade association Kashmir.“The cancellation of bookings have affected all including Shikara wala, houseboat owner, hotelier, dhaba wala or even a Kashmir art dealer,” he said.Despite the surging Covid-19 numbers in Kashmir, the government had opened Tulip Garden on the banks of Dal Lake from March 25 which saw a huge inflow of tourists both locals and domestic travellers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-announces-rs-2-94-crore-relief-package-for-tourism-sector-101621111265208.html
16-05-2021||Other||20 detained for pro-Palestine protests in Kashmir||Police have detained 20 persons for holding pro-Palestine protests in Kashmir.A police spokesman said that people are trying to leverage the situation in Palestine to disturb the peace in Valley.“J&K police is keeping a close watch on elements attempting to leverage the unfortunate situation in Palestine to disturb the peace and order in Kashmir valley. We are a professional force and are sensitive to public anguish. But J&K police has a legal responsibility to ensure law and order. It, however, wouldn’t allow cynical encashment of the public anger to trigger violence, lawlessness and disorder on Kashmir streets,” said the spokesperson.A senior police official confirmed to Hindustan Times that 20 people have so far been detained in Kashmir for pro-Palestine protests. Recently, a person who had designed a pro-Palestine graffiti in Srinagar was questioned by the police.Over the last few days, several people from Kashmir have been posting their views and comments on social media against the killing of civilians in Gaza by Israel.In a statement released on Saturday, J&K Police warned of legal action against those making “irresponsible social media posts”. The statement further said that expressing opinion is a freedom but engineering and inciting violence on streets is unlawful. “All irresponsible social media comments that result in actual violence and breaking of law, including Covid protocol, will attract legal action,” read the statement. According to the statement, IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar had sought public cooperation.Kashmir had, in the past, witnessed a series of pro-Palestine protests, especially during the killing of civilians by Palestine, and many social media users had been equating the situation in Kashmir and Palestine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/20-detained-for-pro-palestine-protests-in-kashmir-101621111085155.html
16-05-2021||Other||J&K saw 808 Covid-19 deaths in first half of May||As many as 63 people lost their lives to Covid-19 while 3,677 fresh infections took Jammu and Kashmir’s toll to 3,090 and cumulative count of cases to 2, 40,467 in the last 24 hours, health officials said on Saturday.Of the 63 deaths in UT, 37 were reported in Jammu division and 26 in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 1,949 are from Kashmir while 1,728 are from Jammu, besides 31 travellers.May is turning out to be the worst month for Jammu and Kashmir in terms of Covid cases and deaths as the monthly infections have reached 64,384 and fatalities 808 on Saturday. The number of patients who have recovered from the disease this month so far is 40,461.Officials said with 621 cases, Jammu had the highest number of new infections, followed by 404 in Srinagar district, 390 in Pulwama, 262 in Budgam and 250 in Rajouri. The number of active cases has reached 51,475, officials said. Most of these cases have been added after February 9 when the UT had the lowest active case tally of 593.Doctor speak Dr Nisar Ahmad Shah, professor of medicine, gastroenterology, Government Medical College, Srinagar, said that besides the respiratory issues Covid is known to cause a variety of gastroenterological problems like dyspepsia, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, oesophageal, gastric and duodenal ulcers, hepatitis and pancreatitis like illness.“All these problems are self limiting and need only symptomatic treatment,” he said. “Besides Covid is known to cause anxiety symptoms; but it is Covid itself and not anxiety which causes gastroenterological symptoms,” Dr Nisar Ah Shah stated.Officials said that some 4,140 patients have recovered from the disease, including 3,054 from Kashmir and 1,086 from Jammu. As many as 1,85,902 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 77.30% against around 98% in the first fortnight of February. The officials said that 33,539 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours taking overall tests to 7.88 million.Dr Nisar also cleared the misconception regarding the risk to patients suffering from gastroenterological problems and said that those having gastroenterology problems are not at any additional risk of superadded infection.As most doctors recommend paracetamol for mild Covid related symptoms, Dr Nisar asked for limited intake of paracetamol. “A normal individual can take up to 2 gms (4 tablets of 500mg tablets) per day without any problems whereas those having liver problems and severe renal problems need caution,” he said.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed about one lakh cases and 1,468 deaths in all. The Jammu district has taken over as the one with the highest number of 802 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 666 deaths. The administration on Saturday extended the Covid lockdown by another week across the UT.“The corona curfew imposed in all 20 districts of J&K till 7am on Monday, May 17 is extended further till 7am on Monday, May 24. The curfew will be strict and only a few essential services will be allowed,” a government spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-saw-808-covid-19-deaths-in-first-half-of-may-101621110485298.html
16-05-2021||Other||J&K LG extends curfew till May 24 in all 20 districts||Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday extended the curfew in all 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir till 7am on May 24.The decision was taken after a series of meetings with the members of the Covid Task Force, deputy commissioners, senior superintendents of police, and other officials concerned.During the curfew, only a few essential services will be allowed. Standard operating procedures for weddings etc, outlined earlier by the administration will also remain in force.During the meetings, the Lt Governor sought district-wise feedback on important aspects of Covid management pertaining to testing, impact of curfew, hospital referral system, functionality of oxygen generation plants, availability of Covid dedicated beds, daily trend of Covid cases, recovery rate etc. Stressing on bringing uniformity in the patient care system across J&K, the Lt Governor called for coordinated efforts from all the stakeholders to contain the spread of the deadly virus. Emphasising on intensifying vaccination drive, the Lt Governor set the timeline of 10-days for achieving the target of 100% vaccination of the above 45 years age group with the first dose of Covid vaccine.Taking note of the rise in positive cases in rural areas, the Lt Governor directed the health department to intensify testing in rural areas and other urban localities with high positivity rate.Special vaccine drive for 45+ todayTo cover remaining two percent population in 45 plus category to undergo Covid vaccination, the Jammu administration on Saturday announced to hold a special vaccination drive at 100 sites in Jammu district on Sunday. Jammu district commissioner Anshul Garg said, “Under government strategy, a drive to inoculate people above 45 years of age was undertaken on April 1 and in the past 45 days 98 percent of the population under this age group have been covered in Jammu district. However, two percent, who have not taken their first dose, are still left. To afford them a special chance, a special drive will be undertaken on Sunday at 100 sites where they can come and get inoculated with first dose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-lg-extends-curfew-till-may-24-in-all-20-districts-101621109944510.html
16-05-2021||Other||45+ group left in lurch as Patiala stops vaccine drive amid jab crunch||With the district health department’s sudden decision to stop vaccination of the 45+ age group due to shortage of doses, beneficiaries in have been left in the lurch.As per the official notices pasted outside the jab centres in Patiala, the 45+ population will not be inoculated against Covid-19 till June 15 owing to a vaccine crunch in the district.In the hope of finding doses on Saturday, some people of the said age group were seen doing making rounds of hospitals and various vaccine centres, but were turned away by the staff as only young adults were being inoculated there.From Friday onwards, the state health department began administering Covid jabs to the 18-44 age group. This drive was supposed to kick off on May 1, but an acute vaccine shortage resulted in the delay.“When I went to Nabha civil hospital to get my 69-year-old mother vaccinated, the medical staff told me they had run out of vaccines and that I should check for jab availability at the outreach camp at Government Ripudaman College,” said Chamkaur Singh, a local resident.However, when he reached the college, he was told that the vaccine was only available for the 18-44 age group.Another beneficiary Manpreet Singh said his parents had to return without jabs as the health staff asked them to come in mid-June, stating that the government was currently prioritising those below 45 years of age.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said they were conducting fewer vaccination drives as they were receiving very limited stock of doses.“As many as 7,052 people were vaccinated on Saturday as the department received 5,600 doses under the state pool on Friday. Around 3,000 doses were received on Saturday, which will be divided among sub-divisional hospitals to carry the jab drives on Sunday,” said Dr Singh.He added that the outreach vaccination camps have been closed temporarily due to the shortage of vaccines.“Due to this, we have stopped giving jabs to people above 44 years of age and are concentrating on the priority group under the third phase of vaccination drive,” said the civil surgeon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/45-group-left-in-lurch-as-patiala-stops-vaccine-drive-amid-jab-crunch-101621108446007.html
16-05-2021||Other||Jailed gangster orchestrates murder attempt on Ludhiana youth||A 21-year-old man was attacked by a group of men over an old rivalry near Division Number 3 police station at midnight on Friday. During the attack, the accused made a video call to local gangster Puneet Bains, who is lodged in Ludhiana Central Jail, saying that they had taken revenge, the victim, Karan Kalia, 21, of Harikartar Colony of Janakpuri, told the police. A case was registered against Puneet Bains, Vishal Gill, Steem Sahota, Aju Sahota, Kartik Baggan, Akhil Sabharwal, Rohit Hans, and Ravi and their unidentified accomplices, sub-inspector Madhu Bala, station house office at Division Number 3 police station, said. Karan, along with his friend Dikshit Tandon, 24, of Hargobind Nagar, had come to the area to celebrate a friend’s birthday. Dikshit was riding a scooter while Karan was on a bike. While they were returning home, a group of men, riding bikes and carrying sharp-edged weapons, intercepted them. While Dikshit managed to hide, Karan was caught and assaulted. Meanwhile, one of the accused made a video call to Bains and said that they had taken revenge. After assaulting Karan, they fled. Tandon rushed Karan to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Rajpura Road, where his condition is stated to be critical. The 21-year-old underwent surgery for grievous injuries on Saturday and will undergo another one on Sunday, doctors at the hospital said. The SHO said the attack seemed to be a fallout of an old rivalry. “We are scanning CCTV footage in the area for more clues. A manhunt has been launched to nab the accused,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jailed-gangster-orchestrates-murder-attempt-on-ludhiana-youth-101621107485114.html
16-05-2021||Other||Covid toll touches 1,700 in Ludhiana with 18 more deaths, cases lowest in 15 days||The district’s Covid-19 toll on Saturday touched 1,700 with 18 people succumbing to the virus, the youngest among them a 36-year-old man.Ludhiana added the last 100 deaths in just five days, as it was on May 11 that the toll had crossed the 1,600 mark with a record number of 30 deaths. Before then, the death tally had risen from 1,500 to 1,600 in also five days, from May 7 to 11. The daily deaths, however, remained below the 20 mark for the second day in a row, and even the cases, at 1,132, were the lowest in 15 days. At 792, the last lowest number of cases was on April 30. Thereon, May had begun with 1,600 cases and the cases also touched the all-time high of 1,729 on May 9. But, Saturday’s cases took May’s total to 20,287, surpassing April’s tally of 20,176 in just 15 days. With fewer recoveries, the active cases also rose to a record 12,832.The district’s total cases stand at 74,873, of which 60,321 patients have been cured, a recovery rate of 80.56%, which is lower than the state average of 81.76%.Those who died on Saturday included 14 men and four women, the oldest being a 75-year-old man from GK Vihar. Among the fatalities, the majority at 12 were aged between 50 and 70. Two each were in their 30s, 40s and above 70 years of age.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents not to lower their guard and adhere to all safety protocols not only to save themselves, but to keep everyone around safe.Dr Bishav Mohan, senior cardiologist, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) and a member of the panel of doctors of the Dr KK Talwar committee to manage Covid-19 in Punjab, sent out a video message to the rural population, asking them to get tested early at the slightest of symptoms, as timely testing can save lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-toll-touches-1-700-in-ludhiana-with-18-more-deaths-cases-lowest-in-15-days-101621107186953.html
16-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana woman murdered by husband was beaten up before being strangled||Aarti Arora, 48, who was allegedly murdered by her husband with the connivance of their son, daughter and daughter-in-law on Friday, was brutally beaten up and tortured before being strangled to death, the autopsy report has revealed.The team of doctors that conducted the post-mortem examination at the Ludhiana civil hospital on Saturday confirmed that Aarti was strangled to death with a piece of wire. Multiple internal and external injuries on her body also revealed that she was beaten up and tortured. Continuing their probe on Saturday, police questioned the family’s domestic help, who revealed that Aarti and her husband, Harmesh Arora, 50, had strained relations and for the past few days, arguments had become common at their Atam Nagar house in Model Town.Aarti’s brother Rajan Kundra, who had contacted the police after her neighbour saw her family dragging her body into a car, had stated in his complaint that his sister was being mistreated by her husband, son, daughter and daughter-in-law. His brother-in-law had been beating her up and also not allowed her any food for two days. Kundra had met his sister on May 13 and asked her to accompany him for her safety, but she had told him to pick her up the next day so she could pack her luggage. But, before he could return to his sister, she was murdered, he alleged.After Aarti’s neighbours alerted him, he had also asked his two male cousins to rush to her house, while he drove to the hospital. At the house, his cousins found that Harmesh had fled and his son, daughter and daughter-in-law had taken Aarti to hospital, claiming she had attempted suicide by hanging. She was declared brought dead there.“Harmesh has been apprehended, while his son Lovish Arora, 26, daughter Ritika Arora, 20, and daughter-in-law Saina, alias Lovisha Arora, are at large. They are all facing a case of murder and will be nabbed soon,” said inspector Inderjt Singh, station house officer (SHO), Model Town police station, adding that they will get a detailed autopsy report of the victim on Monday.All for property?Aarti was the whole-time director of the family’s factory, Arora Alloys, located in Phase 7, Focal Point, according to her brother Rajat Kundra, who lives in Ludhiana at Karnail Singh Nagar.In his police complaint, Kundra had shared that Aarti’s husband Harmesh was the factory’s managing director, while their elder son, Parmesh Arora, who is settled abroad, is the director.Aarti also ran a boutique, Aarti Embellishments, in Atam Nagar. Harmesh had tried to remove her from the company as the whole-time director and tried to grab her shares by forging her signatures, and was also eyeing her boutique, Kundra had alleged, while demanding a fair investigation in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-woman-murdered-by-husband-was-beaten-up-before-being-strangled-101621107004978.html
16-05-2021||Other||Cyclone Tauktae alert: BMC shifts 600 Covid patients from temporary facilities||Even as chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has announced an alert for Mumbai and four coastal districts in the state in view of Cyclone Tauktae developing in the Arabian Sea, authorities in the city have begun gearing up to face any situation in case of heavy rain over the next two days.On Saturday, CM held a review meeting with district collectors of the coastal districts in the state to take stock of the preparations. “CM instructed the administration to be fully vigilant in the coastal areas and take necessary precautionary measures. The impact of the cyclone could be felt in Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts. District collectors should be ready, and manpower and equipment should be in place for any emergency,” a statement issued by his office read.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) decided to shift around 600 patients from the makeshift jumbo centres at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), Mulund and Dahisar to the nearby facilities, including the ones at SevenHills Hospital (Andheri) and NESCO (Goregaon), on Saturday owing to the alert. While BKC and Dahisar jumbo centres were being completely vacated till the time of going to press, patients at the Mulund facility’s ICU (intensive care unit) were not being moved as they are admitted inside a permanent structure, said BMC officials.“The patients are being shifted as a precautionary measure owing to the cyclonic storm. The wind speed is expected to be around 80-kmph (kilometre per hour) on Sunday, but if the speed increases, we may not be able to shift them at a later stage,” additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said.According to BMC officials, around 40 ambulances were deployed to shift the patients in phases.Hospitals have been asked to arrange for power backup to ensure constant electricity supply, in case of any damage to the supply lines due to the cyclone.Three National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams, each with 45 members, have been kept on standby, civic officials said. The civic body has advised citizens to avoid stepping out on Sunday as gusty wind and moderate rainfall are expected. BMC has asked its 24 ward officers to stay on alert. Dangerous trees have been trimmed in the city owing to the alert and all ward officers have been directed have been asked to either secure huge hoardings firmly or pull them down if required. Authorities have been directed to bring down tower cranes at construction sites so that there is no untoward incident on account of any structure coming crashing down due to the gusty winds.A high-level meeting was held on Saturday by senior civic officials, along with representatives of Mumbai Police, NDRF, Indian Navy, Coast Guard, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) and other agencies. They discussed the possible impact of the cyclone on Mumbai, steps to be taken for the safety of citizens who could get affected and the relief measures that might be needed.Following the meeting, BMC told its officials to be on high alert and if need be, evacuate citizens living in low-lying areas, such as near Mithi River, where flooding can be reported owing to heavy rainfall on Sunday. With an anticipated wind speed of 80 kmph off the Maharashtra-Goa coast on Sunday, the coastal wards in the western suburbs have been asked to make arrangements in five civic schools where citizens residing by the coast can be evacuated to at anytime on late Saturday night or early Sunday morning in case of any threat due to the cyclonic storm.A BMC official who attended the meeting, said, “There are five major points on which we are asked to be prepared, including trimming or cutting of dangerous trees and ensuring that hoardings and barricades at construction sites are properly placed. Several big hoardings are being removed and dewatering pumps are being kept ready with staff from the storm water department been asked to remain on alert. We have also been asked to stay on alert for those residing by the coast and evacuate them if the need arises. In case of those residing in low-lying areas near Mithi River, we will evacuate them only in case of heavy rainfall in the city on Sunday. Also, the weather and fisheries departments directed the fishermen to not venture into the sea by,” the official added.Though it is taking precautions, according to a BMC statement, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the cyclone should not be a threat to the city. “Senior IMD officials briefed about Cyclone Tauktae. They said the cyclone is not a threat to the city. However, as it will pass through the sea near Mumbai, its effect is likely to be accompanied by rains and strong winds. On Sunday, the wind speed in Mumbai was expected to go up to 60-80 kmph. There will be moderate rainfall at some places. IMD has also forecast heavy rain at some places,” the BMC statement read.“Considering the forecast made by the meteorological department, citizens should avoid leaving their homes on Sunday and must not visit nearby beaches,” the statement added. Though the Bandra-Worli Sea Link was not closed for traffic till the time of going to press, the bridge may shut later based on the weather department’s issues an advisory. The final call will be taken by the traffic police, said BMC officials. Earlier on Saturday, mayor Kishori Pednekar had told reporters, “BMC is making all necessary arrangements for ensuring that there is no waterlogging or any inconvenience to citizens. We have also kept the hospitals’ staff in the city on alert, and if any need arises, patients from makeshift Covid-19 hospitals like the jumbo centres will also be shifted as per requirement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyclone-tauktae-alert-bmc-shifts-600-covid-19-patients-from-temporary-facilities-101621106944376.html
16-05-2021||Other||Can’t ignore Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra: Fadnavis write to Sonia Gandhi||Leader of Opposition in Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, seeking her “attention” to the state, which is ruled by a coalition of three parties, including hers. Fadnavis said that the pandemic situation in Maharashtra is the worst and that her party should not indulge in politics or create a negative atmosphere and must instead play the role of a constructive Opposition in the Centre, like his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is doing in the state. The four-page letter by Fadnavis comes following Gandhi’s suggestions to Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi over the handling of the second wave of Covid-19 in the country. Fadnavis said that though questions have been raised on the Central government’s handling of the outbreak, one cannot ignore the situation in Maharashtra either. “As on May 13 (Thursday), of the total cases in the country, 22% came from Maharashtra. The state still contributes to nearly 31% of the fatalities in the country. If we talk about the active cases in the country, 14% are from Maharashtra… you would agree that if the situation in Maharashtra improves faster, then the load on the nation’s machinery would reduce,” Fadnavis wrote. The former chief minister further said that though Maharashtra is not ruled by BJP, the Centre has stood with the state and provided it with the maximum help in terms relief and other equipment. Fadnavis also alleged that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has reduced testing in Mumbai, even as rapid antigen tests form a considerable chunk of the total tests conducted. “The deaths due to Covid-19 are hidden. While other districts in the state account to 0.8% of deaths in the ‘deaths due to other reason’ category, Mumbai has 40% deaths... In 2020, 9,603 deaths had been hidden,” Fadnavis alleged. He added, “MVA government has left the fate of the backward regions such as Marathwada, Vidarbha and north Maharashtra to God. No help is being rendered here. In rural areas, neither beds nor treatment are available in hospitals. People have to struggle for Remdesivir and oxygen.” Responding to the allegations, Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole in a statement said that the letter is an attempt to deviate attention from the failure of the Centre. Patole added that Fadnavis should show the “courage to write a letter to Modi, who has turned the country into a cremation ground”. On Fadnavis’s allegation on Mumbai, Patole said that the Centre and the Niti Aayog have praised the ‘Mumbai model’. He asked if the Centre and Niti Aayog are lying. State Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “This party [BJP] cannot think beyond political opportunism and power, and is completely unconcerned about the plight of people.” “The party of superspreaders, including PM and HM (home minister) are blaming every other person for the crisis that their government failed to handle,” he added, referring to the campaigning for Assembly elections in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cant-ignore-covid-19-situation-in-maharashtra-fadnavis-write-to-sonia-gandhi-101621106824412.html
16-05-2021||Other||Rollback of 33% quota in promotions could lead to stir: Maharashtra minister||The trouble for the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) could mount further with state energy minister Nitin Raut from the Congress party warning of an agitation for the rollback of the state’s decision to scrap 33% reservation in promotions for those employed through quotas in the Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (SC), Nomadic Tribe (NT) and Special Backward Class categories. Earlier this week, Raut – who heads the ST cell of the Congress – met chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray to express his objections over the scrapping of the promotions. On Friday, Raut warned of a state-wide agitation to put pressure on the government to withdraw the decision. Raut could also have the backing of two of his cabinet colleagues from Congress, tribal development minister KC Padvi and education minister Varsha Gaikwad, over the issue. The state had on May 7 issued a government resolution (GR) scrapping the promotions—a decision that could lead to tension in the wake of the Supreme Court’s judgment to scrap the Maratha reservation in education and government jobs. Though it is being alleged by community members that the decision to scrap the promotion was a move to pacify the Maratha community, state government officials said it was based on a decision by the Bombay high court. Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party-backed legislator and Shiv Sangram party leader Vinayak Mete on Saturday announced that a section of the Maratha community will hold an agitation in Beed on June 5. His outfit had planned an agitation against the government’s alleged failure to secure the Maratha quota in the Supreme Court on May 16, but had to postpone it after the state extended the lockdown restrictions to contain Covid-19 till June 1. Mete claimed that the extension was the state government’s tactic to curb the protests by the community. He claimed that his outfit will stage the agitation even if the government extends lockdown beyond June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rollback-of-33-quota-in-promotions-could-lead-to-stir-maharashtra-minister-101621106704363.html
16-05-2021||Other||IIT-K to study impact of immersion of bodies||Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)- Kanpur (IIT-K) is set to undertake a study to assess the adverse impact of the immersion of bodies and their burial on water and soil, said Prof Vinod Tare, advisor to the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG).The development comes in the backdrop of mass graves being discovered on the banks of the Ganga in Rae Bareli, Unnao, Kanpur, Fatehpur and Kannauj, and fears about possible contamination of water and soil if the bodies were of Covid-19 patients.“We are going to study the impact of immersion of bodies and their burial on water and soil,” said Prof Tare, adding that the issue had been discussed at the NMCG level.“Immersing a Covid body in Ganga would wash the virus, but it won’t be destroyed; you need different agents such as heat and others to destroy (it),” said Prof Tare, who is with the institute’s environmental science department and has been part of all top panels formed to rejuvenate the Ganga.Seeking a complete ban on immersion and burial on the riverbed, he said the government should make arrangements in order to prevent the practice.Prof Tare has issued an appeal for the people not to dump the bodies in the river or bury them close to it.Many graves have been found in Unnao, Kanpur and Kannauj in the last few days. The bodies were buried at less than two-to-three-foot depth. This has heightened the fear that these corpses would be washed away once the river rises. A unit of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), one platoon of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and jawans from river police would patrol the rivers on boats in these districts. Kanpur police commissioner Aseem Arun said the arrangement would be made in several districts. In Kanpur, a team would ensure that bodies were not immersed or buried along the river, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iitk-to-study-impact-of-immersion-of-bodies-101621106524358.html
16-05-2021||Other||Dr Payal Tadvi suicide: HC stays Maharashtra Medical Council’s inquiry against 2 accused||The Bombay high court (HC) last week temporarily stayed a disciplinary inquiry initiated by the Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) against two King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital senior residents booked in connection with the death by suicide of their junior colleague Dr Payal Tadvi. Acting on separate petitions filed by the accused – Dr Bhakti Mehare and Dr Ankita Khandelwal – the division bench of justice KK Tated and justice NR Borkar restrained MMC from proceeding ahead with the inquiry till June 11, when their petitions will come up for further hearing. Dr Mehare and Dr Khandelwal moved HC challenging the inquiry initiated by MMC against them last November on the basis of a complaint lodged by Dr Tadvi’s mother Zubeda. They contended that the MMC has initiated the inquiry on the same set of charges for which they are facing prosecution. They claimed that if they are forced to disclose their defence in the inquiry, their defence in the criminal cases will be prejudiced, and therefore urged HC to stay the disciplinary proceedings till the conclusion of their trials. HC found force in the submissions and temporarily stayed the inquiry observing, “Bare reading of the notice of charges dated 04.11.2020 prima facie shows that the respondents started departmental inquiry against the petitioner on the basis of the criminal case.” Dr Tadvi, a second-year postgraduate student of Topiwala National Medical College – which is attached to the state-run KEM Hospital – died by suicide on May 22, 2019, inside her hostel room in the hospital premises. She had left behind a suicide note, blaming her three seniors – Dr Mehare, Dr Khandelwal and Dr Hema Ahuja – for compelling her to take the drastic step by harassing her over her caste and the fact that she had secured admission for the post-graduate course through quota earmarked for her category. A week after the death, the police arrested all the three doctors on charges of making casteist slurs and driving Dr Tadvi to end her life. The trio were booked under sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 201 (destruction of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code and section 3(2) (v) of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The trio were released on bail by HC on August 9, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dr-payal-tadvi-suicide-hc-stays-maharashtra-medical-council-s-inquiry-against-2-accused-101621106524898.html
16-05-2021||Other||Five killed, 10 injured after slab of building collapses at Thane district’s Ulhasnagar||Five people were killed, while 10 others suffered minor injuries after the slab of a ground-plus-five-storey residential building Mohini Palace at Ulhasnagar’s Charandas Chowk collapsed on Saturday afternoon. The victims have been identified as Milind Parche, 12, and his grandmother Savitri, 60, who lived on the first floor; Haresh Dotwal, 43, his wife Sandhya, 40, and daughter Aishwarya, 23, who lived in a single terrace flat above the fourth floor. The incident took place around 1.30pm when the ceiling of fourth floor fell on the floors below. As per UMC, eight families lived in the building at the time of the incident, with the ground floor housing shops. As soon as the portion collapsed, residents rushed out of the structure. “I lived with my wife on the fourth floor. I was watching TV when I heard loud noises thrice one after another. My wife and I rushed out of the building through the staircase, which is behind the structure,” said a resident, Devidas Bachwani, 61. A team of Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation’s (UMC) fire brigade with three fire tenders reached the spot and initiated the rescue operations to pull out those trapped inside the building. Around 10 people were evacuated from the building. The team managed to evacuate some of the residents after breaking the grilles of their windows. “A portion of the roof of the hall on the fourth floor collapsed. Our fire brigade team managed to rescue 10 persons, out of which two are admitted to Central Hospital with minor injuries, while others were released after treatment,” said UMC commissioner Raja Dayanidhi. Meanwhile, the rescue operations for the five people trapped inside the debris was initiated by the Thane disaster response force (TDRF) around 5.15pm. Thirty minutes later, Milind was pulled out from the debris. A team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) also reached the spot around 6.40 pm and joined the rescue operations. The other four victims were also pulled out from the debris. They were rushed to Central Hospital, where they were declared dead. The rescue operations were called off around 10 pm after the last body was removed from the debris. NDRF’s deputy commandant Ashish Kumar said, “As the slabs on the centre of the building had collapsed, we had to be very careful during the rescue operation, as we still had to find one body that was missing. The remaining portions of the slabs were hanging due to which we had to do the work slowly.” According to UMC records, the building was constructed in 1994 (27 years old) and is not in the list of dangerous structures. However, Ganesh Shimpi, assistant commissioner ward committee 1, UMC, said, “The terrace flat which the building had above the fourth floor is illegal. We will inquire on this angle and take necessary action.” Bachwani claimed that he had been complaining about the dilapidated state of the building to UMC and the local police since the past three years. “A year ago, my son and his wife left the house saying they didn’t want to live in danger. I have been complaining about the state of the building since three years but nobody cared about it. A year ago, the building had developed cracks on the backside. People have now died due to negligence,” said Bachwani. In August 2013, a structure, Mahak Apartments collapsed, leaving around 200 homeless. As residents took to protests, the state government asked the civic body chief to regularise illegal structures and redevelop the dangerous ones. Though UMC had begun the process, it has now come to a standstill. “The civic body has already started serving notices to dangerous buildings. The owners are asked to conduct structural audits. From June, the civic body will be taking action against those buildings that are in the dangerous structures’ list,” added Dayanidhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-killed-10-injured-after-slab-of-building-collapses-at-thane-district-s-ulhasnagar-101621106464409.html
16-05-2021||Other||UP reports 12,547 fresh Covid-19 cases, 281 more deaths||Uttar Pradesh on Saturday reported 12,547 fresh Covid-19 cases and Lucknow’s daily case count dropped to 617 after 45 days amid 281 more fatalities statewide in the past 24 hours, according to official data.The maximum 15 deaths were recorded in Chandauli in eastern UP followed by 14 in Kanpur and 12 in the state capital, the data showed. All the 75 districts reported below 1000 fresh cases on the day.The state’s total case count is now over 16 lakh or 1.6 million (1,609,140) since the beginning of the pandemic in March last year and the death toll has gone up to 17,238, also since March last year. On May 14, UP reported 15,747 fresh cases and 312 more deaths.Among the fresh cases on Saturday, Meerut reported the maximum 879 followed by 801 in Gorakhpur, 617 in Lucknow, 527 in Ghaziabad, 480 in Gautam Buddha Nagar, 476 in Varanasi, 315 in Jhansi, 197 in Kanpur, 172 in Prayagraj and 150 in Agra, according to the state health department data.Chandauli reported 15 deaths, Kanpur 14, Lucknow and Auraiyya 12 each, Gautam Buddha Nagar and Jhansi 10 each, Varanasi and Ghaziabad seven each and Prayagraj four.“The number of active cases under treatment now is 1,77,643. This figure is close to the number of active cases a month before. We had 1,70,059 active cases on April 17,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary (Information).The recovery rate in Uttar Pradesh was 87.9% while the fatality rate was about 1%, said Sehgal. UP had reported its first case on March 2, 2020.“Lucknow has till now reported 2,33,211 cases of which 2,18,509 have recovered and the recovery rate is 93.69%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Lucknow has reported 2,228 deaths so far. At present, there are 12,474 active cases (patients under treatment) in the state capital.The state has tested over 4.44 crore (4,44,27,447) Covid samples till now, including 2,56,755 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-reports-12-547-fresh-covid-19-cases-281-more-deaths-101621106104320.html
16-05-2021||Other||Cyclone Tauktae building in Arabian Sea has Pune on yellow alert for rain, winds||PUNE Pune received light rain on Friday, a possible foretaste of what is to come in the next few days, based on the fact that as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, this is the third consecutive year a cyclonic storm is hovering over the Arabian Sea close to the Indian coast. Pune, on Friday, reported 0.9 millimetres of rainfall in Shivajinagar and traces of rain at Lohegaon and Pashan. IMD has issued a forecast of moderate rain for Pune city (15.6mm – 64.4 mm) on May 15 and May 16, with isolated heavy (64.5mm-115.5mm) rainfall likely in the ghat areas. Thunder, lightning and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) are also likely on May 15 and May 16. “We have issued a yellow alert which means that citizens and authorities have to be alert. There may be a partial reduction in visibility, and slippery roads during periods of intense rain spell in some areas. There can also be a major disruption of traffic flow. Moderate water logging in low-lying areas adjacent to river banks is also possible, with a possibility of trees falling/uprooting on May 15 and May 16,” said Anupam Kashyapi, IMD. He further added that there is a possibility of minor landslides in the elevated hilly areas near Pune on May 15 and May 16. Cyclone watch In 2019, Cyclone Vayu moved parallel to the coast and then later weakened just before landfall in Gujarat. In 2020, Nisarga hit Maharashtra in May. And this year, a low-pressure area has a depression and later is forecast develop into Cyclone Tauktae in the Arabian Sea. Dr Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general of Meteorology, IMD, said that the forecast as of now is that the cyclone will travel towards Gujarat. “The exact path and intensity will get clearer in the next 24 hours. We have issued a high alert in Gujarat. In Maharashtra the impact will be only of strong winds and rainfall,” said Mohapatra. As of Friday, the low pressure area over Lakshadweep and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea has moved east-north-eastwards, and concentrated into a depression. “It is very likely to intensify into a deep depression during the next 12 hours (Friday evening) and into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 12 hours (May 15 morning). It is very likely to reach near the Gujarat coast by May 18 morning,” said IMD officials. Vineet Singh, researcher at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), who is currently studying cyclones, said, “It is related to the wind pattern in the mid- to upper-atmosphere, say at a height of five to 10km, which governs a cyclone track in general.” “In the last 40 years, for the first time, four consecutive years (2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021) will have a cyclone in the Arabian Sea, in the pre-monsoon season. If this cyclone hits Gujarat with the least cyclonic storm strength, then for the first time since 1980, a cyclone will hit Gujarat in May, with strength of wind speed at least 65kmph as per data by the weather department,” said Singh. Pre-monsoon cyclones near the Indian west coast 2019: Cyclone Vayu moved parallel to the coast and then later weakened just before landfall in Gujarat. 2020: Nisarga hit Maharashtra in May. 2021: Cyclone Tauktae, a low pressure area has concentrated into a depression and later will develop a cyclone. It is likely to move towards Gujarat. Source: IMD Monsoon over Kerala likely on May 31 As per IMD, this year, the onset of the southwest monsoon over Kerala is likely to be on May 31. IMD said it is difficult to say when the monsoon will reach Maharashtra. Conditions will get clear after the dissipation of the cyclonic storm currently over the Arabian Sea, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyclone-tauktae-building-in-arabian-sea-has-pune-on-yellow-alert-for-rain-winds-101621001159105.html
