17-05-2021||Other||Amid lockdown, labour shortage worries Yamunanagar industrialists||As the state enters the third week of lockdown due to surge in Covid-19 cases, the shortage of labour in the plywood and metal industries of Yamunanagar is affecting business.As per rough estimates, there are nearly a thousand units, including plyboard and peeling factories and over 1,500 metal units dealing in the manufacturing of brass, steel and aluminium products that are operational across district.Both the industries are highly labour-intensive with over one lakh people are directly or indirectly linked to these industries. Most industries export their products to other states or countries.Plywood industrialists highlighted the labour problem as most of their skilled manpower belongs to UP, Bihar, Odisha, West Bengal or Jharkhand and have returned to their native place.Jugal Kishor, president of the state plywood industries association, said that just 15% of such industries are operating as per government guidelines.“But where will we sell our products?” he wondered, adding, “Because of lockdown in most states, there is no demand. So, we are just adding to our existing stock.”Bharat Garg, of a utensil-makers’ body, said that their labour has shifted to industries in the rural belts and might not return even if the lockdown ends.“Existential crisis for the units under municipal limits is looming large. Most labour has migrated back home or started working in units outside the MC limits,” Garg, owner of JK Metal Industries, said.Meanwhile, as per the Master Plan 2041 approved last week, the industrial zone in district will increase from the existing 16% to 28% by 2041.Ram Niwas Garg, chairman of Haryana Vyapari Kalyan Board, said, “The increase in industrial zone will open doors for more start-ups by local youth and overall development of the region.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-lockdown-labour-shortage-worries-yamunanagar-industrialists-101621272251380.html
17-05-2021||Other||Khattar should resign immediately: Abhay||Indian National Lok Dal general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala on Monday said, “Manohar Lal Khattar has no right to continue in the constitutional post like chief minister of the state.”Addressing a press conference in Hisar, Abhay said, “Whenever the history of Haryana will be written, Khattar’s name will be written in black letters.”“No CM has done so much damage to Haryana as Khattar has done till date. If Haryana is to be saved, Khattar should resign immediately,” he said.“JJP and BJP have formed a gang together who are robbing the state. They have looted thousands of crores under the guise of Covid,” he added.Hitting out at Khattar, Abhay said the Covid hospital in Hisar was built by Congress’ Jindal family but Khattar inaugurated it to take credit.“The Jindal family built the hospital and instead of naming it after OP Jindal, the government named it after Chaudhary Devi Lal. No temporary thing can be made on the name of Chaudhary Devi Lal in Haryana,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/khattar-should-resign-immediately-abhay-101621272191178.html
17-05-2021||Other||Man arrested for ‘forcing’ conversion, probe on||The Jharkhand police have booked and arrested a trader from Bhagalpur district in Bihar for allegedly forcing his employee, hailing from a village in Godda district, to convert to Islam. Lalit Kumar Pandey, officer in-charge of Lalmatiya police station in Godda district, said both accused and the alleged victim, who was held captive, had been brought to Godda.Godda’s superintendent of police YS Rames told media persons that Mahagama subdivisional police officer (SDPO) Shiv Shankar Tiwary had been sent Lalmatiya to conduct the probe.As per a written complaint by Rupali Devi, a resident of Dacoita village under Lalamatiya police station, her husband Shankar Pandit’s (45) was forced to convert and offer prayers in a mosque on the day of Eid by his employer Md Khurishid Mansuri (35), a resident of Jalaha village under Sanokhar police station in the neighbouring Bhagalpur district, which falls in Bihar.Khurshid also changed Shankar Pandit’s name to Salim Mansuri and confined him in his house, the woman has alleged in her complaint.On Sunday, Shankar Pandit called up his wife and son Jitu Pandit and sought help, after which they informed village head Nimani Murmu. The three then lodged a complaint at the Lalmatiya police station.“Accused is in our custody. Any further action would be taken only after a probe by senior officials,” said the officer in-charge.Family members said Shankar Pandit had been working at Mansuri’s shop for last 1.5 years for a daily wage of ₹150.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-arrested-for-forcing-conversion-probe-on-101621268290485.html
17-05-2021||Other||Karnataka govt forms task force on black fungus, identifies 97 cases||At least 97 people in Karnataka have been identified to have contracted black fungus (mucormycosis), K Sudhakar, state minister for health, family welfare and medical education said on Monday.“Compared to normal years, this (black fungus) has been seen in quite a few people,” Sudhakar said on Monday. He added that the disease should not be compared to Covid-19 or believed to transmit in the same fashion as Covid-19.The Karnataka government has formed a specialised task force on black fungus to contain the growing number of cases reported from across the state. The new infection comes amid a raging Covid-19 pandemic that has thrown life out gear for the state and country for over a year now.The disease is said to appear in those who have immunocompromised conditions like cancer, HIV and others, the minister said. Sudhakar said that even Covid-19 infected patients with uncontrolled diabetes and those who are fed a high dose of steroids can get the disease.Black fungus enters the nose first, then the eyes and finally travels to the brain when it becomes more deadly and potentially life threatening.“This is a notified disease and all private hospitals, ENT specialists should inform the government if such cases are discovered. This information cannot be kept private and must be informed to the government. Keeping it from the government is against the law,” Sudhakar said.Drugs like Amphotericin B are used to treat the disease. The supply of the drug, however, is controlled by the Centre which has so far allocated 1,050 vials to Karnataka, the minister said, of which the state had received 450 so far.Several states in India have reported a high number of black fungus cases that has added to panic amid the Covid-19 pandemic of the spread of another potentially deadly disease.Sudhakar said that the government has placed orders for around 20,000 vials of the medicine along with two other drugs, which are also effective against black fungus.The minister said that at least five centres across Karnataka - Bengaluru, Mysuru, Hubbali, Kalaburagi and Shivamogga - will start operating by Thursday to treat people with this condition.Sudhakar said that the new task force will also try to determine the source of the infection. He said that private hospitals must use only sterilized water for their dehumidifiers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnataka-govt-forms-task-force-on-black-fungus-identifies-97-cases-101621267872748.html
17-05-2021||Other||Count the dead with due diligence, HC tells Bihar||PATNAUpset over the apparent inconsistency in figures of death in Buxar provided in affidavits filed by the Patna division commissioner and Bihar’s chief secretary, the Patna High Court and sought figures of the entire district to be furnished since March 1 and said this would apply to all the 38 districts of the state. Hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) on Covid management in the state, the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar had earlier termed as “disturbing” the issue of corpses found floating in the Ganga river and sought a detailed reply the advocate general (AG), who submitted the commissioner’s affidavit on Monday. “We are ‘aghast’ at the manner in which the affidavits are being filed. The bench deserves better treatment from the government. We don’t appreciate this. All affidavits must be to be vetted by a lawyer. The department directly cannot file affidavits in these types of matters. They have to be vetted by your (Advocate General) office. At this point in time, we do not comment anything further on these affidavits, but all facts first must be verified from all sources and then only placed before us, else it will amount to filing of false/incomplete affidavit.,” the bench observed.The bench was upset that while the chief secretary’s affidavit said only six deaths had taken place in Buxar since March 1, 2021, there were 789 cremations mentioned in the commissioner’s affidavit at just one cremation ghat, Muktidham Charitarban, Buxar, under the Nagar Parishad between May 5 and May 14. “The CS does not say that six deaths are only due to Covid. The commissioner also does not say that 789 deaths are non-Covid ones. The total population of Buxar is 17 lakh, but the figures are only for Nagar Parishad. There is no mention of the religion or age groups of the dead. Hindus may be a majority in Buxar, but that does not mean there is none from other religions. Last rites may also have been performed at burial grounds,” the bench said. Advocate general Lali Kishore said certain clarifications were required and he would inform the court after getting all the details. “Information furnished needs to be collated in a format which can be done by a technically qualified person. We direct the State to depute with the learned Advocate General at least two technically qualified persons having proficiency in computers for updating the data in the format,” the bench said. It said that in the digital era, the websites were also not updated to get the correct figures of death. “The commissioner’s affidavit says only 81 bodies were found in the Ganga, 71 on May 10, six on May 11 and four on May 12 and the last rites were performed as per procedure after DNA sampling. On the other hand, there are six deaths reported and 789 cremations at just one ghat. We will also like to know the age group, no matter if it is related to Covid or not. If the young people are dying, it is serious,” it said. “We notice that the official website maintained by the State of Bihar for recording births and deaths has not yet been updated. We see no reason as to why the deaths, be it 6 or 789, would not have been updated on the official website. Equally, this would apply to all the districts of Bihar,” the bench observed. Oxygen supply The bench also wanted to know if the state had been provided with enough tankers for transportation of 400 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) it had demanded. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) K N Singh said the Centre had allocated the demanded quantity and the issue of transportation had been resolved. “Let an affidavit of the principal secretary, health, verifying such fact, be filed within next two days. He shall also inform the sufficiency or lack thereof, of the infrastructure for transporting the entire allocated quota of oxygen (LMO). He shall apprise the Court of the infrastructure for storage and transportation up to the point of end user,” the bench said. Heat in High CourtThe fuseThe bench was upset that while chief secretary’s affidavit said only six deaths had taken place in Buxar since March 1, 2021, there were 789 cremations mentioned in the commissioner’s affidavit at just one cremation ghat, Muktidham Charitarban, Buxar, between May 5 and May 14.Under lens‘We notice that the official website of the State of Bihar for recording births and deaths has not yet been updated. We see no reason as to why the deaths, be it 6 or 789, would not have been updated on the official website. Equally, this would apply to all the districts of Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/count-the-dead-with-due-diligence-hc-tells-bihar-101621266430456.html
17-05-2021||Other||‘I recommend it because...’: Pragya Thakur justifies cow urine comment||BJP Member of Parliament from Bhopal, Pragya Thakur, on Monday stood by her comments asking party workers to drink cow urine as an antidote to Covid 19. She said that she recommends it because it has “scientific backing”. A video capturing her comments has gone viral on social media, even getting the attention of the international press.Addressing party workers in Bhopal on Sunday, Thakur said, “I consumed cow urine daily and it is a kind of acid which purifies my body. It also purifies the lungs and saves me from Covid-19 infection. I don’t take any medicine against corona but I am safe.”Thakur didn’t stop here but also explained how to consume this. Thakur said, “The urine should come from cows of the indigenous breed that are fed only forest grass. It should be filtered with a piece of cotton clothes at least 16 times before consumption.”Speaking to Hindustan Times on Monday, the BJP MP said she has not been infected with Covid-19 but she would add that the role of cow urine against the Covid-19 cannot be downplayed.“Covid is an infection and the cow urine is a proven medicine for infections. I have not been infected till now because I consume cow urine,” Pragya told Hindustan Times.She added that drugs like Remdesivir and others that are being prescribed by the doctors do not have an established scientific backing yet. “They are not proven medications and are still under research... However, I have been taking cow urine and Panchgavya ( a mix of cow urine, dung, milk, ghee and curd) which has protected me till now. I have recommended these because they have scientific backing. Research has already established it,” she told Hindustan Times.Asked about the research which established cow urine’s anti-infectious properties, she said that it was a German finding.On a question, why was she endangering lives when her own government was suggesting against any unprescribed scientific treatment for Covid-19, Thakur denied any such endangerment. She said that despite so much research and trials, no established cure has been found yet.“However, I have been using the cow urine despite suffering from cancer and being on chemo and radiotherapy and all this while I have been fine and free from Covid”.Reacting to a question on the sensitive health parameters of critical Covid-19 patients and cow urine consumption, she said its consumption will not impact their blood toxicity. “No Covid patient’s health will worsen because of drinking cow urine. It has a specific dosage that is to be given to the patient and while I have just named the medicine yet, if someone wants to take it they can come to me and I shall prescribe the required dose of urine that is needed,” she said.Thakur said that she needs to be safe because she is serving the nation and for that purpose, she consumes cow urine. “I wish health to everyone and this is why I recommend it. I want all to be safe like me and I have not prescribed anything unresearched like pig or bull’s urine. The prescription of cow urine is an outcome of hundreds of years of research by Rishis and Munis (saints and seers). It has a legacy behind it in the ancient shastras of Patanjali. Tell me which science in the world can challenge these shastras of Patanjali today,” she said.“I have conducted experiments on myself and have cured myself of cancer because of cow urine. What can be a bigger science than this?” she questioned.Earlier, Thakur, who had gone through bilateral mastectomy, claimed that her breast cancer was cured due to cow urine and other by-products.Meanwhile, Dr Ranjan Sharma, president Indian Medical Association reacted to the development and said that it was very unfortunate when the country was faced with such a catastrophe, many leaders were giving unfounded suggestions and risking more lives.Hinting at the recent unscientific remark, Sharma said that even the RSS has asked people to only adhere to scientific medicines. “At least, now these leaders should stop recommending unscientific treatments,” he said.Malegaon blast co-accused Pragya Thakur was missing from public life for the past four months due to ongoing health issues. Many locals and activists had also run a campaign against her for not extending any help to the people of Bhopal who were facing a shortage of oxygen beds and Remdesivir injections. She has started attending public programmes recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/i-recommend-it-because-despite-trolls-pragya-thakur-justifies-cow-urine-comment-101621265831014.html
17-05-2021||Other||Forest dept reunites 25-day-old leopard cub with mother after rescue op||PUNE The Wildlife SOS and forest department reunited a 25-day-old leopard cub with its mother, in a rescue operation on Monday. The cub was found last week stranded in a sugarcane field in Vadgaon Anand village, located in the Junnar division of Pune district. The farmers in Vadgaon Anand village were out harvesting their sugarcane crops, when they heard mewling sounds coming from the field. On taking a closer look, they were stunned to find a baby leopard. As they are trained in preliminary rescue protocols, as human-leopard interaction is very high in this area, the farmers immediately alerted members of the village rescue team, trained by the Maharashtra Forest Department and Wildlife SOS.Soon after, two rescue units from Wildlife SOS and the forest department rushed to the location with the necessary equipment and medical kit to examine the cub. The on-site examination of leopard cubs is conducted to ascertain age and whether or not they are wounded or suffering from any infection or showing signs of dehydration.The cub was identified as a female, estimated to be about 25-days-old. On being deemed healthy and fit for release by Wildlife SOS wildlife veterinary officer, Dr Nikhil Bangar, the cub was placed in a safe-box .“We installed camera traps to document the happy reunion. The mother leopard slowly approached the field around midnight, after being drawn by her cub’s distinct scent and vocalisation. She was quick to tip the safe-box over and carefully picked up the cub to relocate to a safer location,” said Dr Bangar. Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO of Wildlife SOS, said, “Leopard cubs stay with their mothers until they are two-years old, learning the necessary skills of survival, all the while exploring their natural habitat and honing their senses. For this young cub, the separation from its mother could have easily meant death or a life in captivity. To avoid situations like that, we undertake every effort to make such rescue and reunion operations possible and successful.”Yogesh Ghodake, range forest officer, Otur, said, “Such incidents are quite common for villagers residing near the scrub forests of Maharashtra, which is the natural habitat of a large population of leopards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/forest-dept-reunites-25-day-old-leopard-cub-with-mother-after-rescue-op-101621263670331.html
17-05-2021||Other||Undri projects assessed from 2017 onwards to pay double current property tax rate||PUNE Residents from a few housing societies in Undri have received property tax bills where they claim to have been charged double the current rate. All Undri projects assessed from 2017 onwards have received a tax bill that is double the current rate.As per PMC norms, the first tax bill is received after a property completes three years from date of completion. The societies which have received the double tax rate are Ganga Glitz, Silver Hill 2BHK and 38 Park Majestique. Residents of Silver Hill society have been issued a first tax bill of ₹72,000 for four yrs (2017 to 2021), approx. ₹18,000 per year for 750 sqft of carpet area (960 sqft built-up).When compared to standard PMC rates applied to other residential societies in the area, the bill should not be more than ₹8,000 to ₹10,000 per year. (see box)Milind Chaturbhuj, divisional inspector, Undri Tax office, said, “The societies which have received more taxes come under PMC jurisdiction. All are new constructions, while the others were registered under the gram panchayat. We had informed builders about the increase in tax rate, but many of these residents are still not aware of it.”A resident of Silver Hill society on the request on anonymity said, “As responsible citizens, we will pay the property tax. The taxation is double that of neighbourhood buildings, as well as more than that paid by more developed locations in PMC. There cannot be this disparity in rates without transparency. We hope the authorities take note, correct the bills in the future and discount the overcharged amounts in future bills.” Residents in Undri have also complained about no PMC water connection available.“No water line has been received by our society and we purchase water from vendors: Yet charges applied by PMC is ₹3,010 per resident, per year. We have only received a garbage collection service and access to the sewage drain. No other services are provided in the past four years. Still we have been told to pay double the tax,” said a resident of Ganga Glitz society.Sanket Nichat, a resident of 38 Park Majestique said, “I have received a tax bill of ₹65,000 for four years, which is more than what our nearby societies have received. Due to lockdown we are not able to go to the PMC office and complain.”One resident who did visit the Undri PMC tax office, claims that the officer said that the bill is “system generated and correct.”Property tax rates in Undri Sai Ganga 1BHK - ₹6,500Atur Nagar 2 BHK - ₹6,000Ganga Estoria 2BHK - ₹8,800WaterRidge 3BHK – ₹10,000Hills and Dales Ph3, 3BHK - ₹12,000Societies that received an increased tax billGanga Glitz 2BHK - ₹19,000Silver Hill 2BHK – ₹18,000||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/undri-projects-assessed-from-2017-onwards-to-pay-double-current-property-tax-rate-101621262770378.html
17-05-2021||Other||Tripura launches education channel to combat academic loss amid Covid-19 pandemic||In a bid to minimize educational loss and avoid any dropout amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Tripura government on Monday launched an education channel for the first time offering lessons on the school academic syllabus. “This initiative was taken for the students to get lessons despite all educational institutions being shut amid the pandemic. We have adopted as many as 24 different initiatives to provide quality education to the students in these 3.5 years. It will help cut educational loss across the state through offering lessons for 24x7,” chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb told the media after launching Vande Tripura channel from the civil secretariat. Vande Tripura, the 24x7 channel, would telecast different academic discussions, news related to education and education department and is scheduled to start live classes from June 1. Earlier, the education department launched video lectures on local TV channels, online platforms, SMS-based classes, neighbourhood classes, students helpline, among other initiatives for school students. State education minister Ratan Lal Nath said that though they achieved success by adopting various educational schemes after coming to power in 2018, the progress was stalled due to the pandemic. “We have experienced 36 per cent loss in education since the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country. The decision of opening the educational channel has been taken to cover the loss,” said Nath. All educational institutions, including schools, colleges and universities, were shut since April 9 for an indefinite period amid the second wave of Covid-19. The state has nearly 4,400 government and aided schools with 22 government degree colleges and two universities. Earlier, the educational institutions were shut for almost nine months since mid-March last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. During the period, the education department continued classes via online mode. At least 29 per cent of students were found unable to access both mobile phones and cable televisions, according to a survey conducted in last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tripura-launches-education-channel-to-combat-academic-loss-amid-covid-19-pandemic-101621262410873.html
17-05-2021||Other||QMaN aims to network LGBTQIA community to help with legal, govt issues||PUNE Prasad Pramod Thete, a transgender who also goes by the name Mamta, claims that he has been unable to get an identity certificate that declares him a transgender.“I am at home with no job. I wanted to avail of the government schemes, but without a certificate, which I applied for in December 2020, I cannot avail of these schemes,” said Thete.It because of cases like Thete, and also to mark the International Day against Homophobia, Biphobia, and Transphobia observed on May 17, that the Bindu Queer Rights Foundation announced the starting of Queer Maharashtra Network, aimed at enabling lesbian, gay, transgender, intersex, queer, and asexual (QMaN) individuals, help each other.Bindumadhav Khire, director, Bindu Queer Rights Foundation, who is leading the initiative, said that this network will push for issues related to the community which are still not acted upon. “The biggest hurdle many members of the community face are their identity certificates, so that they can avail and benefit from the many government schemes for the LGBTQIA community,” said Khire, who has been helping transgenders get their identity cards. “It has been six months that members who applied are still awaiting registration. We even put up an RTI and it has resulted in no further progress. With this network, I aim to help them get their registrations and certificates at the earliest,” Khire addedOther issues Khire pointed out included rations for Ttansgenders and legal support for gays.“While the provision of services and support to individuals from the LGBTQIA community is very important, the lack of a local-level network has stagnated the movement in terms of advocacy and expansion of rights. Some of the areas on which these lacunae have been repeatedly noticed are legal, but also inclusive education for police personnel, medical personnel and political leaders; and empowering local social structures shelter homes.” he added.The office for administration of the network will be Bindu Queer Rights Foundation office in Pune. Email Bindumadhav Khire, director, Bindu Queer Rights Foundation on bindumadhav.khire@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/qman-aims-to-network-lgbtqia-community-to-help-with-legal-govt-issues-101621261750293.html
17-05-2021||Other||Sassoon docs save life of tribal child attacked by wild boar in Lavasa||PUNE A 11-year-old tribal resident of Lavasa was severely injured in an attack by a wild boar on May 10. The child was rushed to the Paediatric Surgery department at Sassoon General Hospital in Pune, where after surgery, his life was saved. The child is now recovering and will be discharged soon.Doctors from the hospital said that the child had incurred deep wounds on his chest.Dr Minakshi Nalbale-Bhosale, associate professor and head of department of Paediatric Surgery, said that the muscles of the child were stripped apart and his ribs were torn to pieces. “The lungs were peeking out of the wound. The child was at risk of dying due to broken ribs causing serious lung and heart injuries. In addition, prevention of infection like rabies was a matter of concern. The child needed emergency medication as well as emergency surgery,” said Dr Bhosale.Dr Bhosale added that the department is planning to publish a report on the case.“No such cases with serious injuries on the chest have been reported in a child so far,” said Dr Bhosale.On May 10, the child was successfully operated on by a team of paediatric surgeons led by Dr Nalbale-Bhosale, along with Dr Varsha Soni, Dr Amir Iqbal Ali and Dr Shital Bhaisare. Dr Kirti Kundalwal and team, Dr Sanyogita Naik and Dr Sunita Khade, were the anaesthesiologists.Dr Malan Parande, Dr Ganesh Jagdale and Dr Ravi Shivshete from the department of Preventive and Social Medicine ensure no rabies-like infection||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sassoon-docs-save-life-of-tribal-child-attacked-by-wild-boar-in-lavasa-101621261690278.html
17-05-2021||Other||Keep certificates ready for admissions: Directorate of Technical Education||PUNE The Directorate of Technical Education (DTE), Maharashtra, issued a circular on Monday, appealing to students to keep their necessary documents ready for admissions to the various technical courses. This year, the Class 10 board exams (SSC) have been cancelled and the dates for the Class 12 exam (HSC) have not yet been declared.Despite this, DTE is gearing up for admissions to its technical courses.As per the circular, issued by Abhay Wagh, DTE state director, “Admissions for the academic year 2021-22, first- and second-year diploma courses, and first-year post HSC (Class 12) diploma course, will be carried out by a central entrance exam test. While applying for the course students need to submit necessary documents. All aspirants need to keep their documents ready, which will be verified at the time of the admission.”There are several documents as per the category of the student who needs to be submitted. These include caste certificate, open-category economically backward certificate, domicile certificate; and if the student is orphan, then an orphan certificate; if the student is disabled, then a disability certificate; apart from several other certificates. Girish Mani, a class 10 student, said, “I have now passed class 10 as per the state government decision and want to pursue a career in mechanical engineering. For that I will first take admission to an engineering diploma course. I have kept all my necessary documents ready and am only waiting for the process to start.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/keep-certificates-ready-for-admissions-directorate-of-technical-education-101621261151535.html
17-05-2021||Other||‘3 killed in exchange of fire between security forces, Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma’: Police||Three people were killed in an exchange of fire between Maoists and security forces in the forest in front of a newly established camp of security forces in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma on Monday, a police official said.No security personnel were injured in the incident, police said.“The exchange of fire started on Monday afternoon at Silger in Sukma along the inter-district border of Bijapur and Sukma, in which three people were killed,” said IG Bastar range Sunderaj P.Senior officials said that they are yet to ascertain whether the deceased were Maoists or civilians as a group of villagers were protesting against the establishment of the camp till Sunday evening.The IG further said since the past few days, a group of villagers were staging a protest under the pressure of Maoists in front of Silger camp against the establishment of the camp.“The area is core Maoists’ area and the villagers were protesting under the pressure of Maoists. On Sunday night, they returned to their villages but on Monday afternoon some people, including some Maoists of Jagargonda Area Committee of Maoists, reached the camp and started firing. When the camp was attacked, the security personnel retaliated and the exchange of fire continued. After the firing stopped, we found three dead bodies which are yet to be identified,” said the IG.“The bodies could be of Maoists but we will able to say anything after identification. Senior police officers are at the spot and reinforcement have been sent,” said the IG.The encounter spot is located eight to 10 kilometres away from the site of the Naxal attack that took place on April 3 in Sukma district where 22 security personnel were killed.“We are still searching the forest and more details are awaited,” the IG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-killed-in-exchange-of-fire-between-security-forces-maoists-in-chhattisgarh-s-sukma-police-101621259470765.html
17-05-2021||Other||Fire brigade unable to enter Dighi hsg society, because gate too small; tragedy averted||PUNE Residents of the Legacy Sannidhi housing society in Dighi, switched to panic mode for a few hours early on Monday morning, after a transformer caught fire and the fire engines was unable to enter the premises.The entry gate to the housing society was too small to accommodate the fire brigade’s vehicles.An official of from the Bhosari fire station, requesting anonymity, said, “The entry gate was small so we could not enter the premises. We tried to reverse the vehicle in, but it was not possible.”“The incident happened at 8am and fire was brought under control at 8.45pm. The fire brigade could not enter the society gate, so we switched off the main connection and later, all the residents spread water over the transformer,” said Ajit Garud, chairman, Legacy Sannidhi.This is the first such incident at the Legacy Sannidhi housing society.“A fire audit needs to be done of our society and the non-objection-certificate by the fire safety department, given to buildings, should be verified to avert such situations in future,” added Garud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fire-brigade-unable-to-enter-dighi-hsg-society-because-gate-too-small-tragedy-averted-101621259411896.html
17-05-2021||Other||BJP MP Pragya Thakur says cow urine saves people from Covid-19||Cow urine can help beat Covid-19, Bharatiya Janata Party leader Pragya Thakur has said, urging party workers to also consume gau mutra.Speaking at a party event in Bhopal on Sunday, the party MP said, “I consumed cow urine daily and it is a kind of acid which purifies my body. It also purifies the lungs and saves me from Covid-19 infection. I don’t take any medicine against corona but I am safe.”Thakur then went on to explain how to consume it too. She said, “The urine should belong to a cow of indigenous breed...one who only grass from a forest. It should then be filtered at least 16 times using a cotton cloth before consumption.” Thakur stuck to her stand a day later and said on Monday, “I said what I practise. It is my belief and I didn’t force anybody to follow this.”Also Read | Despite second wave, Bhagwat’s comments indicate Sangh-BJP ties on trackEarlier, Thakur, who had gone through bilateral mastectomy, claimed that her breast cancer was cured due to cow urine and other by-products of cow. The Malegaon blast co-accused was missing from public life for the past four months due to ongoing health issues. Many locals and activists had also run a campaign against her for not extending any help to the people of Bhopal amid shortage of oxygen beds and Remdevisir injections. She has started attending public programmes recently.Meanwhile, the MP’s comments allowed the Congress to open a line of attack against her party. Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill tweeted on Monday, “No wonder top virologist Shahid Jameel has quit Govt Covid Panel because BJP Brigade believes in quack formulas rather than scientific facts.” Many doctors have warned against using cow urine to ward off Covid-19 by confirming that its properties do not give any protection against the viral infection, and could cause other infections like black fungus or mucormycosis, which can be fatal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-mp-pragya-thakur-says-cow-urine-saves-people-from-covid19-101621254370646.html
17-05-2021||Other||Body carried to crematorium on pushcart, probe ordered||PATNAAuthorities in Nalanda district have ordered a probe after a body being taken to crematorium in a garbage pushcart of Biharsharif municipal body went viral.The deceased man was identified as Manoj Kuamar, who stayed at his rented house at Jalalpur in Nalanda district.His maternal uncle Ramavtar Prasad said Manoj complained of uneasiness and was admitted to the Sadar hospital in Biharsharif last week. After two days, he was discharged. During his hospitalization, his swab samples were taken for Covid-19 test. Manoj died on May 13, though the results are still awaited. The family requested an ambulance, but it never arrived. “When the ambulance failed to turn up even after 18 hours, neighbours objected to the body being kept at our rented home as they feared spread of the infection,” said Prasad.When the family contacted local ward councillor Sushil Kumar, he allegedly demanded ₹22,000 for cremation. The amount was later settled at ₹16,500 after which two men wearing PPE kits came with a garbage pushcart. They wrapped the body with a bedsheet and took it to the burial ground. No family member accompanied the body.Locals residents have alleged that the ward councillor told them a committee had been formed for last rites of unclaimed bodies by the municipal corporation. Residents also wrote to district magistrate Yogendra Prasad seeking an inquiry.Municipal commissioner Anshul Agarwal said, “We are investigating the matter.” Nalanda civil surgeon Dr Sunil Kumar said, “We have more than 200 vehicles to take bodies to the crematorium. A proper investigation will be done into the matter and action will be taken against those who are found guilty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/body-carried-to-crematorium-on-pushcart-probe-ordered-101621253109940.html
17-05-2021||Other||Centre tells Punjab to release revised power tariff at earliest||The Union power ministry has told the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) and state additional chief secretary (power) to finalise the tariff for the current financial year at the earliest.PSERC held its last public hearing in the last week of April, but it is yet to announce the tariff for the current fiscal.Twenty states, including neighbouring Haryana and Himachal, have already declared their respective power tariffs for the current fiscal, while Punjab and some other states are yet to finalise the same. Reminding of its old directions, the Union ministry has sought completion of the process at the earliest.According to the norms, the new tariff should be declared before the end of the last fiscal.PSPCL’s flip-flop Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) filed its annual revenue requirement (ARR) petition in December 2020. However, it made a flip-flop as after asking for a tariff hike of 9%, it filed an amended ARR seeking rebate in the tariff — a move seen as an inference of the state government as assembly elections are due in the latter part of current fiscal.In its revised ARR, the PSPCL has proposed a 32% cut in domestic consumer tariff for those with less than 7KW connected load.Further, it proposed that cumulative revenue gap of ₹9,807 crore at the end of 2021-22 shall be treated as a regulatory asset that may be recovered over the next two to five years. A major chunk of revenue goes to fixed costs of the private thermal plants, but when the power demand dips after the paddy season, PSPCL is forced to pay the fixed cost even without drawing electricity.As per PSERC regulations, the regulatory asset shall have to be recovered within the next three financial years.Don’t create regulatory assets, states told In a letter issued on May 3 to the states, the Union ministry has also asked the latter not to create the regulatory assets.“The Punjab government charges 20% excise duty on the tariff which is more than ₹1.25 per unit. In case the state wants to give relief to a section of domestic consumers, it should reduce the excise duty for such category of consumers. It should not ask for regulatory assets which shall be passed on to the consumers at a later stage. It will give a major jolt to consumers after elections,” said VK Gupta, spokesperson of All India Power Engineers’ Federation. This implies that the burden on consumers has only been deferred to a future date.Moreover, PSPCL is to pay coal washing charges in two instalments to the private thermal plants at Rajpura and Talwandi Sabo.One instalment has already been paid and the second is to be given before month-end. This may be recovered by way of fuel charges.Pendency of arrears As per estimates, the power subsidy amount during 2021-22 is likely to be of the order of ₹17,000 crore, including pending arrears of ₹5,779 crore, whereas Punjab has earmarked only ₹10,621 crore for subsidy payment in its budget for 2021-22.The consistent pendency of arrears towards Punjab government is becoming the biggest threat to the survival of PSPCL.Meanwhile, a PSERC official said the new chairman has assumed the charge and has initiated the process of finalising the tariff, which likely to be announced by the end of this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-tells-punjab-to-release-revised-power-tariff-at-earliest-101621195509496.html
17-05-2021||Other||All Uttar Pradesh districts report less than 1000 fresh Covid-19 cases||Uttar Pradesh recorded a further fall in fresh Covid cases on Sunday, with all 75 districts reporting less than 1,000 new cases, according to official data. The state logged 10682 Covid cases and 311 fatalities on Sunday. With this, the case tally has reached 1619645 and the death toll reached 17546 . Over 80% of the total active cases under treatment in the state were in home isolation, said the data from the state health department. “Of the total 163003 active cases under treatment, 134615 are in home isolation,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a (virtual) press conference on the Covid situation in the state on Sunday evening. Precisely 82.58% of the active cases are in home isolation. “The remaining patients are getting treatment in government and private Covid facilities. The recovery rate in the state is 88.92%,” said Prasad. On Sunday, all 75 districts reported less than 1,000 fresh cases, maximum 701 being from Meerut. Maximum 27 deaths were also reported from Meerut while Lucknow reported 20, Kanpur 13, Prayagraj 4, Chandauli and Basti 12 each, Jhansi, Azamgarh and Saharanpur 9 each, Mathura 10, Ghaziabad 7, Gautam Buddha Nagar 4 and Varanasi 7 deaths, according to state health department data. In all 12 districts reported zero deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-uttar-pradesh-districts-report-less-than-1000-fresh-covid-19-cases-101621194307669.html
17-05-2021||Other||Ram Mandir Trust to also construct a Ganesha temple in Ayodhya||LUCKNOW The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust will also construct a temple of Lord Ganesha in Ayodhya. Champat Rai, general secretary of the trust, on Saturday performed the ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ of the temple which will come up in the eastern part of the city. Ayodhya mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay and several seers were also present on the occasion. After ‘Bhoomi Pujan’, a seven- day ‘Sapta Chandi Yajna’, a Vedic ritual, also began for the end of the pandemic and removal of all hurdles in the construction of Ram Mandir. According to the trust, the temple dedicated to Lord Ganesha is being constructed for the ending of the pandemic and timely construction of Ram Mandir. “The idol of Lord Ganesha in this temple will be facing Ram Mandir. As the lord (Ganesha) is considered to be Vighnaharta (one who removes obstacles), He will help the country fight the pandemic and will also ensure timely construction of Ram Mandir,” said Champat Rai. Last month, the Ram Mandir construction committee started filling work of Ram Mandir’s foundation with the target of completing 1.25 lakh cubic metre dug-up ground at Ram Janmabhoomi by September end. During this filling process, around 44 layers of 300 mm each will be laid. Thereafter, each layer will be compressed with simple and vibrating rollers. “The vibrating roller will generate vibrations to make the temple’s foundation strong and will ensure maximum compression. After each rolling process, the 300 mm layer is likely to be a compressed to around 250 mm,” said Rai. Larsen & Toubro is carrying out construction work of Ram Mandir. The Tata Consulting Engineers is working as project management consultant and is assisting Larsen & Toubro in constructions work of the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ram-mandir-trust-to-also-construct-a-ganesha-temple-in-ayodhya-101621194068769.html
17-05-2021||Other||Getting much-needed medicines an uphill task in rural pockets||Villagers in some parts of UP have to travel several kilometres before they can get the medicines that are prescribed to them for the treatment of Covid-19 and its related complications though other drugs for fever and cold are often available at grocery stores. This situation is especially true in the case of Agra in western Uttar Pradesh and in Prayagraj in eastern Uttar Pradesh. Dataram Kushwaha, 62, resident of Holipura village in Agra, says, “We have to travel to Bhadroli about seven kilometres from our village for the medicines. And if it is not available at Bhadroli, we travel another 11 kilometres to the town to buy them.” Ramu Sharma, a shopowner in Anwal Kheda, a suburban town 14 kilometres from Agra city, agrees that villagers come to his shop from about 10 to 15 kilometres away to purchase medicines that the doctors prescribe. “There are other shops, too, in the town. Villagers come by cycles or other means to get them,” adds Sharma.Non-availability of medicines often paves the way for quacks to step in. “Primary health centres don’t have all the medicines that are required and thus villagers have to rely on medical shops in Bah, Jarar, Bateshwar and Jaitpur,” says Bharat Sharma, a resident of Bah town in Agra. In Prayagraj, people in villages like Sujani, Kotar Harbari, Bisaura, Renga and Kauhat and others in the trans-Yamuna area, too, need to cover vast distances to reach medical stores in search of medicines.“Many medicines like Azithromycin, Doxycycline, Vitamin C tablets etc are unavailable in medical stores located at Jari, Naribari, Laltara and Khiri, which is a major problem. We often have to get the medicines from Prayagraj city located almost 50 km from here,” says Vishnu Tiwari, resident of Kotar village in Prayagraj. At Mauaima, a town area around 35 km from Prayagraj city, one can get some medicines at the printed rate but not of one’s own choice or the one recommended by the doctor. Most medical stores here are offering alternatives, claiming the drug salts to be the same as the one sought by the consumer, locals say. Away from Mauaima town area, there is a high demand for medicines at nearby medical stores such as Ivermectin, Azithromycin, Vitamin C, Paracetamol, Doxycycline—the usual medicines being prescribed by doctors to treat Covid-19 infected patients. When asked, almost all medical stores’ proprietors and chemists say the wholesale suppliers are not giving medicines according to their demand and so they are finding it tough to make the medicines available to the people. Paracetamol, Vitamin C, Azithromycin are not available in some places while in others the chemists are agreeing to give only four tablets of paracetamol when 10 are sought, says Mohd Akhtar, a resident of Mauaima gram panchayat area. A chemist Indresh, who runs a shop in Mauaima town area, says stocks of that medicines like Fabiflu and Zincovit are also very low.Though medicines are available at bigger chemist shops in Phulpur tehsil, also 35 km from Sangam city in the trans-Ganga area of the Prayagraj district, one has to stand in long queues, especially during the morning and evening when most consumers come in a bid to avoid the afternoon heat. “One has to visit multiple medical stores to get all the medicines he/she needs,” says Indu Verma, a local. Some locals like Radhey Lal of Akdala village allege that some of the medical store owners are overcharging for medicines in great demand to treat Covid-19 infection. The locals echo a similar complaint in Bara tehsil, around 40 km from Prayagaj city. Prayagraj district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami says that supply of all essential items, including medicines, is being ensured in both urban and rural areas despite the partial corona curfew restrictions. “No shortage will be allowed to occur. Efforts are also on to crack down on anyone who indulges in black-marketing, stock-piling or selling medicines over the fixed price,” he adds. In the underdeveloped Sonbhadra district of eastern UP, social worker Jagat Vishwakarma, a resident of Faripan area, says ailing people who visit the community health centre (CHC) in Myorpur block of Sonbhadra are given medicines by the doctor. Dr Ashish Srivastava, medical superintendent of Myorpur CHC, says, “The patients, who come to the CHC for treatment, are attended and medicines are given to them as per need. We have a sufficient stock of medicines for common diseases and those which are given to the people having symptoms of Covid.” Pradhans, ANMs should be engaged for rural medicine stock: ExpertDr Ved Prakash, head of the department of pulmonary critical care medicine at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), said gram pradhans, ANMs (auxiliary nurse midwives) and ASHA workers (accredited social health activists) should be engaged to keep a stock of medicines in rural areas so that patients in need are not deprived.“In rural areas, there is no need to test all. If a few cases have come in a village, then all fever cases should be given attention as Covid patients. Any person with symptoms should be made to walk 500 metres or 700 steps in 6 minutes (walk test). If they are unable to do, they should be treated as patients of chest infection with adequate dose of steroids,” said Dr Ved Prakash.He said, “Treatment in village should be aggressive and not gradual as such a treatment methodology can allow the infection to grow and bring complexities. Each fever case should start the protocol medicine as soon as fever comes while those unable to do the walk test should be provided with steroids.”He said that doctors in the rural areas were being told to make this the treatment protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/getting-much-needed-medicines-an-uphill-task-in-rural-pockets-101621193768852.html
17-05-2021||Other||Readying paediatric ICU beds to tackle possible third wave of Covid-19: Adityanath||Noida: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday announced that all districts in the state will be equipped with adequate paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) beds to provide exclusive care and treatment to children needing treatment for the coronavirus disease. The CM’s statement comes in the wake of predictions that a third wave of Covid-19 is possible which will likely affect children. Addressing the media at the NTPC Power Management Institute in Noida’s Sector 16A, Adityanath said his government is all set to tackle the new wave, like the state handled encephalitis cases in the state. “From 1977 to 2017, the average annual fatalities due to encephalitis were nearly 1,500. But, it was due to proper coordination between all departments concerned that the same have been reduced now to double digits. The training of health officials for working in PICUs has already begun and very soon, all government hospitals, community health centres (CHCs) and primary health centres (PHCs) will have an adequate number of PICU beds,” he said. Replying to a query about “inaccessibility” of Co-WIN portal, especially in rural areas, the CM said that the government has decided to inoculate people in rural areas through common service centres (CSCs). “The staff of these CHCs will go door-to-door and compile their details with the district vaccination department, so as to set up a vaccination centre in their vicinity. It can be CHCs, PHCs, schools, panchayat buildings or any public place – which have waiting, vaccination and observation rooms,” the CM said. He also said that pre-bids have already been floated to ensure 100% vaccine coverage in the state. “As many as six companies have turned up with some queries, which are being replied to by officials concerned. We’ve so far given over 1.5 crore doses of vaccines in the first and second jabs to beneficiaries. Compliance of the central government’s directions in inoculating people over 45 years of age has also yielded positive results, as wastage of vaccines has now reduced to two-three per cent, as compared to 22% wastage during the drive of healthcare workers. From Monday, a massive vaccination drive for people of 18 to 44 years will begin in 22 districts,” he said. He added that taking serious note of post-Covid diseases such as black fungus that damage the eyes, the health department has been asked to provide all essential drugs to every hospital in the state. Laying stress on the need to create awareness about testing, sanitisation and social distancing among people in rural areas, Adityanath said that during his visits to remote villages since May 7 in many districts, it was found that people are hesitant to go to CHCs and PHCs for Covid-19 testing. “The job of rapid response teams (RRT) begins here and they have adroitly handled the situation there. The state has 58,055 village panchayats and over 1,200 wards for over one lakh revenue villages. The vigilance committee of the respective area screens the patients with ILI symptoms, besides asymptomatic ones. They make their list and provide it to the integrated Covid command centre (ICCC) in their respective district headquarters, as well as to the people’s representative. On the basis of this list, the RRT conducts testing in those areas. The ICCC sends the updated details of testing, home isolation, hospitalisation to the CM helpline thrice a day,” he said. He said that apart from conducting door-to-door rapid antigen testing, they have also distributed over three lakh medical kits, comprising all essential medicines, in these areas. “As a result of this, while the case positivity rate (CPR) of the state has come down to five per cent from 22%, the case fatality rate (CFR) is around one per cent. In terms of testing, UP leads with 4.5 crore testing – which is much ahead of three crore testing in Maharashtra. It is the effort of our officials that despite having a huge population – about whom the experts had predicted that there would be nearly one lakh fresh caseload every day mid-April to mid-May, UP recorded only 10,600 cases on May 16. Till date, we have 1.63 lakh active cases, out of which only 42,000 are in hospitals. The remaining are under home isolation and are being monitored by the doctors,” he said. Giving the details of beds in the state, the chief minister said that at present the state has 80,000 beds, including 72,000 in government hospitals. “Besides, we have 2,200 ambulances and 350 life-saving ambulances for coronavirus disease patients,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/readying-paediatric-icu-beds-to-tackle-possible-third-wave-of-covid-19-adityanath-101621191067540.html
17-05-2021||Other||Maratha quota: BJP panel to review verdict; warns Maharashtra govt of stir||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has formed a committee under its Maharashtra unit chief Chandrakant Patil to review the Maratha reservation verdict, stating that it was their bid to ensure that the community gets back the reservation that was struck down by Supreme Court (SC). The committee comprises of leader of Opposition in legislative Council Pravin Darekar, Ashish Shelar and Narendra Patil, among others. Patil said that BJP was also appointing a committee of legal experts to “expose” MVA government over its faulty handling of the reservation case. The party has also announced to support protests by the community and has warned the state government that the stir would be intensified once the second wave of Covid-19 subsides. Patil, after the first meeting of the expert committee on Sunday, said that the party would back Marathas with full strength. “After the reservation was scrapped by the top court, the community has been feeling helpless. But our party will stand by them in full support. MVA government is expecting protests by the community to die down because of the pandemic and lockdown. BJP will support and participate in the protest without our banner or political agenda,” he said. Blaming the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) for the “poor handling” of the reservation case in the Apex court, BJP leaders said that the 569-page SC judgment has pointed out to many loopholes left behind by the state government during the hearing. “The Congress and NCP (Nationalist Congress Party) never intended to give the reservation to Marathas. Their government has systematically murdered the reservation given by the previous [BJP-led] Devendra Fadnavis government. Our government could safeguard it in the Bombay high court and even for a long period, in SC too. It was because of the inept handling by MVA government that the reservation has been struck down,” Patil said. He also demanded that the state government file a review petition in SC, requesting the Apex court a reconsideration of its verdict on the Gaikwad Commission report and 50% cap on reservation. He said that if the state government failed to do so, it will have to again attend the exercise of proving the backwardness of the community by constituting a new commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maratha-quota-bjp-panel-to-review-verdict-warns-maharashtra-govt-of-stir-101621190407540.html
17-05-2021||Other||35-year-old Mumbai man held for raping online friend for three years||A 35-year-old man was booked by Samata Nagar police on Saturday for allegedly raping a woman repeatedly for three years by blackmailing her. According to the police officers, the woman in her complaint stated that in 2018, she had met the accused on social media and began chatting with him online. The two became friends and the accused later invited her to his Kandivli (East) house on the pretext of discussing a family problem, the woman further told the police. On reaching his house, the man told the complainant that his wife had left him after they had a fight earlier that day. “The accused then prepared tea for the survivor which was spiked,” said a police officer. After she lost her consciousness, the accused raped her and shot a video of the act. The police said, when the woman regained consciousness, she realised that she was naked. When she confronted the accused, the man showed her the video and threatened to release it online if she filed a complaint. For the past three years, the accused had allegedly been raping the woman at various places by threatening to post her video. On Saturday, when the woman could not take it anymore, she approached Samata Nagar police and registered a complaint against the accused. Based on the woman’s statement, the police booked the man for rape and blackmail under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and are verifying the case. “We have registered the case and are investigating to find out the sequence of events. We have seized two phones from the accused and have given it to the forensic team to extract the video and other details, such as the couple’s chats, etc,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/35yearold-mumbai-man-held-for-raping-online-friend-for-three-years-101621190347577.html
17-05-2021||Other||Ulhasnagar slab collapse: Survivors left without shelter, bldg to be razed||A day after the slab of Mohini Palace in Ulhasnagar collapsed killing five and injuring 10 residents, the civic body has decided to demolish the building from Monday. On Sunday, the survivors gathered at the building premises, as they lost their shelter and have no place to go. They were joined by the families of the victims. Among them was the family of Milind Parche who, along with his 60-year-old grandmother died in the incident. “Milind and his grandmother were sleeping when the incident took place. He loved to cook and was very attached to his family, especially to me. The family is shattered due to his demise,” said the 12-year-old’s aunt Reshma Parche, 28.The roof of the fourth floor flat of the ground-plus-five-storey building – which was 27 years old – had collapsed on Saturday around 1.30pm. Milind’s parents, elder brother and three other family members were rescued from the balcony of their first floor flat by the Ulhasnagar fire brigade team. Rohit Lokhande, 15, who was on the fourth floor of the building with his 5-year-old sibling and two cousins, managed to somehow open the door of his house that was stuck after the incident, and find way to the staircase. “It was only us children in the flat at the time of the incident. We were sleeping when the slab collapsed and could not understand what had happened. I rushed to the door and tried opening it but it was stuck. I pushed it hard and managed to open the door and rushed out with my cousins and sibling,” said Rohit. “The building was not dangerous and residents were not given notice to vacate the building. We are also shocked due to the incident,” said Reshma Parche. UMC assistant commissioner Ganesh Shimpi said, “Only one family approached us and we have accommodated them at a local gurdwara.”The Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) confirmed that the building is not in the dangerous buildings’ list. Meanwhile, residents say the incident has left them homeless. “We have no place to go now. We are living on the streets at present with no belongings,” said Lata Metkar, 45, a resident of Mohini Palace, who lived in the building with her children. On Sunday morning, the police deployed at the collapse site claimed that the remaining portion of the building tilted a bit, which led to panic among the nearby residents. “We are trying to keep people away from the spot so that there is no other tragedy,” said an officer, who did not wish to be named. “We will start demolishing the structure from Monday and the procedure for it has been initiated,” said Ganesh Shimpi, assistant commissioner, UMC. Sashikant Dayma, a social activist from Ulhasnagar, said, “A total of 30 people have died in 36 incidents of building or slab collapses within UMC limits in past 11 years. Every year, there is one such incident in the city and the civic body has failed to bring about a permanent solution.” As per UMC records, there are 23 ‘extremely dangerous buildings’ which need to be demolished and 116 ‘dangerous buildings’, which need to be vacated and repaired, while eight buildings can be repaired without vacating residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ulhasnagar-slab-collapse-survivors-left-without-shelter-bldg-to-be-razed-101621190227509.html
17-05-2021||Other||10 blackbucks found dead in Maharashtra’s Buldhana district, poisoning suspected||Ten blackbuck were found dead on Saturday in Shivara locality of Tadora Budruk forest range, Buldhana district. The incident came to light after some residents informed forest department officials about a few dead deer in the area, located among a large swathe of farmlands at the southern edges of the Satpura range — a preferred habitat of blackbuck that extends all the way to Buldhana, Akola and Amravati districts. A survey by officials then revealed that the fatalities included six female and four male blackbuck. In a statement late on Saturday, the forest department said that it was in the process of conducting autopsies and that the animals were suspected to have been poisoned. “This is not a new situation. We have seen it before but such a large group of blackbuck deaths is quite unusual. Local farmers could have poisoned the animals as they are a major threat to crops,” said a forest department official who did not wish to be identified. The official added that two of the dead blackbuck were pregnant.“The deers have been necropsied at this time. After the post-mortem of the animals, the body parts will be collected and the samples will be sealed and sent to the forensic laboratory for examination,” the forest department’s statement said. Experts and environmentalists, too, described the event as unusual, given the number of animals that seemingly died in a single instance. “This incident certainly warrants further investigation by the forest department. The Satpura range is an important corridor route from Umbardev to Kuvardev in the taluka, and is currently suffering from a range of anthropogenic stress by way of deforestation, illegal grazing, quarrying and so on. Habitat fragmentation and loss of open grasslands have inevitably pushed blackbuck into farms in conflict with farmers,” said environmentalist Ashwin Rajput.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10-blackbucks-found-dead-in-maharashtra-s-buldhana-district-poisoning-suspected-101621190107514.html
