18-05-2021||Other||Lost faith in govt, admn, says Rohtak villager who lost 2 sons to Covid||Pratap Kundu, a 60-year-old farmer of Titoli village, 15km from Rohtak, lost both his sons - Bhupinder Kundu, 36, and Yogendra Kundu, 33 - to Covid-19 in the span of five days.His elder son succumbed to the virus on April 29 and the younger one on May 4.The 36-year-old victim has two sons aged 10 and six while the younger one has two children - a six-year-old daughter and a three-year-old son. The grief-stricken family only depends on agriculture to run the family.Kundu said his elder son was first to complain of fever, cough and cold on April 25, following which he was taken to a private hospital in Rohtak.“The next day, my younger son also complained of fever and we admitted him to the same hospital. The elder’s condition started deteriorating after he tested positive for Covid and our relatives brought 12 injections of remdesivir, each costing ₹35,000, from Gurugram,” he said.“On April 29, he lost the battle. My younger son, who had almost recovered, also died on May 4. How do I provide for education of my grandchildren?” Kundu said.Kundu said the family spent over ₹10 lakh trying to save both the sons but could not do so.“I have lost faith in the government and the administration. Due to government apathy, many families like ours have lost their breadwinners and are in debt,” the father added.Victims: Bhupinder Kundu, 36, dhaba owner; and Yogendra Kundu, 33, ran dhaba with his brother and did farmingPlace: Titoli village in RohtakDate of death: April 29 and May 4, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lost-faith-in-govt-admn-says-rohtak-villager-who-lost-2-sons-to-covid-101621362375796.html
18-05-2021||Other||Our world got wiped out, don’t take Covid lightly, says Karnal family||As the second wave of Covid-19 sweeps through the country, a Karnal-based family is haunted by the tragedy that the virus caused by claiming lives of four members of the family in a span of three weeks.The family residing in Karnal’s Model Town area urges people not to take this deadly virus lightly.Mayank Malhotra, who is manager at a private bank in Panipat, lost his father advocate Chandar Mohan Malhotra, 75, mother Kiran Malhotra, 69, uncle advocate Jagdish Kumar Malhotra, 73, and paternal aunt Sarla Malhotra, 80, to the virus. They died at the Covid ward of Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital, Karnal.Mayank’s elder brother Ashish had returned from aboard following his family testing positive. The brothers are now helping each other through this time.Their father fell ill and was admitted in the hospital on September 3 last year. Two days later, their mother developed symptoms. Their father died on September 5 and mother two weeks later. On September 22 last year, their aunt died and the next day their uncle succumbed to the virus in the same hospital.The brothers have urged people not to take the virus lightly especially when most hospitals are occupied and there is limited infrastructure and hospital staff to take care of patients.The brothers say they were not satisfied with the treatment provided by the KCGMCH. Days after death of their mother, they had filed a complaint against the doctors and hospital staff for keeping them in dark about the medical condition of their mother who they claimed was recovering and died all of a sudden.Mayank said they have still not received any response from the higher authorities over their complaint.Victims: Chandar Mohan Malhotra, 75, advocate; Kiran Malhotra, 69, retired government employee; Jagdish Kumar Malhotra, 72, advocate; and Sarla Malhotra, 80, homemakerPlace: Karnal cityDate of death: September 5, 2020; September 17; September 23; and September 22, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/our-world-got-wiped-out-don-t-take-covid-lightly-says-karnal-family-101621362134519.html
18-05-2021||Other||Police, Prayagraj Nagar Nigam teams guard ghats to check burial of bodies by riverside||: Senior police officials on Tuesday visited Phaphamau ghat and asked against burial of bodies in the sand on the banks of Ganga River. They said the government had announced financial assistance of ₹4000 for cremation of bodies and that the funds would be provided by the Prayagraj Nagar Nigam (PNN). Officials also instructed against burial of bodies at ghats in rural areas. The PNN has constituted teams to maintain vigil at the ghats and asked people against burying bodies in the sand, officials said. The municipal body officials fear rains or rising river water levels might wash the sands away, exposing dead bodies, raising fears of infections. Over the last couple of days, police and PNN teams have stopped many people from burying bodies at Phaphamau Ghat, Arail, Jhunsi, Shringverpur and other cremation ghats across the city and in rural areas. SSP Sarvshrestha Tripathi said police teams had been deployed at the ghats to stop burial of bodies. He said police personnel were warning people of the threats of infections which the buried bodies may pose when river water levels rise. Water police in motorboats is patrolling the river banks to stop immersion of bodies in water, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-prayagraj-nagar-nigam-teams-guard-ghats-to-check-burial-of-bodies-by-riverside-101621361113942.html
18-05-2021||Other||Expelled seer Anand Giri writes to PM, demands probe into Niranjani Akhara affairs||: Yog Guru Anand Giri, who was recently expelled from Shri Panchayati Akhara Niranjani—has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding inquiry into the death of Ashish Giri, the former secretary of Niranjani Akhara whose bloodstained body was recovered from an ashram of the akhara at Daraganj in November 2019. Shri Panchayati Akhara Niranjani is one of the 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders of the country. Anand Giri was expelled from Bagambari Mutt recently and the Niranjani Akhara on May 14 after Narendra Giri lodged a formal complaint against him. He was accused of breaking the norms of being a sanyasi by being in contact with his family. Anand’s guru and Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) chief Narendra Giri had also accused him of engaging in financial irregularities. Hitting back, Anand Giri has now demanded reopening of the case file pertaining to the death of Ashish Giri, the former secretary of Niranjani Akhara and marked his letter to PM Narendra Modi, union home minister, Amit Shah and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Anand Giri has alleged that the former secretary of Niranjani Akhara was murdered though police closed the case file, claiming it to be a case of suicide. Seeking security for himself, Anand Giri has alleged massive financial irregularities in the ashram and has demanded a probe. He claimed threat to his life from ABAP chief and his guru and his close aides. In the letter, Anand has claimed unless he was provided security, he could also suffer Ashish Giri’s fate. Claiming association with the Baghambari Gaddi Mutt since 2005, he said, back then there were voices of dissent within the akhara and against his guru on the issue of sale of land of the Niranjani Akhara school in 2004. In the letter, Anand Giri says that he was also given a piece of land for opening a gaushala (cow shelter) but his Guru started putting pressure on him to cancel the lease and sell the land. Anand Giri alleged the ABAP chief had purchased several properties which are registered in the name of his driver, students and persons close to him. He alleged that Ashish Giri was murdered in November 2019 as part of a conspiracy to cover up the irregularities that he was opposing and claimed he was being threatened too. Anand Giri claimed that in 2019 the allegation of misbehavior against him by two women disciples in Australia, was part of a conspiracy. He alleged that funds worth nearly ₹4 crore were collected on his name but were not sent to him. He claimed the Australian Court had later acquitted him after probing the allegations leveled by the women. Reacting to Anand Giri’s letter, ABAP chief Narendra Giri said, “I am open to any inquiry or probe, if it is initiated by the PMO or CM office. I am ready to extend all support as I have nothing to hide.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/expelled-seer-anand-giri-writes-to-pm-demands-probe-into-niranjani-akhara-affairs-101621360934567.html
18-05-2021||Other||Social media posts of people with illegal firearms comes handy for police in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: Social media monitoring is helping district police not only in curbing rumours but also in recovering many illegal firearms and arresting their owners. During last few months, police have traced many persons who have posted their videos or photo on social media sites with illegal firearms and initiated action. “Social media cell of police remains active round-the-clock and monitors different social media sites closely. It has not only helped curbing rumours but during past few months many persons who have posed their pictures or videos with illegal firearms on social sites have also been traced,” said SP Crime Ashutosh Mishra. During past some months dozens of arrests have been carried out and the firearms have been recovered from them, he said. “There are many youths who post their photo and videos with firearm just for fun but there are many others whose motive was to create terror among locals and increase their influence. Many of them have past criminal records as well,” SP Crime added. “As soon as the social media cell of the police alerts us about any photo or video, we immediately start tracing the person, he said. Most of the persons who have been arrested recently were from rural areas who have posted their photographs or video with firearms on social media themselves or someone has made them viral out of enmity, he said. Some cases *Around a week ago, a video of newly elected village head Amit Kumar has gone viral in which he was seen firing shots with country made pistol in an inebriated state. Meja police lodged an FIR and arrested the village head. *Earlier, a photograph of a youth posing with a licensed gun at Civil Lines bus station during lockdown period was circulated on social sites. Police arrested the youth with the gun whose license was in the name of another person. *On Monday, Kaundhiara police has arrested two youths Atul and Dharmendra who were seen firing shots at a marriage in a video which they posted on their social media accounts. *Photographs of two youths posing with a country made firearm on facebook has also gone viral few days back. Police has lodged a case and has started tracing them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/social-media-posts-of-people-with-illegal-firearms-comes-handy-for-police-in-prayagraj-101621360813963.html
18-05-2021||Other||Forest watcher among four injured in Kheri leopard attack||Four people, including a forest watcher, were injured when a leopard attacked them near Damubehar village in Dhaurahra forest range of north Kheri forest division on Tuesday morning, said Anil Shah, forest range officer, Dhaurahra.The injured identified as forest watcher Vinay Tiwari, villagers Khushhal, Deshavari and Gulshan were rushed to local health centre where their condition was reported to be out of danger. After the incident, the leopard hid in a sugarcane field. Swinging into action, Dhaurahra range forest officials started combing the area to locate the leopard.Villagers assembled in scores there surrounded the sugarcane field where the leopard was suspected to be hiding. However, the leopard was yet to be located when report last came in.As per reports, the leopard had first attacked Khushhal when he went to the fields to relieve himself. When Khushhal cried for help, Deshavari and Gulshan, who were working in the neighbouring fields, rushed to his rescue. However, the leopard attacked them too.When informed, forest officials, including forester Rishabh Pratap Singh and watcher Vinay Tiwari, rushed the area and attempted to locate the big cat on their vehicles. Later, they started combing the field on foot during which the leopard attacked Vinay Tiwari who sustained injuries on his shoulder. The leopard later ran to another cane field.The area where the attacks took place is close to Katarniaghat wildlife sanctuary forests where a number of leopards are found. Two leopards from this range have been captured by forest authorities since October last year after deaths of three people in leopard attacks were reported here.---- Deokant Pandey||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/forest-watcher-among-four-injured-in-kheri-leopard-attack-101621360033873.html
18-05-2021||Other||Delay in salary to newly appointed 69,000 teachers - verification of marksheets by varsities reason for delay: Minister||The state government recruited 69,000 assistant teachers for government primary and upper primary schools in October and December last year. Of these, more than 50,000 teachers have not received their salary till date and quite a few of them even succumbed to Covid-19 after they contracted infection during panchayat poll duty, the UP Primary School Teachers Association claimed on Tuesday.Accepting the fact that there has been an inordinate delay in distributing salary to newly appointed teachers, the minister of state for basic education (independent charge), Satish Chand Dwivedi, said the problem is that universities are taking a lot of time in verifying marksheets of these newly recruited teachers.“We have verified high school, intermediate and TET marksheets of the newly appointed teachers, but their graduation and B Ed marksheets are to be verified by respective universities from where they pursued the course. Due to Covid-19, universities are working with fewer staff. Hence, there’s a delay in verification of documents,” he said.“I had expressed my displeasure over the slow pace of verification of documents for newly recruited teachers that is a hurdle in giving salaries to 69,000 assistant teachers recruited last year. I asked officials to expedite the work,” the minister said. He said instructions were issued to pay arrears to teachers who had passed away.According to the UP Primary School Teachers Association, newly appointed teachers get about ₹40,000 per month. It will be an additional load of ₹2.76 billion on the state exchequer.Association president Dinesh Chandra Sharma had made a suggestion that the basic education department take written undertakings from teachers but distribute their salary.To expedite the process, the minister has now asked officials to take written undertakings from newly recruited teachers that if in the verification process their documents are found to be fake then they will return the entire salary to the state exchequer without question.In a review meeting held on Tuesday, the minister ordered action against the Basic Shiksha Adhikari and account officers of Ghazipur district for lapses in salary disbursement of teachers. The action was initiated during divisional level meetings with officials of Varanasi, Vindhyachal and Prayagraj. He said that strict action will be initiated against BSAs for not issuing last payment certificates to teachers who were transferred to other districts.Dwivedi said that he had even issued clear instructions to all departmental officials to expedite payment of salaries to newly recruited teachers and those transferred to different districts. The minister held a virtual review meeting at the divisional level with officials on Monday.He stressed on the payment of pension, general provident fund of retired teachers after reviewing the status of action against teachers who had joined service on fake documents. The minister asked officials to lodge FIR and initiate the process of recovery from them.Keeping in mind the recent Panchayat polls, the minister asked officials to reach out to the newly elected village heads and seek their cooperation for Operation Kayakalp in schools.The teachers association further alleged that despite being allowed to work from home, primary school teachers in various districts, including Lucknow, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Banda, Basti and Hardoi, were being deployed at integrated Covid control rooms, which was a threat to their health.The minister directed that pregnant teachers and those having small children or undergoing treatment should not be deployed for duty by the district administration.Primary school teacher Ramesh Kumar Yadav, 28, died battling Covid-19 on April 23 in Sultanpur. He was among the 69,000 who had got a job when fresh recruitments of assistant teachers were made. The wait for the job had been a long two years as the matter of recruitment had gone to court. Yadav passed away without even getting his first salary. He had been pressed into the panchayat election duty.He was posted at Primary School Adampur, in Sultanpur, in December last year. His family fears he contracted the infection during election training and his condition worsened soon after election duty on April 19.Sunil Kumar Singh, a resident of Jaunpur, passed away on April 24, also without getting his first salary. He got posted at a primary school in Hardoi and was called in for panchayat poll training and election duty.For 40-year-old Sunil, it was his first government job as he was appearing in several competitive exams. He had not got married and was waiting to land a government job before he took the plunge, said Satish Singh, his elder brother, who lit the pyre.It took the state government two years to wrap up the appointment of 69,000 assistant teachers in government primary and upper primary schools across the state. Posts were advertised in December 2018 and the state government could complete the appointment only in December 2020, after a long-drawn legal battle in the high court and Supreme Court after candidates filed a lawsuit.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had distributed appointment letters to select new recruits in October and December and even interacted with them while others received them from local MLAs, MPs and ministers in the Yogi government in their respective districts. The CM had even advised them to do their duty sincerely and should not come with a request seeking a transfer to their home districts at the time of distributing the appointment letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delay-in-salary-to-newly-appointed-69-000-teachers-verification-of-marksheets-by-varsities-reason-for-delay-minister-101621359913956.html
18-05-2021||Other||UP varsities, schools to resume online classes from May 20||The state government has ordered to resume online classes for students of class 9 to 12 (secondary level) from May 20. The state and private universities across the Uttar Pradesh will also resume their online classes from May 20.However, under no circumstances, students will be allowed to come to campuses to attend physical classes. Vice chancellors and principals will use their discretion on calling teachers to campuses, an official said.Lucknow University Associated College Teachers Association (LUACTA) chief Manoj Pandey has appealed to principal of degree colleges to allow teachers to work from home till COVID-19 situation eases out.Lucknow University officials, in a virtual meeting held on Tuesday, decided that the online classes will commence from May 20. The weekly report of online classes by the heads will be submitted to the competent authority. New virtual platforms will be explored for the laboratory class. There will be addition of new e-resources to the Tagore Library to enrich the e-content, said LU spokesperson, Durgesh Srivastava.There was an extensive discussion on the common minimum syllabus of various courses recommended by the department of higher education, Uttar Pradesh. Few departments, education, commerce and agriculture have approved their syllabus by the board of studies after minor corrections. Other departments will approve their syllabus after the necessary amendments which can be maximum up to 30%.According to a letter issued to all vice-chancellors of state and private universities by Abdul Samad, special secretary, UP government, students may visit UP higher education digital Library where e-content on several important topics by faculty members have been uploaded.In case of student or teachers, who has reported negative for Covid-19, but has post Covid complications, the decision on participation in online classes will be taken by the vice chancellor, head of departments and principals as per the Covid-19 guidelines, said Abdul Samad in his order.The vice-chancellors had been asked to call 50% non-teaching staff on roaster basis.Likewise, the state government has instructed school management to make such arrangements for online teaching that majority of teaching work by teachers can be carried out from home.Special secretary, secondary education Jai Shankar Dubey. in a letter sent to chairman and secretary of UP board as well as to all district Inspector of schools (DIOSs), on Tuesday that online teaching should be strengthened in all schools affiliated to UP board using academic programmes and content being broadcast by Doordarshan and made available on e-gyan ganga YouTube channel of UP board and swayam prabha channel of union education ministry.The order states that the entire responsibility of ensuring proper functioning of online education in the district would be on DIOSs concerned. The divisional joint education directors would closely monitor the online education being provided.The order says that DIOS concerned would submit a weekly status report to divisional joint education director who in turn would send report to director, secondary education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-varsities-schools-to-resume-online-classes-from-may-20-101621359733832.html
18-05-2021||Other||New-born defeats Covid-19 after 18 days||MEERUT A 25- day-old baby boy defeated Covid-19 after struggling for life in a private hospital here for 18 days. The boy got infected 25 days after his birth on April 1 and was brought to Nutema hospital here on April 27 after brief treatment in hospitals in Hapur and Noida. His father Vikas Duhan said that after facing scarcity of oxygen and ventilator facility, the boy was finally shifted to Nutema hospital on April 27 where Dr Amit Upadhyay and his team treated him. Dr Upadhyay said that boy was suffering from acute pneumonia, fever and breathlessness. His RT- PCR and antigen tests were positive and lungs were heavily infected. He was given Remdesivir, heavy dose of steroids and drugs to pump up his blood pressure and a lot of platelets were also transfused. He was kept on ventilator for seven days and eventually he defeated the virus after 18 days and was discharged on May 13. Dr Amit said that the baby’s recovery showed that timely and proper treatment could overcome even acute corona infection. He said that the baby’s oxygen level was 50 on aided supply and even then, he survived with proper and timely treatment. The baby’s parents Vikas Duhan and Sarvesh Duhan expressed their gratitude to the Almighty and also the doctors for saving the life of the new-born. They said that the 18 days of the baby’s illness were full of stress for them. The entire family was praying for the life of the new-born who finally defeated the virus and infused hope in parents of other children battling the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/newborn-defeats-covid-19-after-18-days-101621358413884.html
18-05-2021||Other||Dip in new Covid cases leads to fall in demand of hospital beds on GT road belt||The number of empty hospital beds in Haryana’s GT road districts has gone up in Karnal following continuous fall in Covid-19 positive cases in the past few days.As per data of the district health department, of 465 non-ICU beds in 16 Covid hospitals in district, 88 are available. Of the 253 beds in the ICUs of these hospitals, 15 are unoccupied. Officials said that the number of empty beds is likely to increase further following the continued fall in cases.The district administration has created temporary arrangements of beds with oxygen support. But in the past one week, the situation has changed and there is no hue and cry for hospital beds. On May 7, only two unoccupied beds were left in the ICUs and 14 with oxygen support.Moreover, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital, which had once denied admitting patients due to non-availability of empty beds now has 15 beds available but all 110 beds in the ICU of the hospital are still occupied.Haryana’s GT road belt faced acute shortage of hospital beds earlier this month following sudden rise in cases, especially in Delhi-NCR and now there is fall in the movement of patients from Delhi.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “The number of empty beds is going up in district as there is decline in cases and number of beds has also been increased.”“There is a considerable fall in movement of patients from Delhi. The number of patients from Delhi in district hospitals has come down from 45% to 25% earlier this month,” he added.Availability of hospital beds in nearby districts of Kurukhsetra and Panipat has also eased now.“In the past couple of days, there has been a considerable fall in the number of patients from Delhi as now 25% patients admitted in Karnal are from Delhi against the 40% of two weeks ago,” said a senior official of the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dip-in-new-covid-cases-leads-to-fall-in-demand-of-hospital-beds-on-gt-road-belt-101621358114946.html
18-05-2021||Other||Sirsa admn to rope in RMPs in its fight against Covid: Ranjit Chautala||The Sirsa administration has decided to rope in registered medical practitioners (RMPs) in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic in rural areas.Sirsa is the first district in Haryana to rope in RMPs with the health department to combat spread of the virus.Haryana power and jails minister Ranjit Chautala said he had conducted a meeting with the district administration and asked the health officials to include RMPs to fight against the virus in villages.“We have decided to rope in RMPs after many villagers in rural areas of Sirsa complained of fever, cough, cold and breathlessness. Around 23,000 medical kits containing oximeter, thermometer and other equipment have been distributed in villages,” Chautala added.The power minister said he had donated ₹50 lakh to the Sirsa administration and ₹25 lakh to the Fatehabad administration in their fight against the virus.“We have urged the youth, volunteers and social organisations to help conduct health surveys, distributing medicines and medical kits. Our focus is to provide primary health facilities in the isolation centres built across district,” he said.“RMPS will be members of a group of health workers contacting residents in villages. They will report to the health authorities. People living in villages have bonding with RMPs and their cooperation will help in tracing the patients,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sirsa-admn-to-rope-in-rmps-in-its-fight-against-covid-ranjit-chautala-101621358054189.html
18-05-2021||Other||CBSE extends deadline, results of Class 10 to be delayed||New Delhi: The final results of the Class 10 students in schools affiliated to Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) through a revised assessment are all set to be delayed with the board extending the deadline for schools to submit marks of their students in view of the Covid-19 situation across the country. Earlier, the board asked the schools to submit the marks by June 5. The deadline has now been extended till June 30. In view of this, the results which were going to be announced by June 20, will now be delayed. This year, the board exams for Class 10 were cancelled as the country was reeling under an unprecedented second wave of Covid-19. Instead, the board announced a revised assessment method to evaluate the students. The Delhi government’s education department on May 5 requested the CBSE to review its timeline for the Class 10 results as several teachers employed at government school were engaged in Covid duties and many of them tested positive for the infection.In a notice issued on Tuesday, CBSE controller of examination Sanyam Bhardwaj said, “Keeping in view the pandemic situation, lockdown in states and safety of teachers, and other staff members of the affiliated schools, CBSE has decided to extend dates.”The CBSE portal for the uploading of marks will now open from Thursday. Board officials, however, denied commenting on the next possible date for the announcement of the result. “The board will inform once the next date will be decided,” an official said. Under the revised marking scheme for Class 10 students will be evaluated based on their performance in unit tests, half-yearly examination, and pre-board examination conducted by schools. Along with tabulation of scores, the board also directed schools that if any candidate has not appeared in any of the assessments conducted by the school, it may conduct an offline/online or a telephonic one-on-one assessment.Delhi government’s education department officials welcomed CBSE’s decision.“The extension will give proper time to schools to calculate marks and upload them without any errors. It won’t affect the academic session for Class 11 as well. While the majority of the private schools have already started their academic session for Class 11, it will begin in the government schools from the first week of July,” said a senior department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbseextends-deadline-results-of-class-10-to-be-delayed-101621357933847.html
18-05-2021||Other||Sonu Sood, Kumar Vishwas back poet’s Covid care campaign||Lucknow Bollywood actor Sonu Sood and noted poet Kumar Vishwas have supported the campaign ‘Aao Gaon Bachayein’ started by comic poet and satirist Pankaj Prasun. Under the campaign, residents of 30 villages in six gram panchayat blocks of Rae Bareli district would be provided Covid medicines, oximeters, thermometers and ration kits along with oxygen support in Covid care centres. Poet Pankaj Prasun said, “ I tagged my tweet for need of oxygen concentrators for rural masses to Sonu Sood and Dr Kumar Vishwas. The latter retweeted it, saying ‘Sonu Sood, please send three oxygen concentrators for the poor or else I will arrange from Ghaziabad.’ Within a few minutes Sonu Sood tweeted: ‘ Be assured , it will reach! Just send me your address (samjho pahunch gaya , aap pata bhejo).’” He said, “I was surprised to see a busy Bollywood actor reacting to our tweets within five minutes. You all know there is only one L3 hospital in Rae Bareli. There is a long wait in other hospitals which are either L1 or L2. But during Covid everyone has felt the importance of oxygen in saving lives. That’s why these oxygen concentrators would be very important for the rural masses. “ He said , “I turned Covid positive on April 7 during which time I realized how difficult it is to get treated for Covid . During the recovery I kept on thinking about the way I can help those who are living in rural areas, and I came up with this idea.” He said, “With limited resources we have selected six gram sabhas of Sahjaura, Lohra, Raula, Domapur, Mustafabad Belhani, Mau Garvi, Govindpur and Merui under which around 32 villages would be covered. We will request the authorities to allow panchayat bhawans and schools for Covid care centres, from where we can distribute our ration kits, medicine kits , thermometers, oximeters and provide oxygen.” Pankaj Prasun said, “When I tweeted to Kumar Vishwas for help, he immediately responded by donating Covid care kits for the campaign. He said the real ‘dharma’ of poets was service and that his team would remain in contact with me.” Dr Kumar Vishwas said , “ It’s an honour to serve humanity. I will be happy to do more for the rural masses with Pankaj Prasun and Sonu Sood.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sonu-sood-kumar-vishwas-back-poet-s-covid-care-campaign-101621357822104.html
18-05-2021||Other||Body of woman who died of Covid goes missing from Lok Nayak mortuary, family files police complaint||New Delhi: For the last 11 days, a family from east Delhi has been running from pillar to post in search for the body of a 38-year-old woman, who died of Covid-19 at Lok Nayak hospital on April 16, but her last rites could not be performed because all family members were also infected and they could not visit the hospital’s mortuary for 20 days.When the family members went to claim the body on May 7, it could not be found in the mortuary. They approached the police and filed a complaint on May 10, alleging that the body was misplaced and the hospital authorities have no answers to how the corpse disappeared from the mortuary.“We are taking a legal opinion on the family’s complaint. The hospital authorities are also conducting an enquiry. We are waiting for their enquiry report also. Further legal action would be taken accordingly. The patient was taken to the hospital by family members but she was declared brought dead on April 16. Her family members were also Covid positive so they could not claim the body then,” said Rohit Meena, additional deputy commissioner of police (central). Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital, said. “A committee of three senior doctors, the additional medical superintendent, mortuary in-charge, and another senior doctor, has been set up to look into the matter. We will be able to tell what happened once the committee submits its report in a couple of days.”The two brothers of the dead woman, Dipika, were present in the hospital when the doctors pronounced her dead and had seen her body while it was being shifted to the mortuary. But the disappearance of her body has strangely led to some of her relatives believe that she could be alive.“My parents and some relatives still believe that a miracle would happen and Dipika would return home alive. My heart also wishes for that miracle, even as my mind says she is gone,” said Dipika’s brother, Saurabh Kumar.Dipika lived with her parents and brothers at their Shastri Nagar home near Geeta Colony in east Delhi. She ran a consultancy firm along with her brother Siddharth Kumar. The coronavirus hit the family in the first week of April.According to Kumar, his parents were shifted to a private hospital in east Delhi but she could not get a bed in at least four local hospitals because of the huge rush of patients. Dipika got a bed in a private non-Covid hospital in Noida but as her Covid test report came positive and her condition was deteriorating, she was referred to any Covid hospital, he said.“We brought her to Lok Nayak hospital. The doctors declared her brought dead. Her body was shifted to the mortuary and we were asked to claim it in two-three days. But we could not come as all of us were Covid positive and our condition was not good,” said Kumar.The parents recovered and returned home on April 23, but the two brothers informed them about Dipika’s death only on May 4, as they did not want to give them a shock. The elderly couple then asked their sons to claim her body and perform the last rites.“We went to the hospital mortuary on May 7 and received Dipika’s death certificate. The hospital staff asked us to visit the mortuary and identify my sister’s body, as that was the last opportunity to see her face. Many bodies were shown to us but none of them was of my sister. Her corpse was missing. They sought time to look into the matter and asked us to come two-three days later,” he said.The family members visited the hospital again on May 10. When they were told that the body could be found, they filed a police complaint.“We first lost our sister and now because of the hospital’s mistake we are not able to perform her last rites. The hospital authorities say that there was a possibility that some other family may have cremate my sister’s body. I want them to find that family so that we can thank them for performing her last rites. But the authorities are not able to find the family as well,” added Kumar.According to another doctor from the hospital, “It is not unusual for family members to not claim bodies of people who die of Covid-19. In such instances, the hospital ensures that the cremation is done. In this case, the family came looking for the body almost a month after the demise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/body-of-woman-who-died-of-covid-goes-missing-from-lok-nayak-mortuary-family-files-police-complaint-101621357454400.html
18-05-2021||Other||Covid impact: MSMEs want temporary closure of units||Lucknow: With all economic activity coming to a standstill due to corona curfew, the MSMEs also want to close their units till the situation normalizes, as production has been adversely affected. Though the state government has exempted industrial activity from corona curfew , production and maintenance work has been affected in almost all units. Industrial lobby bodies have also pointed out that the state government has not accepted some of their demands, making it tough for them to continue running their units. “As transport services are off the roads, industries are finding it difficult to procure raw material and send finished products to stockists,” said Manmohan Agarwal, senior vice president, Indian Industries Association (IIA). “We have requested the state government to exempt transport companies from the purview of corona curfew. Unless offices of transport companies are allowed to open, there will be no movement of trucks on roads. In such a scenario, industries cannot be run,” Agarwal added. “If the situation continues like this, we will be left with no option but to shut down our units till the situation normalises,” he added. Industrialists pointed out that units in Noida were working at minimum capacity. A disrupted supply chain and low work force have reduced production to bare minimum at industrial units in Noida, Meerut and some other parts of the state. “The government has issued a GO (government order) permitting industrial activity even in this second wave of Covid-19. But workers have left for their homes, fearing the pandemic,” said Rajiv Bansal, national secretary, IIA. He pointed out that the workforce had shrunk to 5000 from 50,000 in Noida even when factories were not shut. As all shops are closed except for those related with essential items, industrialists are finding it hard to get maintenance work done in their units if there is any technical problem. “We have also requested the government to allow all essential shops related with industries to open at least for two days in a week so that maintenance work may be carried out, if required,” pointed out Bansal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-impact-msmes-want-temporary-closure-of-units-101621357453808.html
18-05-2021||Other||Warkari sentiment leans towards pilgrimage not being cancelled this year||PUNE With the Covid-19 pandemic bringing everything in the state to a standstill, the warkari (pilgrim) community is worried about the forthcoming wari (pilgrimage) in June.The 2020 wari was cancelled and initial talks have begun between the Alandi Devsthan committee and warkari organisations about 2021.Every year, millions of pilgrims walk from Dehu and Alandi to Pandharpur, all devotees of Sant Tukaram and Sant Dnyaneshwar. Statues of both these saints were taken by bus to Pandharpur last year, with only few warkaris on board. “Last year, it was a major exception and we all understood the seriousness of cancelling the ari and not gathering millions of people together. A similar situation has occured now, but there is a strong feeling from various Warkari organisations and groups that this year, the walking tradition should be continued. With all the restrictions and rules of the government, we are ready to go to Pandharpur walking, but it should not be cancelled,” said Rajabhau Chopdar, president, Chopdar foundation and one of the organisers of the Sant Dnyaneshwar Pakhi.Before the pandemic, annually at least 0.4 million warkaris join several dindis (groups) with the Sant Dnyaneshwar and Sant Tukaram palkhis, which start from Alandi and Dehu, respectively. There are around 250 registered dindis which follow the palkhi on its way to Pandharpur. Dindis from across Maharashtra start coming to Alandi and Dehu a week before. Anil Maharaj Gawade, head of a dindi from Satara district, said, “Warkari community is always been patient and follows all the rules and regulations given by the state. The wari itself is so well planned and disciplined that there is no need to give any instructions to warkaris. The sentiment is that the tradition should continue, with a limited number set by the government.”Recently, an online meeting was held by both the Alandi and Dehu Mandir trust members, with leaders of the warkari community. An official meeting is to be held with the state government officials now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/warkari-sentiment-leans-towards-pilgrimage-not-being-cancelled-this-year-101621353013630.html
18-05-2021||Other||Wheat procurement poor, deadline extended till June 15||PATNADissatisfied over the tardy pace of wheat procurement, chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday directed the cooperative department to extend the deadline for procurement by 15 more days so that the benefits of minimum support price (MSP) reached the maximum number of farmers in the state. Earlier, May 31 was fixed as the deadline for wheat procurement. However, the primary agriculture cooperative societies and Vyapar Mandals, the agencies authorised to purchase wheat from farmers on the MSP, could meet barely 13% of the procurement target of 7 lakh metric tonnes. “As on Tuesday, the agencies have procured nearly 91,000 MTs of wheat. We hope to procure nearly 2 lakh MTs in the next couple of weeks,” cooperative department secretary Bandana Preyashi said after the CM’s review on wheat procurement. The food and consumer protection department (FCPD), in consultation with agriculture and cooperative departments, had upgraded the wheat procurement target from 1 lakh MT to 7 lakh MT in view of huge registrations by farmers and frequent reports about distress selling by them. “However, abysmally slow pace of procurement highlights gap between words and action of the government. Farmers are being compelled to sell wheat at throwaway prices,” said Raj Kumar Sharma, head of the farmers’ wing of Bihar Congress. Officials said the CM had to intervene after he was informed that only 15,000 out of total registered 1.70 crore farmers could avail of the benefits of MSP so far. “The state produced around 65 lakh MTs of wheat this season against 60 lakh MT last year,” said agriculture secretary N Saravana Kumar. Preyashi, however, defended the progress in procurement, saying it was being done in difficult times when the state has been devastated by the Covid-19 pandemic. “Last year, only 4,000 MTs of wheat could be procured,” she said. Vijay Kumar Mishra, a marginal farmer of Bikramganj in Rohtas, said farmers were disappointed as primary agriculture credit societies (PACS) were not purchasing wheat, citing cash crisis. “In the absence of official procurement, farmers are being forced to sell wheat to local middlemen at ₹1,200-1,500 per quintal, much lower than the MSP, which is over ₹1,700,” said Mishra. A senior officer FCPD said the maximum procurement was recorded in Kaimur, where farmers sold around 7,113 MTs of wheat to Pacs, followed by Rohtas (6,644 MT) and Begusarai (6,535 MT)). Arwal and Sheikhpura are the worst performing districts, recording procurement of 334 MT and 337 MT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wheat-procurement-poor-deadline-extended-till-june-15-101621352593583.html
18-05-2021||Other||TDP to boycott budget session of Andhra assembly on Thursday||Telugu Desam Party, the only opposition party in the Andhra Pradesh state legislative assembly, on Tuesday, announced that it would boycott the one-day budget session of the assembly on May 20 in protest against the “unilateral, undemocratic and illogical” decisions of the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government.The decision was taken at the Telugu Desam Legislature Party (TDLP) meeting held under the leadership of party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu through video conference.Speaking to reporters at the party office in Guntur later, TDP state unit president and MLA K Atchannaidu said the party decided to boycott the budget session in protest against the misrule of the Jagan government. “We are not boycotting the assembly but the chief minister’s high-handed behaviour,” he said.The TDP leader pointed out that the budget session of Parliament and that of several state assemblies were held in March itself when the Covid-19 pandemic was not so severe. “We asked the chief minister to hold the budget session but he did not do it. Now, the second wave is very severe but the government wants to hold it only because of Constitutional obligation,” he said.The TDLP decided to hold a parallel mock assembly simultaneously with the state assembly session to expose the failures and misdeeds of the Jagan regime all through. Former finance minister and MLC Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said that the government had no intention of holding a meaningful discussion in the assembly on public issues like Covid-19. “Even if the TDP attends the session, the chief minister and his ministers would not give any chance for them to speak in the House. As usual, the YSRC would bulldoze and suppress the voice of the Opposition,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tdp-to-boycott-budget-session-of-andhra-assembly-on-thursday-101621352534401.html
18-05-2021||Other||86 inmates in Goaplganj jail found infected||PATNAAround 86 inmates of Chanave jail in Gopalganj district of Bihar have tested positive for coronavirus, leading to panic among jail staff and the 2000-odd inmates the prison houses. Over 150 inmates took TrueNat tests on Monday and 86 of them were found infected, officials said. Jail superintendent Amit Kumar said medicines had been provided to the infected inmates and if required, they will be shifted to the nearest Covid Care Centre. “We have sought directives from the prison directorate for shifting the prisoners to other jails,” Kumar said, adding the remaining inmates would be tested in a day or two. Jail doctor Awinash said the infected inmates have been isolated in a special ward and medical staff deputed there. On May 8, the Supreme Court issued prison decongestion instructions 8 and ordered immediate release of all prisoners who were granted bail or parole due to the pandemic last year. It also directed that high-powered committees consider release of new prisoners in accordance with the National Legal Services Authority’s guidelines on the issue. While some of the states have released prisoners on parole, considering the scenario arising out of Covid-19 outbreak, the Bihar government hasn’t.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/86-inmates-in-goaplganj-jail-found-infected-101621352473614.html
18-05-2021||Other||Court keeps up heat: Will go down to every district||PATNAThe Patna High Court on Tuesday said it would now go down to every district and subdivision to see how many primary health centres (PHCs) are functional and whether they have adequate infrastructure and testing facilities in the light of the revised guidelines issued by the Centre to tackle spread of Covid-19 infection in rural areas. Hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) on Covid management in Bihar, the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar asked Advocate General Lalit Kishore if his office had been provided with two technical persons with proficiency in computers, as directed on Monday, as the court would require information in a tabular form for every district. In fresh guidelines two days ago, the Centre had underlined the need to enable communities, strengthen primary level health care infrastructure and initiate active surveillance by training community health officers for rapid antigen testing and counselling to intensify Covid-19 response in these areas. The AG said that the government would examine to what extent it can follow the guidelines of the Centre on its own, as it could also have financial implications. Expert committee report The bench also sought to know the action taken on the recommendations of the three-member expert committee, constituted by the Centre on the directive of the Patna HC to examine the status of oxygen supply in the hospitals. The bench was informed that the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) had taken corrective measures in the light of some adverse remarks by the committee, especially with regard to oxygen audit. Appearing for the PMCH, PK Shahi said that by the first week of June, PMCH would have its own oxygen generation capacity to cater to around 2,000 patients. The court sought affidavit regarding the current status in big hospitals mentioned in the report. Bio-waste disposal The bench directed the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) to file a detailed affidavit regarding bio-waste collection/disposal and steps taken for sensitization of the people. Former additional solicitor general SD Sanjay also raised the issue of delay in issue of death certificates. The bench said the issue of death registration was already being looked into and government would give its detailed reply. The court had on Monday expressed its displeasure over apparent inconsistency in figures of death in Buxar provided in the affidavits filed by the Patna division commissioner and the chief secretary and sought the figures of the entire district to be furnished since March 1. The court said that this would apply to all the districts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/court-keeps-up-heat-will-go-down-to-every-district-101621352418688.html
18-05-2021||Other||Covid vultures: 4 more arrested in Nalanda, turned over to Delhi cops||PATNAFour persons were arrested in Nalanda Tuesday during the ongoing crackdown by a joint team of Delhi Police and local police on rackets involved in duping hapless kin of Covid-19 patients in the name of providing oxygen cylinders and drugs.So far, 12 people have been arrested from Nalanda alone. According to police, the suspects posed as self-help groups on social media and offered medicines, oxygen and hospital beds to lure potential victims.According to Nalanda superintendent of police Hariprasath S, the four arrested on Tuesday were identified as Mithlesh Kumar, Deepak Kumar, Sharawan Mahto and Pankaj Kumar. He said 13 ATM cards, nine cellphones, a laptop and ₹20,000 in cash was seized from them. The matter came to light when one Sharad Chandran of Dwarika Vihar in Delhi lodged a complaint on May 4 with the Delhi Police, alleging he was duped of ₹23, 950 unidentified people selling oxygen cylinders. He said he transferred the money to the accused, but the latter started ignoring his calls and messages. The SP said the Delhi Police team had been camping in Nalanda for the last three days. The police said most of the SIM cards used by the accused were registered in West Bengal but their locations showed at Nalanda, Nawada, Sheikhpura and Jamtara in Jharkhand. “During investigation, the four accused confessed they had undergone ‘training’ for cyber fraud in Nawada and Jamtara,” said the police. The Delhi Police have lodged 372 FIRs and arrested 91 people so far from different locations, including from Bihar. According to the Bihar Police, five persons were earlier arrested in two raids at Danapur and Barh in the state capital and handed over to the Delhi Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-vultures-4-more-arrested-in-nalanda-turned-over-to-delhi-cops-101621352418079.html
18-05-2021||Other||After HC rap, Bihar to reverify Covid deaths||PATNAA day after the Patna High Court flagged inconsistency in death figures related to Buxar, the state government Tuesday decided to reverify Covid deaths during the 14-month pandemic period.“This has to be done on a war footing within 10 days,” Bihar’s additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit said on Tuesday. A bulletin released by the state health department on Monday had put the Covid toll at 3,928 so far. On Monday, the HC had expressed its displeasure over inconsistency in figures of death in Buxar, mentioned in separate affidavits filed by the state’s chief secretary and the Patna divisional commissioner. It had asked the government to verify facts from all sources before placing it in the court. “Else, it will amount to filing false or incomplete affidavit,” the bench of chief justice Sanjay Karol and justice Sanjay Kumar had said. The HC had also asked the government to clarify if the reported deaths were of people suffering from Covid-19, besides ascertaining the age group of the deceased. The state health department on Tuesday sent detailed instructions to district magistrates, civil surgeons, directors of AIIMS-Patna and the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) to verify from all sources the deaths having taken place at their respective institutions or at the district-level. Addressing media persons here on Tuesday, Amrit said all medical colleges and hospitals had been advised to set up a committee, comprising the principal, medical superintendent and head of the department of medicine, to examine all records and verify deaths arising out of Covid-19 or otherwise. The same had to be done by the civil surgeon, the additional chief medical officer or any doctor authorised by the civil surgeon at the district-level. “We have asked the district magistrates (DMs) and civil surgeons to set up a committee to verify all deaths at the district level within 10 days, beginning Tuesday,” said Amrit. The district committees had also been tasked to visit private facilities, which were allowed to treat Covid-19 patients, and verify deaths. Amrit said there were five sources of information about death of Covid-19 patients — those dying under home isolation, at Covid Care Centres, District Covid Healthcare Centre, dedicated Covid hospitals and patients on way to a facility. Authorities responsible for each had been activated to verify deaths, he added. “The government wants to have a clear picture on the deaths at the panchayat and block level, district-wise, geographical area and region-wise. It also wants to ensure that the affected family should be supported. The motive is simple. If any person dies of Covid, his/her name should be with us; we should have the right figures. Families of such people should not be deprived. At the same time, we want to check for false claims,” said Amrit in response to a question behind the motive of the exercise. The state government had last year announced a compensation of ₹4 lakh to the kin of those who die of Covid-19. Vaccine allocationThe Centre had allocated over 10.45 lakh doses of vaccine against coronavirus for the age group of 45 years and above. These vaccines will arrive between May 21 and June 1, said Amrit. He, however, did not share the number of vaccines available with the state as on date. Sources said many districts had exhausted their vaccine stock and shut vaccination centres. Amrit also parried a question whether all such vaccination centres would remain shut for the next three days till the state receives its first tranche of vaccines for 45+. He said a proposal had been received that the state would get 6,89,250 doses of Covishield for the 18-44 years age category between May 20 and 24. Community kitchensThe state government had decided to operate at least one community kitchen in each of the total 534 blocks spread across 38 districts in Bihar. Relatives of Covid-19 patients under home isolation could take packed food from such centres. These will also provide milk to children at these community kitchens. Amrit said the number of community kitchen had been scaled up from 119 on May 5 to 432 on Tuesday. Centres of excellenceThe health department Tuesday declared the AIIMS and the IGIMS in Patna as centres of excellence for treatment of mucormycosis or black fungus. Amrit also said the state government had requested the Centre to include molecular genomics laboratory at the IGIMS among 10 such existing laboratories in India for genomic surveillance of Covid-19 in the region. He said the Centre had also agreed to the state’s request to use Liposomal Amphotericin B injection, used in kala-azar patients, to treat cases of mucormycosis. “We have already distributed some vials of the injection to some of the hospitals,” he said. The number of cases of mucormycosis had risen to 56 in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-hc-rap-bihar-to-reverify-covid-deaths-101621352417280.html
18-05-2021||Other||3,705 new Covid-19 cases, 24 deaths in Pune district on Tuesday||PUNE As per the state health department, Pune district reported 3,705 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours on Tuesday. The district also reported 24 more deaths due to the infection. This took the total count in the district to 0.98 million, of which 0897 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 10,541 with 72,089 active cases undergoing treatment in hospital or in home isolation. Pune rural reported 2,053 new cases which takes the progressive count to 2,68,559. With 11 deaths the toll in the rural area went up to 2,834 on Tuesday. Pune city reported 1,090 new cases, which takes the progressive count to 4,74,906. With 13 more deaths, the toll is now 6,104. PCMC reported 562 new cases and the progressive count went up to 2,36,921. No deaths were reported in PCMC on Tuesday. The PCMC death toll stands at 1,545. The state reported 52,898 patients discharged on Tuesday, which takes the total count to 49,27,480. This recovery rate in the state is 90.69%. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.54%. Currently, 30,97,161 people are in home quarantine and 25,004 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3705-new-covid-19-cases-24-deaths-in-pune-district-on-tuesday-101621352353594.html
18-05-2021||Other||Petrol prices in Pune city closed in on Rs99 per litres mark||PUNE Petrol prices in Pune city closed in on the Rs99 per litres mark. On Tuesday, the price of petrol was Rs98.82 per litre and the price of diesel was R89.01 per litre. “It is a mystery how fuel rates were stable during the election phase last month and the now started again. Heavy taxes have been imposed on fuel and the government is giving no relief to the common people who are already suffering in the pandemic,” said Vivek Velankar, president, Sajag Nagrik Manch. Fuel prices started to increase from May 4 in the city. The price of diesel has also reached new highs and the transport sector is affected because of that. A protest against the fuel price hike was staged by the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Monday. Prashant Jagtap, city president, NCP, slammed the policies of the central government for this price hike. “The price of petrol which was Rs72/litre in 2014 has reached the verge of Rs100/litre now. Diesel has become more expensive and LPG is also out of the budget of common people. Edible oil prices have touched new heights. People are already suffering because of the pandemic and on the other hand there has been no relief from the central government,” Prashant Jagtap had said at the time of the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-prices-in-pune-city-closed-in-on-rs99-per-litres-mark-101621351933574.html
18-05-2021||Other||International Museum Day: Pune venues struggling to recover despite re-imagining the future||PUNE On International Museum Day, May 18, the International Council of Museums is running with the theme, “The Future of Museums: Recover and Reimagine”. “Every year the International Council of Museums announces a theme to celebrate International Museum Day on 18 May and this year they want us to create, imagine and share new practices of (co-)creation of value, new business models for cultural institutions and innovative solutions for the social, economic and environmental challenges of the present,” said Sudhanva Ranade, director, Raja Dinkar Kelkar Museum. “We have developed a 3D virtual tour, but the problem we are facing is how to monetise it, to earn enough to maintain the museum. It is an expensive proposition and with the museum being closed for almost a year-and-a-half, it seems a tough task,” he added. The objective of International Museum Day (IMD) is to raise awareness about the fact that museums are an important means of cultural exchange, enrichment of cultures and development of mutual understanding, cooperation and peace among people. “Due to intermittent lockdowns, the number of visitors has come down to drastically. However, we are maintaining our periodical activities of conservation, preservation of artefacts and various exhibits, where cleaning and fumigation is done regularly. We have good collection of geological samples for students of Geology. Adventure sports, hiking, mountaineering, and scuba diving equipment will be exhibited with due information, with models of physiology imbibed with a light and commentary combination; such as when we eat food how it moves in the human body. We have various ideas and plans to be executed in the near future, but museums need to open to get visitors,” said Rajiv Vilekar, director, Mahatma Phule Museum. The Babasaheb Ambedkar museum has always been a crowd puller. “We are exploring the idea of making an app specifically for the museums of Pune city, where the public can gain information about major museums in the city. Even if our museum is physically closed due to current situation, we still have recurring costs of maintenance and staff salaries and electricity charges to bear,” said Sanjeevani Majumdar, director of the museum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/international-museum-day-pune-venues-struggling-to-recover-despite-re-imagining-the-future-101621351333668.html
18-05-2021||Other||PMC committee to frame policy on governing names of public spaces||PUNE Ahead of the civic polls, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has begun to receive proposals to name recently completed infrastructure projects.The committee in charge of names has decided to frame a policy to avoid duplication. This committee is responsible for sanctioning names for roads, chowks, properties, gardens, schools and areas belonging to the PMC. The committee holds a meeting once in a month with corporators sending proposals for sanctions for names.Currently, the committee has received proposals for two flyovers. One is located at the Lullanagar chowk, which is already open for commuters; and another flyover is the Jawaharlal Nehru road between Apsara talkies and Maharashtra Warehousing Corporation. Advocate Haji Gafur Pathan, local corporator of Kondhwa Khurd ward area said, “We proposed the name of chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj to Lulla Nagar flyover. It has not passed yet.” Shrinath Bhimale, BJP corporator from the Market yard area said, “The flyover has not been completed yet. Meanwhile, we are calling it the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar’s flyover.” At present, there are two bridges with the above names. The Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Bridge in Bund garden on the Mula-Mutha and the Shivaji Maharaj bridge near the PMC main building, a heritage structure. Dhanraj Ghogare, chairman of the committee said, “We have received a proposal for the Lullanagar flyover. It has not been approved. There is already a Shivaji Maharaj bridge near the PMC main building. .” He added, “We came to know that someone has already hanged the board of the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar flyover. Copying the same name for bridges or flyovers may create confusion. Therefore, we have decided to frame a policy to avoid duplication of names in future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-committee-to-frame-policy-on-governing-names-of-public-spaces-101621350133615.html
18-05-2021||Other||Dr Rajeev Chavan is new principal controller of Defence Accounts (officers)||PUNE Dr Rajeev Chavan, IDAS, NDC, has taken over as principal controller of Defence Accounts (officers) on Monday. He is an IDAS officer of the 1990 batch and joined the service in September 1991. Dr Chavan is an MBBS from the Medical College, Nagpur University and a law graduate from Rani Durgawati University, Jabalpur.He held the post of director in the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.Thereafter, he handled charge of CFA in (FYS) Ambajahri of the department of Defence Production, under the ambit of OFB, Kolkata.He also held the charge of IFA in (Capital-AF) Delhi, IFA (Capital–Navy), Delhi, besides working in many ordnance and vehicle factories in various capacities. His last posting was PCDA (SWC) Jaipur, Indian Army. He was student officer of the 58th National Defence College, New Delhi.The office of the PCDA (O) caters to over 50,000 serving Army officers dealing with pre-audit, pay, allowances and claims of officers of Indian Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dr-rajeev-chavan-is-new-principal-controller-of-defence-accounts-officers-101621349473558.html
18-05-2021||Other||I lost my father to Covid, now my mother is struggling with ‘black fungus’... When will this nightmare end?||PUNE Distraught families of those who have recovered from Covid-19 are now left facing another health challenge, Mucormycosis, colloquially referred to as “black fungus”. The steady rise in the number of cases of Mucormycosis is leading to a shortage of the drug Amphotericin, required for the treatment. Supply of the drug is now being restricted by district administration and is not freely available in the market. Ketan Bagade, son of Pramila Bagade, who is admitted to the Sahyadri multispeciality hospital, said, “My mom was Covid-19 positive on April 30, and got discharged from a government Covid centre in Baramati on May 7. A few days after being discharged she started complaining of a swelling and pain near the nose and cheeks. She was diagnosed with Mucormycosis. Bagade says that’s when they admitted her to the Pune hospital.“The hospital said that she will require five doses of Amphotericin B Liposomal injection. On the first day the hospital provided her the injection, on the second day we were asked to get it and we arranged for it. On the third day, again the hospital arranged for it; however, now they have asked us to get it from outside. We contacted a few chemists and they said that off-the-counter sale of the drug is restricted. We went to the collector’s office and they said that only the hospital can procure the drug,” Bagade adds. Bagade also said that the hospital estimated the treatment cost, without the injections, to be ₹six lakh. He said, “My mother needs about five doses every day for another seven days, so she needs 35 vials. Each dose costs Rs7,000, so the injections alone cost about ₹2.45 lakh.” Another such patient who recently lost his father to Covid-19, had to travel from Nanded to Pune to be with his mother who is fighting Mucormycosis. Suraj Telang’s mother is admitted to the Poona Hospital, and he is now looking for the injections. Telang said, “My mother finished her surgery on Tuesday and doctors had said that she would need about four injections every day before the surgery. My mom tested positive for Covid-19 on March 22, along with my father. However, my father lost his life to the infection on March 28. A few days later, my mother started complaining of a pain in the tooth and gum, and then in the sinuses, with a swelling on the cheeks. We took her to the hospital and she was diagnosed with Mucormycosis.”Telang added, “We have lost all our savings in paying hospital bills. I lost my father to Covid-19 and now, my mother is struggling from Mucormycosis. When will this nightmare end? We are trying every possible source available to get the drug.”“We even went to the collector’s office but no one is giving any right answers,” he added.Dr H K Sale, executive director of Noble hospital, said, “We are facing a severe shortage of the drug. After saving our patients from Covid-19, we might lose them to Mucormycosis, because there is no drug available. These patients also need ICU beds for a longer period. If we do not ramp up our facilities and make sure medication is in the right place, we may lose more lives for no reason.”On Tuesday, state health minister Rajesh Tope announced that in case the cost of treatment for Mucormycosis is more than the allowable insurance cover, under the Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Jan Arogya Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, the excess cost will be borne by the the State Health Guarantee Society.Under the MPJAY scheme, medicines for Mucormycosis will be given free to patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/i-lost-my-father-to-covid-now-my-mother-is-struggling-with-black-fungus-when-will-this-nightmare-end-101621348933452.html
18-05-2021||Other||Yogi govt hits back after Cong points out discrepancy in UP’s Covid-19 numbers||Uttar Pradesh Congress MLA Aradhna Mishra ‘Mona’ slammed the Bhartiya Janata Party government in Uttar Pradesh over their handling of the Covid-19 crisis and fabricating the death numbers. She asked chief minister Yogi Adityanath to resign, HT has learnt.While addressing the media on Tuesday, the Congress MLA said “The current UP government has proved to be truly incompetent and have lost their right to govern the state. Morally, the UP chief minister should resign and if they fail to do so, I urge the honourable Governor to dissolve this government.” She further said that the government failed to provide the people of the state with security and a healthy environment.In her address, she defined the Yogi-led government using ‘3Ds’. “ This government is based on denial, destroying of evidence and data manipulation.” She launched a scathing attack when she said the situation in the state would have been far better if the government paid attention to the crisis instead of trying to hide it. She further accused the government of disrespecting the dead by not allowing their close ones to perform their last rites respectfully.Mishra pointed out that earlier the Lucknow Municipal Office was responsible for issuing the death certificates, however, now the CMO has taken over. She questioned the reason behind such a move. “I believe this decision has been taken to hide the actual number of Covid-19 deaths in the state” she opined.In the same virtual address, AICC spokesperson Supriya Srinate brought forward the Covid-19 figures in the state. She revealed that the state’s official death tally shows 2,268 deaths in the state capital. She said, “However, the official figures also show that 7,890 death certificates have been issued in the capital during the 45-days from April 1 to May 15. Additionally, we found that 5,970 death certificates had been issued between February 15 to March 31.” She questioned the discrepancy and accused the UP state government of underreporting the Covid-19 figures.Aradhna Mishra also pointed out discrepancies in the government’s official numbers. She pointed out that a large number of people have lost their lives at home due to lack of hospital beds, she claimed that this is missing from the official records.“The number of death certificates issued in a district will always be higher than the total number of confirmed Covid deaths there. Covid is not the only cause of death. Secondly, not all the death certificates issued in a particular period would indicate them as the deaths that have happened in the same time frame. Many times people apply late or wait for a suitable time for obtaining a death certificate. So, such a gap should not be assumed as a discrepancy,” said a senior state government official in Lucknow. Meanwhile, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said the death certificates of all Covid-19 patients must clearly mention the coronavirus disease as the cause of the demise and kins must not face any problem in obtaining them. The chief minister said this at the Covid review meeting in Lucknow.“The district magistrates and chief medical officers (CMOs) across all districts must ensure that kins of any deceased (died of Covid or non-Covid causes) must not face any problem in obtaining death certificates. If the death has happened due to Covid, then the certificate must clearly mention it. If need be, then necessary government order regarding this can also be issued,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-govt-hits-back-after-cong-points-out-discrepancy-in-up-s-covid-19-numbers-101621343833889.html
18-05-2021||Other||‘Jammu and Kashmir’s oxygen capacity sees three-fold increase’: Government||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Tuesday said that the oxygen capacity in the Union territory has increased from 15,000 litres per minute (LPM) to 50,000 LPM in about over a month. The government said that the UT saw more than a threefold increase in its oxygen capacity since April 01, 2021.“From 15,000 LPM on 1st April, installed capacity of oxygen plants in the UT has increased to 50,000 LPM on 17th May 2021,” J&K’s department of information and public relations (DIPR) said in a tweet.“Prompt effort by the administration substantially augments the capacity and availability of medical oxygen in the health facilities of Jammu and Kashmir to serve the public,” it said.The claim comes after advisor Baseer Khan received a consignment of seven oxygen generation plants from Germany on Monday.Khan said that with the commissioning of these seven plants, the oxygen requirement across the hospitals in J&K will be almost fulfilled and will cater to the daily requirements.Among the seven plants, five have a capacity of 1000 LPM each while two plants will have a capacity of 1500 and 600 LPM respectively.Khan said that the supporting infrastructure for the oxygen plants is almost ready and it is expected to be installed commissioned within a few days.“Medical oxygen has become an important commodity in the fight against this pandemic and with the commissioning of these oxygen generation plants, the oxygenated bed capacity of the hospitals will be greatly enhanced,” he said.“The government is keeping a keen eye on the developments and is taking adequate steps to augment its capacity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jammu-and-kashmir-s-oxygen-capacity-sees-three-fold-increase-government-101621340713989.html
18-05-2021||Other||A day after 3 die in police firing in Sukma, villagers say their ‘protest was peaceful’||A day after three people died in police firing outside a newly established camp in Chhatisgarh’s Sukma district where local were protesting, the villagers alleged that they were staging a peaceful protest but police opened fire to end it, HT has learnt. “Our only fault is we don’t want a police camp and therefore we were protesting it. When the police were not able to end the protest, they opened fire killing three people. Six villagers are still missing. Those who are killed are Uika Pandu from Teemapura, Bheema Ursam who hails from Gundam, and Kawasi Waga from Sudwa village. At least 18 people are injured with bullet injuries,” said Rahul Madvi, a villager, while talking to the local media. The locals claimed that three villagers died in Monday’s firing while six are missing and 18 got injured. However, the police claimed that they are yet to identify the deceased and injured. Meanwhile, human rights activists and tribal leaders of Bastar demanded strict action against the officers who ordered firing on Monday and a high-level probe into the matter. Madvi claimed that all three who died were farmers and not Maoists. “The whole thing started when policemen started beating people with lathis and they started running behind. Suddenly, some heard firing and then entered the forest... Later, three were found dead. Since the protest started, they were beating us with lathis,” said another villager, who did not wish to be named. On May 14, villagers from around 10-12 villages began their agitation against the Silger police camp which became operational on May 12. “We don’t want police camps here, instead we want schools, doctors and other basic things. As soon as the camp opens the tribals are tortured and booked under false cases. In coming days, we will be falsely implicated in Maoist cases and would be sent to jail,” said Nandaram Markam, a villager. Bela Bhatia, a human rights activist working in the Bastar region, demanded an enquiry and FIR against the officers who ordered the firing on villagers. “The police and security forces in Bastar are forgetting that they are accountable to the citizens. If the higher officials in the police hierarchy cover up their subordinates’ crimes, shouldn’t they also be seen to be complicit? What has occurred is very serious. An impartial enquiry should be conducted as soon as possible and FIRs should be lodged against those responsible for the order and action,” said Bhatia. Inspector-General of Police, Bastar Range, Sunderaj P, refuted the allegations and claimed that Maoists were taking the villagers as their shield during the protest. “This was a Maoist-compelled protest against the police camp because they don’t want camp in their core area. The protest ended on Sunday night but the Maoists forced the innocent villagers to return on Monday,” said Suderaj claiming that the identification of the deceased is underway but the police have reasons to believe that they were Janmilitia members of CPI (Maoists). Denying the claims of police assault, the IG said that first aggression and fire came from the Maoists of Jagargunda and Pamed Area Committee who were hiding among the villagers and the police was forced to fire in return. The Silgar camp is located eight to ten kilometres away from the site of the Maoist attack that took place on April 3 in Sukma district where 22 security personnel were killed. Tribal leader Soni Sori said that the opening of camps amid the pandemic is not justified both for the tribals and the security forces.“I will comment over the exchange of fire only after meeting the villagers but there is no need of camps in Bastar now,” said Sori.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-day-after-3-died-in-police-firing-in-sukma-villagers-say-their-protest-was-peaceful-101621339635073.html
18-05-2021||Other||Bargari sacrilege: 6 dera men sent to 4-day police custody||The special investigations team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege incidents on Monday day added charges of prompting religious enmity in the FIR registered in connection with the Bargari sacrilege. The section 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been added to the FIR registered on October 12, 2015, at Bajakhana police station, a day after the SIT arrested six Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda followers for sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari village. The SIT led by inspector general of police (IGP), border range, Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, on Sunday arrested Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny; Nishan Singh, Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola; and Pardeep Kumar, all resident of Kotkapura; Shakti Singh of Daggu Romana village and Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village. While seeking seven-day police remand, the SIT produced the accused before the court of judicial magistrate Faridkot Tarjani, who sent them to police custody till May 21. Accused had plan to do another sacrilege in 2015: SIT The SIT had told the court that 150 torn pages of a bir of Guru Granth Sahib, which was stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village on June 1, 2015, were found scattered near a gurdwara at Bargari. “This act was carried out by the accused. During the investigation, it has been revealed that there were 100 more pages torn from the holy book and the accused had plan to do another sacrilege at Hari Nau village in Faridkot district in 2015. Those pages have not been recovered so far, so their custodial interrogation is required for that purpose as well,” SIT added. Dera followers’ counsel Vinod Kumar Monga argued that the CBI has already given them clean chit in these cases but SIT has arrested them without any evidence. However, the SIT claimed that they have sufficient evidence against the accused in this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bargari-sacrilege-6-dera-men-sent-to-4-day-police-custody-101621282151773.html
18-05-2021||Other||Maharashtra sees 26,616 new Covid-19 cases; tally now 5,405,068||Maharashtra recorded 26,616 daily Covid-19 infections on Monday, pushing the tally to 5,405,068. The active cases declined to 445,495 after 48,211 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours. The state saw 516 fatalities, taking the toll to 82,486. Kolhapur reported the highest toll on Monday with 101 deaths – (83 deaths in district and 18 in the city), followed by Solapur with 56 deaths (49 in district and seven in the city). After three months of surge, the daily cases in Maharashtra have gradually started declining. It became possible, however, only after a complete lockdown was imposed across the state on April 22. The state is now looking for a decline of 50% in daily cases by the end of this month, officials said. For the past four consecutive days, Maharashtra has been reporting less than 40,000 cases. On May 14, 15 and 16, it reported 39,923, 34,848 and 34,389, respectively. On April 18, the state saw the highest daily surge of 68,631cases which is also been seen as the peak of the start of the second wave. Till May 1, the tally of daily cases was more than 60,000 cases (63,282 cases). The daily positivity rate of the state is also on decline as it was 15.91%, 14.68% and 12.99% on May 14, 15 and 16, respectively. On May 14, the state conducted 250,784 tests, while on May 15 and 16, 237,264 and 264,587 were conducted. In the last 24 hours, the state tested 234,416 samples and had a positivity rate of 11.35%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 17.25%, according to the data issued by the state health department. “Situation is coming under control as we can see decline in cases. Since last month, our daily average cases has seen a drop of 30% as it has been reduced to 40,000 from 65,000. As lockdown restrictions have been extended we are expecting that the daily cases will be reduced to less than 30,000 by the end of this month,” said Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). Maharashtra’s effective reproduction number (R) for Covid-19, which indicates how fast the infection is spreading, has also declined to 1.03 from 1.45 on April 30, according to an analysis prepared by the state health department. For a pandemic to come to an end, the R value has to be sustained under 1. This infection rate was recorded 0.36 in February when the second wave hit the state. In March, it went up to 1.33. However, districts such as Solapur, Pune, Ahmednagar, Nashik, Sangli, Kolhapur and Beed are still contributing a significant number of cases every day. On Friday, Solapur reported 2,679 cases, highest in the state. Pune recorded 2,262 cases, Ahmednagar 1,851 cases, Nashik 1788 cases, Sangli 1,689 cases, Kolhapur 1,335 cases and Beed 1,100 cases. Mumbai also clocked 1,232 cases that took the tally to 689,062. It also reported 48 casualties taking the toll to 14,272. “Peak in daily cases has come late in some of the districts which has impacted the overall figures of daily cases of the state. Once peak is over in the respective districts then the situation in the state will look much better,” said a senior health official, wishing not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-sees-26-616-new-covid-19-cases-tally-now-5405068-101621280770958.html
18-05-2021||Other||UP Board asks schools to upload marks of High School pre board exams on website||UP Board, formally known as Uttar Pradesh Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad (UPMSP), has asked all schools affiliated to it to upload subject-wise and total marks obtained by high school students in either pre board exams or any internal assessment on board's official website upmsp.edu.in by Tuesday evening, according to a letter issued by board secretary Divyakant Shukla on Monday.The missive said the step was in accordance with the instructions received from higher officials.In the missive addressed to all district Inspector of schools (DIOS), Shukla has asked them to instruct all principals of schools concerned to mandatorily upload all information on the board website by May 18.The missive make its plain that DIOS concerned will be held directly responsible if any school fails to upload the information as required.It has also instructed officials not to show any complacency in this regard. The copy of the letter has also been sent to all divisional joint education directors and additional secretaries of Meerut, Bareilly, Varanasi, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur zones of the board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-board-asks-schools-to-upload-marks-of-high-schools-pre-board-exams-on-website-101621280230943.html
18-05-2021||Other||Karnataka forms task force on black fungus, so far identifies 97 cases in state||Bengaluru The Karnataka government has indentified at least 97 cases of mucormycosis or black fungus from across the state, K Sudhakar, the minister for health, family welfare and medical education said on Monday. “Compared to normal years, this (black fungus) has been seen in quite a few people,” Sudhakar said on Monday. He added that the disease should not be compared to Covid-19 or believe that it can transmit in the same fashion as Covid-19.In a bid to contain the spread of black fungus across the state, the government has formed a specialised task force comprising ENT specialists, microbiologists and other senior officials from the government that will be headed by HS Satish, the head of the department for ENT at state-run Victoria Hospital.The new infection comes amid a raging Covid-19 pandemic that has thrown life out gear in the state as well as the country for over a year now.The disease is said to appear in those persons who have immunocompromised conditions like cancer, HIV and other problems, the minister said. Sudhakar said that even Covid-19 infected persons with uncontrolled diabetes and are given higher steroids can contract the disease.“The fungus enters through the nasal cavity in persons with low immunity. Then it will attack eyesight. One should get treatment immediately after it enters the nose. It is learnt that the water used in humidifiers in hospitals is causing this. (An) experts panel has been set up to find out the exact cause of this disease. Measures will be taken after the expert committee submit its report,” Sudhakar said. “This is a notified disease and all private hospitals, ENT specialists should inform the government if such cases are discovered. This information cannot be kept private and must be informed to the government. Hiding it from the government is against the law,” the minister added.Drugs like Amphotericin B are used to treat the disease. The supply of the drug, however, is controlled by the centre and it has so far allocated 1050 vials to Karnataka, the minister said, of which the state had received 450 till date.Several states in India have reported a high number of black fungus cases that has added to the panic amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Sudhakar said that the government has placed orders for around 20,000 vials of the medicine along with two other drugs, which are also effective against black fungus.The minister said that at least five centres across Karnataka which includes Bengaluru, Mysuru, Hubbali, Kalaburagi and Shivamogga will start opening by Thursday to treat people who contracted the disease.Sudhakar said that the new task force will also try to determine the source of the infection. Both Covid and Black fungus patients are treated free of cost, he added.CN Ashwath Narayan, the deputy chief minister of Karnataka and chairperson of the state’s Covid task force on Monday called on ‘Global Innovation Alliance Partner Countries’, to partner with the state in exploring possibilities of procurement of drugs, specifically like Amphotericin B that is critical for treating Black Fungus infection, Remdesivir and Tocilizumab.He also asked these countries to partner with Karnataka in new technologies like nano medicine, Artificial Intelligence, Robotics, 3D Printing, Cloud Computing etc, with the approach of establishing a better health monitoring system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnataka-forms-task-force-on-black-fungus-so-far-identifies-97-cases-in-state-101621279872095.html
18-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s daily cases below 1,000 for 2nd day in row||The number of Covid cases fell below 1, 000 for the second consecutive day on Monday with 851 fresh cases being reported. Another 20 deaths were reported, taking the toll to 1,740.Among those who died were 10 men and an equal number of women. The oldest to die is an 82-year-old resident of Mayapuri while the youngest is a 32-year-old resident of Shimlapuri.As many as eight of the total 20 deaths reported (40%) on Monday were of those who were in their 50s.Two persons who died were in their 30s, three in their 40s, two in their 60s, four deceased above the age of 70 and one above age of 80.The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is now 76,646.There are 12,837 active patients in the district at present.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all safety protocols such as wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently to not just save themselves but also everyone around them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-daily-cases-below-1-000-for-2nd-day-in-row-101621279871509.html
18-05-2021||Other||Experts attribute decline in Covid cases to fewer tests||Bengaluru: Even as Karnataka has been under a lockdown for the past three weeks, the state is yet to witness a significant decline in the number of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. According to experts, the marginal drop in daily new cases was mainly due to decrease in the number of tests the state has been conducting in the past few weeks. In the wake of surging Covid-19 cases, Karnataka on April 27 went into a lockdown, which will continue till May 24. On May 1, the state had reported 44,438 new Covid-19 cases, which increased to 50,112 on May 5. The state logged 41,664 new infections on May 15, according to the health department.Karnataka has seen a drop in the number of tests being conducted every day from 177,982 on May 1 to 118,345 on by May 15, according to state health department data.The state government, which is now considering an extension of the lockdown in the state, cited Bengaluru’s numbers to highlight that the lockdown has been effective. Bengaluru on May 1 reported 19,533 new Covid cases, which came down to 13,402 on May 15. In fact, on May 16, the cases in Bengaluru dropped to as low as 8,344, the first time it logged below-10,000 tally since April 16, when the city had reported 9,917 cases.Karnataka revenue minister R Ashok on Monday evening said a cabinet meeting will be chaired by chief minister BS Yediyurappa three days before the lockdown comes to an end to decide the future course of action. “In my personal opinion, it will be good to extend the lockdown. You have seen that in Bengaluru, there were around 22,000 cases per day, it has come down to 8,000,” he said.A senior BBMP official, who did not wish to be named, said, “There is a steady decrease in the number of cases in Bengaluru. Compared to the initial days of the lockdown, the city is reporting at least 5,000 fewer new Covid cases. This is a promising sign, and the number of distress calls for beds has also come down since the lockdown has begun. As per our assessment, the lockdown should be extended.”However, even in Bengaluru, the number of tests has come down. In the first few days of May, the city was conducting an average of 56,143 tests per day, which came down to 52,782 between May 6 and May 10. The number further dropped to 44,014 tests per day between May 11 and May 15. On May 16 when Bengaluru reported only 8,344 new infections, the city had conducted only 42,642 tests, compared to 62,004 on May 1.Meanwhile, state and city officials defended the decrease in number of Covid-19 tests, citing the change in the testing policy. “As per the new guidelines, we are only testing symptomatic cases,” the BBMP official cited above said.According to the health department, Karnataka reported 38,603 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the active caseload to 603,639. Bengaluru accounted for 13,338 new cases, which pushed its active caseload to 364,382. The state and its capital reported 476 and 239 deaths due to Covid-19 on Monday, taking the toll to 22,131 and 9,722, respectively.While Bengaluru continued to account for bulk of the new cases and fatalities, the surging numbers in other districts have become a concern, officials said. On Monday, Ballari reported 2,322 new cases and 17 deaths, Uttara Kannada 1,288 cases and 15 deaths and Hassan reported 2,324 new infections and 29 deaths, indicating a sharp rise in the number of cases in the state.A member of the state’s Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19, on the condition of anonymity, said it was too early to consider the lockdown a success. “The reduction in the number of cases is also because of the reduction in the number of tests. The test positivity rate in the state still remains the same. This is not a good sign. The government should extend the lockdown and use that time to increase testing and if need be, go to home to home testing,” he said. Amid talks about extending the lockdown in Karnataka as the state battles the second wave of Covid-19, Janata Dal (Secular) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Monday told the government that it should be “pro bono”, where economic and food relief to the needy is taken care of. Noting that lockdown is a step towards saving lives, livelihood should also be taken care of, Kumaraswamy said in a series of tweets. He also accused the Centre of leaving the responsibility of announcing the lockdown on the state and washing its hands-off, as it would have to provide relief to the people if such announcements are made. “There are reports that the state government is mulling extending the lockdown. If at all it is extended it should be pro bono. The extended lockdown should take care of providing economic and food relief. At the all-party meeting too what we had suggested was a lockdown with an intention of public good,” the former chief minister tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/experts-attribute-decline-in-covid-cases-to-fewer-tests-101621279690989.html
18-05-2021||Other||Double murder convict out on parole held for choking another woman in Ludhiana||A week after a 30-year-old woman was found dead at her house in Jain Enclave on Bhamiyan Road, cops arrested an Uttar Pradesh (UP) resident, facing life imprisonment in a 2003 double murder case, for the crime. He had been released on parole due to the pandemic outbreak. The accused, Mohan Singh, 45, who is a resident of Maharajgunj of UP, had allegedly killed the victim, Megha Malhotra, 30, for money. After the crime, he fled to Basti district of UP from where he was arrested on Sunday. Police said the accused had planned to flee to Nepal from there. During initial interrogation, the accused told the police that he had painted the doors and windows of the woman’s house some time ago. During the stint, he had seen the woman keep some cash in the almirah and hatched a conspiracy to rob it. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said, “The accused deliberately left the painting work incomplete. On May 10, when the woman called him again to finish the pending work, the accused, who had figured out the family’s daily schedule, waited for the victim’s husband, Karan Malhotra, to leave before he turned up at the spot.” “When he was convinced that the woman was alone, the accused tried to snatch the woman’s handbag. When she resisted, he grabbed her and strangulated her to death with the handkerchief that he was using as a facemask,” said the police commissioner. The victim’s two-year-old son was sleeping inside the house at the time. The police chief said the accused was not aware of the toddler’s presence else he may have murdered him too. Cops have recovered ₹5,000 cash, the woman’s handbag, her Aadhar card and debit card from the accused’s possession. He was produced before the court on Monday and sent to five-day police custody. Was released on parole due to pandemic Jamalpur station house officer (SHO), inspector Kulwant Singh Malhi said after finding out about the painter and his past criminal record, police started zeroing in on him and nabbed him from Uttar Pradesh. He added that the accused had earlier murdered a 39-year-old woman, Poonam, and her 17-year-old domestic help, Chhottu, in Shastri Nagar of Model Town on May 22, 2003. The accused was convicted in the double murder case and awarded life imprisonment. However, due to the pandemic, he was released on parole in June 2020. The accused then started living in a rented accommodation in Heaven City in Badal Colony of Mundian Kalan. As per the police, his landlord is also facing trial in criminal cases. The crime The victim, Megha Malhotra, was found murdered in her house at May 10. The neighbours were the first to learn of the incident after they were alerted by the victim’s toddler son’s cries. They immediately rang up the victim’s husband who rushed home and informed the police. The case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) with Section 303 (murder by life-convict) of the Indian Penal Code. Police will be attaching a copy of the judgment in the 2003 double murder case with the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/double-murder-convict-out-on-parole-held-for-choking-another-woman-in-ludhiana-101621279337363.html
18-05-2021||Other||Azam out of ICU as condition ‘improves’||The condition of veteran Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan is improving, according to medical bulletin of Medanta hospital in Lucknow.Khan, who was shifted to Medanta hospital from Sitapur Jail on May 9, has been shifted to general ward of the hospital from the intensive care unit of critical care ward. “He is still on some oxygen support, but his overall condition is much better.”Director of Medanta hospital in Lucknow Dr Rakesh Kapoor said, “ Azam Khan has been shifted out of ICU and he is feeling better. He is having normal food. A team of doctors is looking after his treatment.”Condition of Abdullah Khan, his son, is also improving, said Dr Kapoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/azam-out-of-icu-as-condition-improves-101621279212036.html
18-05-2021||Other||UPPCL’s regulatory surcharge, changes in tariff slabs proposals meet stiff oppn||UP Power Corporation Ltd’s (UPPCL) proposal seeking levy of regulatory surcharge on consumers to make up for its deficit met a stiff opposition in the public hearing held here on Monday by UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) to know various stakeholders’ views on the corporation’s annual revenue requirement (ARR) petition before announcing the tariff order for 2021-22. Consumers also opposed the proposal for changes in the existing tariff slabs arguing that doing so would automatically increase per unit rates of electricity for consumers under various categories. The UPERC may announce new tariff by the month end after holding two more hearings. No direct tariff increase is expected though the UPPCL has sought tariff revision through backdoor like one by proposing reintroduction of the regulatory surcharge system that the commission had abolished two years ago and changes in the tariff slabs.Raising the regulatory surcharge issue, UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad Avadhesh Kumar Verma said the proposal was illegal and demanded the UPERC to reject the same. He said the UPPCL had proposed regulatory surcharge because he had been demanding the commission to reduce the power tariff since the UPPCL had overcharged ₹19,537 crore since 2000 as also admitted by the UPERC.He said the power tariff for urban and rural consumers had gone up by 84% and 500% respectively during the last nine years. Verma also questioned the discoms’ proposal for change in tariff slabs on the ground that the UPERC rejected similar proposal last year. He claimed that discoms had projected their annual expenditures on a higher side to get tariff increase, though indirectly.Other consumers Sourabh Srivastav and Yogesh Agrawal suggested that cross-subsidy should not be increased and regulatory surcharge should not be levied. Dheeraj Khullar demanded a package for industries Bundelkhand. Manoj Kumar Gupta demanded lowering of rates of prepaid meters while representatives of Delhi Metro demanded reduction in power tariff for metro in UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uppcls-regulatory-surcharge-changes-in-tariff-slabs-proposals-meet-stiff-oppn-101621278970890.html
18-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s crematorium lockers filling up with unclaimed ashes of Covid victims||The unprecedented number of Covid deaths in May has not only stretched the district’s crematoriums, but also left their lockers filled with ashes of the victims, many never to be collected.As per government data, May accounts for 46% (345) of the 757 Covid deaths confirmed since January this year – an average of 21 deaths each day.There are 11 crematoriums across the district, with the one near Dholewal Military Complex dedicated exclusively for Covid victims.Carrying out cremations for almost 12 hours a day, the caretakers here say a body has been coming in every hour ever since the Covid deaths started peaking in the latter half of April.The gas crematorium is able to carry out up to 20 cremations a day, they said, but the ashes are often left uncollected by the family members.To make the area available for the next rites, caretakers store the abandoned remains in lockers, until the family members return to collect them, but the wait has been growing longer.Veena Goyal, 62, and Parmod Goyal, 66, of the same Shivaji Nagar family, who lost their lives to Covid on May 8 and 11, respectively, were given the final farewell at this crematorium, but their ashes remain stacked in one of the lockers a week later.A resident of Gurpal Nagar Street No 3, Dharmpal, 60, also suffered two tragedies in the past 10 days.First his 85-year-old mother, Gurpal Kaur, died of the virus on May 4, and then his wife, Rajesh Rani, 58, too lost her life to the contagion on May 13.For 10 days, the remains of his mother remained in the locker at the crematorium, as he tended to his wife at a hospital.“After I lost my mother, I felt, with my wife’s support I will pull through the grief and we will immerse the remains of my mother together. However, fate had some other plans,” said the distraught widower.As the ashes continued to pile up, they increased the number of lockers from 30 to 59, but amid the stream of Covid deaths in May, these, too, were quickly filling up, said Pankaj Sharma, a priest here.Panic, Covid fatigue to be blamed Ranjodh Singh, president of Ramgarhia Educational Trust, that manages the crematorium, attributed the delay in collecting ashes to multiple causes.“For one, in several cases, even the family members of the deceased are infected and have to remain in isolation. Others may get stuck in the rigmarole of arranging an NOC and Covid negative report to be available for the cremation, which may take a long time due to the rush at testing centres,” said Ranjodh, also a city-based industrialist.“One can hardly blame the bereaved families, who run from pillar to post arranging beds and treatment for their loved ones, only to see them losing the battle to the virus. Even before they can tide over the shock, they are pushed into rituals and formalities of cremation, leaving them completely fatigued,” he added.According to a volunteer, who is part of the team conducting last rites of unclaimed bodies at the crematorium, the number of people abandoning their deceased kin for fear of contracting the virus has also been increasing with the rise in deaths, which also left ashes piling up.Those not collected for weeks on end are eventually immersed in water bodies on behalf of the families. Recently, municipal corporation secretary Jasdev Singh Sekhon cremated some of such unclaimed bodies and helped immerse the ashes at Gurdwara Katana Sahib.“We remind relatives in attendance to collect the remains within four hours after the last rites to allow the other cremations to continue without a hitch. Yet some fail to comply, so the ashes are placed in the lockers,” said Sharma, who has also been spending the night at the crematorium, with the pyres sometimes burning into the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-crematorium-lockers-filling-up-with-unclaimed-ashes-of-covid-victims-101621278851425.html
18-05-2021||Other||Cops start patrolling Ganga to prevent dumping of bodies||Cops, Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel on Monday began an intensive patrolling in UP districts located along the Ganga banks to ensure that there was no dumping of bodies into the river. A number of unidentified corpses were found floating in the river in Ghazipur and Ballia districts last week.Through public address system, cops also made announcements advising villagers against dumping the bodies into the Ganga. During patrolling, cops fished out seven bodies from the Ganga in Varanasi, 15 in Ghazipur and eight each in Chandauli and Ballia districts. They later cremated the bodies. The cops also held meetings with locals in villages located along the Ganga apprising them of the state government’s decision to provide ₹5,000 financial assistance each to poor people who are unable to carry out cremation of their near and dear ones. At Buxar ghat, Unnao, which was in news recently when several bodies were found buried at the riverbank, cops have set up a police outpost to make sure there is no dumping of bodies into the river. Prashant Kumar, additional director general of police, law and order, said 34 police teams had been pressed into service in Ghazipur district along the Ganga banks for round-the-clock patrolling in shifts to prevent disposal of bodies into the river. “Patrolling has also been intensified in those areas of Ballia and Ghazipur districts, including Zamania and Gahmar, which share their border with Bihar. The cops have also made arrangements of firewood for cremation of bodies at all ghats in Ghazipur district,” added Kumar. In Varanasi district, three teams of Jal Police are patrolling the Ganga in shifts and keeping a watch on ghats to prevent disposal of bodies into river. In Kanpur, Chandauli and Fatehpur districts also, intensive patrolling is being carried out to prevent dumping of bodies into the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cops-start-patrolling-ganga-to-prevent-dumping-of-bodies-101621278851896.html
18-05-2021||Other||Booze in Ludhiana central jail: ADGP, DIG visit for investigation||After videos of Ludhiana central jail inmates purportedly enjoying booze inside the barracks went viral on social media, additional director general of police (ADGP, prisons) PK Sinha and deputy inspector general (DIG, prisons) Surjit Singh Saini reached the prison to carry out a probe. They scanned the barracks and also questioned the jail officials. The ADGP said the video seems to have been recorded on May 2 or 3 and uploaded later by one of the inmates. He added that the cops are probing how the liquor had reached the jail premises. The statements of jail officials have also been recorded. The ADGP said that if the involvement of any jail official is found during investigation, stern action will be taken against the erring official. One of the inmates caught in the viral video is self-proclaimed gangster Manwinder Singh alias Nikka Jattana of Jattana village of Mansa. Jattana had been caught using a mobile phone in jail in June 2020 as well. PK Sinha maintained that Jattana has not been categorised as a gangster by Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU). Sinha said Jattana and his accomplices had been brought on production warrant by the Division Number 3 police on June 12, 2020 in connection with a firing incident outside the house of Rishav alias Nannu, who faces an attempt to murder case. Both Jattana and Nannu were lodged in the Ludhiana central jail at the time. Jattana had taken responsibility for the attack through a Facebook post. According to the police, the accused had uploaded the post from jail. As per information, around a week ago, jail officials had recovered a mobile phone and hookah from the jail on May 9. Instead of investigating the matter, police lodged an FIR against an inmate Neeraj Kumar. Past controversy On April 20, Rajiv Arora, superintendent of Ludhiana central jail, was suspended for welcoming Punjabi singer Karan Aujla and giving him VVIP treatment. Karan Aujla along with his friends had visited Ludhiana central jail on April 8 and met jail superintendent Rajiv Arora in his office. The matter had reached the ADGP after it came to light that the security officials did not check if Aujla and his friends were carrying mobile phones. Arora was replaced by Balkar Singh, who was superintendent at Gurdaspur jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/booze-in-ludhiana-central-jail-adgp-dig-visit-for-investigation-101621278671328.html
18-05-2021||Other||Cremation grounds along Ganga banks project moving at a snail’s pace||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s proposal to construct crematoriums in areas along the Ganga banks to check unorganised cremation of bodies announced last year is yet to be fully implemented. While launching the Ganga Yatra from Bijnor district on January 27, 2020, the CM had announced several development plans for areas of 27 districts along 1,358 km stretch of the river Ganga. Construction of cremation grounds was part of this plan.The urban development and panchayat raj departments were tasked with the job to complete this project. “In the past 15 months, only 20 percent of the work could be completed against the target,” said an official of the panchayat raj department. In the previous Samajwadi Party government too, a provision of ₹13.23 lakh per cremation ground in areas along the Ganga was made. Later, this was revised to ₹24 lakh per cremation ground. Manoj Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, panchayat raj, has issued instructions to earmark cremation grounds for Covid and non-Covid bodies in villages. Singh has also assured that the state government will make all arrangements for cremation of bodies if family members of the dead are unable to do so due to financial constraints. In Awadh and eastern region of Uttar Pradesh, there is a tradition of giving ‘river burial’ (Jal Samadhi) to unmarried people in some communities. “Recovery of large number of bodies from the Ganga can also be attributed to this tradition. Earlier, this was a rarity. But amid the pandemic, large number of deaths have taken place,” said lawyer and social activist Kaushlendra Singh who is based in Nanpara in Bahraich district. “In this pandemic, many young people have died and their bodies have been given river burial as per the tradition,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cremation-grounds-along-ganga-banks-project-moving-at-a-snail-s-pace-101621278190921.html
18-05-2021||Other||3 of family die of Covid-19 in 15 days at Palghar||Three members of a family died within a fortnight due to Covid-19 at Palghar. Seventy-nine-year-old Sarojben Gandhi was the first in the family to succumb to the virus on 1 May.According to her relative Bharat Gandhi, the senior citizen’s treatment was delayed as she did not get a bed in a hospital. “Her treatment was denied owing to lack of an oxygenated bed. She died in Ahmedabad at her sister’s house on May 1,” said Bharat.Four days later, Gandhi’s son Dharmesh, 50, an estate agent, who was admitted to a Kandivli hospital for Covid-19, died during treatment. On May 15, Dharmesh’s wife Varsha, who was also admitted to the same hospital, succumbed to the virus. The couple’s 21-year-old son Kalpen, a final-year architecture student of a Wada college, has also been tested positive for Covid-19 and is in home quarantine, said Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-of-family-die-of-covid-19-in-15-days-at-palghar-101621278130849.html
