19-05-2021||Other||Five die of black fungus in Haryana’s Sirsa||Five people have died due to black fungus in Sirsa district, officials said on Wednesday.“Mucormycosis or black fungus, which is primarily affecting people recovering from Covid-19, has claimed five lives in district in the last two days,” Sirsa chief medical officer (CMO) Manish Bansal said. He said 25 people from districts adjoining Sirsa were admitted to a hospital, of whom some were referred to other major health facilities.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the infection has become a matter of concern and directed officials to make necessary arrangements for its treatment. He directed that all medical colleges, including PGIMS, Rohtak, be notified for treatment of the disease.PGIMS, Rohtak has been authorised to treat patients coming from Rohtak, Jind, Mahendergarh and Charkhi Dadri, who are suffering from black fungus.Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, Nalhar, Nuh has been authorised to treat patients from Hathin sub-division, Palwal and Gurugram. Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College at Khanpur Kalan in Gohana, Sonepat has been authorised to treat patients from Panipat and Sonepat.For patients coming from Hisar, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Bhiwani, Maharaja Agrasen Medical College, Agroha, Hisar has been authorised and Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, Karnal has been authorised for patients from Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar.FIVE MORE CASES DETECTED IN KARNALFive more cases of black fungus have been reported at Karnal’s Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday taking the total number of infected persons in district to seven.As per district health department data, the new patients include a 68-year-old woman of Rajiv Colony in Karnal who was also Covid positive and had died on Tuesday; a 70-year-old woman of Arjun Gate; a 54-year-old woman of Ravidaspur locality in Karnal; a 62-year-old man of Sangohi village; and a 70-year-old man of Assandh.The doctors said that they were admitted in Covid hospital and were found to be infected with black fungus during screening of Covid patients.Meanwhile, on Wednesday, a separate ward with capacity of 20 beds has been set up for patients of mucormycosis or black fungus at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College.As per district health department, the hospital will admit patients with black fungus from Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar districts.KCGMCH director Dr Jagdish Dureja said the hospital will provide all facilities and treatment for black fungus patients. He said people need not panic as the disease is curable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-die-of-black-fungus-in-haryana-s-sirsa-101621444595124.html
19-05-2021||Other||Screening in Haryana villages on war footing||With Covid-19 spreading roots in rural areas of Haryana, screening of all families living in rural areas of Haryana is on war footing as around 8,000 school teachers, anganwadi workers, asha workers and health department officials have been assigned the task to trace infected persons from every village.Figures of the Haryana health department show that screening of all villages have helped trace 1,511 positive cases, 24,084 people were found to have influenza-like illness or ILI, and 16,787 have been reported at village isolation centres.Between May 15 and 18, screening of around 21.6 lakh people was done in 3,011 villages. Total 486 villages have been screened in Ambala district, followed by 373 in Kurukshetra, 341 in Palwal, 260 in Fatehabab, 256 in Jhajjar.Officials visited every household and screened all members of every family by recording their body temperature, SpO2 level, BP, previous medical history, co-morbidity and Covid-like symptoms including cough, cold and fever.In case any person is found with Covid symptoms, they inform the health department and such people are isolated immediately and taken for Covid test.“Screening of all villagers is a huge task and we have to do it to trace the infected persons to protect entire families from getting infected,” said asha worker Rani Devi, of Karnal district.These village-level teams are also concerned about their own safety as they have to meet all people including those who have symptoms to get their details.“The work is risky as most people in villages hesitate to reveal if they have any symptoms. But as per government guidelines, we take proper care to protect ourselves and our families from the infection,” said an anganwadi worker, requesting anonymity.Kurukshetra chief medical officer Sant Lal Verma said these officials have been asked to follow Covid protocol strictly and have been provided all required facilities for their protection.Ground level officials said the number of positive cases traced in screening is low but this will help cut spread of the infection. In screening of 21.60 lakh people in rural areas, so far, only 1,511 have been tested positive and the highest 335 were reported from Karnal, followed by 239 in Rohtak, 141 in Sonepat, and 104 in Panchkula.Haryana health minister Anil Vij told HT that screening in villages is going on war footing and every necessary step is being taken to curb spread of the virus in rural areas.As per health department officials, the number of positive cases from this screening is poor, but screening in villages was necessitated as Covid cases were reported in many villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/screening-in-haryana-villages-on-war-footing-101621444354987.html
19-05-2021||Other||Fighting Covid: Haryana yet to improve health infrastructure in rural areas||To combat the spread of Covid-19 in villages, the Centre has directed all states to set up three-tier health infrastructure, including makeshift 30-bed Covid care centres (each equipped with at least two oxygen cylinders), primary health care centres (PHCs), community health centres (CHCs), and sub-district hospitals.These directions are yet to be implemented across health centres in Haryana.The state government has set up 46 isolation centres in villages of Rohtak, 35 in Rewari, 47 in Dadri and over 80 in Hisar but no villager got admitted at these isolation centres.Many CHCs and PHCs are not admitting patients as they don’t have oxygen beds.Sanjay Dangi, of Madina village in Rohtak, said over three dozen unreported deaths have been witnessed in the village since April 24 and the village community health centre has no oxygen bed facility.“These deaths occurred due to lack of facilities at the government community health centre. People are reluctant to appear for testing as local CHC lacks basic facilities. Many villagers are running fever but are reluctant to shift to isolation centres set up by the state government as it has no doctor, nurse or medicines,” he added.People from chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s native village, Nindana in Rohtak, have not visited isolation centres and are reluctant to appear for testing.Balbir Sihag, acting president of Sisai municipal committee in Hisar, said the village CHC lacks basic facilities and has no oxygen bed.“More than 40% sanctioned posts are lying vacant. People are reluctant to appear for testing due to shortage of beds in government hospitals,” he added.Isolation centres have been set up by government in schools, community halls, marriage halls and panchayat buildings where beds, two oximetres and a medical kit are available.Dr Joginder, senior medical officer at Madina CHC, said they have 10 beds and 15 gas cylinders.“If any patient’s oxygen level drops to 84, we are referring them to civil hospitals. These cylinders we have are not enough to admit many patients. We have admitted four Covid patients so far. We don’t have oxygen beds and other CHCs are facing similar issues,” he added.Jhajjar civil surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya said they have been focusing more on CHCs to improve rural heath facilities.“We have provided oxygen facility at CHCs but oxygen beds are less than 25. If any patient’s saturation level decreases, we shift them to civil hospitals as we have more professional staff and facilities there. We are treating mild symptom patients at CHCs and working on improving facilities at CHCs and PHCs to fight against the virus,” he added. He said that they are providing medicines and equipment at isolation centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fighting-covid-haryana-yet-to-improve-health-infrastructure-in-rural-areas-101621444114902.html
19-05-2021||Other||Police face farmers’ wrath in Haryana’s Hisar||A day after residents of Masudpur village in Hisar decided to ‘boycott’ the corona lockdown alleging that it has been imposed to suppress the farm agitation, two more villages Datta and Danoda (Jind) passed similar resolutions on Wednesday.Datta residents also did not allow a police flag march to pass through the village, following which the cops had to take a detour.The villagers held a meeting led by sarpanch Vinod Kumar and passed a resolution to boycott Covid lockdown, testing and vaccination drive. They demanded shifting of Covid centre out of the village.The villagers condemned the lathi charge on farmers in Hisar. The villagers said a group of youths will impose ‘Thikhri pahra’ to stop the entry of government employees in the village. The BJP-JJP leaders’ entry will be prohibited in the village.The residents alleged that the police gypsy lands in their village and cops harass them by issuing lockdown violation challans every day.Dr Ajit Bishnoi, medical officer at Datta public health centre, said that they had shifted their equipment from the Covid centre.“We have apprised the senior authorities about the decision. If any person comes to PHC, we will collect their samples and the vaccination process will be continued at the PHC. We urge people to take precautions to protect themselves from Covid. There are 12 active Covid cases in the village and one person has succumbed to the virus,” he added.Sadar Hansi SHO Sukhdev Singh said police carried out a flag march to alert the villagers and convince them to follow government orders.“We are not harassing the villagers. They are asking them to wear masks and following Covid guidelines,” the SHO added.Hansi SDM Jitendra Ahlawat said, “We will take strict action against those who try to defy government orders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-face-farmers-wrath-in-haryana-s-hisar-101621443995388.html
19-05-2021||Other||Alumni goes beyond Sainik School in its Covid outreach||RanchiThe alumni association of Jharkhand’s Sainik School Tilaiya has launched a round-the-clock war room to provide help to former students and their families across the country as they battle the deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.The Sainik School Tilaiyan Old Boys’ Association (SANTOBA) has spread its wings to include those affected on the campus as well as members of the public. It all began a few days ago when news of death of two teachers at school – Mr Sanjay Singh and Mr K C Panda – came in. SANTOBA quickly assessed the situation and set up a virtual war room and volunteers from across the world started working to ensure that immediate help reached all sufferers, association members said. “We launched a campaign to assess the needs while a fund-raiser was also started. The effort soon started yielding results,” said SANTOBA president Ravi Kishore, a Supreme Court lawyer based in Delhi.The association got in touch with top officials of Jharkhand government, who extended prompt help and a health camp was organised on the campus.Among others, Bihar chief secretary Tripurari Sharan, former Army commander Lt Gen Gyan Bhushan, former Supreme Court judge Justice Shiva Kirti Singh, senior Uttar Pradesh IAS officer Deepak Kumar – all alumni of Sainik School Tilaiya – also extended their help to the ongoing effort.The school fraternity has lost eight former students to the pandemic, beside some family members. “We are passing through very difficult times. But we will not give up. Our school’s motto is ‘Forward Ever’ and we will live up to it,” said SANTOBA vice-president Ashish Sinha.The association, with the help of its chapters in Delhi, Patna, Mumbai, Bengaluru and elsewhere, also formed a group of doctors to extend medical advice while another group of volunteers was tasked with providing leads on availability of oxygen cylinders, medicines, ambulances and hospital beds.“The work has been continuing. We have decided not to rest,” said Amritesh Singh, SANTOBA’s secretary in Patna. The Patna team, under the leadership of CRPF commandant Munna Kumar Singh, has stepped out to provide face shields, masks and sanitiser bottles to the frontline corona warriors.The effort in Ranchi is being led by school alumnus and vice-chancellor of Amity University (Ranchi) Dr Raman K Jha. Insurance professional Shishir Sandipan is monitoring the situation in the western region while SANTOBA secretary Narendra Mohan, Sneh Priya and Braj Kishore are coordinating the effort. The helpline is manned by Surya Prakash and Satwik Raj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/alumni-goes-beyond-sainik-school-in-its-covid-outreach-101621437933539.html
19-05-2021||Other||Dhanbad: 32 centres shut due to vaccine shortage||The recently launched third phase of the mass Covid-19 vaccination drive that covers people from 18 to 44 years of age hit a wall in Dhanbad, as 32 out of the 35 vaccination centres in the district were closed on Wednesday due to shortage of vaccine doses, officials said.“Only three centres were open for administering the first dose of the vaccine in the 18-44 group,” said Dr Vikas Rana, district nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination.As per official records, only 500 doses in total were left as on Wednesday at the three centres--Sadar block’s Gujarati School Bank More ( 200), Al Islah School,Wasseypur (200) and Baghmara Community Health Centre (CHC) (100).Many of those who registered for the first dose were made to return from the 32 sites after the District Disaster Management issued a cancellation notice in this regard. . However, officials said the doses will be back in stock soon. “We have sent requisition to state headquarters for vaccine doses and all 32 centres will be reopened soon,” said Dr Rana.According to a senior official of health department, the district was facing vaccine crisis for last five days. Earlier on Tuesday, only 11 vaccination were open. No Covid death after 40 daysFor the first time in 40 days, Dhanbad did not record any Covid-19 death in a day till Tuesday night, officials said on Wednesday. However, as many as 241 new cases were registered during the period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dhanbad-32-centres-shut-due-to-vaccine-shortage-101621437873458.html
19-05-2021||Other||Key blood banks in Patna face shortage||PATNAMajor blood banks in Patna are facing shortage of blood as voluntary donors are difficult to come by during the times of coronavirus. The Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH), Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Institute (IGIMS) and the Jaiprabha Model blood bank are facing acute shortage of negative blood groups. The saving grace for them, however, is that the demand for blood has gone down, as most elective surgeries have been deferred during the pandemic. Surgeries are being done only in emergency cases and delivery, say doctors. The inventory at the Jaiprabha blood bank Wednesday morning showed the stock of O-negative, A-negative and A-positive had exhausted, while there was one unit each of B-negative, AB-negative and AB-positive. “No blood of AB-negative group is available at the PMCH, while the negative blood group stock was in single-digit,” said Dr Rabindra Nath Shukla, in-charge of the PMCH blood bank. Barring having four units of O-negative, there was no stock of negative blood group available at the NMCH, said its blood bank in-charge Dr CK Narayan. No negative blood group was available at the IGIMS, while positive blood groups were available in single-digit. The 50-60 units of O+ blood group contributed to the total stock of 80 units at the blood bank. The thalassemic and HIV patients are the ones facing the problem. No blood bank is supposed to ask for replacement blood from these two categories of patients. Now, with low availability of blood, thalassemic and HIV patients, who need to be transfused blood, are facing a harrowing time. With voluntary donation camps having come to a grinding halt since the onset of the second wave of the pandemic in March this year, the stock was low at most of the blood banks. Government officials at the State Health Society, Bihar, and the Bihar State AIDS Control Society, however, said there was no shortage of blood as its demand had gone down substantially because fewer surgeries were being done during the pandemic. “We have blood to meet our immediate requirement though the inventory doesn’t look healthy. You cannot store blood beyond 35-42 days in case of whole blood and packet red blood cell (PRBC), prepared by removing plasma from whole blood, to transfuse in patients with anaemia. Platelets have a shelf life of five days only while fresh frozen plasma can be stored up to one year. So, we have just enough to meet our requirement,” said the officer. The demand for blood has dipped by almost 90% at each of these hospitals. For instance, the IGIMS, which earlier required up to 60 units of blood every day, now requires barely four unit of blood every day. Similarly, the NMCH, which used to have blood demand up to 20 units per day, now requires 2 units. Both, the IGIMS and the NMCH are now dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. The PMCH had up to 50 units consumption, which had now gone down to around 15-20 units, said doctors. Middlemen, with the nexus of blood bank staff, had brought disrepute to some of these blood banks. The one at the PMCH was in the news recently over alleged blackmarketing of blood. Insiders attributed the nefarious activities to shortage of doctors, which left most blood banks in Patna, including the one at PMCH, at the mercy of lowly-paid staff in the evening, encouraging them to manipulate inventory for pecuniary gains.Bihar has 93 blood banks of which 37 are government and six under Red Cross. The remaining are under private sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/key-blood-banks-in-patna-face-shortage-101621437813534.html
19-05-2021||Other||Tejashwi turns his govt house into Covid care centre, wants state to run it||PATNABihar’s leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Wednesday converted his official residence at 1 Polo road in the state capital as a Covid care centre and urged the state government to take over the centre for its operationalisation. Yadav, who is in New Delhi, wrote a in a fresh letter to chief minister Nitish Kumar, saying today said he had opened the Covid care centre from his own funds with facilities like oxygen cylinders, beds, medicines as well as meals for patients and attendants. “There is already a big shortage of beds and isolation centres. Poor people infected with Covid have no space in their dwellings to go for isolation or getting quarantined. I have converted my official residence as a Covid care center. I want to hand over the centre to you to run it. I will be always ready for any further help,” the 31-year-old RJD scion said in the letter. He also posted a video on his official Twitter handle slamming the government for its alleged insensitivity and poor health infrastructure to handle the ongoing Covid pandemic in the state.On Tuesday, the opposition leader had written to CM seeking his permission to visit hospitals and primary health centres and make field visits to assess the various initiatives being taken by his party to provide beds, oxygen cylinders to affected patients. Ruling JD(U) and BJP termed it “drama” by the opposition leader. “Tejashwi is enjoying luxury in New Delhi during this period of Covid. It is his old habit. Whenever there is crisis in Bihar, he tends to run away. At a time when the state has made all arrangements to handle the pandemic, he is seeking permission to come to Bihar. With whose permission had he gone to New Delhi that he is seeking permission to come back?” said Nikhil Anand, state spokesperson of the BJP. Senior JD(U) leader and MLC Neeraj Kumar too called it a stunt. “Tejashwi should tell first whether he himself would reside in his official residence to boost the morale of the Covid patients?” he said. “Tejashwi has all resources and there are doctors in his family. They can easily run a Covid centre at their personal house . This is all big drama,” said Suheli Mehta, JD(U) spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tejashwi-turns-his-govt-house-into-covid-care-centre-wants-state-to-run-it-101621437754445.html
19-05-2021||Other||Complaint lodged against hospital for harassment||PATNADaughter of Covid-19 woman patient, who died Wednesday morning, has filed a police complaint against Paras-HMRI hospital in Patna, alleging sexual harassment and misbehaviour with her mother on May 17 night. The National Commission for Women (NCW) has also sought investigation into the alleged incident. Its chairperson Rekha Sharma has written to Bihar’s chief secretary and police chief.On Tuesday, the daughter had earlier uploaded the statement of her mother on a social networking site, alleging she was sexually assaulted by three to four persons at the hospital. She made a video of her mother in the ICU ward of the hospital , which went viral. Her mother died during treatment on Wednesday. M S Khan, an executive magistrate who visited the hospital, said the police were looking into the matter.Station house officer of Shastrinagar police station, Ramashankar Singh, said, “We are verifying the allegation.”The Paras hospital management has dismissed the allegations. “We will extend our cooperation in all investigations and related matters of this case,” P D Gupta from Paras management said in a statement released to the press. “The patient, a 45-year-old woman, was admitted to Paras-HMRI Hospital on May 15 with symptoms of Covid. She was evaluated and admitted to the Covid ICU. On May 16 evening, she became restless and was not maintaining proper saturation on high flow oxygen. The doctor decided to put her on CPAP support. When she still could not maintaining proper saturation, a group of clinicians decided to put her on mechanical invasive ventilation. The patient did not show signs of recovery and her vitals and other parameters kept deteriorating. This was explained to the next of kin on several occasions. Unfortunately, the patient lost her battle with Covid on the morning of May 19,” the statement said. “The patient’s daughter has alleged that three persons, who she was unable to identify, misbehaved with her between 6 pm of May 16 and 11am of May 17. This matter was taken up by the hospital management and an internal inquiry was conducted. It was found that such an incident has not happened in the premises of the hospital,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/complaint-lodged-against-hospital-for-harassment-101621437753611.html
19-05-2021||Other||12 deaths in village 15 days, but residents won’t take a Covid test||BHABHATA/HARPUR (West Champaran)At least 12 people have died in last fortnight, almost all having Covid-like symptoms, in a village in West Champaran district, although these may not be recorded as Covid deaths since they didn’t get tested, either because of lack of facility or because of reluctance by villagers. The village in question, Bhabhata in Narkatiaganj block, is located 25 km from Bettiah, the headquarter town of West Champaran district.Badrey Alam, one of the residents, is yet to come to terms with the death his mother Rehan Khatoon (60) on May 8. “She picked up fever on May 6. Medicines were administered by a local doctor but her oxygen level plummeted drastically two days later before she collapsed,” said Badrey Alam.On the same day, Rafique Ahmad (70), Rehan Khatoon’s neighbour, died following bouts of breathlessness accompanied by fever and coughing, said his son Zakir Hussain.Earlier, Radha Saha (69) collapsed after bouts of fever and loose motion on May 5. Later, a medical team reached the village and detected four Covid positive cases in Alam’s family and one in deceased Rafique Ahmad’s. Navin Prasad, village head of Bhabhata panchayat, said at least 12 people, including two children, had died in a fortnight. “After the medical team detected eight Covid cases and quarantined them at home, villagers even with symptoms have refused to undergo tests,” he said. “Even the family members of some of the deceased got angry and refused to go for testing on one pretext or other. As a result, just 50 people could be tested during our two visits,” said Ravi Shankar Singh, health manager, Narkatiaganj subdivision.Asked why thhis reluctance, one of the villagers, Mahtab Alam, shot back, ““Why rule out? Let this be for all at one go.”Elsewhere in the district, villagers say they don’t have access to testing or vaccination. “No camp has ever organised in our village to administer vaccine. We are simply unaware where to go for vaccination,” said Maqsood Alam of Bakhari village, located 7 km from Narkatiaganj.On the other hand, Brij Ram, a resident of Harpur village in the same area, fears harm from vaccination. When contacted, Sahila Heer, subdivisional magistrate (SDM), Narkatiaganj, conceded poor response for testing in some pockets. “So far as vaccination is concerned, we are administering the same nearly 100% as per the availability of the doses. But then, the villagers must reach the centre for vaccination,” Heer said.According to official records, as many as 6,54,797 tests have been conducted for Covid-19 in West Champaran, of which 16,711 have been detected positive so far. “We are compiling records of tests per block also,” said Dr. Arun Kumar Sinha.A total of 232,829 vaccination shot have been administered in the district so far, as per officials. Meanwhile, the district administration has pressed 1,428 teams comprising Asha workers, sevika and observers to collect micro details from villages. “We have adopted two- pronged strategy, which includes door-to-door visit and telecommunication. While doctors at control rooms are taking stock of patients over phone, 1428 teams visited 12,780 and 17,460 houses on May 16 and 17 respectively to trace persons having symptoms of the disease,” said Kundan Kumar, district magistrate, West Champaran.“This apart, two mobile testing teams are being run to do the testing in the containment zones,” said the DM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12-deaths-in-village-15-days-but-residents-won-t-take-a-covid-test-101621437693527.html
19-05-2021||Other||Two rapes reported in 24 hours, accused in one case nabbed||Two rapes were reported in Macchiwara and Samrala area in the past 24 hours.In the first case, Machhiwara police booked a 29-year-old man for raping and threatening to kill a 13-year-old girl.The accused, identified as Mandeep Singh of Machhiwara area, was arrested on Tuesday evening, said inspector Parveen Sharma, Machhiwara station house officer.Mandeep, who was booked under Section 376 (rape), 511(attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life), 328 (whoever administers to or causes to be taken by any person any poison), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3/4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, was presented before the court on Wednesday and sent to police remand. The victim told the police the incident took place on May 16. Around 1.30 am when her parents were asleep, the accused entered their house and forcibly took her to an abandoned house in the neighbourhood and raped her. The victim said Mandeep threatened her of dire consequences if she revealed the incident but she confided in her parents, who lodged a complaint with the Machhiwara police.Soon after receiving the complaint, the cops launched a manhunt and nabbed that accused. Second victim differently abledIn the second incident, a 20-year-old girl, who was attending a Covid patient, was raped by a 25- year-old man in a house in Bondli Changi village near Samrala.The case has been registered on the complaint of the victim’s father.He told the police that Jaswinder Kaur, who is his distant relative, was suffering from Covid-19.The victim’s father stated that he had sent his daughter, who has mental disabilities, to look after Jaswinder Kaur.He said that Ravi Kumar, 34, who was a frequent visitor to the house, had raped his daughter during her stay there. He had learnt of the incident when he went to meet her on Tuesday. As soon as his daughter narrated her ordeal, he lodged a complaint with the police. According to investigating officer Lakhwinder Kaur, soon after receiving the complaint, the accused Ravi Kumar was booked under Section 376 of the IPC.Lakhwinder Kaur said that Jaswinder Kaur, the owner of the house, was also booked as she had concealed the incident. But Jaswinder told the police that she could not report the matter as she had been unwell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-rapes-reported-in-24-hours-accused-in-one-case-nabbed-101621437033571.html
19-05-2021||Other||Traffic police, NHAI survey “death stretch” from Navale Bridge chowk till Dari Pul tunnel||PUNE In a bid to reduce the number of accidents with more precautionary measures in place, the Pune traffic police and the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), carried out a survey of a stretch of road from the Navale Bridge chowk till the Dari Pul tunnel. The survey was carried out on Wednesday.The stretch has seen a series of fatal and serious accidents. At least 10 people have died in accidents on this stretch in the last six months.“A team of NHAI officials along with our traffic police have done the survey. In last six months there were fatal accidents and people seriously injured, so we had given instructions for proper signage boards, installing rumblers and reflectors, and the repairing of roads, among several other issues,” said Nandkishore Shelke, senior inspector and traffic police division in-charge, Sinhagad road. In the recent past, NHAI and the Pune traffic police lowered the speed limit and installed a police check point at this stretch. “After this initial work, now we are working on the other safety aspects, which need time and public support. We are studying the entry and exit points throughout the highway. There are some illegal accesses which need to be closed,” added Shelke. “It is a daily risk for residents living nearby to traverse this highway stretch. Due to lockdown, vehicle movement is low nowadays, but still there should be a permanent solution. Two-wheeler riders go directly on to the highway from these small access areas, which is very risky,” said Ramesh Vidhate, secretary, Sinhagad Road Residents Forum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/traffic-police-nhai-survey-death-stretch-from-navale-bridge-chowk-till-dari-pul-tunnel-101621436313318.html
19-05-2021||Other||Standing committee okays Rs42 lakh oxygen system for Rajiv Gandhi hospital in Yerawada||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) standing committee, on Tuesday, gave its approval for the installation of a proper oxygen supply system at the Rajiv Gandhi hospital in Yerawada.The standing committee sanctioned the proposal of ₹42 lakh to set up the oxygen plant. The Rajiv Gandhi hospital is one of the prominent PMC hospitals in the eastern part of the city.The PMC has also planned a dedicated paediatric Covid unit at the hospital.Hemant Rasane, chairman, standing committee, said, “We have passed a proposal to set up a liquid oxygen tank with a capacity of 10 kilolitre; it will take 15 to 20 days to set up.”PMC has now increased its production and storage capacity of oxygen to 40 tonnes per day, setting up three new plants at the Naidu, Dalvi and Laigude hospitals. PMC has used funds raised under the banner of corporate social responsibility (CSR).The corporation has also decided to purchase a generator for the oxygen plant at Naidu hospital. The standing committee sanctioned Rs11 lakh for the generator.Madhuri Misal, member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) from the Parvati constituency, has given ₹20 lakh from her development funds for the purchase of six ventilators by the PMC.SPPU to start oxygen refilling plant on campusThe Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), has decided to set up an oxygen bottling plant on campus. Daily oxygen cylinders of 25 litres in capacity will be able to be filled here.“Initially these oxygen cylinders will be provided free of cost, while later, nominal charges will be levied. SPPU has always been at the forefront right from the day one of the pandemic,” said SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar. SPPU is starting this plant with the help of a Gujarat- based company. “This plant will begin its operations in a month’s time near the Khadki gate. As the third wave of Covid is expected, this will certainly help patients. Also, we are thinking of allowing students to study the as well,” added Karmalkar. This budget for the plant is ₹28 lakh and all the money will be raised under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) banner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/standing-committee-okays-rs42-lakh-oxygen-system-for-rajiv-gandhi-hospital-in-yerawada-101621435353404.html
19-05-2021||Other||After cyclone Tauktae, electricity continues to elude parts of Goa||The electricity department continued to work on a war footing to restore power to parts of Goa that remained without electricity for nearly 100 hours since cyclone Tauktae flattened much of the state’s overhead electricity infrastructure.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant who has been travelling across the state to assess the damage said that while power has been restored in many parts of Goa, in others it might be until tomorrow (Thursday) before they get electricity.“Some people’s power will be restored today, others will have to wait till tomorrow. The major loss has been of electricity infrastructure. We initially estimated it to be around 22-crore but I think it will go beyond that up to 40 crores,” Sawant said.“Because there is no power, people also cannot pump water, so it’s a water problem as well,” Sawant added.“Poles have uprooted in many locations. We do not have the manpower and have to bring the men from other states as well. I have asked them to spend funds from the disaster management funds,” he added.State power secretary Kunal (he uses only first name), said that Goa’s power consumption has reached nearly pre-Tauktae levels pointing that power has been restored in most places.“Goa Electricity Department is working round the clock to restore power supplies,” he said.“With dedicated efforts and hard work of our frontline warriors viz linesmen and engineers, the supply of power is continuously rising and hoping to achieve pre-Tauktae level soon,” he added.According to the electricity department’s data, the power supply which was around 500 megawatt (MW) before the cyclone struck crashed to barely 60MW on the day of the cyclone (May 16) and since then has climbed to nearly 200MW, 300MW and 400 MW on Wednesday. It is expected to reach pre-Tauktae levels by Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-cyclone-tauktae-electricity-continues-to-elude-parts-of-goa-101621434693976.html
19-05-2021||Other||Cyclone Tauktae hits fish supply to Pune, retail prices double||PUNE Retail prices of fish doubled in the city in the wake of a lack of fresh stock arriving from coastal districts hit by Cyclone Tauktae over the last three days.The prices of promfret, prawns, and kingfish have all doubled. Before the cyclone hit the state, the price was for one kg of pomfret at the fish markets in Nana peth and Camp (Shivaji market) were between ₹700 and ₹800 per kg. Now the cost of a kg of pomfret is ₹1,800. Similarly, one kg of prawns was selling at Rs600 per kg. It is now selling at Rs1,200 per kg.Tausif Shaikh, fish vendor at the Camp market, said, “There is a shortage of supply from the coastal areas of Maharashtra and Gujarat, so prices have gone up.”Sandeep Pardeshi , a fish vendor from Nana peth said, “There is short supply of fish hence the high prices. Now customers are demanding river fish varieties. Fisheries along the west coast have all almost completely shut. We hope fisheries on the East coast, from Howrah, West Bengal, will ease the supply situation. Demand for fish is high in the city,” he said.Alex Sebastian, a fish lover, said, “Fish is out of reach of the middle class . Instead of buying pomfret, I prefer to buy cheaper varieties. I hope the prices come as the cyclone has passed.“||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyclone-tauktae-hits-fish-supply-to-pune-retail-prices-double-101621434273209.html
19-05-2021||Other||Pune receives second-highest rainfall in May for the past 10 years||PUNE Pune, on Wednesday, received 7.8 mm of rainfall, taking the overall rainfall received this month, so far, to 47.1 mm. This is the second-highest rainfall reported in May in Pune city for the past 10 years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The all-time record for rainfall in May was 181.6 mm reported in 1933. The city received 112.7 mm in 2015, while in 2010 it was it was 5.6 mm. As per the IMD, rainfall across the city is likely to continue till Thursday. “The sky may remain clear during the day, but towards the afternoon, it will get cloudy with chances of light rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning,” said IMD officials. After May 21, the chances of rainfall will reduce, but cloudy skies will continue. Anupam Kashyapi, head of Weather Forecasting at IMD Pune, said that the remaining days of May will be pleasant for Pune city. “As per the forecast, the days will be pleasant with cloudy weather and light rain may continue till the end of May giving Pune a respite from rising temperatures,” said Kashyapi. Along with Pune, rainfall is forecast to continue in the four subdivisions of Maharashtra till May 21. The highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra on Wednesday was at 40.5 degrees Celsius at Brahmapuri. The lowest minimum temperature reported on Wednesday was at 17.6 degrees Celsius in Mahabaleshwar. IMD also added that the Southwest Monsoon is likely to advance into South Andaman Sea and adjoining Southeast Bay of Bengal around May 21. During the same time, a low-pressure area is likely to form over north Andaman Sea and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal around May 22, 2021. Remnants of the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae moved over southeast Rajasthan as of Wednesday evening, and is likely to now move further north-eastwards towards Uttar Pradesh. It is likely to reduce in intensity and form into a well-marked low pressure area, as per IMD. Rain in May, down the years2015 -- 112.7 mm2021 -- 47.1 mm2010 -- 5.6 mm1933 -- 181.6 mmSource: IMD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-receives-second-highest-rainfall-in-may-for-the-past-10-years-101621433554144.html
19-05-2021||Other||Covid positivity rate rises by 22% in Himachal in 7 weeks||The Covid positivity rate in Himachal Pradesh has risen by 22% in the past seven weeks. The hill state recorded its highest positivity rate of 28.9% in the week that ended on May 16. That’s the highest since the coronavirus outbreak in March last year. It was 7% in the March 29 to April 4 week, while in February, the positivity rate was as low as 0.67%. Positivity rate is the percentage of positive samples per 100 tests. Also read: Delhi CM does not speak for India, says Jaishankar, Sisodia responds with a barbNational Health Mission state director Dr Nipun Jindal said of the 99,807 tests conducted last week, 28,817 samples were found positive. As Covid-19 cases started rising from February-end, Dr Jindal said, the positivity rate also went up. By March-end, it was 3% and steadily rose after that. “It was 20% between April 26 and May 2 and 26.3% from May 3-9),” he said, adding this was when the second wave was sweeping the state. Positivity rate higher in border districts Dr Jindal said the positivity rate is high in the state’s districts bordering Punjab and Haryana. This is due to the high infection rate as the movement and activities in these regions are more than in the other districts. Kangra, the worst-hit district recorded the highest positivity rate of 38.1%, followed by 37.2% in Sirmaur and 33% in Solan. Six of the 12 districts have a positivity rate of above 30%. Mandi has a positivity rate of 31.9%, Hamirpur 31.5% and Shimla 30.5%. At 8.6%, Lahaul-Spiti is the only district with a positivity rate below 10%, while Chamba and Kinnaur have it below 20%. Bilaspur, Kullu and Una’s positivity rate is below 30%. Testing increased in Kangra Kangra chief medical officer Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said Kangra conducted 22,824 tests last week of which 8,686 samples tested positive. “The high number of tests and relatively high number of cases has pushed up the district’s positivity rate,” said Dr Gupta. Overall, since the outbreak, the district’s positivity rate has been 8.8%. Dr Jindal said the test, trace, isolate and treat is the strategy to combat the Covid-19. The state has ramped up testing by introducing mobile testing facility. He said this week the state is recording a dip in infections and if the trend continues, the peak would be over. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said given the spread of virus, stricter curbs have been introduced in the district. Apart from curfew on week days, there is a complete lockdown in the district on weekends. “We are also conducting the highest number of tests in the state and hence the infection rate is high,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-positivity-rate-rises-by-22-in-himachal-in-7-weeks-101621417577786.html
19-05-2021||Other||Rat nibbles newborn’s feet and toes; two terminated in MP||A rat allegedly nibbled at a 19-day-old premature baby’s feet and toes at a hospital in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore, prompting authorities to order a probe, suspend a nurse for negligence, and sack two sanitation workers.“A nurse...has been suspended for negligence of duty and two sanitation workers have been terminated for failing to maintain cleanliness at the hospital,” said the hospital’s superintendent, PS Thakur.Also Read | ‘Corona curfew’ extended in many districts across Madhya PradeshThe baby’s mother had gone to feed the new-born when she noticed the baby’s feet and toes were bleeding on Tuesday. “I informed the nursing staff. The nursing staff cleaned the toes and feet and put a bandage on them. A toe of the baby has completely eaten by rats,” said Kishan Dahima, the baby’s father.Thakur said the baby was being treated for the injuries and his condition is stable now. He added a three-member committee has been formed to probe into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rat-nibbles-newborn-s-feet-and-toes-two-terminated-in-mp-101621409177081.html
19-05-2021||Other||Stigma a major hurdle to Covid-19 containment in rural Bihar||Rehana Khatoon, 60, a resident of Bhabhata village in Bihar’s West Champaran, developed a fever on May 6. She was given medicines after consulting a local doctor, but she collapsed and died as her oxygen levels plummeted drastically two days later. On the same day, Khatoon’s neighbour Rafique Ahmad, 70, died after complaining of breathlessness, fever and coughing. Radha Saha, 69, another resident of the village, died earlier on May 5 after showing similar symptoms.A medical team, which was rushed to the village, detected four Covid cases in Kahtoon’s family and one in Ahmad’s. Navin Prasad, the village head, said 12 people, including two children, have died after showing symptoms of Covid-19 over a fortnight and yet residents of Bhabhata remained averse to testing because of social stigma.“After the medical team detected eight people as Covid-19 positive... and [they] were home quarantined, villagers, even with the symptoms, have refused to undergo the medical investigation.” Another medical team that was sent to nearby Narkatiaganj also received a poor response. “Even the family members of some of those who have died got angry and refused to go for testing on one pretext or other. As a result, just 50 people could be tested during our two visits,” said Ravi Shankar Singh, a health official.Many residents of other neighbouring villages said they have had no access to vaccines and testing. “No camp has ever organised in our village to administer vaccines,” said Maqsood Alam, a resident.Ezaj Ahmad, another resident, said they do not know where to go for vaccination.Also Read | India’s Covid-19 hot spots on recovery road: DataBrij Ram, a resident of Harpur village, said he will not get vaccinated citing the “harms”. Many of Ram’s neighbours echoed his concerns about the vaccination.Sub-divisional magistrate Sahila Heer said there has been a poor response to testing in some pockets of Narkatiaganj subdivision, where these villages are located. “We have sent testing team twice to Manuwa Parsi [Panchayat]. But very few people turned up for Covid testing. ...we are administering [vaccines] nearly 100% as per the availability of the doses. But then, the villagers must come to vaccination centres for vaccination,” said Heer.West Champaran has so far reported 1,6711 Covid-19 cases so far. “We are compiling the records of the testing block-wise,” said Arun Kumar Sinha, another health department official. He added it will as such be difficult to say how many tests have been conducted in rural areas.District magistrate Kundan Kumar said they have adopted a two-pronged strategy including door-to-door surveys. “While doctors at control rooms are taking stock of patients over the phone, 1,428 teams visited 12,780 and 17,460 houses on May 16 and 17 to trace people with Covid-19 symptoms.” He added two mobile testing teams are also conducting testing in the containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stigma-a-major-hurdle-to-covid-19-containment-in-rural-bihar-101621399216443.html
19-05-2021||Other||Petrol crosses the ₹99-mark in Mumbai||Petrol crossed the ₹99-mark for one litre in the city on Tuesday. With an increase of 26 paise from Sunday’s ₹98.88, petrol was available at ₹99.14 per litre in the city. Diesel price also hiked to ₹90.71 per litre after it went up by 31 paise from Sunday’s ₹90.40.On Monday, there was no increase in the prices of fuel in the city. Transporters have said that the government is taking no action to reduce the plight of citizens who are already suffering due to the pandemic.“The all-time-high diesel and petrol prices is creating a saga of callosity and insensitivity of the blind, deaf and dumb government towards the plight of transport traders and citizens even during the current times when the entire country in engulfed with the fallout of the pandemic and the government’s monumental failure to tame it. We fail to understand the logic behind it and why is the government insensitive to the miserable conditions of the people of the country and to our repeated pleas for relief,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC).Prices of fuel were stable from April 15 to May 3. On April 15, petrol was priced at ₹96.83 for one litre while diesel was available for ₹87.81, as opposed to ₹96.98 and ₹87.96, respectively, on April 14.Fuel prices in the city have been increasing steadily since May 3, when one litre of petrol was available at ₹96.83, while diesel was priced at ₹87.81 per litre. Since then, the prices of petrol and diesel have seen an overall increase by ₹2.31and ₹2.90 per litre, respectively, till Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-crosses-the-99-mark-in-mumbai-101621367115887.html
19-05-2021||Other||Elgar Parishad case: Bombay HC likely to hear Stan Swamy’s bail plea today||In view of the frail health of Elgar Parishad accused Stan Swamy, his lawyers moved the Bombay high court (HC) seeking an urgent hearing of the octogenarian’s bail application on medical grounds. HC has allowed the request and is likely to hear the application on Wednesday Meanwhile on Tuesday, the authorities at Taloja jail – where the 84-year-old is lodged – took the Jesuit priest to Sir JJ Hospital for treatment and also got him vaccinated for Covid-19. According to Swamy’s advocate Mihir Joshi, the inmates of Taloja jail have informed that there are 26 Covid-19 cases, and a co-accused, Hani Babu, who is lodged in the same jail hospital as the octogenarian, also tested positive for the virus.“Swamy has developed cough and fever over the last week and he suspects that he may also have contracted the virus. However, as the jail authorities have not tested him for Covid-19, we decided to move HC for an urgent hearing of his bail application on medical grounds. We moved the praecipe on Monday and hope that it will come up for hearing before the division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla on Wednesday,” said Joshi. Swamy, who has done substantial work in Jharkhand for the rights and upliftment of the tribal community there, was arrested last year on October 9, for his alleged involvement in the 2018 Bhima-Koregaon violence incident, which left one dead and several others injured.Swamy’s lawyers moved HC last month after his application for bail on substantive grounds was rejected by a special court last year. HC, while refusing the urgent hearing of the appeal against the special court’s decision, had granted liberty to the family of the Jesuit priest to move an application for bail on medical ground, after taking into considerations his age and frail health. Following reports of a large number of inmates and staff at Taloja jail testing positive for Covid-19 and the jail authorities refusing to test Swamy despite the fever, his relatives were prompted to seek the urgent hearing of the bail application. According to Joshi, the application seeks directions to jail authorities to test Swamy for Covid-19 and shift him to a hospital outside the jail as the one in the prison does not have sufficient and qualified medical staff. Taloja jail superintendent Kaustubh Kurlekar, however, said that they have not received any complaint from Swamy over any health problem. “On Saturday, I had visited the high-security cell where he [Swamy] has been lodged. But he has not complained of anything. He is already on medical diet. Prison officials and doctor regularly go on rounds in the circles [barracks], and if any inmate has a health problem, they can communicate with officials and get medicines. Instead of informing friends and relatives outside about his health problems, he should inform us so that he can be provided with medical assistance is case he’s in need of it,” said Kurlekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elgar-parishad-case-bombay-hc-likely-to-hear-stan-swamy-s-bail-plea-today-101621366994104.html
19-05-2021||Other||‘Cyclone Tauktae damages 5,000ha farmland damaged in Raigad’||While the proceedings of damage estimation by Cyclone Tauktae is still under way, the preliminary assessment by the Raigad district administration has revealed a damage of 5,000 hectares of farmland.Alibag, Shrivardhan, Mhasla and Poladpur talukas have been hit hardest by the cyclone. Around 6,026 houses in the district have been partially damaged and 10 houses have been completely damaged. Four people were killed and seven others injured, and no one was reported missing. Besides, two cattle have died.Raigad Collector, Nidhi Choudhary, said, “No roads are closed at present as the administration took immediate action in clearing those where trees, branches, and poles fell during the cyclone. The damage estimates are preliminary and the final report will take a few more days. Approximately 5,000 hectares of agricultural land has been damaged in the district, mainly mango, coconut and paddy. However, unlike Cyclone Nisarga, the trees were not damaged this time, only the fruits were damaged.”MSEDCL’s 168 high tension poles, 426 low tension poles and 12 transformers were also damaged by the cyclone. Of the 1960 villages in the district, power was restored in 1,299 villages while restoration work was still under way in 661 villages, which have a combined population of around 1.6 lakh.Raigad has 99 Covid centres that were working with the help of generators. Electricity supply in 92 hospitals was restored. “Power in the remaining seven was also restored but got tripped again. They have a double generator back up and the restoration work is on,” Choudhary added.The fishing community, too, has borne the brunt of the cyclone. Around 125 fishing nets and 150 boats in the district have been partially damaged.Raigad Guardian Minister, Aditi Tatkare, visited Raigad on Tuesday to take stock of the damage. “The experience from last year’s Cyclone Nisarga helped the administration in preparing well this time. Comparatively, the damages are less this year,” Tatkare said. 153 trees fall in Navi Mumbai (SUBHEAD)Meanwhile, in Navi Mumbai, 153 trees fell in two days including 31 on Monday night. No one suffered injuries, adds Pranab Jyoti Bhuyan.“A shop in Ghansoli caught fire due to an electric short circuit, possibly triggered by the storm in the early hours of Tuesday. The officials from Koparkhairane fire station reached there on time and doused the fire. No casualties were reported,” said an official from Navi Mumbai’s disaster management cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyclone-tauktae-damages-5-000ha-farmland-damaged-in-raigad-101621365014662.html
19-05-2021||Other||Thane crime branch seizes 12K gelatin sticks, 3,008 electronic detonators in Bhiwandi||In a major breakthrough, Thane crime branch’s unit-1 on Monday arrested a 53-year-old quarry contractor and seized 12,000 gelatin sticks and 3,008 electronic detonators from his office and storeroom at Bhiwandi. The accused, Gurunath Kashinath Mhatre, had stocked the explosive materials without permission from collector or local authorities. The police said Ananda Bhilare, a constable posted with unit 1, had received information about the explosives being stored at an office in Bhiwandi. Following this, senior inspector Krishna Kokani formed a team and raided Mhatre’s office Mittal Enterprise at Kharivali village. The team found gelatin sticks and detonators in huge quantities, worth ₹2.02 lakh. “We found the explosives at his office and adjoining store room. He didn’t have any permission to store it. We are further investigating further,” said Kokani.A case had been registered against Mhatre at Bhoiwada police station in Bhiwandi under section 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance) of the Indian Penal Code and section 5 (punishment for making or possessing explosives under suspicious circumstances) of the Explosive Substance Act, 1908. “Mhatre has been remanded in police custody till May 22,” said deputy commissioner of police from Thane crime branch Laxmikant Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-crime-branch-seizes-12k-gelatin-sticks-3-008-electronic-detonators-in-bhiwandi-101621364835274.html
19-05-2021||Other||FB user booked for downloading Salman Khan’s Radhe, selling its pirated version||Mumbai The cyber police station have registered a first information report (FIR) against a Facebook user for allegedly illegal downloading Salman Khan-starrer ‘Radhe — Your Most Wanted Bhai’ from Zee Entertainment Enterprises (ZEE) Limited’s app and then selling the pirated version of the film on WhatsApp for ₹50.The FIR was registered at the central region cyber police station, Worli, on Monday by Sucheta Burman, 50, ZEE’s chief legal consultant.Owing to the pandemic, the movie was released on ZEE’s OTT (over-the-top) platform and a few theatres which are permitted by the local authorities to remain open.ZEE bought the broadcast rights of the film on February 26 from production company Salman Khan Ventures Limited. To prevent the piracy of the film, the company signed an agreement with five anti-piracy agencies. It also secured the John Doe order – to take action against unidentified offender/s – from Madras high court on May 12 to prevent the violation of intellectual property rights of the movie by means of piracy.According to the police, the film was released in Dubai on May 12 and aired in India the next day on Zee5 app. On the evening of May 13, Aparna Desai, the marketing head of the Khan’s company, informed ZEE that the film is being illegally released on WhatsApp in five parts.ZEE contacted anti-piracy agency Alplex Software Pvt Ltd, which informed them that two mobile numbers are being used to send the pirated version of the movie on WhatsApp. The agency also sent a notice to WhatsApp requesting them to pull down the pirated videos of the film from the messaging platform, the FIR stated.Next day, the complainant company discovered that a Facebook user, Ashwani Raghav, has uploaded an advertisement with the film’s poster on his Facebook account. The advertisement stated that those interested can take the movie from him for ₹50 through WhatsApp, the police said.To verify this, an executive from ZEE’s distribution team contacted Raghav on the given number and expressed his desire to get the movie. Raghav asked him to transfer ₹50 on PayTM. After sending the money, the executive soon received the pirated version of the film in five parts from Raghav’s WhatsApp number, stated the FIR.ZEE then contacted a France-based forensic lab for help. The lab informed the company that the film was downloaded from Zee5 using a software. Following this, ZEE lodged the police complaint on Monday.“A case under the relevant sections of the Information Technology Act and Copyright Act has been registered against Raghav and the users of two mobile numbers. Details on suspects are being gathered,” said an officer from the central region cyber police station.ZEE in a statement stated, “People engaged in spreading the illegal version of the film are not just embracing piracy, but are also negatively impacting the growth of the industry and the livelihoods of the people working for it round the clock.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fb-user-booked-for-downloading-salman-khan-s-radhe-selling-its-pirated-version-101621364834071.html
19-05-2021||Other||ED to record petitioner’s statement today in case against ex-Maharashtra min Anil Deshmukh||Mumbai The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned advocate Jaishri Patil on Wednesday to record her statement in connection with the money laundering case registered against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. Patil is one of the petitioners who had approached the Bombay high court seeking a CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) probe against Deshmukh after former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh alleged that the Nationalist Congress Party leader ran an ‘extortion racket’ in Mumbai.“As the case against Deshmukh is mainly based on my petition, ED has summoned me to record my statement, which would hold key importance in the case. I would be visiting ED’s office on Wednesday morning,” Patil said.ED on Tuesday also recorded statement of another petitioner in the case. ED may soon call Param Bir Singh to record his statement, ED sources indicated.The officials would also summon Deshmukh and his personal staff soon. On April 24, CBI officers had carried out raids at Deshmukh’s residences in Nagpur and Mumbai as well as at his personal assistant Sanjeev Palande’s premises and seized digital devices.The PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) case against Deshmukh is based on CBI’s first information report (FIR) registered against him last month. On April 21, CBI said it had found “prima facie evidence” against Deshmukh for allegedly misusing his position, and booked him for corruption and criminal conspiracy. Unlike CBI, the federal anti-money laundering agency, can record statements of any person in a case under PMLA’s Section 50 and it is admissible as evidence in court.NCP had previously dismissed ED’s case as politically motivated. The party claims that the case registered by ED or allegations levelled by Singh is an attempt to defame the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government by using power. CBI’s case came a month after Singh accused Deshmukh of using the Mumbai Police for extortion from bars, hotels, and restaurants. CBI is probing Singh’s allegations as well as Deshmukh’s handing over of important cases to former assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and influencing transfers and postings.In a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in March, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh asked Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month from bars, restaurants, hotels and other establishments in Mumbai. The letter was written after Singh was transferred for allegedly mismanaging the Antilia case, in which an explosives-laden SUV was found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house in February.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested Vaze in connection with the case as well as the murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran – who was was linked to the vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ed-to-record-petitioner-s-statement-today-in-case-against-ex-maharashtra-min-anil-deshmukh-101621364774062.html
19-05-2021||Other||CG rescue all 137 from a stranded barge off Palghar||The Coast Guard (CG) on Tuesday rescued all 137 crew onboard GAL Constructor, a barge of the Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC) which ran aground in Palghar, 48 nautical miles off Colaba, on Monday due to Cyclone Tauktae. The rescue operation started on Tuesday morning and by evening the mission was accomplished, said a Coast Guard official. The barge was drifting towards the North after it lost power due to Cyclone Tauktae which created havoc since Monday.Commander Mehul Karnik, chief public relation officer, Coast Guard, said three Chetak choppers from CG base at Daman swung into action and reached the spot, along with CG ship Samrat and a Naval chopper amid very rough and inclement weather conditions due to the cyclone. Some of the rescued crew were given medical treatment at an English medium school at Mahim (not Mumbai) for any sea-related ailments, said Dr Kalpana Mavchi, medical officer. The Palghar district collector Dr Manek Gursal also reached the spot to supervise the rescue mission.Chopper makes emergency landingAn Indian Navy chopper made an emergency landing at Pali village in Bhayander on Tuesday morning due to inclement weather with gusty winds and rains. Senior inspector Prashant Langi of Uttan Coastal police station said the chopper with two member crew took off from the Naval base in Colaba on Tuesday morning for surveillance, when near Uttan the chopper faced low visibility and the pilot landed the helicopter at Pali jetty in Uttan. There was also a huge crowd at the jetty to see the helicopter and we offered drinking water to the crew before it took flight said Langi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cg-rescue-all-137-from-a-stranded-barge-off-palghar-101621364475353.html
19-05-2021||Other||Vaccination to resume after Telangana gets sufficient doses: Govt||Hyderabad The Telangana government announced on Tuesday that it would resume vaccination programme in the state only after acquiring sufficient stocks of vaccine from the producers as per the allocation made by the Centre. State director of medical and health G Srinivasa Rao told reporters that the vaccination programme had not been taking place for the last three days due to inadequate stock of Covaxin and non-receipt of fresh stocks from the Union ministry of health and family welfare. He, however, refused to divulge the quantity of vaccine available with the state and when the vaccination programme would be resumed. “We do not want to take up vaccination with the limited stocks and stop the programme abruptly due to lack of arrival of fresh stocks. This will lead to periodical interruptions in the vaccination programme and create confusion among the people due to uncertainty in the vaccine availability,” Rao said. He said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had given clear instructions that vaccination programme could be stopped for a few days and resumed only after sufficient stocks were available. “We are also floating global tenders this evening to mobilise sufficient quantity of vaccine at the earliest,” the health director said. On Tuesday, Telangana reported 3,982 Covid-19 positive cases and 27 deaths. “The recovery rate in the state is 90.47 per cent, as against the national average of 85.6 per cent,” Rao said. Director of medical education Dr Ramesh Reddy said the state government had decided to step up the medical infrastructure in the state to face any pandemic in the coming years. “The chief minister has approved setting up of six new medical colleges in the state at Sangareddy, Jagtial, Kothagudem, Wanaparthy, Mancherial, and Mahabubabad, besides six nursing colleges, from the coming academic year,” he said. At a review meeting on Monday night, the chief minister also announced setting up of 12 regional sub-centres at Siddipet, Wanaparthy, Mahboobabad, Kothagudem, Nagarkurnool, Suryapet, Bhongir, Jagtial, Mancherial, Bhoopalpally, Vikarabad, and Gadwal, where additional facilities would be created for treating Covid-19 patients in the existing government hospitals in these areas. He said these centres would ensure supply of medicines, oxygen and other requirements to the government hospitals. He asked the medical and health department to set up 48 oxygen-generation plants in the government hospitals to produce 324 metric tonnes of oxygen required for the Covid-19 patients in the state and also to ensure that there would not be any shortage of oxygen in future. He also instructed the officials to set up an additional plant to produce 100 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen in Hyderabad. “In the coming days Telangana should not depend on other states for the supply of oxygen,” he said. The chief minister called upon the people not to rush to private hospitals for treatment and pay exorbitant fees, as there were sufficient number of beds available in the government hospitals. There are 6926 beds vacant in the government hospitals, which include 2253 oxygen beds, 533 ICU beds and 4,140 general beds. With regard to black fungus cases, the director of medical education said there was no need to get panicky as it was not contagious. “At present, there are around 50 cases in the government hospitals, besides another 30-40 in private hospitals. We have appointed a committee of experts to prepare standard treatment protocol,” Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-to-resume-after-telangana-gets-sufficient-doses-govt-101621364354696.html
19-05-2021||Other||TDP to boycott budget session to protest ‘misdeeds’ of Jagan govt||Hyderabad The Telugu Desam Party, the only opposition party in the Andhra Pradesh legislative assembly, on Tuesday announced that it would boycott the one-day budget session of the House on May 20 in protest against what it called the “unilateral, undemocratic and illogical” decisions of the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government. The decision was taken at the Telugu Desam Legislature Party (TDLP) meeting held under the leadership of party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu through a video conference. Speaking to reporters at the party office in Guntur later, TDP state unit president and MLA K Atchannaidu said the party had decided to boycott the budget session in protest against the “misrule” of the Jagan government. “We are not boycotting the assembly, but the chief minister’s highhanded behaviour,” he said. The TDP leader pointed out that the budget session of Parliament and that of several state assemblies were held in March, when the Covid-19 pandemic was not so severe. “We asked the chief minister to hold the budget session, but he did not do it. Now, the second wave is very severe, but the government wants to hold it only because of constitutional obligation,” he said. The TDLP decided to hold a parallel mock assembly simultaneously with the state assembly session to expose what it called the failures and misdeeds of the Jagan rule. Former finance minister and MLC Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said the government had no intention of holding a meaningful discussion in the assembly on public issues like Covid-19. “Even if the TDP attends the session, the chief minister and his ministers would not give any chance for them to speak in the House. As usual, the YSRC would bulldoze and suppress the voice of the Opposition,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tdp-to-boycott-budget-session-to-protest-misdeeds-of-jagan-govt-101621364294034.html
19-05-2021||Other||SOS calls reduce as B’luru sees dip in Covid cases, say helplines, volunteer groups||Bengaluru: With the city witnessing a decline in Covid cases over the last week, employees of Covid helplines and volunteer groups say that the number of emergency calls has also reduced since a few days. The number of new cases in the city started dropping from May 10 after weeks of witnessing a surge. According to experts, the marginal drop in daily new cases was mainly due to a decrease in the number of tests the state has been conducting in the past few weeks. In the wake of surge in Covid-19 cases, Karnataka on April 27 imposed a lockdown, which will continue till May 24. On May 1, the state had reported 44,438 new Covid-19 cases, which increased to 50,112 on May 5. The state logged 41,664 new infections on May 15, according to the health department. Karnataka has seen a drop in the number of tests being conducted every day from 177,982 on May 1 to 118,345 by May 15, as per data. On the ground, however, relief workers say there is considerable change in the situation during the past three days. HS Gopal, who is in charge of the 1912 helpline, which has been catering to the bed requirements in the city, said that there has been a considerable reduction in the number of calls. “On Sunday and Monday, we got 3,587 and 2,500 calls respectively, which is at least 1,000 calls less than what we used to get during the peak. There is a definite reduction in the number of calls. Still, there is a demand for ICU beds, but the calls for other beds and oxygen beds have come down,” he said. 1912 number was originally the helpline for Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited or BESCOM. Once the cases in the city started to rise, the employees of the BESCOM call centre were deputed to Covid-19 helpline duties. “We had around 60 personnel working for the Covid-19 helpline and 30 working for BESCOM helpline, with the reduction in calls we might move some employees back to BESCOM since there are multiple power fluctuations due to rains,” Gopal added. Tauseef Ahmed, a volunteer with Mercy Mission, a group of volunteers who were helping with the relief activities especially providing beds, medicines and oxygen, said even they are seeing a reduction in the number of SOS calls. “We don’t keep a track of the number of calls we get in a day. So, I can give you my example, I used to take around 25-30 emergency calls every day. Now it has come down to 8-10,” said Ahmed. He added that they still get calls for the ICU beds, however, calls for oxygen and Remdesivir have dropped drastically. “We are getting a lot of calls for Amphotericin, which is needed for treating black fungus, Tocilizumab injection and ICU beds. For others, demand has come down,” he said. Samyukta Hornad, an actor, who has been helping patients with oxygen supply and hospital bed information too said that the number of calls per day has reduced. “Especially when it comes to oxygen what we hear is that that BBMP is able to provide adequate oxygen, which wasn’t the case earlier, and volunteers are helping hospitals with oxygen,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sos-calls-reduce-as-b-luru-sees-dip-in-covid-cases-say-helplines-volunteer-groups-101621363814042.html
19-05-2021||Other||Covid recoveries exceed daily cases in Karnataka||Bengaluru The number of persons recovering from Covid-19 has exceeded new infections in Karnataka, indicating signs of the pandemic shrinking in the southern state.According to the daily bulletin of the state health department on Tuesday, Karnataka recorded 58,395 recoveries in the last 24 hours on Tuesday as against 30,309 new infections on Tuesday.“Karnataka reported the highest ever single day recovery with 58,395 recoveries on Tuesday. 30,309 cases were reported in the state today & recoveries have outnumbered the new cases. 8,676 new cases were reported in Bengaluru today while 31,795 people recovered,” K Sudhakar, minister for health, family welfare and medical education said in a post on Twitter.The higher number of recoveries also brought down the total active caseload to below 600,000 and it stood at 575,028.However, the state continues to report a high number of fatalities as 525 more succumbed to second Covid wave. Bengaluru accounted for at least 298 fatalities, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.Bengaluru recorded a decline in active cases, registering below the five-figure mark at 8,676 that brings down its active caseload to 340,965.Experts, however, have indicated that the decline in cases is also due to lower testing.Any direct quote from Experts??The number of tests saw a drastic decline from a total of 1,77,982 (RT-PCR and RAT)on May 1 to 93,247 across the state on Tuesday, according to the daily health bulletin.Senior health department officials, however, have stated that they are doing “targeted testing” in the state which has led to the decline in total numbers.The positivity rate in the state remains at a high of 32.50%.Bengaluru accounted for almost 60% of the daily caseload in Karnataka and lower number of infections can give the state government some room to finally focus on the other 29 districts of Karnataka which are witnessing a surge in cases.The BS Yediyurappa-led state government has imposed a lockdown in Karnataka and are deliberating if the same should be extended beyond May 24, when it is scheduled to end, based on the new infection rate in the state.The mineral-rich district of Ballari recorded 28 fatalities and registered1,799 new infections, taking its active caseload to above 20,290.Similarly, the coastal district of Uttara Kannada recorded 22 fatalities and 803 new infections. Coastal Karnataka and districts that come under the Malnad region have been fighting the Covid-19 pandemic and the onslaught caused by Cyclone Tauktae, which has so far claimed eight lives in the state.The border district of Bidar recorded four fatalities and its total number of infections have come down to 113. The district, which featured among the top contributors until a few weeks ago, has the lowest single-day count among all 30 districts of the state, data shows.2118 new infections was recorded in Belagavi, 1339 in Bengaluru Rural, 969 in Dharwada, 777 in Dakshina Kannada, 834 in Hassan, 1021 in Kolar, 1916 in Mysuru, 1168 in Shivamogga and 1562 in Tumakuru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-recoveries-exceed-daily-cases-in-karnataka-101621363514118.html
