20-05-2021||Other||Deaths of poll duty staff: None of Prayagraj’s 74 applicants eligible for compensation||Going by the current rules, not a single government employee, who was deployed on duty in the recently concluded panchayat polls in the district and lost his or her life because of corona, has been found eligible for compensation from the state government, said district panchayat raj officer on Thursday.In such a situation, unless there is an exemption or change in norms by the government, there are chances that none of the 74 applicants from the district will get any compensation.The panchayat elections were held last month during the pandemic. Later, the district administration had called for claims from family members of the employees, who had performed poll duty and died because of corona. The administration received 74 claims and the same were scrutinised by a committee set up by the district administration. The committee was headed by chief development officer Shipu Giri. “We scrutinised all the claims but found there was none which fits the present criteria of getting compensation. Only the person, who has left his home for poll duty and had died before reaching back to his or her home after performing the duty, would be considered for the compensation,” said Renu Srivastava, district panchayat raj officer (DPRO). She further said the report has been sent to the government on Tuesday and if it decides to relax the norms or take any further decision, the same would be followed at the district level.Meanwhile, the teacher’s association has lambasted the decision of the state government and the set norms. The association had claimed that 1,621 teachers, educators and other departmental personnel who were on poll duty in the state had died due to coronavirus. They have demanded a compensation of ₹1 crore each to the families of the deceased and government jobs for the dependents.“The fact that the state government has found just three cases of teachers suitable for compensation in the state as per the laid norms shows the insensitivity of the government. First, the government and the State Election Commission committed a crime of deploying teachers and employees of different government departments and other organisations like many centrally-funded academic institutions for poll duty during the peak of second wave of corona in the state and secondly, during the election training, voting and counting, they completely failed to follow the corona prevention guidelines and take precautionary measures,” said state general secretary of UP Madhyamik Shikshak Sangh (Thakurai faction), Lal Mani Dwivedi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/deaths-of-poll-duty-staff-none-of-prayagraj-s-74-applicants-eligible-for-compensation-101621533344577.html
20-05-2021||Other||UP BJP ‘chariots’ to create awareness among labourers||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh (UP) Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Swatantra Dev and Sunil Bharala, chairman of state labour welfare council, flagged off the Corona Shramik Jan Jagran Raths (motorised chariots) to create awareness among the poor about following Covid appropriate behaviour. Face covers, sanitisers and Covid medicines would also be distributed through these chariots which were being managed by Sanjay Rai, the convener of the unorganised labourers’ association, the BJP leaders said. The UP BJP chief said in the first phase, these chariots would be taken to districts where there were many Covid-affected labourers from the unorganised sector. “The opposition parties must understand that this is not the time to do politics. Rather, it is the time to engage in welfare of the people. There will be many occasions to engage in politics,” he said. “Under PM Narendra Modi’s stewardship, the country is fast moving on the path to defeat Covid. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath is also working tirelessly for the people, without caring about his health,” he said. Bharala said he hoped the chariots would visit places like Kanpur, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Agra and Moradabad as many labourers were working in industries in these districts. He also thanked chief minister Yogi Adityanath for announcing financial relief for people like porters, rickshaw pullers, cobblers and barbers who had been affected due to the pandemic. Meanwhile, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev has praised the centre’s decision to increase subsidy on DAP fertiliser. “Now instead of ₹500 per sack of fertiliser, the farmers would get a subsidy of ₹1200 per DAP fertiliser sack,” he said, adding this was the biggest subsidy increase ever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-bjp-chariots-to-create-awareness-among-labourers-101621533044531.html
20-05-2021||Other||‘Virtually’ back to class: Schools, colleges resume online teaching||Lucknow: All major higher educational institutions in the state, including the Lucknow University and affiliated colleges, resumed online classes from Thursday. To note, all educational activities in the institutions were suspended since May 1, as per the government’s order. Vice chancellor of Lucknow University, Alok Kumar Rai said, “ Online classes of all departments began from today following state government’s orders. All students and almost all teaching staff joined the online classes from their homes. “ Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti Language University, AKTU and all attached colleges of LU also began online classes. In most institutes, only principal, head of department and deans came to the college. Besides teaching staff, only half of the other staff of the university and colleges came to the campus as per directions of the state government. The staff has been asked to come on a rotational basis. The other half has been told to complete the work from home. CMS, La Martiniere Boys’ College and other schools also resumed online classes. “Online classes are a great boon in these tough times .Today, I felt a great sense of belonging and after logging into my class. We had a lot of interaction and discussion and my students enjoyed it with very enthusiastic responses,” said Vaibhav Srivastava, Class XII teacher, CMS Kanpur Road Campus. Anupama Sondhi of CMS GN Extension, ICSE Section said, “I welcome the decision of the government to allow online classes from today. The students were very happy and joined in big numbers .Online classes literally take education to the homes of the students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/virtually-back-to-class-schools-colleges-resume-online-teaching-101621532805618.html
20-05-2021||Other||Covid deaths remain cause of concern in Agra||Agra Even as the number of new Covid positive cases shows a downward trend, the surge in fatalities continues to be a cause of concern. In all, 19 deaths have taken place in Agra district within 48 hours, 9 on Wednesday and 10 on Thursday. May began with a record 11 Covid deaths within 24 hours but then the number fell gradually. However, nine deaths on Wednesday and 10 on Thursday caused alarm bells to ring once more. Chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey admitted that rise in the number of deaths was an issue to focus on. According to him, those succumbing to Covid-19 were mostly on ventilator support and in bad health condition. With these recent deaths, the toll of fatalities in Agra district has risen to 335. Out of these, 76 people died in May. The death toll has eclipsed other positive developments, such as Agra recording only 65 new Covid cases in the past 24 hours. “In all, 7030 samples were tested in the past 24 hours and only 65 tested positive for Covid-19. Beside this, 193 patients were discharged in the past 24 hours,” said district magistrate of Agra, Prabhu N Singh. “In all, 25182 have tested positive in Agra and 23678 have been cured, enhancing the recovery rate to 94.03 % in Agra district,” he said. “As many as 842606 samples have been tested and sample positivity rate has gone below to 2.99 percent while fatality rate has risen to 1.37 % in Agra district,” he said. “Now 1159 active cases remain in Agra and they are under treatment in hospitals or in home isolation,” the DM said. There has been steady fall in the number of active cases in Agra. The number of active cases was 1939 on May 10 and it has now come down to 1159, as per sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-deaths-remain-cause-of-concern-in-agra-101621532685873.html
20-05-2021||Other||Haryana records 268 cases of black fungus||Haryana has recorded 268 cases of mucormycosis or black fungus, among Covid and post-Covid patients till May 20, said state nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary.Of total 268 cases reported in Haryana till May 20, Gurugram had 109 cases, Faridabad 40, Sirsa 24, Hisar 23, Rohtak 20, Karnal 11, Bhiwani 10, Panipat eight, Ambala seven, Fatehabad five, Panchkula four, Rewari three, Jind two, and Palwal and Sonepat one each.Also, there are eight deaths in state including four in Sirsa, three in Gurugram and one in Sonepat.Total 48 new cases were reported in state on Thursday. These include 21 cases in Sirsa, eight in Hisar, five each in Gurugram and Karnal, two each in Rewari, Bhiwani and Faridabad, and one each in Ambala, Fatehabad and Panipat.These cases are not just from Haryana but from neighbouring states as well, whose patients are undergoing treatment in state,” Dr Chaudhary said.Dr Chaudhary said these cases are being seen in Covid patients who were given steroids to treat symptoms, and mainly those suffering from diabetes, hypertension and cancer.DRUG CRUNCH IN HARYANAHaryana hospitals are facing a shortage of Amphotericin B, an antifungal drug used in treatment of the rare but sometimes fatal disease. The Centre had allocated 100 vials of Amphotericin B to Haryana from May 10 to 31.Dr Chaudhary said smaller hospitals and pharmacies were earlier facing trouble in procuring Amphotericin B and now, the government is facing problem to get the drug.“Haryana got just 100 vials and PGIMS had ordered over 550 vials, of which 200 are received. There is shortage of the drug and the government is making efforts to float tender for more vials. We have to prevent indiscriminate use of the injection and establish a transparent system of distribution of this drug,” he added.A civil surgeon, requesting anonymity, said they have informed the state government about unavailability of the drug.“A committee will be formed to provide the drug to the needy and the state panel will approve requirement of the drug after closely analysing each case,” he added.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said black fungus patients can be treated by surgically removing all dead and infected tissues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-records-268-cases-of-black-fungus-101621529745061.html
20-05-2021||Other||First black fungus case detected in Himachal||A woman, who was undergoing treatment for the novel coronavirus disease at Indira Gandhi Medical College, has become the first person in Himachal Pradesh to contract mucormycosis or black fungus — an aggressive and possibly fatal fungal infection, which has been declared as an epidemic in most states. The fungal infection has been found to affect recovering Covid patients, especially those on steroid therapy or with a sugar imbalance. Dr Janak Raj, senior medical superintendent of IGMC, Shimla, the state’s premier healthcare institution, on Thursday said that the patient, a woman, hails from Hamirpur. She is diabetic and also suffers from hypertension.Raj said, “The patient tested positive for the coronavirus disease on May 4. She was first admitted to Lal Bahadur Shashtri Government Medical College, Nerchowk, on May 8 after she complained of difficulty in breathing. She was later referred to IGMC. The fungal infection is under her nose. She is undergoing treatment for the same and her condition is stable.” Health authorities on the alert Meanwhile, a top health official, who did not wish to be named, said the government was on the alert and was ready to tackle mucormycosis. State National Health Mission director Dr Nipun Jindal said it had been observed that mucormycosis is on the rise among post-Covid patients in the country. “Uncontrolled diabetes, immunosuppression by steroids, prolonged intensive care unit stay, comorbidities, transplant and malignancy are predisposing factors for this disease. The state has already issued an advisory regarding the prevention and management of black fungus disease in the hospitals.”The district health society and directorate of medical education have been asked to take stock of adequate antifungal drugs such as amphotericin B in their respective institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/first-black-fungus-case-detected-in-himachal-101621529687974.html
20-05-2021||Other||Delhi woman recovers from Covid after 35 days on ventilator support||‘Dilli wali Meenu’ - became a common name in the Covid ward of a Kurukshetra private hospital as every doctor and staff in the ward got familiar with her after she spent 35 days on ventilator support, fighting Covid-19.Meenu Chauhan, 40, of Kurukshetra who is married in Delhi, had tested positive for Covid on April 3. During her fight with the virus, her oxygen level had once dropped to 70. Meenu is principal of a private school in Delhi.Her husband Rohit Chauhan, on April 1, she had come to Kurukshetra to take her daughter back from her parents’ home. She developed Covid symptoms and was then tested positive.She was taken to a private hospital in Kurukshetra but her condition started to deteriorate and she was put on oxygen support. Few days later, she could not recover and the infection spread to both her lungs.When she was unable to breath normally, doctors shifted her to the intensive care unit and put her on ventilator on April 8.“It was a critical time. I was tense when doctors shifted me to the ICU. I felt like I may not recover or get to see my family again,” says Meenu, recalling her long battle with Covid in the ICU.“But the doctors and staff gave me the strength to fight the virus and I started recovering,” she added.Dr Anurag Kaushal, who treated her, said “Luck is playing a crucial role behind recovery of many patients who survived despite being in critical condition.”He said Meenu is inspiring other patients to fight Covid.She has now been discharged from the hospital but will still stay in Kurukshetra for some time as she is still too weak to travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-woman-recovers-from-covid-after-35-days-on-ventilator-support-101621529564940.html
20-05-2021||Other||Delhi woman beats Covid-19 after being on ventilator for 35 days||‘Dilli wali Meenu’ became a common name in the Covid ward of a private hospital in Kurukshetra as she was the only patient in the hospital who was on a ventilator for 35 days and beat the deadly virus, HT has learnt. Meenu Chauhan, 40, was fighting the coronavirus disease after she tested positive on April 3. During this span, she faced very tough times. Even her oxygen level once dropped to 70 and the infection spread to her lungs.Chauhan originally belongs to Kurukshetra and got married in Delhi. She is the principal of a private school in Delhi.Chauhan visited Kurukshetra on April 1 to take her daughter from her parents’ home but she suddenly developed Covid-19 symptoms and tested positive for the virus on April 3.She was taken to the private hospital in Kurukshetra but later her condition started deteriorating and she was put on oxygen support. A few days later she could not recover and the infection spread to her lungs.When she was unable to breathe normally, the doctors moved her to the intensive care unit (ICU) and put her on a ventilator on April 8.“It was a very critical time that I had faced during this period. I was very tensed when the doctors shifted me to the ICU. Once I realized that I will not recover and will not see my family again,” she said while recalling her long battle with Covid-19 in the ICU.“But the doctors and staff members gave me the strength to fight against this invisible enemy and I started recovering after almost a month,” she said.Dr Anurag Kaushal, who treated her, said that she is a very strong woman and every staff member of the hospital praises her. “Several patients are recovering but I think luck is also playing a crucial role behind the recovery of many critically ill patients,” Dr Kaushal said.He said that Meenu’s story has inspired many people fighting Covid-19. According to her husband, she has been discharged from the hospital but will continue to stay in Kurukshetra till the time she regains her strength||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-woman-beats-covid-19-after-being-on-ventilator-for-35-days-101621529384900.html
20-05-2021||Other||Ventilators received from foreign countries lying unused at Bhiwani hospital||As many as 15 ventilators that Bhiwani’s Chaudhary Bansilal Government Hospital received from foreign countries through donation in the last three weeks are not functioning, said health officials.Dr Ved Pal, head of anesthesia at the hospital, said these ventilators are non-functional due to technical snag.“We had shifted some patients on these ventilators but they could not get proper oxygen support. We appraised the higher authorities about the same and a biomedical engineer is checking the technical snags in these ventilators,” he added.An administrative official, pleading anonymity, said these ventilators are manufactured by a Chinese company and were sent to Bansilal hospital three weeks ago.Flagging the issue, senior Congress leader and Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry said the demand of ventilator beds have increased a lot in the second wave and ventilators sent to the hospital are lying vacant.“The hospital lacks trained staff to operate these ventilators. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had promised the district residents of providing more ventilators and he provided them but they have developed a snag,” she added.“This is the only government hospital in Bhiwani which has proper ventilator facilities and only eight ventilators are functioning,” she added.A government doctor posted at the hospital said doctors of Dadri civil hospital are also referring patients requiring ventilator support to their hospital.“We have appraised the administration and senior health officials about shortage of ventilators and trained staff but to no avail,” the doctor added.Bhiwani civil surgeon Dr Sapna Gehlot said the hospital has 24 ventilators of which eight are functioning.“We had received 15 ventilators from the Gurugram warehouse, which were sent by foreign countries through donation and these are lying unused because we don’t have an application for installation. Once we get all parts of the ventilators, we will install them,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ventilators-received-from-foreign-countries-lying-unused-at-bhiwani-hospital-101621529325000.html
20-05-2021||Other||Active cases in UP down by over 62% since Apr 30||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh reported 6,725 fresh Covid cases, taking the infection tally to 16,51,530 while 238 more fatalities due to the virus pushed the death toll to 18,588 on Thursday. “The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state has come down by over 62% since its peak on April 30. The recovery rate of the state is improving. It is now 91.8%. The 24-hour case positivity rate is 2.4%,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health. “At present, there are 1,16,434 active cases in UP, of which 83,801 are in home isolation. A total of 2.91 lakh Covid tests were conducted in the past 24 hours. So far, over 4.58 crore tests have been conducted in the state,” said Prasad. During the day, Lucknow logged 353 fresh Covid cases, Ghaziabad 364, Varanasi 351, Gautam Buddh Nagar 239, Moradabad 218 and Prayagraj 89. Lucknow saw the maximum deaths – 21, Varanasi 16, Agra 12, Meerut and Kanpur 11 each, according to the state health department data. Lucknow has till now reported 2,35,579 Covid cases, of which 2,25,879 have recovered. “The recovery rate in Lucknow is 95.88%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Till now, Lucknow has reported 2,337 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/active-cases-in-up-down-by-over-62-since-apr-30-101621528424312.html
20-05-2021||Other||Double mutant Covid variant found in Dhanbad patients||After Ranchi, Palamu and Hazaribagh, the dangerous double mutant variant of SARS–CoV2 has now entered Dhanbad, a state health department official said on Thursday.Bhubaneswar Regional Jinam Siwuesing Laboratories on Wednesday sent a lab report to the microbiology department of Shahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College Hospital (SNMMCH) in Dhanbad and informed about the finding of B.1.617 variant of SARS-CoV2 in some samples of positive patients sent by the institution.A senior official of the state health department said that RT-PCR test reports of samples of different districts were sent to Bhubaneswar Regional Jinam Siwuesing Laboratories, in which the B.1.617 variant of SARS-CoV2 was earlier found in samples of Ranchi, Palamu, Hazaribagh and other districts of the state. Now Dhanbad has also joined them.SNMMCH principal Dr Shailendra Kumar admitted to having received the report of Bhubaneswar Regional Jinam Siwuesing laboratories about the variant of Coronavirus in samples of patients. “We would discuss how to combat the situation soon,” said principal Dr Kumar.SNMMCH microbiology head of the department Dr Sujit Kumar Tiwari said that RT-PCR test reports are being sent to the lab for identifying what type of strain is being detected in positive patients. Migrants from Maharashtra and other parts of the country are also under treatment at SNMMCH and their RT-PCR samples test reports are also being sent to the Bhubaneswar Lab. “So we can’t claim that the new variant is found in Dhanbad patients. It might have entered the district through migrant patients,” he said.Dr Sujit Kumar Tiwari said that among different strains, the B.1.617 variant is the most dangerous.As per the Bhubaneswar lab report, a total of 50 samples were sent from SNMMCH. Of them, B.1.617 SARS-CoV2 variant was found in 30 samples, followed by B.1.617-1 in nine and B.1.222 in six..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/double-mutant-covid-variant-found-in-dhanbad-patients-101621526924930.html
20-05-2021||Other||Purnia village tense after man killed, houses torched||PURNIATension gripped Majhuwa village under Baisi police station of Purnia district where a former village chowkidar was allegedly beaten to death and about a dozen houses belonging to Mahadalit community were set ablaze on Wednesday night, reportedly over a land dispute.Though the victims have not filed an FIR so far, reportedly out of fear, the local police, which visited the village, have detained two persons, identified as Mohammad Sakir and Mohammad Ibrahim The deceased has been identified as Mewa Lal Roy, who was in his 70s. His sons Sukhdev and Fakira said, “Hundreds of people from three to four nearby villages attacked us at around 11 am on Wednesday when we were sleeping. Later, they set our houses on fire.”About a dozen villagers, including women and children, sustained injuries. “The injured were later rushed to Baisi primary health centre (PHC),” the police said. Two fire engines later reached the spot and doused the fire, by when much damage had been done.“We can’t take any action against them as they are very powerful and have threatened us of dire consequences if we register any complaint with police,” one of the victims said.Station house officer of Baisi police station, Amit Kumar, said, “We have detained Md Sakir and Md Ibrahim for murder, although no one has lodged an FIR so far.” Subdivisional officer Amreandra Kumar Pankaj said the incident was a fallout of land dispute. Meanwhile, a police contingent has been deployed in the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/purnia-village-tense-after-man-killed-houses-torched-101621526924232.html
20-05-2021||Other||State plans 9 new prisons to reduce overcrowding||PATNATo relieve the pressure on Bihar’s overcrowded jails, the state home department is planning to set up nine new prisons in eight districts, including one in Nalanda.According to a notification issued by the home department, the government has decided to build new nine prisons at subdivisional level at Rajgir (Nalanda), Rajauli (Nawada), Marhaura (Saran), Maharajganj (Siwan), Hathua (Gopalganj), Mahnar (Vaishali), Simri Bakhtiyarpur (Saharsa), Chakia and Pakdidayal (East Champaran).Each of them will have a capacity of housing 1,000 inmates.The Patna high court had earlier directed the state government to set up an experts’ committee to conduct a “scientific study on setting up model prisons with necessary infrastructure and take steps to reduce overcrowding in jails”.As on April 30, 2021, the 58 jails in Bihar, including eight central prisons, 32 district and 17 subdivisional prisons, had 55,000 inmates as against the capacity of 39, 542. The overcrowded prisons In the midst of Covid-19 pandemic is a serious concerns for the state government. A senior official of the state home department said that a proposal to construct multiple new jails with modern amenities was under consideration of the state government. He said multi-storey prisons would also be considered at some of these places. The official overcrowding was a bigger challenge, especially in high-security central prisons housing criminals from organised gangs and those jailed for serious and heinous crimes. Inmates have to be segregated and kept physically apart from each other, especially those from rival gangs or with possible hostility, they added.Officials said some of the inmates, who have violent history or those involved in cases of terrorism and Maoism, have to be housed separately, and that additional jails will also help prison administration better segregate the existing population from security point of view.Sources said the new jails will be designed by Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D).Around 10 acres of land will be needed for a subdivisional jail. Around 20 acres of land is needed for district jail while 30 acres for a central jail.IG (Prisons) Mithilesh Mishra said, “Construction of the new prisons is at the planning stage. We are in talks with the government for land sanction and other formalities. Once land is sanctioned, we will plan the infrastructure.”Headline: Behind bars in BiharIntro: The Patna High Court has earlier directed the state government to move towards model jails Number of jails in Bihar: 58 Central jails: 8District jails: 32 Subdivisional jails: 17 Open jail: 1Total number of inmates: 55,000 Current capacity: 39, 542 New jails will come up at:Rajgir (Nalanda)Rajauli (Nawada)Marhaura (Saran)Maharajganj (Siwan)Hathua (Gopalganj)Mahnar (Vaishali)Simri Bakhtiyarpur (Saharsa)Chakia (East Champaran)Pakdidayal (East Champaran)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-plans-9-new-prisons-to-reduce-overcrowding-101621526864826.html
20-05-2021||Other||PMC faces HC’s ire over biowaste disposal in Patna||PATNAThe Patna High Court, which has been hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) on Covid management in Bihar, on Thursday took up the matter of bio-waste disposal in Patna town and said it was an issue not confined to private and government hospitals only, but also labs and homes, where people were living in isolation. Not satisfied with the affidavit of the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC), the court observed it “seemed to conceal more than it revealed” and wanted specific answers to its queries. “The affidavit says nothing. Do we shut our eyes on the realities? Is it the fact in Patna?” the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar observed, seeking clarity on bio-waste disposal. “How many people are isolated at home and who is picking up garbages from those houses? How many tests are being conducted in Patna? How many tonnes of waste is being generated and collected? Which is the agency dealing with it and where is the waste being taken to? How many people are involved with that? How many PPE kits are being given in the city and to whom? These are issues for consideration,” the bench said. The bench had directed the PMC to file a detailed affidavit regarding bio-waste collection/disposal and steps taken for sensitization of the people after the PMC’s counsel said that the IGIMS was entrusted with the responsibility of bio-waste disposal, which had outsourced the work to some private agency. The government had earlier said in an affidavit that there were four common biomedical waste treatment facilities in the state to cover 38 districts. All waste generated from testing, treatment, diagnosis, quarantine centres and vaccination centres are collected from all health care facilities by vehicles provided by the plants and taken to treatment facilities. Testing done in fields and waste collected are also routed to treatment plans through PHCs. PMCH course correction Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) will fortnightly apprise the Patna HC of the outcome of the corrective steps taken to improve its functioning in the light of the court order following the reports of the three-member experts’ committee and amicus curiae Mrigank Mauli. Appearing for the PMCH, senior counsel PK Shahi said the hospital had set up three separate committees. While the first committee is to monitor oxygen supply, the second one would oversee the arrangements in the wards and the third would be for grievance redressal. “All care and caution is being taken with regard to oxygen. Today, more than 50% beds in the wards are not occupied,” he said. Earlier, the three-member committee constituted by the Centre on the directive of the Patna HC to examine the facilities available at the hospitals in Patna and the status of oxygen supply, had visited the PMCH and pointed to deficiencies there and made some adverse remarks in its report on the status of oxygen supply. The committee was headed by Dr Umesh Kumar Bhadani of AIIMS, Patna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-faces-hc-s-ire-over-biowaste-disposal-in-patna-101621526864194.html
20-05-2021||Other||16 new cases of black fungus, 4 of white fungus found in Patna||PATNASixteen new cases of black fungus were reported in Bihar on Thursday while four cases of white fungus, associated with coronavirus, were detected at the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) in the last as many months, the last having been found four days back, said doctors. The total cases of mucormycosis in the state had now gone up to 103, said Dr Anjani Kumar, additional director, health services, Bihar. Twenty-eight patients were admitted at the AIIMS-Patna, 41 at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), one at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital and 33 at different private facilities in Patna, including one in Nalanda, said Dr Kumar. Dr Satyendra Narayan Singh, professor and head of department of microbiology at the PMCH, who found the four cases of white fungus, cautioned doctors against excessive use of steroids on Covid-19 patients. Referring to the black and white fungus as opportunistic fungi, present both in the air and the soil, Dr Singh said they affect people with low immunity level, especially the old, suffering from uncontrolled diabetes, cancer and kidney patients or those who have undergone organ transplants like kidney and liver, and were on immunosuppressant drugs. Dr Kranti Bhawna, additional professor and head of ENT department at AIIMS-Patna, too cautioned against overdose of steroids for cure of Covid-19 patients. She said prolonged steroid therapy compromised immunity of patients and made them vulnerable to fungi attack. “Good glycemic (sugar) control is the key. While treating Covid-19 patients on steroids, doctors should be careful to keep their sugar level under control. Secondly, overuse of steroids is not good, as it decreases the immunity,” said Dr Bhawna, adding that fatality in mucormycosis is 30%-80%. Dr Bhawna has been operating upon at least two cases of mucormycosis at AIIMS everyday. “We have around 45 patients with mucormycosis at our institute of which at least five are serious and in ICU. If doctors at PMCH, Nalanda Medical College Hospital and the Darbhanga Medical College Hospital begin to operate black fungus cases, it will help reduce our load,” she said. Two deaths have so far been attributed to black fungus in Patna. Among the deceased was a local doctor, who died at the Ruban Memorial Hospital, a private facility in Patna, on May 17. Earlier on May 12, a 58-year-old male from Kaimur died at Patna’s AIIMS, a day after he was admitted there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/16-new-cases-of-black-fungus-4-of-white-fungus-found-in-patna-101621526806123.html
20-05-2021||Other||9 months on, 26 ventilators sent to DMCH set to go live||DARBHANGAStung by reports that 26 ventilators supplied under PM Cares Fund were still lying unused for the last nine months, officials of the Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), the largest government hospital in north Bihar, were not being used in the absence of any “plan or guidelines.”The state had got 207 ventilators in March 2020 for its different health facilities. On May 2 this year, as per health department sources, permission was granted for installation of some of the ventilators at private hospitals and two dozens were installed thereafter. A health department official said that state requires at least 144 anaesthetists to run these ventilators but Bihar has only 77. State health minister Mangal Pandey, while talking to some media persons earlier, had admitted to the shortage of expert hands to run the ventilators. AT the DMCH, on April 26, technical experts from Bihar Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Limited (BMSICL) handed over 24-bed ICU facility equipped with ventilators to the DMCH administration. “The installation work had to be accomplished by BMSICL. We are trying our best to utilise the equipment with full support from district administration,” said an insider of DMCH, preferring anonymity.A successful dry run of newly installed ventilators was completed in the first week of May. However, there were some technical glitches, which caused delay in the installation of equipment. DMCH principal Dr K N Mishra said they were working towards it amid the second wave of pandemic. “We have to start Covid Care Hospital in Nursing College and Hostel. The newly installed ICU facility has been set up in a building which was originally constructed for teaching purposes. For the installation of ventilators, entire electrical wiring and oxygen supply system was needed to be modified.”DMCH superintendent Dr Mani Bhushan Sharma said in all likelihood, the new ICU facility equipped with new ventilators would become functional in a day or two.The ICU in-charge, Dr Hari Damodar Singh, said the newly built ICU could not be utilised properly soon after installation due to huge quantity of oxygen required in running the machines. In order to keep all the ventilators in running condition, the ICU requires a steady oxygen supply of 250 cylinders. Hence, the DMCH administration decided to manage all patients judiciously.“As of now, the oxygen supply chain has improved drastically. We hope to start them within a day or two,” he said. In the meantime, eight-bed ICU facility equipped with ventilators at Trauma Centre is available for patients, the ICU in-charge said, adding that one of the bed was lying vacant on Thursday.An official, requesting anonymity, also alleged that Centrally supplied ventilators had shown poor performance. A DMCH doctor said the new 25-bed ICU set up at ground floor failed to sustain the sensitive functioning of ventilators initially due to the lack of commensurate pressure of oxygen, which has been rectified now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/9-months-on-26-ventilators-sent-to-dmch-set-to-go-live-101621526804207.html
20-05-2021||Other||Lockdown takes its toll on May tax collection||PATNAThe lockdown in Bihar, which came into force on May 5 this year and was further extended till May 25, has taken its toll on the state’s tax collections, which have started plummeting.The total revenue for May is expected to be around ₹500 crore as against ₹2,700 crore last month, prompting the finance department to go for higher borrowings within specified limit from next month onwards to meet various expenditures. Sources said tax collections for May till Thursday was over ₹400 crore and expected to reach the ₹500 crore by the end of month. “There is a huge shortfall in tax collections from internal sources this month as against last month’s figures. This is owing to lockdown and restrictions in commercial activity,” said a finance department official, seeking anonymity. The sharp decline is a major cause of worry for finance officials, who say the state, having already battled contraction in economy last fiscal, would not have enough funds for development works and committed expenditure if Covid restrictions continue over the next few months. “We have to increase our borrowings from next month. We are only hoping central devolutions are higher this fiscal or else the fiscal position will be tight and adversely affect implementation of schemes,” said another official. The state government has a borrowing limit of ₹36,000 crore for the current fiscal (2021-22). Sources said the government will be borrowing ₹2,000 crore next week in the first tranche and then ₹4,000 crore from next month onwards from the market to ensure funds for various expenditures and shortfall in revenue collections. The borrowings would be assessed once the tax collections start improving, officials said. The state’s public debt for the fiscal 2020-21 stands at ₹1.77 lakh crore. The state government total budget outlay is ₹2.18 lakh crore for 2021-22, with a target of ₹40,000 crore as revenue from state’s own internal sources like transport, commercial taxes, registration and mining. Last fiscal, Bihar managed to get ₹60,000 crore as central devolutions by way of its share in central taxes, belying apprehensions that the devolutions would be much less due to the economic contraction on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. In 2019-20, the state had received ₹63,000 crore as central devolutions from share of taxes. Sources said the government’s tax collections from own sources in the last fiscal was close to ₹35,000 crore, a shortfall of 10 -12% against the target of ₹39,900 crore. “Our tax collections were good despite lockdown and restrictions for several months last year. The higher central devolutions than expectedsaved the day for us in terms of keeping our fiscal position good so far,” said a finance official. He said the picture of fund availability from central sources would be clearer for the current fiscal when the 43rd GST council meeting, to be chaired by union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, takes place on May 28.Sources the state government has kept a budgetary provision of ₹3,500 crore as compensation cess for the current fiscal. Principal secretary (finance) S Siddharth refused to comment on low tax collections owing to the lockdown in May or the government’s plans to start borrowing from next month.Headline: Tax May-hemIntro: Lockdown in Bihar came into force on May 5 this year and was further extended till May 25Total revenue April: ₹2,700 crore May: ₹500 crore (expected)BorrowingLimit for current fiscal: ₹36,000 crore Planned next week: ₹2,000 crore Next month onwards: ₹4,000 crore State’s internal sources of taxTransport, commercial taxes, registration, mining||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lockdown-takes-its-toll-on-may-tax-collection-101621526744273.html
20-05-2021||Other||PM praises Ahmednagar’s handling of Covid crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Thursday, appreciated the efforts taken by the authorities in the Ahmednagar district to tackle the Covid pandemic and prevent fatalities, officials said. The prime minister had video conference with collectors of 60 districts in the country, including 17 in Maharashtra, along with chief ministers of 11 states. During the virtual meeting, Ahmednagar collector Rajendra Bhosale apprised him of the initiatives being implemented in the district, said a statement from the state information department. Modi expressed satisfaction at the steps being taken by the district authorities, it added. As of Wednesday, Ahmednagar has reported 2,42,317 Covid cases with 2,575 fatalities. In the first wave, the case fatality rate (CFR) of the district was 1.5 per cent which fell to 0.9 per cent in the ongoing second wave, Bhosale said. All the households in the district were surveyed and patients who had co-morbidities were given timely treatment, which brought down the CFR, he told the PM. During the first wave 0.4 million lakh tests had been conducted, while in the second wave 0.5 million samples have been tested so far, the collector said. The “Hivre Bazaar” pattern promoted by Popatrao Pawar, a village Sarpanch from the district who is a Padmashree recipient, ensured that his village became coronavirus-free. This was then implemented in the district. Under Pawar’s guidance, 1,316 gram panchayats implemented the pattern under which four teams of health officials and NGOs were formed to survey each household. In other initiatives, a nodal officer was appointed to oversee the refund of excess fees charged by private hospitals, the collector said. He himself toured every taluka in the district at least twice a month and spoke to village officials to boost their morale. Special efforts were taken to set up oxygen production plants in the district and a deputy collector-level officer was put in charge of each plant, he told the prime minister. Nodal officers were appointed for hospitals to ensure smooth oxygen supply, Bhosale said. New arrivals in villages were sent to isolation rooms. During the second wave even home isolation was stopped and all coronavirus positive persons were admitted to Covid care centres, the collector said. Those violating curfew orders and loitering in public were subjected to rapid antigen tests, he said. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also praised the district administration’s efforts, the statement added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pm-praises-ahmednagar-s-handling-of-covid-crisis-101621522783916.html
20-05-2021||Other||PMC declares Cummins, Kothrud, a Covid-19 hotspot; shuts firm for 3 days||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has issued an order for the Kothrud-based Cummins company to stop work for three days, due to an increase in Covid-19 cases among its staff. The PMC has declared the company premises as a hot spot for Covid-19.Sachin Tamkhede, assistant municipal commissioner, Kothrud-Bavdhan, issued the order on Thursday. As mentioned in the order, the company submitted a two- months report to the PMC which indicates that of its 240 employees, 50 are active Covid19 patients. There have also been two deaths registered due to Covid-19.PMC has written a letter to company manager Rajendra Kulkarni instructing that the company be closed from May 20 to May 23, 2021. The company will also have to conduct a Rapid Antigen/ RT PCR test of all its employees and submit a a report on May 22. The company has been urged to- start vaccination of its employees and to sanitise machinery frequently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-declares-cummins-kothrud-a-covid-19-hotspot-shuts-firm-for-3-days-101621522303987.html
20-05-2021||Other||In Sukma, Maoists call for ‘bandh’; villagers protest with dead bodies||Amid the Maoists’ call for ‘bandh’ in two districts on Friday against Monday’s killings in Sukma district near Silger camp, the villagers on Thursday again protested near the camp along with the three dead bodies, HT has learnt. Three people were killed in the incident which took place on Monday afternoon when a group of villagers were protesting against the camp, which opened on May 12 near Silger village - a Maoist stronghold along the border of Sukma-Bijapur districts. The villagers have been demanding the removal of Silger camp and justice for the three tribals who died in Monday’s firing. They are also planning to start a protest again from Friday in which the residents of about 12 villagers will take part, a local said. The villagers had claimed that security forces opened fire unilaterally on protestors and those killed were tribals while police said Maoists were part of the crowd that was protesting against the camp and that the ultras started the gunbattle. Inspector-General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P said, the preliminary investigation revealed that the three deceased were allegedly linked with frontal organizations of banned CPI (Maoist) but police are trying to ascertain this input. Prima facie, the deceased have been identified as Uska Pandu, a Bhumkal commander from Timmapur village (Sukma); Kowasi Waga, DAKMS (Dandakaranya Adivasi Kisan Majdoor Sangthan) member from Chhutwahi; and Kursam bhima, militia member from Gundem village (Bijapur), the IGP said. The villagers claimed that those killed were farmers and on Thursday they put the bodies of the deceased at the protest site and demanded justice. Meanwhile, on Wednesday evening, human rights activist Bela Bhatia, along with activist Jean Dreze, tried to reach the protest site but was stopped by the security forces. “Held up outside Chiramangi CRPF camp. I was on my way to Silger but have been stopped. They have been told that I should not be allowed to proceed without the SP’s permission. In the morning, I had gone to the district hospital at Bijapur to meet the injured but was not allowed to talk to them. We (Jean Dreze and I) were told to undergo two covid tests at the hospital which we did even after being vaccinated. Even after six hours of wait, I was still not allowed to speak with the injured. Out of the five injured, I saw three had bullet injuries. Also, throughout my time in the hospital, a policewoman was following me wherever I went. I cannot help but feel that I have been deliberately kept from visiting Silger. I see this as an obstruction in my duty as a lawyer,” a statement issued by Bhatia on social media stated. On Thursday, Bhatia claimed that the permission is still in process and meeting with officials is going on. On the other hand, Maoists called for ‘bandh’ in Bijapur and Sukma districts on Friday in a written statement and stated that the villagers were protesting peacefully but senior police officers ordered firing upon unarmed tribals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-sukma-maoists-call-for-bandh-villagers-protest-with-dead-bodies-101621522247000.html
20-05-2021||Other||Politicos not in favour of new SOPs governing vaccination drive||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) administration’s standard operating procedure (SOP) for the vaccination drive has come in for criticism from political parties.PMC commissioner Vikarm Kumar issued the guidelines for the vaccination drive on Tuesday, due to much interference from political parties. The decision was taken after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) city president Prasant Jagatap, Shiv Sena party leader Sanjay More, and Congress leader Ramesh Bagwe met deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar about the issue.The SOPs include not allowing members of political parties or any person to enter the vaccination centre. Staffers at the centre can now seek police protection to handle the situation and file a case against any intruder.The commissioner’s order also prohibits posters or hoardings around vaccination centres.Mulrlidhar Mohol, mayor, said, “Prohibition of local corporators is not good. Corporators are servants of the public. To help the public is the duty of the corporation. PMC should not put blame on political parties for the misuse of power by some corporators. If we are not present at the centre, people will ask us questions.”“It is absolutely wrong to give orders to file a police complaint against a corporator. The decision has been taken under political pressure,” he added.Aba Bagul, Congress leader in the corporation said, “It is not acceptable to file a police complaint against corporators. The corporation doesn’t have enough manpower or machinery to successfully complete the vaccination drive. The commissioner should not hold all corporators responsible for any wrongdoing.” Prithviraj Sutar, Shiv Sena Party leader in PMC said, “Due to too much political interference, the PMC commissioner took the decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/politicos-not-in-favour-of-new-sops-governing-vaccination-drive-101621521763874.html
20-05-2021||Other||State forms committee to study water distribution from dams in Bhima basin||PUNE The state government water resource department has decided to form a committee to address the issue of access to water from four dams - Khadakwasla, Warasgaon, Panshet and Ujjani – all in the Bhima basin.On Thursday, the government issued the order to form a four-member committee under the chairmanship of retired secretary of the water resource department. The committee will include chief engineer of the Jal Vidnyan Prakalp (Nashik), chief engineer of the water resource division, Pune, and superintendent engineer of the Pune Irrigation division. The government has as asked for a report in three months.Avinash Surve, chairman of the committee, said, “The irrigation department does water management on the basis of availability of water, crop patterns, purposes of water (drinking, industry, agriculture). After some time, the situation changes and we have to make changes. Climate change will affect rainfall and will directly impact the availability of water.”There are 25 dams in the Bhima basin, spread across three sub-basins – the Bhima sub-basin, the Neera sun-basin and the Mula-Mutha sub-basi - with 17 reservoirs. The need for the panel comes against the background of Pune city increasing its demand for water from the dams, to serve an expanding population.Given Pune city’s increasing water usage, the rural areas of Pune district are complaining of a water shortage.A decision on increasing the water quota for Pune city is pending.Pune’s annual water usage has increased from 11.50 thousand million litres per cubic feet (TMC) to 18.50 thousand million TMC, annually. As per statistics released by the water resource department, the population in the rural areas of Pune district is forecast to reach 4.520 million; and the urban population, 9.265 million, by 2030. Meanwhile, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is accessing the Bhama-Askhed dam for water, which is 45km away from the city. Twenty-three villages have also been cleared to merge with the PMC limits.The committee will start a pilot project in the Bhima sub-basin to study and review water distribution.The committee will give recommendations based on the pattern of water usage, irrigation capacity, proportion of sludge, and increasing capacity of projects.“Due to rapid urbanisation and industrialisation, the basic planning of water distribution has changed. Water usages vary. We will study supplying more water to cities and the increasing pressure on the agriculture sector to find a solution. We will have to increase the capacity of Pune city’s water usage, as well as the agriculture water usage,” Surve said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-forms-committee-to-study-water-distribution-from-dams-in-bhima-basin-101621521103795.html
20-05-2021||Other||Hit’n’run in Chakan, leaves on dead, 2 injured||PUNE: One man was killed, and two others injured in a hit-and-run by a container truck in Chakan, on Wednesday.The deceased has been identified as Sunil Chandrakant Shirke (28), a resident of Lonavla, while the injured men are Milind More (30) and Yusuf Sayyed (35), according to police.The incident happened at 3am when the three were travelling in a grey car towards Chakan. The vehicle was registered in Pimpri-Chinchwad.The container truck with an RTO passing number from Thane was coming from the opposite direction and made a turn without indicating so, and rammed into the car, according to police.A driver left the truck at the accident spot and fled, according to police.A case under Sections 279, 337, 338, and 304(a) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), along with Sections 184, 134(a)(b) of Motor Vehicle Act has been registered at Chakan police station. Police sub inspector S Chitampalli is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hitnrun-in-chakan-leaves-on-dead-2-injured-101621519723863.html
20-05-2021||Other||Pune resident duped of ₹1.3 lakh by caller claiming to be represent pvt bank||PUNE: A 45-year-old man from Pune has been duped of ₹1.3 lakh by a caller who claimed to be from the credit card department of a private bank.The complainant, a resident of Dhayari, received a call on January 26, around 4:30pm, from the accused caller.The caller did not share details, but made the complainant reveal multiple information points about his existing credit card.The caller promised the complainant a better credit card with the same credit limit and to carry over the points earned from his existing credit card.Under the guise of activation of the new card, the caller took details from the complainant and spent ₹1,37,238 on the existing card, according to the complainant.A case under Sections 419 (cheating by personation) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of the Information Technology Act has been registered at Sinhagad road police station. Police inspector (crime) Pramod Waghmare of the Sinhagad road police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-resident-duped-of-1-3-lakh-by-caller-claiming-to-be-represent-pvt-bank-101621519604764.html
20-05-2021||Other||DySPfrom Jalna in ACB net for accepting ₹2 lakh bribe||PUNE A deputy superintendent (DySP) of police from Jalna, on Thursday, has been booked by the Pune unit of the anti- corruption bureau (ACB ) for accepting a bribe of ₹2 lakh from a 55-year-old man who was booked under the Prevention of Atrocity against SC/ST Act.Identified as Sudhir Khiradkar (45), the DySP is the sub divisional police officer of the Jalna division of Jalna district police. The trap was set by a team led by deputy superintendent of the Pune unit, Varsharani Patil. Khiradkar was booked with two other people identified as police naik Santosh Niranjan Ambhore (45), of Kadim police station, and havaldar Vitthal Punjaram Kharde of the Jalna office, according to a statement issued by ACB Pune.The DySP had initially demanded ₹5 lakh in exchange of settling the case, but settled for ₹3 lakh after negotiation, according to the complaint. Ambhore was caught accepting ₹2 lakh in cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dyspfrom-jalna-in-acb-net-for-accepting-2-lakh-bribe-101621519484774.html
20-05-2021||Other||Over two dozen Jharkhand migrants stuck in Nepal suffer from Covid-like symptoms||At least 26 migrant labourers from Jharkhand’s Dumka district are stuck in Sindhupalchok district of Nepal. They have sought the Jharkhand government’s help through a video message for their immediate rescue as all of them are suffering from Covid-19 like symptoms and facing a shortage of food due to lockdown, HT has learnt. In the video message, the workers said they are stranded in Nepal due to the lockdown and most of them have fallen sick but are getting no medical attention. They have requested the Jharkhand government to rescue them and save their lives.Speaking from Nepal, a migrant worker Narayan Das, a resident of Ramgarh block of Dumka district, told HT over the phone that they were stuck at Gauri Gaon village under Bagmati circle in Sindhupalchok district of Nepal. Das said all 26 workers are residents of Dumka district.“We had come here for construction work in a hydro-power plant about two and half months back. A contractor from Himachal Pradesh took us here. However, we all started falling sick one by one for the past week. We have symptoms like fever and cough. Some of them were given saline but we are not getting proper medical care here,” Das said.He said, “In view of soaring cases of Covid-19, a lockdown has been imposed here. So, we are also struggling to get food. We don’t have money to buy food, get treatment or return home.”“We request the Jharkhand government to please help and rescue us from here, otherwise, we may die without proper treatment,” Das said.State migrant control room (SMCR) officials said they were in touch with the labourers. “We have communicated the Dumka administration to provide them immediate help,” said Shikha Lakra, SMCR team lead.Deputy development commissioner (DDC), Dumka, Sanjay Singh said, “We have been informed that around 35 labourers are stuck in Nepal. However, we are not focusing on numbers as we have to bring them all, whosoever is stranded there.”“Since they are stuck in a foreign land, we have to follow certain protocols. The deputy commissioner is writing a letter to the Indian embassy in Kathmandu seeking guidance on how to rescue them. We will begin the rescue operation once permission is granted,” Singh said.He said buses would be sent according to the number of labourers stranded there. “A team of paramedics equipped with Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits would also go to ascertain the health condition of the labourers. If anyone is found infected with coronavirus disease, we will ensure a separate arrangement to bring him. In case anyone found serious, we will ensure to get a better medical facility in Nepal,” he said.Not only in Nepal, thousands of labourers who are stranded in different states of the country, have also sought the Jharkhand government’s help in their rescue. According to the data provided by the state control room, as many as 6044 migrant workers are stuck in different states, including Maharashtra, Karnataka, Odisha and Chhattisgarh, and want to return.Lakhs of migrant labourers working in different parts of the country have already returned home after soaring cases of coronavirus disease Covid-19 in April this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-two-dozen-jharkhand-migrants-stuck-in-nepal-suffer-from-covid-like-symptoms-101621518884214.html
20-05-2021||Other||PMC’s road digging leaves residents of peth areas with no place to walk, drive||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has begun various works in the city, all aimed at finishing the lot before the monsoons begin.As a result roads have been dug up across the city, much to chagrin of residents, especially in the old Pune peth areas.The lockdown restrictions have only added to the stress factor for residents who complain of not being able to access their housing society gates or move their vehicles, because of the dug-up roads.“In the front of our building, the entire road has been dug up. There is no space left to walk and vehicles cannot come out from our parking. I work at a private hospital and need to go to work everyday. For the last two days, I cannot take my vehicle and have had to hire an autorickshaw,” said Dhanesh Kamble, a resident of Shaniwar Peth.“PMC workers should have done the work in phases, keeping some road open for local residents to move,” Kamble added.The road starting from the New English School, Ramanbaug chowk till Omkareshwar Mandir chowk has been dug up in Shaniwar peth. Roads in Sadashiv peth, Navi peth and Shukrwar peth have all been dug up.“We understand that government wants to complete the work before the rainy season and take advantage of the current lockdown as there is less traffic. At the same time, there should be a time limit. You cannot just dig up a road and keep it as is, for 10 to 15 days. There are medical emergencies due to Covid and people have to rush to hospitals, so a pathway for vehicular movement should have been kept,” said Santosh Sethi, a resident of Shukrwar peth.PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “Some important works related to underground water pipelines are going on, but it should be done with minimum trouble to local residents. I will look into the matter and instruct our officials accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmcs-road-digging-leaves-residents-of-peth-areas-with-no-place-to-walk-drive-101621518583708.html
20-05-2021||Other||Grief overload for families losing multiple members to Covid-19||With Covid-19 coming back with a vengeance in the second wave, Ludhiana has remained the worst hit in the state with over 23,000 cases and 380 deaths in May alone. Several families have lost multiple members, leaving them with a grief that they may not be able to recover from any time soon. Hindustan Times reaches out to three such families in the district. Elderly couple died one day apart For Arun Chopra, 35, who lost both his parents in a span of two days, life will never be the same again. His father, Surinder Chopra, 67, an arhtiya, was the first to contract the virus following which his mother Kiran Lata, 60, also got infected. Subsequently, Arun, his wife and two sons also tested positive. While Arun, his wife and kids recovered, his elderly parents weren’t so lucky. Both his parents were initially admitted to a private hospital but after 10 days, their condition started deteriorating, forcing him to rush them to government facilities. His mother was taken to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, where she breathed her last on May 11. Before he could share the devastating news with his family, his father too passed away at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on May 12. Arun said he spent nearly ₹6 lakh on his parents’ treatment. 3 members of a family wiped out in a week Another family in BRS Nagar G-Block witnessed three deaths in a span of a week. First, a 47-year-old man died, then his 75-year-old father succumbed and finally, his younger brother’s wife also lost her life to the virus. The younger brother, who was recently discharged after recovery, is devastated. “I lost three family members when I was myself under treatment. My children have lost their mother, grandfather, and uncle. We have recovered from the disease but will never recover from this tragedy,” he said, wishing to remain anonymous. 24-yr-old died just a day after he tested +ve Sarabjit Singh, a health department employee, lost his 24-year-old son just three months after the latter’s wedding. “We were still in celebration mode when my son tested positive on April 30. We first took him to a public health centre in Payal but as his condition continued to deteriorate, we rushed him to the civil hospital, where he succumbed the next day,” said Sarabjit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/grief-overload-for-families-losing-multiple-members-to-covid19-101621511083399.html
20-05-2021||Other||Taste of life: Before Alphonso was king, Pune’s local mango varieties ruled taste-buds||The year was 1911 and the month January. Sir George Sydenham Clarke, Governor of Bombay, decided to send exquisite and expensive gifts to some of his friends and compatriots in India and abroad. The first consignment, he decided, was to be mangoes, grown around Bombay and Poona.Things did not proceed his way. On February 2, 1911, a frost occurred in Poona with disastrous effects on the mango flowers, all of which were blackened and killed.There was no harvest of the fruit in Poona that year and the Governor was disheartened. He might have communicated his disappointment to his friends in Egypt, because the same year, British officials in Egypt placed an order for mango plants from Poona.In 1912, a consignment of grafted mango plants was sent from the Ganeshkhind Botanical Gardens in Poona, to the Director-General of Agriculture, Giro, Egypt. Later, in April 1916, a consignment was sent from Poona to Jamesabad in Sind and arrived in good condition; and another to Gorakhpur in the United Provinces, equally successfully.Bajirao Peshwa II had planted large numbers of mango trees in the neighbourhood of Poona. It is said that he had long caravans employed to bring seeds from Goa, and when the British took over the city, many of the plantations remained, to show the poor quality of the average mango fruit raised from seed.The British noted that in the Bombay Presidency, although mango trees were seen in every village, yet there were undoubtedly certain classes of soils that influenced the yield and excellence of the fruit. G Marshall Woodrow, noted horticulturist, stated that fruit of the highest quality might be produced on a loamy soil three feet in depth containing five—ten per cent of lime and enough peroxide of iron to give the soil a reddish tinge. He mentioned that an excellent mango type was found on the banks of the Mula river near Ganeshkhind in alluvial loamy soil to a depth of five feet. There was another plantation of 5,000 trees near Khed Shivapur, a few miles south of Poona, situated on soil of five feet of dark brown loam, nine feet of marl, two feet of gravel, and three feet of very porous murum (a disintegrated form of trap rock).So the British decided to survey the region and encourage the harvest of the already existing local varieties rather than those brought to Poona from Goa and Ratnagiri. The result of this endeavour was the cultivation of several varieties which the British thought were superior to the famous Alphonso.There were large plantations of the Alphonso variety in Kirkee (Khadki). Then there was Badshah, grown near Dhankawadi, which had agreeable flavour but was woolly. Mrs Petit’s garden in Wanowrie had the Batasi variety, the saplings of which had been imported from an orchard in Parel. The Bhopaly and Motiya varieties grew near Hirabaug, the trees of which were shoulder high. Wadgaon had orchards of two varieties – Dalbed and Deorukhya. The former was considered superior to the Alphonso variety by many British officers. Bhamburda (Shivajinagar) had the Gadgya variety. It had a piquant flavour and the trees were dwarf. Alandi had orchards of the Jhiprya variety. The pulp of this fruit was white and it was considered a good to use in cakes and jams.Sardar Balwantrao Natu planted the Khoont variety in his garden in Kadus. It was a very fine fruit with an un-attractive colour. Then there were Moraya, Kubdya and Kalia near Sinhagad (Donaje). The pulps of these fruits were deep yellow with very few fibres. Pandhrya too grew in the same area, the pulp of which was sweet and greenish yellow. Vishnu Sadashiv’s garden hosted the Mahaluga variety. The pulp was woolly and flavour slightly mild. This fruit was not much liked by the natives, but was a darling of some Europeans. The undisputed king of the local varieties was the Pia-posha from Bhamburda, the skin of which was rich cream coloured, suffused with crimson on the exposed side. The pulp was pale yellow, very sweet. The fruits were large and the fragrance delightful. The valuable colouring matter, Indian Yellow, was obtained from the urine of cattle fed on the Pia-posha mango leaves.A close second were the Rajia and Ryotya, fruits of which were very sweet and colour so exquisite that European housewives bought the fruits to decorate their dining tables.In Bombay and in the neighbourhood of Ratnagiri, the mango harvest was nearly over by the end of May, except for a few late varieties; whereas in Poona and the neighbouring districts, it began from the middle of May and continued till the end of June. Because the mangoes were sold late, especially after the rains had set in, the demand for them was very low, and as a consequence, they had to be sold very cheap.After the First World War ended, Alphonso became the favourite of the rich. These fruits were brought to Pune from Ratnagiri and were considered a status symbol. The fine local varieties were unfortunately overshadowed and later almost erased from the public memory by the Alphonso. Pia-posha mango chutney recipe The Pia-posha mango could now only be found in vintage recipes, like the one for mango chutney published in the Bulletin of the Botanical Department, Jamaica, in 1905 : Three pounds Pia-posha mangoes (turned, but not ripe, 3 pounds tamarinds, 2 pounds raisins (weighed after stoning), 8 pounds brown sugar, 1 pound chilies, 1\2 pound garlic, 2 pounds green ginger, 1\4 ounce mace, 1 ounce mustard seed, 1\4 ounce cloves, 1\4 ounce pimento, 1\2 pound table salt. Soak tamarinds in 2 quarts of the best vinegar, stir them about with a wooden spoon to get the pulp off, and take out the seeds and the leathery part in which they are enclosed. Cut the raisins small. Peel the ginger and grate it. Pound the chilies, garlic, and mustard seed in a mortar, using a little of the vinegar to moisten. Mix all together thoroughly; it is then ready for use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/taste-of-life-before-alphonso-was-king-pune-s-local-mango-varieties-ruled-tastebuds-101621507784465.html
20-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s daily deaths shoot up again, 27 recorded in 24 hours||The district’s daily deaths witnessed a sharp spike once again with 27 more people succumbing to the virus in 24 hours, health officials said on Wednesday. The daily cases, however, continued to decline for the fourth consecutive day with 731 cases being detected.Among the latest fatalities, 15 were women and 12 were men. The oldest to succumb is a 72-year-old resident of BRS Nagar while the youngest is a 44-year-old resident of Maharana Partap Nagar.The maximum number of deaths continued to be in the 50 to 60 age group. Ten fatalities were in their 50s while another eight were in their 60s. Five of the deceased were in their 70s while four were in their 40s.The district’s toll now stands at 1,788 while fatality rate, as on Wednesday, was 2.28%. The total number of positive cases since the pandemic outbreak last year is 78,368.There are 11,373 active cases at present.17-hour curfew has started yielding results: DCDeputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma on Wednesday said that the current 17-hour daily curfew imposed in Ludhiana has started to yield results as daily cases have started to decline. He said collective efforts of all stakeholders in the society and people’s support have been instrumental in stabilising the wave.Speaking to the residents of Ludhiana during the weekly Facebook Live session on the official page of DPRO, the DC said that non-pharmaceutical interventions like curfew, tireless functioning of civil and police administration teams and the wholehearted support of people have slowed down the spread of the disease but it does not mean we can lower our guard.He said the administration has increased testing for Covid-19 on a war footing and more than 1.5 lakh samples are now being tested every week. DC visits rural area to spread Covid awarenessGiving a clarion call to people residing in rural areas to understand the importance of Covid appropriate behaviour, early testing and vaccination, deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma on Wednesday interacted with people residing in villages of Ghaloti and Raqba.During the interaction, Sharma urged people to wearing the mask correctly, maintaining two-yard distance, and wash their hands frequently to keep the virus at bay. He also advised people to get vaccinated and take a Covid test as soon as they see any symptoms.He said that the early testing and treatment would help save the lives of the people. The DC also warned the residents against self-medication as it delays the detection of infection and can lead to health complications. He said the second wave has taken the rural areas into its grip so the villagers must keep tabs on unauthorised movement by holding ‘thikri pehras’ (community policing) to restrict the entry of persons having symptoms of cough, cold, fever, sore throat, and others. Dr Bishav Mohan from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital spoke about the symptoms of Covid-19.Team constituted to ensure availability of essential drugsLudhiana: Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma on Wednesday constituted a committee of experts to ensure the availability of essential drugs for patients in the district.The committee was constituted in wake of a few hospitals prescribing Remdesivir and Tocilizumab even though these are short in supply. Punjab health advisor Dr KK Talwar has already prescribed alternative medicines --Itolizumab and Dexamethasone— for treatment of Covid patients. The expert group is headed by Dr KK Talwar, advisor, health and medical education, Government of Punjab, with Dr Hatinder Kaur Kaler, Ludhiana’s medical nodal officer, Dr Rajesh Mahajan from DMCH Ludhiana, Dr Rajiv Kundara from SPS Hospital, Dr Anil Luther from Christian Medical College and Hospital, Dr Shelly from Fortis Hospital, and Zonal Licensing Authority (ZLA) Kulwinder Singh as its members. The group would take a call on which drugs are urgently required and where these can be sourced from, provided any patient or attendant approaches the administration.He said now there is a shortage of other antifungal or essential Covid drugs due to which family members of the patients run from pillar to post to get these drugs. It has been observed that some major private hospitals and stockists/chemists have available stock of essential drugs but these institutions offer these drugs only to patients admitted on their premises.The DC said that in these unprecedented times, the essential drugs should be offered to patients who need them the most as per medical condition, no matter where they are admitted.The DC said the committee will decide on which patient requires which essential drug and from where it is to be sourced.The prescribing doctor would have to describe to the committee the patient’s record to justify the requirement of medicine, whenever summoned by the committee. ZLA would ensure the presence of stock position with all hospitals/stockists/chemists about these drugs.The DC made it clear that all essential Covid drugs available in Ludhiana are a common resource pool available for all Covid patients admitted in various hospitals of the Ludhiana district. Once any essential drug is allocated by the committee to any particular patient then the stocking hospital/stockist/chemist would be responsible under National Disaster Management Act 2005 and Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 to sell that drug to a particular patient.He said that violation by any hospital/stockist/chemist would be dealt with strictly under National Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Epidemic Diseases Act 1897.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-daily-deaths-shoot-up-again-27-recorded-in-24-hours-101621453596495.html
20-05-2021||Other||₹100-cr scam: HC accepts LIT’s plea to stop plot allotment to co-op society||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) has accepted the petition filed by Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) in the decades-old ₹100-crore scam for stopping the allotment of 33 plots (150 square yards each) to the members of a cooperative society.In its order dated May 12, the HC has directed the Ludhiana police department to submit a report of the special investigation team (SIT) formed to investigate the case within three months.As per the LIT officials, members of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Cooperative Society fraudulently got 55 plots allotted to their members under the Model Town scheme in 1990. While the LIT was developing the scheme, it had planned to acquire the land which belonged to the society in present Model Town Extension Block-C.Even as the society got the land exempted from the state government, it still managed to get 55 plots allotted to the members stating that the cooperative’s land was acquired by the LIT. The land (now in Ambedkar Nagar) was under encroachment at the time and not in possession of the society.While the society got 25 plots allotted in connivance with LIT officials, it sought 33 more plots at some other place.The scam was initially unearthed in 1996 and an FIR was also lodged in 2001. But no proper follow-up was done. The LIT also lost the case in the state and national consumer dispute redressal commissions and the Supreme Court.When the society got execution orders from the consumer court for allotment of 33 plots, the LIT filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the HC against the same and police investigation was reinitiated in the case recently.LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam said, “It is a major breakthrough in the scam worth around ₹100 crore. The court has observed that the allotment was done in a fraudulent manner. The LIT will not allot the 33 plots and cancel the previous allotments as well.”“We have been regularly pursuing the case in coordination with the state department and action will be taken against all the culprits. We have also decided that from now on, criminal proceedings will be initiated apart from taking departmental action for fraud to discipline the fraudsters,” he added.Six ex-LIT officials were involved in fraud While BD Aggarwal and then executive officer KR Garg were nominated in the FIR lodged in 2001, the police have recommended nomination of four others in the FIR during recent investigation. They include then legal assistant Paramjeet Singh, superintendent Naveen Malhotra, sale superintendent ML Malhotra and assistant town planner BS Sohi. While Garg has been arrested by the police, Naveen Malhotra is on the run. The others have died.Fate of 17 plots uncertain After the LIT commenced the process of cancelling the allotment of remaining 25 plots, uncertainty looms over the fate of 17 bonafide plot holders as they have purchased the same from the original allottees, unaware of the fraud.LIT officials said total 25 plots were allotted, but only eight are situated on the land belonging to the society, while the rest are on LIT land. Some of the current plot holders have also approached the HC over the cancellation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/100cr-scam-hc-accepts-lit-s-plea-to-stop-plot-allotment-to-co-op-society-101621452756306.html
20-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC razes 50 encroachments in green belt area||The Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) on Wednesday removed 50 encroachments in the form of shanties from the green belt area near Chand Cinema amid resistance.The move was aimed at developing the green belts situated along old GT Road from Jalandhar bypass to Sherpur Chowk.The action comes a day after mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal held a meeting with building branch officials on Tuesday.Earlier in February, civic body teams had conducted an anti-encroachment drive in the area to raze illegal structures, but it was stopped due to protests.On Wednesday, building branch officials from all the four MC zones reached the spot to remove the illegal structures.Assistant town planner (ATP) Mohan Singh said the encroachments have been removed and now steps will be taken to develop the green belt area.Building owner misbehaves with MC official While a team of zone C building branch was demolishing illegal buildings in Industrial Area-B on Wednesday, the owner of one such structure allegedly misbehaved with MC building inspector Shavinderpal Kaur and hurled abuses at him, demanding him to stop the drive.On being informed about the ruckus, ATP Satish Malhotra reached the spot along with the police force and razed the illegal construction. Moreover, an under-construction colony was also razed on Lohara Road.Malhotra said that the MC will recommend an FIR against the illegal structure owner for misbehaving with the building inspector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-razes-50-encroachments-in-green-belt-area-101621452696954.html
20-05-2021||Other||Keep your furry friends away from summer heat, say experts||Summer can mean lots of fun outside with your dog. But when the temperatures soar, take steps to protect your pets as the heat can be hard on them, say experts.According to Dr C S Randhawa, head of veterinary medicine department, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana, the most common problems during hot weather are heat stroke and dehydration. Any dog exercising on a hot and humid day, even with plenty of water, can get overheated, so ideally, take your dog for walks during cool hours of the day, he said.Overheating is more common in dark-coloured dogs or those with hairy coats. Never leave your dog in the car. No, not even if you think you’ll only be a few minutes. Even when it isn’t that hot outside, the temperature can soar to dangerous levels in a matter of minutes inside a closed car, even with partially open windows, the veterinarian said.A dog’s normal body temperature is 100.5-102.5 degrees Fahrenheit. While human beings invariably sweat to cool down, dogs cannot sweat and lose heat by panting. Dogs breathe in through the nose and out through the mouth, directing the air over the mucous membranes of the tongue, throat and trachea to facilitate cooling by evaporation of fluid, explained Randhawa.“Dogs also dissipate heat by dilation of the blood vessels in the surface of the skin in the face, ears and feet. If their body temperature rises to 105 or 106°F, they are at a risk of developing heat exhaustion. Its damage to the body’s cellular system and organs may become irreversible,” caution Randhawa.Once the signs of heatstroke are detected, there is precious little time before serious damage, or even death, can occur. Heat stroke is a very serious condition that requires immediate medical attention. Do not take your dog for a walk on a hot surface as it may cause burns on their foot pads, the vet said.Summarising his suggestions, he said never leave your dog alone in the car; avoid vigorous exercise on warm days; when outside, opt for areas under shade; keep cool water available at all times.Certain types of dogs are more sensitive to heat, so use extreme caution in their case. Many dogs enjoy playing and lounging in cool water. Providing them with a tub or kiddie pool or running a sprinkler can be a good option, said Dr Randhawa suggesting to keep an eye on your dog always.This period is quite congenial for the growth and activity of external parasites like ticks and fleas. Many of these can transmit or cause diseases. Consult a veterinarian to keep your dog free from these parasites. You can also consider shaving dogs with long and hairy coats to reduce heat stress.Tips to cool offNever leave your dog alone in the carAvoid vigorous exercise on warm daysWhen outside, opt for playing in shadeKeep fresh cool water available at all timesShave hairy pets to reduce heat stress||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/keep-your-furry-friends-away-from-summer-heat-say-experts-101621452636528.html
20-05-2021||Other||KDMC sees dip, 168 recorded cases on Wednesday||The Kalyan-Dombivli saw a dip in the Covid cases in the past two days with an average of around 200 new cases reported daily. The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), which recently intensified its action against those roaming on road unnecessarily since May 15, claimed that this has helped reduce the cases. Although the number of testings has also decreased from 5,000-6,000 last month to 2,300-2,800 this month. On Wednesday the civic body recorded 168 cases, while the tests conducted were 3,123. On Tuesday, the KDMC recorded 180 cases, while it conducted 2,380 tests. The positivity rate was 7.7%.“The cases have reduced in the past two days because we have intensified the lockdown for 15 days. The number of high and low-risk contacts has also decreased. The tests conducted are less now, however, we conducted antigen testing on random people roaming on streets, not many positive cases were found,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC. Of the 800 antigen tests conducted on those roaming on streets unnecessarily in the past five days, only one positive case has been detected, claimed the civic body. “We are doing testing at railway station rigorously so that we trace as many as cases. The positivity rate has also reduced,” added Panpatil. On April 21, the KDMC recorded the highest single-day spike with 2,552 cases with 5,992 tests carried out for the day. Earlier in May, when the civic body carried out 3,000 testings an average of 500-600 cases were recorded. Earlier in October 2020, the civic body when conducted 2000-2500 tests on an average of 200-250 cases were recorded. The current positivity rate in KDMC is 15%, while the death rate is 1.32% and recovery rate 95.08%. The civic body has so far conducted 6.81 lakhs Covid testings. “Recently the KDMC has started testing those who roam around and do not follow the norms. This will help keep track of cases. However, the civic body should also focus on shops which are not following the norms effectively,” said Swadesh Patil, 34, a resident of Khadakpada, Kalyan (West).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kdmc-sees-dip-168-recorded-cases-on-wednesday-101621451015567.html
20-05-2021||Other||Teacher killed as ex-pradhan, his son open fire on villagers||MEERUT A teacher was killed when a former pradhan and his son, annoyed by defeat in the recent panchayat election, opened fire on villagers after an altercation in Basera village of Bijnor district, police said on Wednesday. Police have arrested three people and are on the look-out for two others. SP (city), Bijnor Praveen Ranjan said that five people, including former gram pradhan Ajab Singh, his son Nikhil Kumar and three others had been named in the FIR registered on the complaint of slain teacher Sanjay Singh’s family. He further said that prime accused Ajab Singh also got injured in the scuffle with villagers and was presently undergoing treatment in police custody. His son Nikhil and another accused had been arrested and sent to jail and teams had been formed to arrest the other two named accused, he said. Ranjan said that Ajab Singh was village pradhan for two terms but this year the villagers lobbied against him because of his criminal record. “He is recorded as a history shooter in Chandpur police station with six cases against him”, said Ranjan and added that Ajab was annoyed with villagers due to his defeat in the panchayat election. On Tuesday night, Ajab Singh and his supporters were abusing villagers after consuming liquor. The villagers approached him and told him to stop abusing them. This led to an altercation which eventually turned into a scuffle between the villagers and supporters of Ajab Singh. Ajab Singh and his son allegedly opened fire on the villagers and teacher Sanjay Singh, 37, who was also in the crowd, sustained bullet injury and later died while being taken for treatment. The incident was reported to Chandpur police and senior officials also visited the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teacher-killed-as-ex-pradhan-his-son-open-fire-on-villagers-101621449877106.html
20-05-2021||Other||Minor gang raped, three arrested||VARANASI: Four youths allegedly gang raped a 14-year-old girl in a house near the bus stand in Bahuara village under Robertsganj police station area of Sonbhadra district on May 13, police said. The incident took place when she was on her way to her village, they said, adding the medical examination of the girl was being done. The girl filed a police complaint on May 18, said a senior police officer. Three of the four accused have been arrested while a police team has been deployed to ensure arrest of the fourth culprit still at large.The officer said that the victim, a native of a village in Robertsganj police station area, informed that she was way back to her village by an auto on May 13 after attending a marriage in the house of her relative in another village. The girl alleged that four youths were also present in the same auto. As the auto reached Bahuara bus stand, they forcibly dragged her to a house near the station. Later, they raped her. They also made a video clip of the incident and threatened to make it viral if she informed anyone about the incident. After that, they fled the scene. The girl said that she didn’t inform anyone about the incident due to their threat. In the meantime, they made the video of the incident viral. The officer said that the girl then filed a complaint, alleging that the four youths raped her and made the video of it viral on social media. Following the complaint, a case was registered against the four ( two of them named) on Tuesday under Section 376 D (gang rape) and 34 (criminal act with common intention). Relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and Scheduled Caste/ Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act were also included. Superintendent of police, Sonbhadra, Amarendra Prasad Singh said, “Three accused, including two named accused, have been arrested. Strict action would be taken against them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minor-gang-raped-three-arrested-101621449335171.html
20-05-2021||Other||‘Those killed in Sukma were from frontal outfits of Maoists’: Police||Three people who were killed in an exchange of fire between security forces and Maoists near a new police camp in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district earlier this week have been identified as members of frontal outfits of the outlawed CPI (Maoist), police officials said on Wednesday.The incident took place on Monday afternoon when a group of villagers were protesting against the camp which opened on May 12 near Silger village - a Maoist stronghold along the border of Sukma-Bijapur districts. While villagers claimed that security forces opened fire unilaterally on protestors, police had said Maoists were part of the crowd that was protesting against the camp and the ultras started the gun battle.According to police, three people were killed in the exchange of fire while five others sustained injuries in the incident. Local villagers claimed that the deceased and the injured were villagers and not Maoists.Inspector-General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P on Wednesday said, the preliminary investigation revealed that the deceased were allegedly linked with frontal organizations of banned CPI (Maoist) but police are trying to ascertain this input.Prima facie, the deceased have been identified as Uska Pandu, a Bhumkal commander from Timmapur village (Sukma); Kowasi Waga, DAKMS (Dandakaranya Adivasi Kisan Majdoor Sangthan) member from Chhutwahi; and Kursam bhima, militia member from Gundem village (Bijapur), the IGP said.All these formations are frontal wings of Maoists which function at the village level, he added. The bodies have been handed over to their relatives, he added.Of the five injured in the firing, four have also been identified as members of frontal outfits of the Maoists, he added.The camp, where personnel from CRPF’s 153rd and 168th battalions, CRPF’s elite unit CoBRA, Special Task Force (STF) and District Reserve Guard (DRG) are stationed, was opened on May 12. Residents from the nearby villages were protesting and demanding its removal since May 14.Briefing the sequence of the incident, the IGP said, the protesting villagers had returned on Sunday night after being pacified by police officials and the executive magistrate but the Maoists again forcefully sent them near the camp on Monday.Around 3,000 villagers, wielded with bows-arrows, axes and other sharp-edged weapons, sticks and stones, charged towards the camp shouting slogans to remove it, he said. The crowd pelted stones at security personnel positioned at the outer cordon leaving many of them injured and causing damage to two Mine Protected Vehicles (MPVs) parked there, the IGP added. The crowd also tried to dismantle the barricading around the camp and snatch rifles and magazine from security personnel, he said.Meanwhile, ultras belonging to Jagargunda, Pamed and Kerlapal area committees of Maoists and other lower rung cadres who were hiding in the crowd opened fire at security personnel.Despite warnings, they continued firing that triggered a stampede-like situation and villagers started fleeing from the spot, he said. At that moment, security forces had no option but to retaliate in self-defence, he said.After the situation normalised, the bodies of the three killed were recovered and later five injured were admitted to hospital, he said.Villagers later claimed that the police resorted to lathi-charge and unilateral firing, a charge denied by the police.Alok Shukla, convener of Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan (CBA), a group of activists, on Tuesday alleged that the police opened fire on the tribals who were protesting against the camp. Shukla demanded that the incident be probed by a retired judge of the High Court in a time-bound manner and an FIR be registered against those found guilty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/those-killed-in-sukma-were-from-frontal-outfits-of-maoists-police-101621448976230.html
