21-05-2021||Other||Pain of the pandemic - instead of marriage festivities, many households holding post-death ceremonies||Destiny has been cruel to Afreen (name changed) of Kareli, who was engaged in March, to be married soon. The groom-to-be, a merchant navy employee, arrived during Ramzan for preparations of marriage after Eid but fell ill and tested positive for Covid-19. After fighting for his life at a hospital for a few days, the youth breathed his last on the fifth of Ramzan, shattering the dreams of Afreen.It is not just Afreen but hundreds of Muslim households in the district are now mourning loved ones instead of preparing for grand marriages, which are generally solemnised after Eid-ul-Fitr. Instead, ceremonies praying for the repose of the soul of the deceased are now being observed across the district. There are many households where marriages have been postponed due to the death of a near relative of the bride or the groom.A resident of C-Block in Kareli, Mohd Shadab, was to be married in the first week of June. However, following a death in his family, the marriage has been put on hold. Although marriages are still taking place according to guidelines issued by the government, families who have lost loved ones are finding it hard to move on and organise marriages of their sons and daughters.Corporator Fazal Khan of ward number 78 of Kareli said he knew many families who had cancelled marriages after losing a close relative. “Instead of marriage songs and festivities, ‘Chaliswa’ (post death ceremony among Muslims) and ‘terahi’ (post death ceremony in Hindus) are being observed at these households which is tragic. People have stood with each other in difficult times and have supported people who have lost their dear ones,” Fazal said.Rambali Mishra of Badokhar in Koraon area was happy after the marriage of his son and daughter was to take place in May. However, after the death of a relative due to Covid-19, both marriages have been postponed.A similar situation prevailed in the house of Chhotelal of Naini who had to cancel his daughter’s marriage which was to take place on April 30 but was put off as a close relative of the groom died in the pandemic.Sarita Khurana of Civil Lines has had to put off her son’s marriage after his mother-in-law-to-be fell ill and was admitted to the hospital.Pandit Balak Maharaj, who solemnises marriages, said that many marriages have been cancelled with the start of second wave of the pandemic. Now, the next ‘muhurt’ will be taken out for such marriages, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pain-of-the-pandemic-instead-of-marriage-festivities-many-households-holding-post-death-ceremonies-101621620891288.html
21-05-2021||Other||UP govt schools kids to study Covid, Vedic Maths and Namami Gange too||As part of syllabus revamp, students enrolled in around 1.59 lakh government-run primary and upper primary schools of Uttar Pradesh would soon get to study Covid-19, Vedic Maths and Namami Gange scheme, said an official of basic education department. Besides, Sanskrit would now be taught from class one instead of class three.The new syllabus has been approved by Basic Education Council recently.Director (basic education), UP, Sarvendra Vikram Bahadur Singh said, “Revamping the syllabus and making suitable changes in it is a continuous process which is being done in consultation with our team of expert academicians. The aim is to keep our students abreast with the contemporary knowledge.” As per the changes, students of government-run 45,625 upper primary schools (class 6 to 8) would be learning about Covid-19 which would be included in their science syllabus. Besides, Vedic Mathematics has also been included in the course for students of classes 4 and 5, said officials of basic education department who are in the know of things but not authorised to speak. Also, for the first time around 20 lakh children studying in classes 1 and 2 in 1,13,289 government-run primary schools across the state would get to learn Sanskrit, they said.Recently, the Yogi government had decided to impart Sanskrit knowledge to children of classes 1 and 2. The officials said five small illustrated lessons in Sanskrit have been included in class 1 from this year in which names of fruits and vegetables, names of farmers and workers, names of family members etc have been included. Besides, four-line poems and numbers up to five have been introduced for students of class 2. These books would also have illustrations that would interest the children and help them in understanding the subject with ease. The officials further said other diseases such as Japanese Encephalitis had been included earlier.On Vedic Maths, the officials said, things like addition, subtraction, LCM and HCF etc will be taught. Similarly, lessons on Namami Gange have been added to “Hamara Environment”, a book for children of classes 6 to 8 from the current session (2021-22), they added. It will teach students about the efforts being made to clean Ganga and the scheme so that children can be sensitized on the issue and contribute in the mission once they grow up. Besides, the names and photographs of the books have also been changed considerably. Now, the textbooks would have photos associated with children’s surroundings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-schools-kids-to-study-covid-vedic-maths-and-namami-gange-too-101621619510530.html
21-05-2021||Other||Covid vaccination drive picks pace in Jind villages||The residents of Jind’s Ahirka, Amarheri, Roopgarh and other villages of Kandela Khap, who are at the forefront in the farm agitation against Centre’s three farm laws, have been coming forward in large numbers to receive vaccine jabs amid rise in Covid-19 cases, said health officials.The health officials said people of these villages were coming in for inoculation in small numbers but the vaccination drive got a push after local farm leaders agreed to start the inoculation drive daily at Khatkar toll plaza, where scores of farmers assemble everyday against the farm laws.The villages of Kandela Khap were the epicentre of the farm protest and they landed overwhelming support to BKU leader Rakesh Tikait after the Republic Day violence. Tikait had addressed his first mahapanchayat in Kandela.Jind immunisation officer Dr Navneet Singh said misinformation is tracking in rural areas and many villagers were initially hesitating to get the vaccine jab.“After a combined effort of the administration, farmers, media and the health department, vaccination drive was started at Khatkar toll plaza last month. The response is such that we have administered vaccine jabs to 470 persons above 45 years of age at Khatkar toll plaza,” Singh said.“Farmers are coming to get the jab at Khatkar toll plaza in good numbers. Similarly, we received a satisfactory response at Roopgarh village, where people had earlier asked us to leave the village and were not allowing to set up camp for vaccination. Now people are supporting health officials and appearing for vaccination,” Singh added.“Earlier, due to misinformation, people were thinking that they have strong immunity and are capable of fighting the virus without the jab. We carried out awareness campaigns to inform people the need and benefits of inoculation,” he added.Sandeep Kumar, sarpanch of Roopgarh village in Jind, said they have sanitised the village and collected ₹2.5 lakh from villagers in donations to purchase medicines and install isolation centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-vaccination-drive-picks-pace-in-jind-villages-101621615433339.html
21-05-2021||Other||Ram Rahim shifted back to Sunaria jail after meeting ailing mother||Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, who is undergoing a 20-year jail sentence for raping two followers, was granted emergency parole in police custody “from sunrise to senset” on Friday to meet his ailing mother at Gurugram, Sunaria jail superintendent Suneel Sangwan said.“He was taken to Gurugram to meet his mother who is undergoing treatment at a private place. Police took Ram Rahim in custody at 7am in the morning and was returned back to the jail. We have given him emergency parole in police custody by taking caution from Panchkula violence,” he said.“Every prisoner has a right to get parole and it was granted after taking feedback from the administration and police. We gave him a day-long parole last year too,” Sangwan added.Singh, who has been taken to Gurugram to meet his mother amid heavy police security, was sought parole four days back. Before this, Ram Rahim was given a day’s parole on October 24, 2020 to meet his mother, who was admitted in a Gurugram hospital.State jails minister Ranjit Singh had justified the parole at that time stating that it was given as per law.“There is a provision under the law that if there is an emergency in the family of the convict, he is allowed to visit his family under police protection,” Ranjit Singh had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ram-rahim-shifted-back-to-sunaria-jail-after-meeting-ailing-mother-101621615130956.html
21-05-2021||Other||Health staff held hostage, threatened in West Singhbhum village||An auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) and her husband were held hostage and threatened by irate locals during an immunisation drive in remote Popkanda village under Goilkera block of West Singhbhum district, officials said on Friday.According to officials, the village residents mistook the couple as part of Covid-19 inoculation drive on Thursday. “The ANM Sunita Loba and her husband Laxman Singh Mundari went to Popkanda village for vaccinating children as part of the regular immunisation drive. However, the villagers mistook them as staff of Covid-19 inoculation drive and held them hostage for hours,” Sudhir Prakash, Goilkera block development officer (BDO), said.This assumes significance in view of widespread confusion and reluctance over availing the Covid-19 vaccine among people in rural areas of the three districts of Kolhan division - West Singhbhum, East Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan.Following the incident, the ANM filed an application and forwarded the same to the district headquarters. “We will take action as per the guidelines by the DC. People should co-operate with medical staff on vaccination drive because it is for the benefit of us all. They should not misbehave with medical staff,” added Prakash. In her application, the ANM alleged that she and her husband were held hostage by the villagers for three to four hours. “They threatened us of dire consequences and warned against coming to the village for vaccination. We somehow convinced them and managed to return to Goilkera safely by late Thursday evening,” Sunita said.West Singhbhum DC Ananya Mittal and other senior district officials have been holding a series of meetings with traditional village heads, called Mankis and Mundas, for the past few days to raise awareness about the absolute necessity to get vaccinated against Covid-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum DC Suraj Kumar issued order to all BDOs in the district to conduct awareness campaign and rope in people’s representatives, sevikas, sahayikas, self-help groups and sakhi mandals to convince villagers to come forward and get vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/health-staff-held-hostage-threatened-in-west-singhbhum-village-101621614469996.html
21-05-2021||Other||Man kills two minor children after fight with wife, arrested||PATNAThe police Friday arrested a man from Mokama in rural Patna hours after he allegedly hacked his two minor children to death following a quarrel with his wife.Superintendent of police (Patna rural) Kantesh Mishra said Kamal Nayan alias Chandan and his wife lived in Kanhaipur village with their children Ankit (9) and Alisha (5). The couple reportedly fought frequently.On Thursday morning, Chandan and his wife had an altercation after which the woman stormed out and went to her parents’ house in rural Mokama, leaving the children with their father.On Friday morning, a relative visited Chandan’s house but saw the two children lying lifeless inside the house. He immediately alerted the police who rushed to the spot and conducted a preliminary inquiry.Neighbours said Chandan, said to be mentally ill, surrendered before the police and confessed to slitting his children’s throats with a sharp-edged weapon between 2.30 am and 3 am on Friday. Rajnandan Sharma, station house officer of Mokama police station, said Chandan was in an inebriated state on Thursday when a fight broke out between him and his wife. He has been booked for murder and bodies sent for autopsy to Barh Sadar Hospital, the SHO said.“Prima facie, the investigation suggests that Chandan doubted his wife’s fidelity and picked up a fight with her, which led to the gruesome incident, resulting in the death of their nine-year-old son and a five-year-old daughter,” Mishra said, adding that police had recovered a sharp-edged weapon from the spot which was used in crime.“Based on our investigation till now, Chandan committed the crime suspecting that they were his illegitimate children,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-kills-two-minor-children-after-fight-with-wife-arrested-101621614410092.html
21-05-2021||Other||1999 Senari massacre: Patna HC acquits all 13 convicts||PATNASetting aside the guilty verdict by a lower court, the Patna High Court Friday acquitted all 13 peole convicted for the infamous Senari massacre in which 34 upper caste members were killed allegedly by cadres of the banned Maoist Communist Centre (MCC) in 1999, the fag end of a bloody decade in Bihar marked by caste wars.Senari village, in Jehanabad district at the time of the incident, now falls into Arwal district.A division bench of Justice Ashwini Kumar Singh and Justice Arvind Srivastava ruled that the prosecution witnesses “are not reliable” and the appellants deserved to be given the benefit of the doubt. “The acquitted persons should be released forthwith if they were not wanted in any other case,” it said. Defence counsel Sanjay Kumar argued that the prosecution had failed to prove the participation of the appellants in the crime with credible evidence. Altogether, 23 witnesses and five doctors who conducted autopsies on the deceased recorded their statement before the court. “On appreciation of evidence adduced during trial, court finds that there is a real and reasonable doubt as to the guilt of the appellants. Accordingly, the impugned judgment of conviction and order of sentences are, hereby, set aside,” the bench said. Earlier, on November 18, 2016, the Jehanabad district court had sentenced 10 persons to death and awarded life imprisonment to three others. The court had acquitted 23 others for lack of evidence. Those who were awarded the death penalty are Bacchesh Singh, Buddhan Yadav, Butai Yadav, Satendra Das, Lallan Pasi, Dwarika Paswan, Kariban Paswan, Godai Paswan, Uma Paswan and Gopal Paswan. On the evening of March 18, 1999, alleged MCC members forced 34 people to line up near a temple at Senari village and killed them by slitting their throats and shooting them.Chinta Devi, whose husband Awadh Kishore Sharma and son Madhukar alias Jhabbu were among those massacred, was the complainant in the case. She died in 2011. Sources in the home department said the Senari incident, one of the last in a series of caste-related massacres at the time, is believed to be in retaliation to the Lakshman-Bathe massacre in which 58 Dalits were killed in 1997.Sanjay Sharma and Rakesh Sharma, eyewitnesses of the incident, said the village could have been chosen as target because of its inaccessibility. The village has 300 around houses. Meanwhile, police have been deployed at Senari after the HC order. The massacre had drawn international attention. The bodies were lifted for last rites by kin only after the arrival of the then union ministers George Fernandes, Nitish Kumar and Yashwant Sinha. The bloody decade1987: 52 upper caste members killed in Dalelchak-Bhagaura massacre in Aurangabad1992: 34 upper caste people killed at Bara in Gaya 1996: 22 Dalit and Muslim labourers killed at Bathanitola in Bhojpur1997: 58 Dalits killed at Lakshmanpur-Bathe in Jehanabad1999: 34 upper caste members killed at Senari massacre in Jehanabad 1999: 23 Dalits killed at Shankarbigha in Jehanabad2000: 35 Dalits killed at Mianpur in Aurangabad||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1999-senari-massacre-patna-hc-acquits-all-13-convicts-101621614351367.html
21-05-2021||Other||HC seeks status report on ESIC Hospital, says Buxar a test case||PATNAThe Patna High Court, which has been hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) on Covid management in Bihar, on Friday sought to know if the issues confronting the ESIC Hospital in Bihta, as pointed out by the three-member expert committee constituted by its order, had been addressed and asked the authorities concerned, the Army Service Corp and the state government, to file separate affidavits in that regard. “We must prepare for the third wave and the ESIC Hospital, which has 500 beds and is closer to Patna, could address the problems in the longer run,” said the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar. The three-member committee had earlier raised issues related to oxygen shortage, manpower requirement, security etc. at the hospital. The bench wanted the state government’s response on that. “We are dealing with PMCH and ESIC hospitals separately. There still seems to be issues with ESIC hospital,” the court said. Additional solicitor general KN Singh said that the ESIC hospital was managed by the Army on one floor and ESIC on the other. “The Army authorities have communicated that all beds are not occupied. Same is the condition with the portion managed by the ESIC. Army authorities had earlier pointed out certain deficiencies, which the state acted upon,” he said. Death registration Former additional solicitor general SD Sanjay drew the attention of the bench on the issue of delay in issue of death certificates, which was causing problems to the kin of victims in availing insurance claims and other compensations. “Many of the victims were breadwinners for their families and without death certificate, they cannot do anything,” he said. The bench said that the issue was already under consideration and its order on Buxar death registration issue was a test case. “If the officials of the panchayati raj institutions don’t comply with the court’s order within a week and fail to update death registrations, we will stop their salary and even seize their powers,” it said. On Monday, the court had expressed its displeasure over apparent inconsistency in figures of death in Buxar, where 81 bodies were found floating in the Ganga river and later cremated, as provided in the affidavits filed by the Patna division commissioner and the chief secretary. The court had sought the figures of the entire district to be furnished since March 1. The court said this would apply to all the districts of the state. It also pointed out that in the digital era, the websites were also not updated to get the correct figures of death. Biowaste disposal With the availability of home testing kits likely from next week through the open market, the issue of biowaste disposal was again raised before the bench. The bench said it was time to seek information from the four private agencies, which have been assigned the job of collecting biowaste. The court had on Thursday observed that the matter of biowaste disposal in Patna town was an issue not confined to private and government hospitals only, but also labs and homes, where people were living in isolation, and sought details of the quantum of biowaste generation and the way they were being treated from the Patna Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-seeks-status-report-on-esic-hospital-says-buxar-a-test-case-101621614350718.html
21-05-2021||Other||14 fresh cases of black fungus detected Total cases of mucormycosis up at 117; two deaths reported so far||PATNAA total of 14 new cases of black fungus were detected among Covid patients in Bihar on Friday, all admitted in different government and private hospitals in the state capital, taking the total number of cases of mucormycosis to 117. “The total cases of black fungus has risen to 117 from 103 on Thursday. All the new cases have been found among Covid patients undergoing treatment at government and private facilities,” said Dr Anjani Kumar, addtiional director, health services, Bihar. As per the break-up, 40 patients suffering from black fungus infection are admitted in private hospitals in Patna where as rest of 77 patients are admitted in AIIMS, Patna, PMCH, NMCH and Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna. “All the patients are Covid infected and have developed black fungus. They come from different districts in the state,” an official in the health department said. Though the infection rate of black fungus among Covid patients is still low i Bihar compared to states like Maharashtra, Delhi and a few others, the health department has made allotments of amphotericin-B, an antifungal drug used for treating black fungus cases, to all major hospitals to tackle the rising cases of the infection. “We are constantly monitoring the cases and ensuring supplies of drugs for treatment of black fungus. There is enough stocks of anti-fungal drug,” said Kumar. Dr Vinay Swaroop, ENT surgeon and former additional director, health, said black fungus itself is nothing new, but its prevalence among Covid patients was rising owing to low immunity and overuse of steroids. “It is advisable that persons affected with Covid and living in home quarantine should take preventive measures, like keeping their rooms well ventilated with lot of sunlight coming in and also rinse their mouth with salt water three times in a day. One should avoid wearing reused masks and take lukewarm water for drinking and bathing . Too much of inhaling steam is also not good as it weaken the nasal blankets. Even healthy persons should apply these methods to prevent fungus entering through mouth and nose,” he said. Meanwhile, sources said AIIMS-Patna and PMCH have set up separate wards for treatment of black fungus affected patients so that they could be kept under constant monitoring. So far, two deaths have been attributed to black fungus, including of one doctor. Bihar has diverted around 14,000 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin-B injection, a specific drug for the treatment of black fungus, available under the kala-azar elimination programme. Around 6,000 vials of injection from this stock were made available to different hospitals. The AIIMS had got 2,000 vials, while each of the nine state-run medical college hospitals had received 200-300 vials each, said Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey. Govt yet to notify black fungus as epidemicEven as the central government has asked states to declare black fungus as epidemic, the state government is yet to notify it.Till late evening on Friday, no notification was issued in this regard. However, additional chief secretary, health, Pratyaya Amrit, had said on Thursday that preparations were afoot to declare black fungus as an epidemic and tone up the health facilities in all major hospitals across the state to deal with rising cases of the infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/14-fresh-cases-of-black-fungus-detected-total-cases-of-mucormycosis-up-at-117-two-deaths-reported-so-far-101621614350112.html
21-05-2021||Other||Sarvagya survey claims 31% of respondents satisfied with PMC work||PUNE Sarvagya Media Services, a media company that has been in the employ of politicians across party lines in the state, has carried out a survey of close to 1,500 Pune voters, which shows that 31 per cent of the Puneites surveyed, are satisfied with work of the Pune Municipal Corporation n general, and its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic.Sarvagya Media has handled content and social media for Congress MLA Kunal Baba Patil of Dhule; for Shivajirao Adhalrao Patil of the Shiv Sena and Dheeraj Ghate of the BJP.The survey was carried out online from March 12 till April 15 with different age groups. Only bonafide voters could enter.However, 8 per cent of the people surveyed declared the PMC work as completely unsatisfactory. The rest were undecided on the question.Among the results of the survey released by Sarvagya Media on Thursday, voters surveyed also strongly supported the Pune Metro and expressed satisfaction with works like the Smart City project; 24-hour water supply for the city; electric buses; five-km travel for Rs5 on PMPML buses; and the bringing of water supply from Bhama Askhed. The voters complained of a lack of co-ordination between different the PMC departments leading to rampant road digging.However, local BJP corporators were found wanting in getting in touch with citizens about different schemes of the PMC. In the past, Sarvagya Media has conducted surveys in Kasba peth in 2019 and in Dhule prior to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Key questions from the surveyShould a new municipal corporation be carved out of the PMC?Yes - 59%No - 31%Can’t say - 10 %Should elections be held on ballot instead of EVMs?Yes - 20%No - 80%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sarvagya-survey-claims-31-of-respondents-satisfied-with-pmc-work-101621604150699.html
21-05-2021||Other||Hindu doc praised for reciting Islamic prayer before her patient died in Kerala||A Hindu doctor has earned much praise for helping a sinking Muslim patient recite Islamic prayers before she passed away at a hospital in Kerala’s Palakkad district. Rekha Krishna said she noticed that the patient, who had been on a ventilator for over two weeks, was struggling with something. Then, she said, she slowly recited kalima in her ears as she could see the patient taking her final breath.The doctor shared her experience with one of her colleagues, who later posted it online. The post went viral. Many people have lauded the doctor, calling her a symbol of amity and brotherhood.Also Read | Maharashtra records 29,911 new cases, 738 deaths“I was born and brought up in Dubai and I am aware of the customs followed by Muslims. I grew up in an environment where every faith was respected,” said Krishnan. She added she did only her duty and never deserved such kudos for this. She said it was not a religious gesture but a humane act.Several Muslim scholars have lauded the doctor. “This is really a heartening development. The doctor is a symbol of amity and brotherhood. There are enough lessons in her novel gesture,” said Islamic scholar Abdul Hameed Faizal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hindu-doc-praised-for-reciting-islamic-prayer-before-her-patient-died-inkerala-101621600609111.html
21-05-2021||Other||Jagannath Temple to create bio bubble for Rath Yatra||With 8 servitors engaged in construction work of chariots for upcoming Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath in Puri, Odisha, testing positive for Covid-19, the Jagannath temple administration has decided to create a bio bubble around them to prevent any further infection.Three Maharana servitors and five Bhoi servitors of the 88 servitors have tested positive while constructing the three chariots on the Grand Road of Puri, said officials of Sri Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA).“As the Rath Yatra is still a few weeks away, we don’t want more servitors to be infected and so they would function within a bio bubble. No mediapersons will be allowed near them during construction. They will be in isolation till the construction is over,” said SJTA chief administrator Dr Krishan Kumar.Also Read | Jagannath temple shut for public till June 15 as Covid-19 cases surgeThe chariot construction work began on the auspicious occasion of Akshaya Tritiya on May 15 this year. The Rath Yatra is scheduled on July 12.The SJTA is also speeding up vaccination of servitors in the 18-44 age group ahead of the yatra, aiming to cover 4,300 servitors within 15 days.Like last year, the Rath Yatra this year may be conducted without devotees with the necessary Covid protocol in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jagannath-temple-to-create-bio-bubble-for-rath-yatra-101621599829346.html
21-05-2021||Other||Unregulated online classes affecting health of school children in Kashmir||Last year in August, five months into her online classes, Nisar Dharma’s 8-year-old daughter suddenly woke up to blurred vision and headache. Her parents were shocked when they saw that she couldn’t tell the number of fingers her father was waving in front of her.“She couldn’t tell what was going on the TV screen and couldn’t even read anything from her books. ‌She couldn’t see my face and could only see some blurred patches,” Dharma, a 34-year-old journalist, said.The class-3 girl had been attending video classes on zoom daily from 10:00 am to 2:00 pm on a smartphone with just 20 minutes of break in between.“Her eyes kind of gave up. It was absolutely scary to the point that if she would stand up, she would just fall,” the father said.For two months, Dharma consulted paediatricians, neurologists and ophthalmologists but could not conclude on an exact illness her daughter was suffering from and its cause. “In desperation, I even went to a faith healer,” he said.Fortunately, he consulted a doctor from Hyderabad on the phone who concluded that her daughter’s illness was directly related to her online classes.“I sent all her tests reports to the doctor and then visited him in September. The doctor told us that the muscles of her eyes had weakened by the constant use of a mobile phone. He called it ‘accommodative spasm’,” he said.The doctor gave her some eye exercises and now her vision has improved a lot, though she has to wear thick eyeglasses.“From then on, she has not attended any online classes. I am totally against online classes, though I have been submitting the fees regularly,” Dharma said.For the second year in a row as the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic is wreaking havoc, the educational institutions have been closed again. The schools, particularly private institutions, have been aggressively pursuing online classes for the students, even for those who are as young as 4-years-old. While government schools have been holding online classes mostly from Class-5 onwards, the private institutions have been even asking KG students to attend online interactions with teachers.Parents and experts are saying that the prolonged exposure of children to screens is affecting the physical as well as the mental health of the children. Some schools have now increased the daily overall class duration from three hours to even five hours causing outrage among the parents. The students have to attend 6 to 8 classes daily on online video apps. “It is very taxing and torturous for children to force them to sit for hours at a stretch on mobiles or laptops. The timings should be minimum as these screens are detrimental to their eyes and are more dangerous for their overall health,” said Ishfaq Shah, a parent whose daughter studies at a prominent school on the city outskirts.Sajad Ahmad Khanday, associate professor of ophthalmology at Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) Hospital, said that the more the children use near-vision devices like mobiles and laptops, their eyes become more nearsighted (myope).“Their accommodation power overplays and slowly their far-vision gets compromised. And as children remain wedged to the devices inside, they get less exposure to sunlight which contains vitamin D which is important for the development of vision. So with the excessive use of screens and inadequate exposure to sunlight, their myopia increases. And it becomes a very vicious circle,” he said.He said that since the online classes started after March 2020 they were witnessing an increase in the cases of children with myopic eyes.“It has definitely increased. Not only myopia but overall eye discomforts like dryness and allergies have also definitely gone up among children,” he said.The increase in the screen time of children has not only resulted in physical effects on their bodies but has also led to some behavioural changes in the children.“My son is in class-1 and constantly attending online classes have made him temperamental. He feels irritated after spending four hours in front of a camera and runs away. He says he does not understand things on camera. I have now decided to allow him to skip some classes daily,” said a parent who is also a teacher at a prominent private school in Srinagar.“As a teacher, I also feel that the classes tend to get boring online and after some time the students loses interest. They put the zoom classes on mute. Even the teachers become exhausted delivering eight classes on screen every day,” she said.Dr Syed Karrar Hussain, a child and adolescent psychiatrist of the valley, said there is emerging evidence of the developmental impact on children with the increase in screen time.“We as human beings are wired to have ‘human touch’ in our mundane affairs… From my clinical experience, I see emerging flare-ups in behavioural issues following school closure. Unpredictability, lack of structure, poor socialisation, parental pressure in disciplining, temperamental vulnerabilities all contribute somehow to the behavioural problems. We need to learn quickly to find ways to minimise the negative consequences of online academic learning,” he said.He said that children tend to get distracted and find it difficult to focus as there is no face to face supervision.“There is a tendency to digress to other channels on the internet, sometimes adult-oriented content. These are not ideal times. Since online classes are the need of the hour, parents need to take supervisory roles during the classwork,” he said.Parents, teachers and doctors are demanding a reduction in the number of hours of online teaching.“As a parent, I would say the interaction of children with their teachers, even though online, is important. But online teaching can’t replace the classroom. The schools should reduce the number of hours of screen time to 2 hours. This can’t go on like this,” said Javaid Ahmad, a parent of two school-going children.Associate professor of ophthalmology, Dr Khanday, said that children up to 2 years should not be exposed to screens at all. “Those up to 5 years should have around 1-2 hours of screen time. As you go up you can increase the exposure marginally. The problem is that the child does not stop the use of gadgets after their online classes and parents have to maintain discipline on the use of their phones by their children,” he said.GN War, president of private schools association of Kashmir, said that they have received multiple complaints from parents over the conduct of online classes by the schools.“We are looking into the issue to devise a uniform system so that the children are not put under undue pressure and there is no mental trauma,” he said.“We will see what best can be done so that online classes are conducted reasonably with limited timing,” he said.He said that the government should have come out with a uniform system for online classes in government and private schools. “The government issued no guidelines creating chaos and confusion. It should have specified the number of hours students could attend classes and the syllabus. There should have been an open system of teaching with classes not only online but even on radio and TV so that there was no digital divide,” he said. Meanwhile, while the attendance of students for online classes in private schools has been more than satisfactory, the majority of those from government schools have not been able to join online classes owing to a lack of smartphones. Rafiq Rather, chairman of the government teachers’ forum, said there was below 40 per cent attendance of online learning in government schools. “It is not encouraging as there are no android phones with our students. Most of them are first generational learners. The purpose of online classes is not fulfilled in government schools,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unregulated-online-classes-affecting-health-of-school-children-in-kashmir-101621596829322.html
21-05-2021||Other||Goa extends ‘curfew’ till May 31, sets up task force to deal with ‘3rd wave’||The Goa government has extended the ‘curfew’ currently enforced in the state that was to end on Monday, May 23, until May 31 with the same conditions, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant announced. “Curfew which was ending on Monday has been extended till May 31 across the state in the manner that currently exists,” Sawant announced. The curfew that was belatedly announced bars people from moving out of their houses except to buy essential commodities, for medical reasons or work. Only stores selling essentials are allowed to operate between 7 am and 1 pm The decision was taken at a meeting of the cabinet held on Friday. Sawant, who was initially reluctant to announce any statewide lockdown measures, finally announced a two-week-long curfew that many, including his own health minister Vishwajit Rane, said arrived around two weeks too late. The curfew was finally announced but only after villages in Goa began announcing their own lockdown measures that were in variance with the state’s government’s stand that a curfew or a lockdown was not a solution to the cases that were then rising. “Despite numerous requests from the government, people are not taking adequate steps. If people had followed the law, the positivity rate would not have been 51 per cent,” Sawant said two weeks ago while trying to explain why he was forced to announce a lockdown despite speaking against it. Goa’s positivity rate, which had touched 51% across the first week of May, has since fallen to around 31% but remains higher than the rest of the country while deaths continue to be around 40-50 per day. The chief minister also announced the creation of a special task force to deal with a possible third wave of the pandemic. “We have set up a special task force for Covid third wave. The 15-member team is headed by me and the vice-chair is the health minister and includes professionals from the medical field, etc. There will also be a special expert committee of doctors who will review the treatment protocols. It will be headed by the Dean (of Goa Medical College) Dr Bandekar. It will include paediatrics since there is news that the third wave will affect children,” Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-extends-curfew-till-march-31-sets-up-task-force-to-deal-with-3rd-wave-101621596769542.html
21-05-2021||Other||Rajasthan HC dismisses plea for temporary suspension of Asaram Bapu’s sentences||The Rajasthan high court on Friday dismissed the application for temporary suspension of sentences of Asaram Bapu and directed the district and jail administration to ensure that proper treatment is provided to the convict appellant at a suitable medial institution in the light of the medical reports from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Jodhpur.The division bench of justices Sandeep Mehta and Devendra Kachhawaha said: “It shall also be ensured that no sooner, the convict is lodged back at jail after recovery, he will be provided proper treatment, nutritious diet and safe environment looking to his old age and medical condition.”Asaram Bapu, who is serving life term in Jodhpur Central Jail in a minor girl’s rape case, had approached the high court for ayurvedic treatment of many diseases.In the meantime, on May 5, he was tested positive for Covid-19 and was shifted to AIIMS. Meanwhile, he developed internal gastrointestinal bleeding so his haemoglobin dropped to critically low levels.Also Read | Tested positive for Covid, Asaram seeks interim bailAsaram’s counsel JS Choudhary told the court that the convict has expressed his desire in writing that he does not desire to take the allopathic line of treatment and instead, his followers may be allowed to set up a fully functional medical facility at his Ashram at Pal Village, Jodhpur, so that he can be treated by ayurveda. Choudhary added that if Asaram’s sentences are suspended, he will abide by any condition imposed by the court. He said Asaram may be sent to the Rajasthan Ayurveda University for treatment of his gastrointestinal bleeding and other ailments.Observing that Asaram is also facing trial in another case in Gujarat involving the offence under Section 376 IPC and is in custody in connection with the said case as well, the court quoted the medical reports that his condition is stable but he requires further investigation and follow-up for his gastrointestinal bleeding. “This treatment is unquestionably available at the MDM Hospital, Jodhpur,” the bench said.“Suspending the sentences awarded to the appellant in this case would be nothing short of an exercise in futility because immediately on his release from the Central Jail, Jodhpur, he would be required to be taken to State of Gujarat in connection with the case pending trial as a production warrant certainly would be in force,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rajasthan-hc-dismisses-plea-for-temporary-suspension-of-asaram-bapu-s-sentences-101621595149420.html
21-05-2021||Other||Global Village Idiot: Settings in the matter of individual versus social media||Last week, a friend asked me what my opinion was on the WhatsApp privacy settings controversy, and if I knew anything about it. “What’s your opinion about it?” I asked him.“I think it’s unfair. It’s an intrusion and they are going to take my data and give it to people.”“Are you sure? What data?”“Everything, what I am browsing, who I am talking to, what I am reading, sharing.”“Who are they going to give this data to?”“Facebook and its business partners and advertisers.”“Are you really sure about this?”“That’s what I have heard.”“And you don’t want them to do that?”“No!”“So stop using WhatsApp.”“All my family and friends are on the platform. I have to stay connected.”“Then stay on it.”“You are not helping.”“I am not here to help. I am just here to enjoy this ping-pong match you’re playing. Besides, I can’t tell you what to do.”“Well can you tell me what you are planning to do - stay or leave the platform?”“I am staying on it.”I have had similar conversations with other friends and family. And it’s a classic conflict of the addict: torn between compulsive desire and the fear of the consequences of that desire.Now there are two problems at hand. First, the addiction to WhatsApp. Second, the new privacy settings. The way I see it, the compulsion on account of the addiction clouds the judgment when it comes to the settings. So first, I shall share my wealth of knowledge on the matter of Individual versus Social Media. During my years of grappling with the problem, I designed many devices to help me overcome the problem. Like the One Tight Slap robot, whose job it was to slap me hard if I opened any social media during the day time. And the Drag Me Away By My Hair robotic hand, whose job it was to drag me away from my phone if I had been on it for more than 30 minutes at a time. Sadly, none of the devices worked, but they paved the way to the super top secret method I developed to deal with this problem. I was going to file patent on it but I have some time today, and so I will tell you, from the goodness of my heart, how you can have your social media and keep it too: The secret is to Not Share. That’s right. You just have to stop sharing stuff. Let me explain how.First of all, I do not exceed the 30-minutes-in-a-day restriction for platforms. Secondly, I access only through the laptop. The only exception is WhatsApp which is on the phone. Thirdly, I read what is of interest to me (and ignore everything else). I share almost nothing. I forward nothing. I re-share less than nothing. If I have to make up a statistic, 99% of what I receive/read, never leaves my device. Since I don’t share, I do not look for reactions, and therefore, I have no reason to go to the platform obsessively. I have rules for sharing, and the rules are simple: share only my original work or works of people I know. I occasionally share jokes and funny videos, but only if they have no agendas or political overtones. If I see a conversation going long, I pick up the phone and call the person.This super top secret method has been very effective and as a result, over the past year, I have moved out of Facebook, Pinterest, phased out of Twitter, Instagram, Tumbler, and drastically reduced Wordpress and LinkedIn. I still use Wordpress and LinkedIn since they are somewhat productive applications, but I go to them when I have something to publish.On the question of the new privacy settings on WhatsApp, well, I read all end-user agreements (Apple, Microsoft, FB, sundry software) and also read the additional terms, the links within each set of terms and all updates to terms; and they all want the same thing: more information and more rights to share your information, but related to their business goals, which of course is to become the centre of your attention, always. Amazon, Google, Apple, Orange, Mango, Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, your news channels, the government, the school, the company you work … they all want you to spend more time with them. They already have all the info about you, much of it government mandated. Here’s a pop-quiz: You know all those telemarketers who call you selling insurance and loans? How do you think they get your number? There are regulations which require sharing of customer info, that’s how. As far as WhatApp is concerned, there are a lot of settings to ensure your privacy. You just have to enable them. What WhatsApp has to change is to stop hiding the terms of use - I should be able to read the terms whenever I want (at the moment, you can’t because the terms of use are not available on the app). As far as the legal stuff goes, the government and courts are looking into this, and when they come to a conclusion, we can consider our options afresh. Laws in such matters, in my humble opinion, have to be revisited to make agreements more balanced and fair from its current one-sided avatar where consumers’ options are really limited to one choice: accepting or not accepting terms of use.Meanwhile, if you are worried about what Facebook is sharing with who, you should also start thinking about what information Google, Amazon, your grocery app, the payment banks, and UPI apps have on you. They make life convenient, but these are not critical to existence.As far as the ethical, moral questions go … we should never have left the Garden of Eden. Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/global-village-idiot-settings-in-the-matter-of-individual-versus-social-media-101621593950573.html
21-05-2021||Other||UP village reports 15 deaths in month; scared villagers shun tests, inoculation||The lanes in Lalau village in Agra, Uttar Pradesh are deserted for most of the day as villagers are yet to come to terms with the demise of 15 people in the past month. The health department sub-centre in the village rarely opens. Afraid of the recent deaths, villagers are not coming forward for Covid-19 tests and treatment. According to a rough estimate, only 20 per cent have been vaccinated, HT has learnt. “From April 17 to May 5, 15 people have died but the exact reason is not specified. The screening team of the health department came on May 7 and two people were found Covid positive. They are in home isolation,” said Aman Chahar, a student in Agra who is also the district secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union. He said only 20 to 25 per cent of people had been inoculated for Covid-19 in the village. Located about 12 kilometres from Agra city, Lalau is a gram panchayat that is part of Akola block in Agra district. The population of Lalau, which also has Laxmipur, another smaller village or majra, is about 6,000 with an equal number of Jats and Dalits and a few from the backward Baghel caste. The village has a primary and junior high school till Class 8 and those interested in further studies either go to Akola, Malpura or Agra. The village has a literacy rate of 40 per cent and most of the villagers, mainly Dalits, work as labourers at local shoe factories or in Agra city while Jats work as both farmers and labourers. ‘Marghati’ is a place on gram panchayat land in the village where the deceased are cremated. After panchayat poll voting on April 15, ‘Marghati’ was a much-frequented place as villagers cremated about 15 people, including youths, facing untimely demise. “There was no sanitization drive and village youths collected money on their own to carry out sanitization after so many deaths,” said Chahar. “The sub-centre of the health department rarely opens, that also when the vaccination of the newborns is to take place. Otherwise, it remains locked for most of the year,” complained Omkar Chahar (39), a villager. “As many as 15 deaths took place after voting for panchayat elections on April 15. No specific reason could be assigned to these deaths but most of those who died had a fever while some had breathlessness too. However, they did not get themselves tested for Covid-19 or any other disease,” said Omkar Chahar. “We have never seen so many deaths in such a short time. Still, no public representative or official came here,” said a worried Omkar. Villagers revealed that due to lack of health facilities, they fell prey to quacks practising in and around Akola and Malpura, the towns near Lalau village. Villagers are at ease paying ₹20 to ₹30 for medicines provided by these practitioners active at Naumeel crossing on Jagner Road. Defecation in the open is a common trend, despite government-constructed toilets and raging pandemic. However, Dr Sushil Kumar, medical officer in charge of Akola Community Health Centre (CHC), said he visited the village apart from the screening team that visited Lalau on May 8 as part of the statewide campaign in rural areas to trace, test and treat the villagers. “The screening team referred one case for testing and one of the villagers was found corona positive. He was handed over a medicine kit on May 9 and advised home isolation. Medicine kits were also given to those complaining of fever and sore throat all over the village,” said Dr Sushil Kumar. According to Dr Kumar, Lalau reported no corona deaths as yet. “With respect to other deaths, no communication was made to us,” he said. When asked about health facilities in the village, Dr Sushil Kumar informed that there was a health department sub-centre in Lalau. “The sub-centre is run by an ANM who has to visit nearby villages also besides remaining on constant move. So the sub-centre is closed at times,” Dr Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-village-reports-15-deaths-in-month-scared-villagers-shun-tests-inoculation-101621588969932.html
21-05-2021||Other||Akhil Gogoi alleges manhandling while being brought to assembly to take oath||Newly elected MLA and president of Raijor Dal, Akhil Gogoi, who has been under arrest since December 2019 for his role in the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests, alleged on Friday that he was manhandled by the police and other officials while being brought to the state assembly to take an oath as an MLA, HT has learnt. “I am an elected member of the state assembly. Why am I being targeted and pushed around like an animal? This is an insult to the people of Assam and Sibsagar. No one can silence my voice or the development of my constituency,” Gogoi said on arrival at the assembly. He alleged that no Covid-19 protocol was maintained while he was brought from Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH), where he is now lodged, to the assembly for the oath-taking ceremony. “I was brought in a run-down bus along with nearly 20 policemen. I was threatened by the magistrate present on the bus and not allowed to interact with anyone. Once we reached the assembly premises, my dress was pulled and I was nearly dragged inside,” said Gogoi. The matter was later brought to the notice of chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma who is reported to have entrusted parliamentary affairs minister Pijush Hazarika to inquire into Gogoi’s allegations. “We are hurt by the police’s behaviour with Gogoi. He is an elected representative and we condemn the incident of him being insulted inside the assembly. We urge the state government to take appropriate action and punish those guilty,” All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) MLA, Aminul Islam, said. The 45-year-old, who contested from the Sibsagar seat, defeated Surabhi Rajkonwari of BJP without campaigning himself. Gogoi became the first person in Assam to win an election while being under arrest. Earlier this month, a National Investigation Agency (NIA) court allowed Gogoi to take oath as a new MLA. The first session of the new assembly began on Friday with the oath-taking of newly elected members. Pro-tem Speaker Phani Bhushan Choudhury administered the oath to all new MLAs while following Covid-19-related safety measures. Raijor Dal was formed in October last year and Gogoi was named as the president of the party later. He filed his candidature from the hospital. For this election, Raijor Dal had tied up with the Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP), another newly formed outfit. Gogoi was the lone winner from both parties. Gogoi was arrested in December 2019 after a case against him was lodged in Chabua police station in Dibrugarh district under various sections of the Indian Penal Code for criminal conspiracy, unlawful assembly, rioting etc. Subsequently, sections 15(1) (a)/16 of UAPA were added to it. The trial in the case is yet to commence. The case was later transferred to the NIA the same month and a charge sheet was filed in June last year which alleged that Gogoi had led the anti-CAA movement which turned violent and led to arson and attacks on police personnel. It alleged that the peasant leader hatched a conspiracy to target a particular community to disturb the unity and integrity of the country. Last month, the Gauhati High Court upheld an earlier order issued by an NIA court granting bail to Gogoi. The leader is still in custody as he is yet to get bail in another case lodged against him by the investigative agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/akhil-gogoi-alleges-manhandling-while-being-brought-to-assembly-to-take-oath-101621586928727.html
21-05-2021||Other||15 Maoists killed in gunfight in Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli||At least 15 suspected Maoists were killed in a fierce gun battle between the Gadchiroli police and CPI (Maoist) in a forest area between Potegaon and Rajoli in south Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra on Friday morning. The exchange of fire began at 5.30am when, responding to a tip-off, around 200 jawans of C-60, an elite anti-Maoist squad of the district, raided a hideout. “At least 15 members of the CPI (Maoist) were killed in the encounter in the jungle,” confirmed Sandip Patil, the deputy inspector general of police, Gadchiroli. “We kicked off the operation early morning after learning about Maoist presence in the forest. So far, 13 bodies have been recovered from the site. Searches are still on,” Patil said. Also Read | NIA takes over probe into 2019 Maoist encounter in ChhattisgarhDistrict police superintendent Ankit Goyal said the C-60 commandos have recovered some arms, weapons and Maoist literature from the site. According to him, several Maoists escaped and also took away the bodies of some of their slain colleagues. Among those killed is reportedly the commander of the local dalam (squad). The bodies were yet to be identified, and search operations were still on, said the senior police officer. Police got the information that the local squad of the CPI (Maoist) was trying to organise a meeting with the villagers and tendu leaf contractors over wages for collection of tendu leaf. Many contractors from Telangana and other states buy rights for plucking of tendu leaves from Gadchiroli district every year. These contractors have to pay huge protection money to the CPI (Maoist) every year during the season. Earlier this month, the Gadchiroli police gunned down four suspected senior Maoist leaders, including two women, in two separate gunfights in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15-maoists-killed-in-gunfight-in-maharashtra-s-gadchiroli-101621580148208.html
21-05-2021||Other||‘We don’t discriminate’: Goa health secy on complaints of non-residents booking vaccine slots||Goa Health Secretary Ravi Dhawan said that the State would not ‘discriminate’ against people from outside Goa who are booking slots for Covid-19 vaccination via the Cowin app in Goa among the 18-44 age group, HT has learnt. “The quota that is remaining… that has been procured by the state - as of now, we are given to understand that the 36,580 doses that have come - they are for the entire month of June. My only worry is that many people from other states also have booked this, the portal being online and our slots are going to others. We have reported this to the Government of India and have asked them to take appropriate steps. The ministry has also been informed,” Goa state immunization officer Dr Rajendra Borkar, said.The health secretary’s assertion came after the state immunization officer Dr Rajendra Borkar said he was ‘worried’ that since Goa had limited vaccine doses for the 18-44 age group, vaccines that were procured by the state are being availed off by those from ‘outside’. The health secretary, however, countered such ‘fears’ saying that no state, including the neighbouring states of Maharashtra and Karnataka, was discriminating against who is booking slots. “The government has taken a considered decision not to discriminate against anyone when it comes to administering vaccines in Goa and that is in line with what all states have done. Whether it is the neighbouring state of Maharashtra or Karnataka. We do not discriminate,” health secretary Ravi Dhawan said. The Goa government has opened limited slots for the 18-44 age group to get them vaccinated owing to limited vaccines being available. However, since the pre-booking for a slot is mandatory via the CoWin App for those in the age group of 18-44 years, several people have been booking slots wherever they are available irrespective of how far the centre is from one’s place of residence. Till date, Goa has been able to administer 4.56 lakh doses out of which 2.65 lakh people have been administered one dose while 95,687 people have received both doses and are considered fully vaccinated. The fully vaccinated population makes up roughly about 5 per cent of the state’s total population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/we-don-t-discriminate-goa-health-secy-on-complaints-of-non-residents-booking-vaccine-slots-101621580088418.html
21-05-2021||Other||IAF pilot dies as MiG-21 crashes in Punjab’s Moga district||A pilot of the India Air Force (IAF) died after his MiG-21 fighter jet crashed at Langeana village of Moga district in Punjab late on Thursday. The fighter jet was on its way back to Suratgarh after a routine training at the time of the accident.The deceased pilot has been identified as Squadron Leader Abhinav Choudhary. The jet crashed around 9.30pm and it took more than 3 hours to locate Choudhary’s body in the fields, said police.Gurdeep Singh, SP (headquarter) of Moga said, “There is a training facility for fighter jet pilots at a village near Jagraon town in Ludhina district. Abhinav Choudhary came here for training from Suratgarh and was going back when the jet crashed.”“We received information [about the crash] around 11.30pm and immediately reached the spot and started search operation for the pilot. We eventually found his body around 3am, Friday. It seems that he jumped with a parachute and broke his neck while landing,” said the SP.Also Read | IAF set to complete 1,000 sorties in Covid-19 reliefHe added that senior air force officials, who were part of the search operation as well, took the pilot’s body to Halwara Air Force station for a post-mortem.IAF tweetd about the crash. “There was an aircraft accident last night involving a Bison aircraft of IAF in the western sector. The pilot, Sqn Ldr Abhinav Choudhary, sustained fatal injuries...IAF condoles the tragic loss and stands firmly with the bereaved family,” it said.The IAF added, “A Court of Inquiry (COI) has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident involving a Bison aircraft of IAF in the western sector.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iafpilot-dies-as-mig-21-crashes-in-punjab-s-moga-district-101621570128400.html
21-05-2021||Other||FIR against dog’s death: GADVASU vets threaten to suspend OPD services||A day after a veterinary doctor of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) was booked under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act over the death of a pet dog, the teachers’ association threatened to suspend emergency and OPD services at the veterinary hospital from Friday if the FIR is not scrapped. The teachers’ body will also be holding a protest on campus at 10am. Phillaur police had registered a case under Sections 428 (killing, poisoning, maiming, or rendering useless any animal or animals of the value of ten rupees or upwards) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act against Dr Charanjit Singh of the veterinary hospital. GADVASU teachers’ association president Dr Ashwani Kumar alleged that the FIR was registered under pressure as the dog belongs to a high-ranking official. “The FIR against Dr Charanjit Singh was registered without conducting a preliminary investigation. If the FIR is not cancelled, we will suspend OPD and emergency services,” said Dr Ashwani Kumar. In a statement, the teachers’ association said the dog belonged to a high-ranking official in the state government and was brought to the hospital by the guards of the VIP. The statement further read, “The attendants were unwilling to handle and control the animal. The allegation about the use of a jute bag to handle the canine is false. The fact is that the animal was restrained with a muzzle by the guards themselves. The said dog was suffering from ocular discharge and subcutaneous nodule on chest and the post-mortem has revealed that the dog was tentatively suffering from liver cancer. The said case had been examined by a very senior, competent and kind-hearted clinician.” GADVASU has the region’s biggest veterinary hospital which receives approximately 30,000 cases from Punjab and other parts of north India annually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-against-vet-for-dog-s-death-gadvasu-teachers-threaten-to-suspend-opd-emergency-services-101621542225602.html
21-05-2021||Other||PAU tweaks snakes and ladders game to teach farmers benefits of DSR||To encourage farmers to adopt the direct seeding of rice (DSR) technique, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) is making use of the age-old game of snakes and ladders. In the re-designed version of the game, the benefits of the DSR technique are shown as ladders and the common mistakes, faulty practices, and myths in agricultural practices are presented as snake bites. The university has also shared a booklet that explains the DSR technique in detail and provides contact numbers of experts from PAU and Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVKs’) from across the state. Anil Sharma, assistant director, communication centre, PAU, who is also known for writing jingles to exhort farmers to give up stubble burning, is the brain behind modified board game. Sharma said he had conceptualised the game nearly six months ago with the aim of promoting eco-friendly agriculture techniques. “We have been conducting farm visits, seminars, and discussions to promote DSR among farmers. Science is a dry subject. To make it simple and entertaining, we are coming up with such games so that farmers can grasp it quickly. Right now, the challenge is to keep farmers up-to-date with the rapidly changing agricultural technology,” said Sharma. Available at an introductory price of ₹50, the university is planning to distribute boxes, containing the game and relevant information, in all villages across the state. Dr TS Riar, additional director communication, said, “It is a crucial juncture for us. We want to circulate as many copies as possible before the start of the rice sowing season next month. A game on similar lines has also been developed for cotton crop. In that game, farmers have been told about the best and safe practices of sowing of the cotton crop.” Dr JS Mahal, director, extension education, said such experiments should be promoted. “Our targets are farming families. Once such games reach their homes, children, as well as adults, will play these and subconsciously learn about the benefits of DSR. The elders may even reach out to PAU experts, on the numbers mentioned behind the box.” Earlier, Sharma had created furniture from paddy residue to encourage farmers to look for alternative use paddy stubble instead of brazenly burning it and polluting the air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pau-tweaks-snakes-and-ladders-game-to-teach-farmers-benefits-of-dsr-101621542045704.html
21-05-2021||Other||Khaki warrior on life support awaits funds for lung transplant||In urgent need for a lung transplant, a 49-year-old cop, who is currently on life support, has been waiting for the last nine days to hear from his own department regarding the provision of funds for the process. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Harjinder Singh, who has been with the police department for the last 28 years, had contracted the virus in early April. He managed to recover from the disease but due to post-Covid complications, his lungs were damaged and doctors recommended a transplant. His brother Harjinder Singh said, “The procedure will cost ₹70 lakh but our family does not have that much money. We have approached the police department for help. They said that they sent my brother’s reports to a panel of doctors who will go through it and recommend the further course of action. But we don’t have much time. Every minute is important for us and more delay could prove fatal.” “For the lung transplantation procedure, we may have to take my brother to Mumbai or Hyderabad and then wait for a donor. We are feeling helpless,” he added. The family members of the cop have also met police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, requesting him to speed up the process for fund allocation. The DSP, who was deployed in the securities department of Ludhiana central jail, has also sent a letter to the commissioner through Whatsapp. Delay causes resentment among fellow cops The delay in the response from the police department, meanwhile, has caused resentment among his colleagues. Whatsapp groups of the police are being flooded with messages decrying the apathy of the department. One message that has been doing the rounds of Whatsapp, reads, “After the death of an officer of good conduct, the department gives ₹50 lakh as compensation and job to the next of kin. But the department is delaying treatment of an officer whose life can be saved.” A decorated cop Harjinder Singh had served as the station house officer of Daresi and Koomkalan, besides being deployed in the chief minister’s security. He has earned DGP commendation disc and a number of appreciation letters from the department for his service. When contacted, police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said, “The department stands with the DSP. We are arranging funds for his treatment. The department will speed up the process.” On Thursday, the police commissioner sent a letter to the prison department for approval for treatment of the DSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-khaki-warrior-on-life-support-awaits-funds-for-lung-transplant-101621541865579.html
21-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s Covid cases continue to dip but no let-up in fatalities||Though daily infections continued to reside, there was no let-up in fatalities with another 26 succumbing to virus on Thursday. A day before, the district had recorded 27 deaths. In the last 24 hours, 784 persons tested positive for the virus in Ludhiana, taking the cumulative count of cases since the pandemic outbreak to 79,152.The latest fatalities, which include 18 men and eight women, have taken the district’s toll beyond 1,800. The maximum number of deaths continue to be of people in their 50s (seven deaths) followed by those in their 70s (six deaths) and 60s (five deaths).In a disturbing trend, young lives continue to be snuffed out with four persons in their 30s, two in their 40s and one patient in 20s losing the battle to the virus. The youngest to die is a 28-year-old male resident of Shivpuri.There are 10,687 active patients in the district at present.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all safety protocols to stay safe in these times.City hospital to take care of newborns with Covid +ve parents City-based Deep Hospital has announced that it will be taking care of any infant whose parents are Covid positive till their recovery. Founder Dr Baldeep Singh said the idea is to minimise the risk of exposure to newborns and protect them by keeping them in specialised NICU (newborn intensive care unit). These infants will be given expert physiological and even medical care, as necessary, during their stay at hospital while the parents recover.This programme has been announced by the hospital only for children under 28 days given that the first month of life is the most crucial period wherein immunity levels are the lowest, making babies highly susceptible to any form of virus or infection in the air. The hospital has allocated 15 beds for the same. Dr GP Mangla passes awayDr G P Mangla (65), who had retired from the civil hospital and was serving as the Red Cross blood bank in-charge passed away due to Covid on Thursday. His wife also succumbed to the virus on May 18. He was a resident of Barewal area of the city and has been undergoing treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital for over a week. IMA president Dr Saroj Aggarwal and secretary Dr Ashish Ohri have expressed condolences over the death of Dr Mangla. Dr Rajiv Gupta, member of the IMA, said yet another doctor has sacrificed his life for humanity. Dr Gupta said with the passing away of Dr Mangla, he has lost a sincere friend who devoted his life to providing healthcare to the poor and needy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-cases-continue-to-dip-but-no-let-up-in-fatalities-101621541207119.html
21-05-2021||Other||Vigil up as Nepal man shot by NAPF personnel while trying to cross border for medicine||The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and civil police have been alerted on the India- Nepal border in Maharajganj district after personnel of the Nepal Armed Police Force (NAPF) allegedly shot dead a Nepalese man near the border in the Himalayan nation when he was trying to cross over to the Indian side to buy medicine that was not available in his village.The incident led to angry villagers in Nepal protesting near the international border.Superintendent of police (Maharajganj) Pradeep Gupta inspected the border and held meetings with SSB and district police officials to review the situation. “To maintain law and order on the international border, a meeting will be held with NAPF officials,” he said.A Maharajganj district official said Avinash Rajbhar, 30, resident of Katawaha village in Nepal’s Nawalparasi district, was trying to cross the international border on Wednesday when he was allegedly shot by NAPF personnel near no man’s land. The India-Nepal border was currently sealed due to Covid-19 and only transport vehicles carrying essential goods were permitted to cross the border, he added.Rajbhar told the jawans that he was going across the border to a chemist at Bahuar Bazar in Maharajganj district to buy medicines for his ailing father, according to the official. The medicine prescribed by the doctor was not available in the shop near his village in Nepal. The NAPF men told him that border was sealed, and people were not allowed to cross it from either side, the official said. When Rajbhar insisted, there was an argument between him and the jawans. Soon, local villagers arrived at the spot, opposing the NAPF’s stance and this led to a tussle between the jawans and the villagers, the official said. NAPF personnel opened fire, hitting Rajbhar and he was rushed to hospital but succumbed to injuries, the official said. India-Nepal Friendship Society president Anil Kumar Gupta said the society had sent a letter to the Union home ministry as well as the Nepal government to permit people from Nepal to procure life-saving medicines from chemists in Maharajganj on humanitarian grounds. Covid- 19 had infected people on both sides of the border, he said, adding that people residing in villages across the border in Nepal often visited towns in Uttar Pradesh to purchase medicines or for treatment in hospitals. The movement of people across the border had been restricted after the Covid pandemic, he said. Often, there was scarcity of medicines in Nepal and patients had to try and get it from shops in Maharajganj or other districts in UP, he said. To escape detection by SSB and NAPF, they sneak into UP border through agricultural field. Villagers’ clashes with SSB and NAPF were reported in March and April, leading to tension on the border, he added. The governments of both the countries should permit patients to get treatment or procure medicine on the valid prescription of a doctor, he said.A Nepal government official who did not wish to be named said, “The Nepal government has constituted a five-member probe team to inquire into the episode and submit a report. The members of the team will visit the bordering village on Friday. They will also hold a meeting with the district administration officers of Maharajganj.”Caption: File photo of Nepal police deployed on the international border near Sonauli in Maharajganj district of UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vigil-up-as-nepal-man-shot-by-napf-jawan-while-trying-to-cross-border-for-medicine-101621539644923.html
21-05-2021||Other||At PM Narendra Modi’s virtual meet, Ahmednagar Covid-19 model gets praise||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray participated in a virtual meeting in which Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi interacted with the collectors of 17 districts from Maharashtra to share the best practices to tackle the rising Covid-19 cases. Senior government officials said collectors of districts with high infectivity rate in the state had been chosen for the meeting. Health minister Rajesh Tope, who was present in the meeting, said that the idea was to share the best practices and to learn from each other’s work and emulate it to bring the pandemic in control on district level. Ahmednagar district collector Dr Rajendra Bhosale spoke about the protocol and practices adopted in his district to curb the cases and overall management. Both Modi and Thackeray appreciated the efforts put in by Dr Bhosale to control the cases, a statement from the chief minister’ office (CMO) stated.In the meeting, Bhosale spoke about how Hivre Bazar village was made Covid-free, following which the pattern was implemented in 1,316 other villages in the district. The ‘Hivre Bazar model’ was adopted by social worker and sarpanch from the village Popatrao Pawar. He formed four teams of health and volunteers who first conducted house-to-house surveys of an entire village and shifted every infected person to the isolation centre for further treatment. People who first hesitated to go to the centre, got ready after teams ensured taking over their day-to-day duty responsibilities towards their farms and animals. Bhosale said that similarly they appointed separate nodal officers for testing, vaccination and charges levied by private hospitals and it brought more consistency in the work. He added that in the second wave, home isolation was stopped completely and patients were treated in Covid care centres that brought down the case load in the district. After the meeting, Thackeray called up Bhosale and congratulated him for the work, a CMO statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-pm-narendra-modi-s-virtual-meet-ahmednagar-covid-19-model-gets-praise-101621538204825.html
21-05-2021||Other||Cyclone Tauktae: 80 birds, animals rescued in 3 days from Mumbai Metropolitan Region||A volunteer wildlife rescue group operating in the city has responded to nearly 300 calls for rescuing various birds, mammals and reptiles in and around the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) in the past three days, after Cyclone Tauktae passed by the Maharashtra coast. As of Thursday afternoon, 80 animals – largely birds, some of which were pelagic and migratory birds – have been rescued. The birds include an Amur falcon (rescued from Khar), one sooty tern (rescued from Santacruz East), a one-bridled tern (rescued from Jogeshwari), a black-headed ibis (rescued from Goregaon with a fractured wing) and two Indian pittas (rescued from Mira Road in Thane). Rescuers said these birds were not usually seen in interior Mumbai and were probably displaced by the strong winds that lashed the city earlier this week.“These birds are uncommon in Mumbai, except the ibis which is sometimes seen in mangrove areas around the coast. The birds we found were likely displaced from their migratory paths, and were mainly found in a state of extreme exhaustion,” said Pawan Sharma, founder of the Resqink Association for Wildlife Welfare (RAWW).Two other rescue groups, Owls and the Wildlife Welfare Association, rescued sea birds, including a brown nadi and a wedge-tailed shearwater, from Pune and Thane, respectively. These sea birds are not typically seen in interior Maharashtra. Wildlife workers saying the birds had likely been thrown very far off course due to strong winds during the cyclone.Other birds affected by the extreme weather event include two juvenile red-wattled lapwings, 33 black kites, two cattle egrets, a pond heron, six house crows, a little egret, six pigeons, one common-hawk cuckoo, seven rose-ringed parakeets, a purple-rumped sunbird and four Alexandrine parakeets. Another seven birds – including two crows, two crows, an ibis, a tern and a parakeet –had already died or died soon after rescuers got to them.Other animals that had to be rescued include a golden jackal from Pimplas in Thane district, which was suffering from a 103-degree fever. Additionally, one monitor lizard, five rat snakes, seven palm squirrels, four checkered keelback snakes and six spectacled cobras, a wolf snake and three buff-striped keelback snakes were also rescued from Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts.“As predicted, we are seeing the after-effects of the cyclone on resident and migratory wildlife. Incidents of such birds being injured and displaced are still being reported every hour to our helpline. We are trying to reach to as many cases as we can in MMR,” said Sharma, adding that his team of 20 wildlife volunteers has been working round the clock for the past 72 hours. Treatment and rehabilitation of the rescued animals is also underway, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyclone-tauktae-80-birds-animals-rescued-in-3-days-from-mumbai-metropolitan-region-101621538084870.html
21-05-2021||Other||Sowing area in Maharashtra increased to 15.7 million ha for kharif season||In view of predictions for higher-than-average rainfall this year, the Maharashtra government has set higher production targets from the coming kharif season by increasing the state’s sowing area to 15.7 million hectares (ha) from last season’s 14 million ha. The state had utilised 15.1 million ha for kharif crops in 2020-21, despite setting the 14 million ha target. The state is also expecting a record 128.52 million tonnes of production this year from kharif season, officials said. The higher targets were set in a meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray (CM) on Thursday to take stock of the preparedness for the kharif season starting from June. Thackeray also asked officials to encourage farmers to go for ‘Vikel Te Pikel (sow crops that are in demand)’ model and create their own brand in the market. The ‘Vikel Te Pikel’ initiative enables farmers to take up the crop based on the demand of value chains that will guarantee sale of their produce at proper prices. It also will help them in minimising the post-harvest loss of the crops as the produce will be sold out without any delay. “It is necessary to research the market for agricultural commodities. Increasing crop production alone is not vital, but Maharashtra should also work for producing quality crops and build its brand by adopting modern technology and research methods,” Thackeray said in the meeting. “Take crops being sold by their demand in the market. Whatever we grow should be of good quality. Maharashtra should become a brand in the agriculture sector by bifurcating agriculture produce into regions,” CM said. Total land under cultivation in Maharashtra is 16.8 million ha and the average rainfall prediction between June and September is 1075.3mm. State agriculture minister Dada Bhuse informed that the maximum area (4.35 million ha) for sowing is expected to be used for soya bean, followed by cotton (4.3 million ha), cereals (2.3 million hectare) and rice (1.55 million ha). Around 884,000 ha is expected to be used for sowing maize. For this, the state will require 6.364 million metric tonnes of chemical fertilisers and 1.826 million quintal of seeds for the farming community. Maharashtra has around 15.2 million farmers. Of them, 28.40% are small farmers, while are 51.10% are marginal farmers. “The state has set a target of ₹42,388 crore as crop loans by commercial and district banks for kharif season. Of this, ₹6,091 crore has already been disbursed to 0.929 million (929,000) farmers by May 15,” said a senior official from the state agriculture department. The total target set for crop loans this year is ₹57,143 crore. Deputy CM and finance minister Ajit Pawar directed the chief secretary Sitaram Kunte to hold a meeting and ensure that farmers get crop loans from the banks without any delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sowing-area-in-maharashtra-increased-to-15-7-million-ha-for-kharif-season-101621538025502.html
21-05-2021||Other||Maharashtra CM to visit cyclone-affected Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg today||The Maharashtra government is expected to announce a package for the cyclone-affected coastal districts after chief minster (CM) Uddhav Thackeray’s tour to Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg on Friday. The spot assessment of losses in Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Raigad and other districts is expected to be completed in a day or two.Cyclone Tauktae, that hit the coastal districts on Sunday and Monday, caused damage to structures and horticulture in the state. The death toll rose to 19, after the body of one of the missing sailors from Devgad was found on Thursday.CM will hold review meetings with officials from Ratnagiri and Sindhdurg, following his visit to the affected areas of the two districts. In Sindhudurg, Thackeray will be visiting the villages at Vengurla and Malvan tehsils. “The assessment of losses after following due procedure will be completed in next couple of days. CM is visiting the affected districts on Friday. The relief package will be announced after the assessment is completed,” said relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar, who is also on a visit to Konkan.According to preliminary estimates, crops and horticulture on more than 12,000 hectares (ha) have been damaged. “Total losses are expected to be around ₹60 crore as the damages this time are much lesser than last year [caused due to Cyclone Nisarga]. Coastal districts do not grow any seasonal crops, and thus there was not much damage to the crops. Horticulture has sustained losses as Alphonso mango trees and chickoo plantations were damaged largely. We have asked district collectors to immediately release ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh to the next of kin of the people who died due to the cyclone,” said an official from the relief and rehabilitation department.As per the set norms of the National Disaster Response Fund, the compensation for crop losses ranges between ₹6,800 and ₹18,000 per hectare and between ₹6,000 and ₹95,000 for damages to houses. The state government had increased the relief amount as a special case for the damages in last year’s Cyclone Nisarga.Meanwhile, thousands of households in Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg continue to remain without electric supply as the restoration work is underway. Energy minister Nitin Raut on Thursday said restoration of power will be completed within the next few days. “We have diverted workforce from other districts such as Kolhapur, Nanded and Nashik so that the restoration work is completed fast. We have suffered losses of about ₹62 crore due to the damages caused to the electric infrastructure,” he said.Leader of Opposition in legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis also went to various affected villages in Ratnagiri on his second day of Konkan visit, on Thursday. He alleged that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government led by Thackeray was “biased” towards Konkan. “The government has been discriminating the cyclone-affected coastal districts by stating financial constraints as reasons. Some of the favourite districts get ₹500 crore through various schemes. But it’s not ready to announce a relief package of ₹150- ₹200 crore for Konkan,” he said.Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ashish Shelar visited Palghar and held a meeting with chickoo growers who have sustained huge losses. Shelar said that he has received complaints from farmers about the “faulty assessment” of losses by district authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-cm-to-visit-cyclone-affected-ratnagiri-sindhudurg-today-101621537964826.html
21-05-2021||Other||Of 656 teachers at IIT-KGP, only one from SC community, 10 from ST: RTI data||Only 0.15% of all faculty positions at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Kharagpur are held by teachers from Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities. Teachers belonging to Scheduled Castes (SC) form 1.5% of all faculty positions and 4.1% are from Other Backward Classes (OBC), according to responses received under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. The replies come a week after the institute suspended a professor after videos of her purportedly abusing students from SC, ST categories and those with physical disabilities emerged on social media. The RTI query was filed by Egalitarians, a not-for-profit group working for democratising the Indian academia, on April 28. Responses from the institute, which have been reviewed by HT, were received Monday. Of the 656 teaching staff at IIT-Kharagpur, only one belongs to SC community, 10 are from ST category and 27 from OBC category. Only 88 of them are women. There are three faculty positions at IITs — assistant professor is the entry-level position, followed by associate professor and then professor. The representation of faculty from these marginalised groups was worse in senior faculty positions. The institute does not have even one associate professor or professor who belongs to the ST category. Only two associate professors are from SC category and seven from OBC category. Among professors, five are from SC category and three from OBC. According to government of India (GoI) norms, 10% of all faculty positions in IITs are reserved for candidates belonging to economically weaker sections — 27% for OBC category, 15% for SC, 7.5% for ST, and 5% for candidates with physical disabilities. Until 2019, these reservations were applicable only for recruitment of assistant professors. A detailed questionnaire sent to institute director Virendra Kumar Tewari remained unanswered. Registrar Tamal Nath said the institute had a defined recruitment process for faculty positions. “We follow the recruitment process of the institute. A selection committee is set up and external members are appointed to the committees. The selection is based on academic proficiency of the candidate and performance in the selection process. We do not compromise on the quality of our faculty members,” Nath said. Egalitarians refuted Nath’s claim and said lack of diversity among faculty positions was institutionalised injustice. “Elite institutions such as IITs do not take into account the financial and social capital of candidates when they consider merit, which is primarily focused on academic performance,” said a member of Egalitarians. The group’s members said the data revealed in the RTI puts into context the alienation of dalit and adivasi students at the hands of faculty members such Seema Singh, who was suspended last week. On April 24, video recordings of Singh, an associate professor of English from the department of Humanities and Social Sciences at IIT-Kharagpur, were posted anonymously on the confessions page of the institute, an informal group of students on social media. The recordings are those of preparatory classes, allegedly taught by Singh online and attended by over 100 students and parents, where she can be heard hurling abuses repeatedly. Avatthi Ramaiah, chairperson, Centre for Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policies at Mumbai’s Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), said the discrimination was systemic. “If a reserved category candidate has applied, the law mandates that the selection committee should have a member from the category. Most times, it is this member that bats on behalf of the reserved category candidate alone. There is resistance from all quarters because the department members have a set idea of who they want,” said Ramaiah, who has served on several selection committees. In March, HT had reported that IIT-Bombay has not recruited a single associate professor from ST and OBC categories since 2006. RTI data showed that of the 317 candidates hired as assistant professors over the past 12 years, 97% were from the general category, 1.9% were OBC, 0.9% SC and 0% ST. Between 2006 and 2020, 42 general category candidates were hired as associate professors and 97.7% of all associate professors were from the general category, while 2% were SC, ST while there was no one from OBC category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/of-656-teachers-at-iit-kgp-only-one-from-sc-community-10-from-st-rti-data-101621537725861.html
21-05-2021||Other||350 farmers booked for Hisar incident||The Hisar police have booked over 350 farmers under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing any public servant in discharge of public functions) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) among others of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Urban State police station after they protested in Hisar outside a temporary Covid hospital, where Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was scheduled to inaugurate the hospital.Hisar police spokesman Vikas Kumar said police have registered the FIR against 350 unknown farmers under attempt to murder and other sections for trying to enter inside the newly-inaugurated hospital, where patients were admitted.“Police had already registered the FIR against farmers before their leaders held a meeting with senior district officials on Sunday. We were not aware that the Urban State police had registered the FIR till Wednesday night,” the spokesman added.Police had not shared the FIR copy in public domain. Farmers announced to gherao the commissioner’s office on May 24.Farm leader Vikas Sisar said, “The senior administrative officials betrayed the farm leaders by assuring them that no FIR will be registered against them when they released 85 farmers on Sunday evening. We have decided to gherao the commissioner’s office. Senior leaders of Sanyukta Kisan Morcha will take part in the protest,” he added.Meanwhile, residents of Hisar’s three villages - Majra, Umra and Mahjat on Thursday decided to ‘boycott’ the Covid lockdown alleging that it has been imposed to suppress the farm agitation. Residents of the villages held a meeting and passed resolution to boycott the lockdown, testing and vaccination drive.The villagers said a group of youths will impose ‘Thikhri pahra’ to stop entry of government employees in their respective villages. The BJP-JJP leaders’ entry will also be prohibited in the villages.Hansi SDM Jitendra Ahlawat said they are trying to convince the farmers so that they can check the rise in Covid cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/350-farmers-booked-for-hisar-incident-101621537245674.html
21-05-2021||Other||Naini jail in Prayagraj bans outside food, commodities to check Covid||: In a bid to control spread of Covid infection inside barracks at Naini Central Jail, prison administration has completely restricted outside food items etc sent by kin of jail inmates. Many relatives of prisoners who arrived with eatables to be given to them were returned by jail staff after the new order was implemented on Thursday.Before this, the family members of under trial prisoners used to send eatables, clothes and other items for them. The items were collected and were properly checked and sanitized before being delivered to inmates living in different barracks of the jail after 24 hours. The packets used to contain the details of prisoners and the person sending them.However, the jail administration was alert after 114 male prisoners and 15 women prisoners were tested positive for Covid-19. They were shifted to Covid care centre established at jail premises last year where they were treated under care of two doctors, 5 nurses and 3 ward boys. Due to precautions and intensive care by jail administration, 98 of the infected prisoners were tested negative for coronavirus.After the new orders were issued by DG Prisons Anand Kumar on Wednesday, jail authorities held a meeting and implemented the restrictions from Thursday without any concessions. Senior superintendent at Naini Jail PN Pandey said at present 31 prisoners are undergoing treatment for Covid-19. Precautions taken by jail administration helped in controlling spread of coronavirus inside jail premises. New orders had been strictly implemented and persons who have arrived with food items and other commodities were returned, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/naini-jail-in-prayagraj-bans-outside-food-commodities-to-check-covid-101621536944813.html
21-05-2021||Other||Covid patient who escaped from hospital found dead in Palghar||The body of a 62-year-old Covid-19 patient was found at Nirmal village in Nallasopara on Thursday morning. The deceased had escaped from Cardinal Gracias Covid Hospital, Sandor village in Vasai on Wednesday night.The patient was admitted to the hospital on May 11. On Wednesday, the patient sneaked out of the hospital taking advantage of the power outage reported due to Cyclone Tauktae.However, on Thursday, his body was found at Nirmal village.Dr Manish Pandye, taluka medical officer, Vasai, said, “Due to the cyclone, there was no power in the entire Vasai-Virar stretch. Hence, when the patient escaped from the centre, the staff did not notice the same.”The police are awaiting the post-mortem report to ascertain the cause of the death and have registered a case of accidental death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-patient-who-escaped-from-hospital-found-dead-in-palghar-101621536045249.html
