22-05-2021||Other||Covid appears to recede with 582 new cases, 17 deaths in Ludhiana||The curfew and lockdown restrictions seem to be helping Ludhiana as the number of infections as well as the deaths continued the downward trend on Saturday. The fresh cases dropped to 582 against 687 cases on Friday while the fatalities went down to 17, from 23 the day before. It is for the first time since May 15 that less than 20 deaths have been reported in the city. The latest fatalities, which include 13 men and four women, have taken the district’s toll to 1,854.The maximum number of deaths include people in their 40s (two deaths), 50s (six deaths), followed by those in their 60s (seven deaths). A 29-year-old male from Sahnewal was the youngest to succumb to the virus in the last 24 hours.Ludhiana now has 9, 355 active cases.Presently, there are 51 patients on ventilators, out of which 28 are from Ludhiana while 23 are from other districts and states.Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all safety protocols to stay safe in these times.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia expressed respite over the declining number of cases. She said that the curbs imposed by the administration have started showing results.However, she warned people against complacency. “We should make sure to not lose the gains of this lockdown. It is all the more important that we continue adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour, maintain social distance, wear masks, frequently wash hands and avoid going to crowded places,” said Dr Kiran Ahluwalia.3 of a family dead in five daysThe contagion snuffed out the lives of three members of a family in five days in Jagraon.Resident Harvinder Singh said on May 17, his sister-in-law Manpreet Kaur passed away, the next day his younger brother Balwinder Singh succumbed to Covid and on Friday evening, his father Nirmal Singh lost his battle to the virus. Terrified by the deaths, the remaining family members have left the house and are currently taking shelter in an isolation center.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-appears-to-recede-with-582-new-cases-17-deaths-in-ludhiana-101621708199419.html
22-05-2021||Other||Hit-and-run: 12-year-old killed by a dumper in Kalyan, driver arrested||A 12-year-old boy died after he was hit-and-run over by a garbage dumper near Gaodevi temple in Kachore village, Kalyan (West), on Saturday. The incident occurred when the victim Amit Dhakad was playing cricket with his friends. The dumper driver has been arrested.According to the police, the boy was playing in the temple premises when he was hit by the dumper, after which, he fell under the tyre and was run over.“A group of boys were playing at the temple premises. Amit ran to pick the ball when the dumper that was taking a reverse turn, hit him and ran over him. We have booked the dumper driver and arrested him,” said an officer of Tilaknagar police station.After the incident, locals rushed Dhakad to a nearby hospital. However, he was declared dead on arrival by the doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hitandrun-12-year-old-killed-by-a-dumper-in-kalyan-driver-arrested-101621707838655.html
22-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s MD Oswal Hospital resumes vaccination, 5 more pvt ones to follow suit from May 28||In a relief for vaccine aspirants complaining of huge rush at government session sites, Mohan Dai Oswal hospital resumed Covid-19 vaccinations on Saturday after receiving a fresh stock of 2,000 Covishield doses. The hospital is charging ₹850 from each beneficiary for the two doses. Five other private hospitals, including Dayanand Medical College & Hospital (DMCH), SPS Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Deep Hospital and Verma Multispeciality, are also set to resume vaccinations from May 28 when they are expected to receive fresh stocks from the Serum Institute of India. Mohan Dai Oswal Hospital is to receive 10,000 more doses on the day. Private hospitals had to suspend vaccination drives in late April as the district administration fell short of its vaccine stock, prompting it to reserve the doses only for government session sites. This resulted in heavy rush at government-run vaccination sites in the city. The problem compounded when the government began vaccinating the 18 to 44 age group from May 9. The rush was so overwhelming that the health department was forced to cancel the pre-registration of slots done by residents through the CoWin app. Inaugurating the vaccination drive at Mohan Dai Oswal hospital on Saturday, deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma and police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal urged residents to get vaccinated as soon as possible so that herd immunity is achieved against Covid-19. The DC said that a fresh batch of 1.12 lakh doses will reach six private hospitals on May 28. Of these, 50,000 doses would reach DMCH, 25,000 will be for SPS Hospital, 10,000 for Fortis Hospital, 10,000 more for Mohan Dai Oswal Hospital, 15,000 for Deep Hospital and 2,000 at Verma Multispeciality hospital. He said residents can get themselves vaccinated at these private hospitals by paying a nominal charge, whereas in government facilities, the jabs are completely free. He said MD Oswal Hospital is charging ₹850 from each beneficiary, whereas at other hospitals, the cost may vary. He informed that these private hospitals have sourced the vaccine directly from the Serum Institute of India at their own cost. He urged all private hospitals to source this vaccine and if any hospital is interested in book vaccine doses, they can contact Sandeep Kumar, ADC, development, Ludhiana. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the district administration plans to vaccinate each and every eligible person by June 15. Enquiries pouring in, say private hospitals Private hospitals in the city have already started receiving enquires from residents eager to get themselves vaccinated. Dr Anurag Chaudhary, head of the department of community medicine at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, said most of the queries are coming from senior citizens who are wary of visiting crowded vaccination centres. “We are expecting to receive a fresh lot of vaccine on May 28. Once the vaccine is available, requisite arrangements will be made to vaccinate the maximum number of people without causing crowding at centers. Residents can book their slots through CoWin app. We will soon share the helpline numbers through which residents can seek help in booking the slots,” said Dr Chaudhary. Dr Baldeep Singh, MD of Deep Hospital in Model Town, said “We are encouraging group vaccination. We have received queries about the vaccines from industry and other establishments. Due to lockdown, commuting is a major challenge. Further, crowding at hospitals is another problem as it comes with a risk of infection. So we are encouraging group vaccinations wherein a doctor and a staff nurse will visit a location and vaccinate people there.” Munish Dogra, a hosiery owner, welcomed the development. “The price of vaccines could be debated upon, but there are two ways to look at it. The rate of the vaccine could be looked at from different perspectives. One can find the vaccine expensive. But if one considers spending ₹2,000 on two jabs of vaccine that could save the life, then it is cheap.” Surinder Kaur, 63, a resident of Field Gunj said the resumption of vaccination drives at private hospitals would be a huge respite for many elderly like her. “This is a great move. I was worried about the rush at government sites. “ Ludhiana Inc books vaccine worth ₹1 crore Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said city-based industrialists have booked Covid vaccine worth over ₹1 crore from Serum Institute of India to vaccinate their employees and family members. He said the doses would reach the city soon after which special camps will be organised at premises of the respective units. High drama over special treatment to VIPHigh drama was witnessed at a vaccination site located in a school at BRS Nagar this afternoon when people queuing up for the vaccine caught the healthcare staff jabbing a VIP inside his car parked outside the vaccination centre. A woman standing in the queue reportedly grabbed a healthcare staffer by the arm and snatched the injections kept in her pocket. Soon others surrounded the health department employee and began protesting. As the situation started turning ugly, the health department employee first ran back to the vaccination centre but found the door bolted then ran towards her car and fled the scene. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/md-oswal-hospital-resumes-vaccination-5-more-to-follow-suit-from-may-28-101621707299104.html
22-05-2021||Other||Prolonged curfew leaves Ludhiana’s street vendors on the brink of starvation||For the last two weeks, Jagtar Singh, a fast-food vendor who operates out of the Gol market in Jamalpur, has been languishing at home. With the ongoing restrictions snatching away his livelihood, he doesn’t know how he is to provide for his family of five. “Ever since the district administration announced a weekday curfew, I have been unable to set up my stall. The authorities have offered a relaxation in the morning hours, but customers rarely turn up at food stalls during these hours. I have a family of five. My daughter studies in a private school. I have no money to even manage two square meals a day, how will I pay her school fee,” he asks. The Ludhiana administration had earlier announced a 17-hour curfew, which came into effect on May 10. All businesses were allowed to operate from 5am to noon, however, the inconvenient hours were of little use for many. On Friday, the administration announced to extend the relaxation window by an hour starting May 24, but for vendors like Jagtar, it won’t make any difference. “Most residents step out to grab a bite during evenings. That’s when we get most of our business. The early morning relaxation window doesn’t help us in any way,” he says, adding, “The administration should either lift the restrictions or offer us monetary help till the situation improves.” “There are around 30 vendors in Gol market. All of them have been struggling to make ends meet. The administration has allowed eateries to make food delivery till 8pm. We should also be allowed similar relaxations,” said Jagtar. Satpal Singh, a chaat vendor in Model Town Market, says, “All our savings dried up during the previous lockdown. We managed to survive by borrowing money from our friends and relatives. But this time, even they are struggling. Even if they lend us money, we will be pushed under heavy debt as we have no income to pay them back any time soon.” The few vendors who set up their stalls in the morning hours are barely able to make any sales. Rinku, a vendor who used to sell Chhole Bhature near the Clock Tower, says, “After the imposition of curfew in the city, we switched from ‘Chhole Bhature’ to ‘Naan Chhole’ as ‘Naan’ would be cheaper for customers. But even then, we have failed to draw any customers to our food stall. I earn around ₹150-200, which is not sufficient to meet our daily expenses of around ₹300-350.” Rinku says that on some days, he is forced to return without selling a single plate. “I have a family of five. If the restrictions continue, it is going to get very difficult for us to make ends meet.” Ludhiana has around 5,000 street food vendors, according to the Reri Fadi association. Most of these vendors set up their stalls on the main roads and at the main markets of the city, which include Ghumar Mandi, Civil Lines, Model Town Market, Dugri Main Market, Field Ganj, Hargobind Nagar main road, Jamalpur Gol market, BRS Nagar, Model Town Extension, Sarabha Nagar market and other areas. President of the Ludhiana Rehri Fadi Association, Tiger Singh says, “The administration must step in and offer monetary relief to these vendors who have been rendered jobless due to the restrictions. Many of them are struggling to put food on the table for their families. The authorities must not turn a blind eye to their plight.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prolonged-curfew-leaves-ludhiana-s-street-vendors-on-the-brink-of-starvation-101621707119297.html
22-05-2021||Other||NGT rap: Ludhiana to submit ₹5 lakh to PPCB for legacy waste||The monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal directed the municipal corporation (MC) to submit ₹5 lakh to the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) for failure to dispose of its legacy waste. The amount will be encashed after six months if the civic body fails to start disposing of the legacy waste.The failure of the MC in dealing with over 16 lakh tonnes of accumulated garbage at the main dumpsite situated at Tajpur Road is taking a toll on the residents here. Citing groundwater contamination in the 2km area surrounding the landfill site, the monitoring committee also ordered a ban on further construction of colonies there.A virtual meeting of the monitoring committee headed by chairman Justice (retd) Jasbir Singh was held on Friday.While the civic body was directed to provide alternate sources of potable water to the residents already residing in these areas, the PPCB was directed to seek environmental compensation from MC for its failure to deal with the legacy waste. Further, the civic body was directed to commence the operations of the construction and demolition waste plant in the city within three months, failing which, it’ll have to pay a penalty of ₹2 lakh.PPCB senior environmental engineer Sandeep Bahl said that the PPCB had collected groundwater samples in the past and had found that the water in the area was contaminated. Environmental compensation will be sought from MC as directed by the monitoring committee, he added. Meanwhile, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said that the civic body has already initiated the process to deal with legacy waste and 5 lakh tonnes of garbage will be disposed of in the first phase of the project which is being taken up under the Smart City Mission.“We are working on establishing the construction and demolition waste plant and achieving the target of 100% waste segregation in the city. We will take required steps to stop further construction of colonies in the area and provide potable water to the residents as ordered by the monitoring committee,” said Sabharwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ngt-rap-ludhiana-to-submit-rs-5-lakh-to-ppcb-for-legacy-waste-101621706939505.html
22-05-2021||Other||Haryana faces acute shortage of drugs to treat black fungus patients||As cases of mucormycosis or black fungus rise across state, Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak and 11 other medical colleges in Haryana are facing acute shortage of Amphotericin-B, the drug used to treat the infection.While some private hospitals, where black fungus patients are undergoing treatment, are expressing difficulty in procuring the drugs, family members of patients say they are running from pillar to post looking for the drug.Rakesh Sihag, of Hisar, said one of his relatives has contracted the infection and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Rohtak.“The expert committee formed by director general health services had approved seven vials of Amphotericin-B for him on May 18, but he is yet to get the drug. We are trying to procure the drug but to no avail. Hospital authorities said they don’t have the drug and are waiting to get it from the government. The drug is not available anywhere in the market,” he added.Rakesh Beniwal, of Sirsa said doctors asked them to bring 10 vials of the drug for treatment of his father-in-law.“Doctors said we need six injections per day and the treatment lasts four to six weeks. They expressed inability to provide even a single vial of the medicine. How do we procure it if neither the government nor the markets have it?” he said.Slamming the BJP-JJP government, INLD general secretary Abhay Chautala and Congress’s Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry said the government had notified black fungus as a disease but it does not have the injections required to treat the patients.“The government has notified 12 medical colleges to treat black fungus patients and all of them are facing acute shortage of the drug. If hospitals don’t have the medicine, how will they treat the patients? Why has the state government not floated tenders to get Amphotericin-B earlier,” Choudhry said.State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary said there is acute shortage of the injections across country.“The Centre had allocated only 100 vials of the drug to Haryana and PGIMS had received 200 vials. On an average, a patient needs seven injections of the drug a day and the treatment continues for at least 30 days. So, one can easily imagine the shortage. The state had written to the Centre to allocate more vials of the drug,” he added.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said 63 patients of black fungus are admitted at the institution and they don’t have enough drug vials to treat them.“We have written to the state seeking 6,000 vials to treat the patients and are yet to receive them. Our institute was allocated four districts but cases are coming in from across state,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-faces-acute-shortage-of-drugs-to-treat-black-fungus-patients-101621702320437.html
22-05-2021||Other||Wrestler Sagar Dhankar’s family seeks Sushil Kumar’s arrest||The family of former junior national champion wrestler Sagar Dhankar, who died on May 5 after an alleged brawl with Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar a day earlier at the Chhatrasal stadium in Delhi, sought Kumar’s arrest on Saturday. Sagar hailed from Sonepat.There is a look-out circular issued by the Delhi Police against Sushil Kumar, who is posted as an officer on special duty (OSD) at Chhatrasal Stadium in Delhi, and police are continuously making raids in Haryana and Punjab to arrest him.Sagar’s father Ashok Dhankar and his maternal uncle Anand alleged that they got life threat from the Olympic medallist and demanded his immediate arrest.“We got information that the Delhi Police has traced Sushil’s location somewhere in Punjab and police are helping him during his stay. He has connections with gangsters and we are getting threats from him. We want his immediate arrest,” they added.Sagar’s father Ashok said his son had been at Chhatrasal for nearly eight years.“I handed over Sagar to Mahabali Satpal, who runs Chhatrasal Akhada when he was just 15. He considered Sushil Kumar his guru. Both Satpal and Sushil promised us to make my son a good wrestler. My son had won many medals before he was killed after a brawl with Sushil Kumar and his associates,” he said.“We got to know after Sagar’s death that he was staying in a flat outside the stadium. He was planning to quit the stadium and shift to Narela, where a former coach was giving training. Sushil and his associates abducted Sagar from his house in Model Town to teach him a lesson for bad-mouthing him in front of other wrestlers,” he added.Sagar died on May 5, while two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar got injured after they were allegedly assaulted by Sushil Kumar and other wrestlers on the night of May 4, on the stadium premises in Delhi.The Delhi Police had announced a reward of ₹1 lakh for information leading to Sushil Kumar’s arrest. A reward of ₹50,000 has also been announced for arrest of his associate Ajay Kumar, who has been absconding in the case, police had said.Anand alleged that his nephew had been forced to shift from the flat which was in the name of Sushil Kumar’s wife to another flat after he failed to pay rent.“Sagar’s wrestler friends told us that Sushil was mounting pressure on him to join gangsters, who were illegally encroaching upon the plots but he denied. Since then, their rift had escalated,” he added.Earlier, a Delhi court had refused to grant anticipatory bail to Sushil Kumar, stating that he is prima facie the main conspirator and allegations against him are serious in nature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wrestler-sagar-dhankar-s-family-seeks-sushil-kumar-s-arrest-101621702080357.html
22-05-2021||Other||Farmers to leave for Delhi to observe May 26 as Black Day||Following the call of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), hundreds of farmers from across Haryana will begin their movement from May 23 to join the ongoing agitation against Centre’s three farm laws.As per farm leaders from Haryana, the SKM, an umbrella body of over 40 farm unions, has decided to hold protests on May 26. They claimed that central trade unions have extended support for the protest.As harvesting of wheat is over and transplantation of paddy is to start from June 15, farm unions of Haryana have urged their district and block-level members to reach out to villages to ensure that huge gathering of farmers from Haryana reach Delhi borders on May 26.Farmers will observe May 26 as Black Day to mark six months of their agitation and farmers supporting the agitation will also hoist black flags on their houses and vehicles on that day to register their protest.“We have already held meetings in this regard and thousands of farmers from Panipat will leave for Delhi on Sunday,” said Sudhir Jhakar, Panipar district president of BKU (Charuni).Karnal BKU leader Jagdip Singh Aulakh said on call of BKU leaders, thousands of farmers will gather at Karnal’s Bastara toll plaza on May 23 and will leave for Delhi in tractor trolleys, cars and bikes.He said that farmers will give new strength to the ongoing agitation as the government did not listen to their demands after six months of the agitation.As farmers have given a call for a huge gathering at Bastara toll plaza amid the Covid-19 lockdown, Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said they have made elaborate security arrangements to deal with any law and order situation and plan to divert traffic from NH-44 has also been prepared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-to-leave-for-delhi-to-observe-may-26-as-black-day-101621702019160.html
22-05-2021||Other||Assam folk singer sings over phone to boost mental health of Covid-19 patients||Bikramjit Bauliya, a 33-year-old folk singer from Malugram area in Silchar, Assam, sings for Covid-19 positive people over the phone to boost their mental health. A few days back, he shared a post on social media and started getting calls. Over 200 people have so far called him from various parts of Assam and other states to hear him hum and sing. Talking about his reason behind the campaign, Bikarmjit Bauliya said, “Last year I also tested positive and it was a tough time I went through, mostly because of the pressure I faced. I have struggled with depression at one point in my life and I know how tough it is to fight with our own mind. I am a singer but I have to work for my father’s medicine shop to earn my bread and butter. Music is my passion and I gain positivity from music. With this campaign, I am getting a chance to connect with people and listening to their stories. This is making me more positive and optimistic.”Many of them don’t just listen to his songs but also share their experience, fear, anxiety and battle with the coronavirus disease. An 82-year-old lady calls him every day. On Saturday morning she informed that she tested negative. The lady claimed that she recovered quickly due to the positive energy she generated within because of Bikarmjit’s songs. Bikarmjit started his campaign inspired by Bengali singer Lopamudra Mitra. So many singers, including Lopamudra Mitra and Shilajit Mazumder, have called and appreciated his gesture. “Some people are criticising me by saying that it is just another publicity stunt. But these people are not ready to discuss mental health. I got calls from various singers and they appreciated my initiative. No matter how people criticise me, I am going to continue this because I believe, we need to work on mental health.”Bikarmjit’s actual surname is Kar but he writes Bauliya which is inspired by the Bauls (Bengali folk singers). He once auditioned for Saregamapa Bengali where he couldn’t manage to get into the top-12 because of his folk accent. But he continued his passion for music after that. He sings almost everywhere, be it a friend’s wedding or when someone is feeling upset. “There is no shame in singing. If I can make someone happy, I can do it anywhere, anytime,” he said.Requests for Bikarmjit’s songs pour in not just from Assam but states like Tripura, West Bengal, Chattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Maharastra, Delhi and Panjab. “I sing Bengali folk songs mostly but people from other languages are also requesting me to sing in their languages. Music can be a therapy for people in distress. In this situation, we need to be kind towards each other. I am happy that people are responding,” he said.Chattisgarh resident Mihir Purkayastha has his roots connected to Assam. His ancestors lived in Karimganj district decades back. A friend told him about the folk singer’s Facebook post and shared the number. Mihir said, “I feel connected to my roots through folk music. I felt excited to talk to a folk singer and called him. His positive energy helped me get more energy inside me. I hope I’ll recover from covid soon.”82-year-old Nazima Begum from Hailakandi district said, “When my test report came positive, I had to stay at home isolation. It was tough because I was feeling abounded. My family members were not coming close to me, I had nobody to talk to and share my feelings. My granddaughter informed me that there is a singer who is willing to sing for me if I call him. I am a music lover, so I called him. Now I feel he is my grandson. He is so positive, he encouraged me to be positive and fight the virus. Today my reports came negative and I feel his positive energy helped me recover faster.”Sweta Roy, a school teacher from Silchar feels the mental health of Covid-19 patients is not being addressed properly. She recovered from the virus after fighting for two weeks but feels weak mentally. Talking about her experience of listening to Bikarmjit Bauliya, she said, “Music has the power to boost mental strength. But listening to someone live is a different experience. I spoke to him about his works and I feel thankful to people like him.”Bikramjit Kar (Bauliya) supports his father’s medicine business. In his spare time, he supplies medicine and important items to Covid-19 patients. He wants to inspire the young generation. “We can see that the young generation in places like Kolkata, Delhi and other parts of the country are supporting each other in this situation. They are using social media platforms to connect and address the issues faced by victims of Covid-19. I want the young generation in my city to come out and do this. It is our chance to show humanity and a sense of responsibility towards society.”He is also a dog lover. He calls his pet ‘Laleshwar’ which stays with him all the time. He also feeds the street dogs at night and provides them with medical support when they get injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-folk-singer-sings-over-phone-to-boost-mental-health-of-covid-19-patients-101621677777329.html
22-05-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh police to question former chief minister over Congress ‘toolkit’||The Chhattisgarh Police have issued a notice to former chief minister Raman Singh asking him to remain at his residence on Monday for questioning for allegedly spreading fake news related to the toolkit, or a social media campaign playbook, that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has claimed was prepared by the Congress to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi.A case was on Wednesday registered in Raipur in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh against Singh and other BJP leaders for allegedly promoting enmity by allegedly spreading fake news related to the “toolkit”. It was filed on the complaint of Akash Sharma, the chief of Congress’s student wing National Students’ Union of India in the state, under Indian Penal Code’s Sections including 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace). The BJP has alleged the “toolkit” was aimed at building a biased narrative over the Centre’s handling of the second wave of Covid-19, and the Central Vista Project. Many top BJP leaders, including its chief JP Nadda and Union ministers Smriti Irani, Hardeep Puri, Anurag Thakur, Piyush Goyal, amplified tweets about it.The Congress accused the BJP of concocting the document on Covid-19. In a tweet on Tuesday, Congress’s research department head Rajeev Gowda said: “BJP is propagating a fake ‘toolkit’ on ‘Covid-19 mismanagement’ & attributing it to AICC [All India Congress Committee] Research Department. We are filing an FIR [First Information Report] for forgery against @jpnadda & @sambitswaraj When our country is devastated by Covid, instead of providing relief, BJP shamelessly concocts forgeries.”Raipur police superintendent Ajay Yadav cited due process and added the notice has been issued to Singh for questioning him in the case and to get his statement recorded.Police officers, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they want to question Singh whether the Twitter account @drramansingh belonged to him, where did he get the alleged Congress’s documents from, and about the communication between him and others regarding the use of hashtag “CongressToolkitExposed” on social media.In his complaint, Sharma accused the BJP leaders of forging, fabricating, and manufacturing the documents on the letterhead of the AICC Research Department. It added they were meant to be spread via social media and has “potential of creating communal disharmony, unrest in the country”. He accused the BJP of using the alleged documents “to spread fake news” which has the potential of inciting “violence and fuelling hatred”.The BJP slammed the Congress for registering the case and issuing notice to Singh and called it an attempt to save its face. “The case registered against Raman Singh is completely fake and politically motivated. The Chhattisgarh Police are working under political pressure and hence served the notice,” said Gauri Shankar Srivas, a BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-police-to-question-former-chief-minister-over-congress-toolkit-101621674657027.html
22-05-2021||Other||Odisha groom picked up from pandal after testing positive for Covid-19||The wedding will now be solemnised one month after the test report of the groom comes negative for the virus.A bridegroom in Odisha, who tested positive for Covid-19, was picked up from the marriage mandap moments before he was about to get married, HT has learnt.“The groom has been kept in isolation to prevent the spread of infection. The family members of both the bride and the groom would have to remain in home isolation,” said Sanakhemundi BDO Gayatridatta Nayak.Rajendra Dandia of Daseipur village under Sanakhemundi block of Ganjam had given his throat swab sample for Covid-19 test as per the protocol of the local administration on May 17.When he did not get the test report by May 21, the day of the wedding, he went ahead with the ceremony.However, on Friday morning, his Covid-19 test report came positive for the virus. While he was on the pandal with his bride for the marriage, the BDO, along with local police inspector Tehsildar Srinivas Behera, reached the wedding venue and picked the groom during rituals.The wedding will be solemnised one month after the test report of the groom comes negative for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-groom-picked-up-from-pandal-after-testing-positive-for-covid19-101621671536749.html
22-05-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh using CM Baghel’s photograph on vaccination certificates for 18-44 age group||After the Chhattisgarh government launched its Covid-19 vaccination portal for the 18-44 age group, the state government is now issuing the vaccination certificates with the photograph of chief minister Bhupesh Baghel. Questions were raised over the photograph of PM Narendra Modi which is on the vaccination certificates issued through the Centre’s CoWin application in the recent past. On May 12, the Chhattisgarh government launched ‘CG Teeka’ Web Portal for systematic vaccination of people in the age group 18-44 years. People with no smartphones or internet facility can also get their registration for Covid-19 vaccination via ‘Help Desks’ established at panchayats, urban bodies, municipal corporations and other places.Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singhdeo said that no one should object to the photograph of CM Baghel because the state government is funding the vaccination of 18-44 age group. “When the Centre is using PM Modi’s photograph for the vaccination certificates, which they are funding, why can’t a state government use the photograph of CM which the state is funding? I don’t think anyone should have any objection,” said Singhdeo. Claiming that the state government is working just for the photo opportunity, BJP spokesperson Gaurishankar Srivas said that this is not the time for photo session and advertisement. “When the people of the state are suffering in the state, the government is working on these photo opportunities which is a shame. The government should work on the ground because people are dying in rural Chhattisgarh,” said Srivas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-using-cm-baghel-s-photograph-on-vaccination-certificates-for-18-44-age-group-101621662776082.html
22-05-2021||Other||Over 30 die in Haryana village, officials insist only 4 died of Covid-19||Yoginder, 29, and his brother, Bhupinder, 34, were among the residents of Titoli village in Haryana’s Rohtak district who took ill with Covid-19 symptoms in April. They fell back on faith and started organising havans to ward off the evil that they thought was causing them fever en masse in the absence of any testing facilities. With no respite in sight, a local chemist prescribed Bhupinder paracetamol as his fever worsened. The situation kept getting from bad to worse for him as two residents died on the same day in the village on April 22 after having a fever for over three days. The following day, the brothers went to see Pramod Kumar, a local physician as they also now developed cough and body ache. Kumar too prescribed paracetamol. Over the next few days, over 20 people died in the village and yet there was no testing.Finally, on April 24, Kumar asked Bhupinder, who was now barely able to walk, to get tested, start taking antibiotics and isolate himself as more people died without getting tested in the village. In the middle of the following night, Bhupinder began gasping for breath and could not walk anymore, setting alarm bells ringing among his family members. Yoginder, who had a mild fever, drove his brother to a hospital in Jhajjar, over 50 km away, where doctors asked them to get tested for Covid before admission. Bhupinder struggled to breathe on the back seat of his car as he had to wait till late afternoon to get tested. As the two were told they would get their reports two days later, Yoginder rushed Bhupinder back to the hospital, where doctors insisted on a Covid positive report to start treating them.A doctor suggested a nebuliser, but it was not available either in Totoli or Jhajjar before a cousin of theirs managed to borrow it from a friend. Nebuliser brought some relief as Bhupinder could breathe better now but now Yoginder’s condition worsened. A desperate Yoginder drove his brother 124 kilometres to Faridabad as his condition again worsened. A doctor examined Bhupinder and told Yoginder he immediately needed to be put on ventilator support even as no beds were available. They will get a bed if someone dies and vacates one, the brothers were told.Bhupinder now started turning pale and could not talk anymore even as the family managed to get a five-litre oxygen cylinder, 159 kilometres away in Bhiwani. Midway to Bhiwani, a cousin of Bhupinder and Yoginder joined them with oxygen cans. Bhupinder now began tossing and turning as Yoginder desperately pumped the oxygen. In Bhiwani too, they were unable to find a ventilator bed. Another member of the family rushed back to Faridabad but by the time he reached there, a vacant hospital bed they were promised was occupied by someone else by then. The family was left with no choice but to bring Bhupinder back to their village with two oxygen cylinders. They again began the search for a hospital bed on April 28 and were denied admission to the Jhajjar hospital as Bhupinder’s condition worsened despite getting a high flow of oxygen. He could no longer recognise his brother even as Bhupinder finally managed to get ventilator support at a nearby hospital following the death of a patient. Yoginder, meanwhile, started suffocating. Bhupinder, the father of a 12-year-old daughter, died the following day and Yoginder was now put on the same ventilator support, but he too lost the battle for life three days later.Authorities in Rohtak acknowledged that over 30 people died in the Titoli village in just a few days after developing fever while insisting they did not have Covid. District information officer Sanjeev Saini said there were just four Covid related deaths in the village as per the chief medical officer’s report even as most people who died never got tested and the village was sealed last week.Block development officer (Titoli) Raj Pal said the deaths were sudden but largely they included people who were suffering from diabetes and other diseases too. “Though the testing earlier was not much available, after May 1, we have ramped it up in the village,” Pal said. He too maintained just four people have died of Covid in the village of around 12,000 people.Chandrakant Lahariya, a public health expert, said honest reporting of Covid deaths and cases can make people more cautious and help check of carelessness and thus exposure to the virus. He added the baseline mortality, or the average number of people dying normally in a year is seven in every 1,000 people. “Therefore, in a population of 12,000, there should generally be not more than 84 deaths in a year or seven in a month. However, in the case of Titoli around 30 deaths had taken place in less than a month,” he said. “This is a clear indication that most people have not died a normal death. At a time, when the country is struck with a ravaging pandemic, there is every possibility that these deaths have mostly taken place because of Covid,” Lahariya said.He added deaths of people under 60 falls under the preventable mortality category. “Many of those lives could have been saved if the disease was diagnosed at an early stage and medical intervention was done,” Lahariya said. “Avoiding or hiding the actual figures does nothing more than worsening the situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-30-die-in-haryana-village-officials-insist-only-4-died-of-covid19-101621657015590.html
22-05-2021||Other||Rising Covid deaths driving Ludhiana’s wealthy to draft wills sooner||The uncertainty of life amid a raging second wave of Covid-19 has focused minds on an advanced planning of assets and drafting of wills, especially among the financially affluent of Ludhiana.According to legal experts, there has been over 20% rise in drafting of wills by people in their 40s and 50s, a phenomenon that was unseen in pre-Covid times.Piyush Kant Jain, a Punjab and Haryana high court lawyer and former additional advocate general of Punjab, said besides increase in the drafting of wills, there has been a sharp rise in consultation on writing/ revising wills and estate planning.“The number of lives snuffed out during the second wave has been high, with most victims in their 50s and 60s. Owners of huge properties and well-established business houses are coming forward to make their wills so that everything they own can be settled without any disputes,” he said.In Ludhiana, which has witnessed 1,837 deaths since the beginning of the pandemic, the maximum number of fatalities in the second wave is of those in their 50s and 60s, and the disturbing trend has provoked people to come forward to draft wills. In the past 13 days (May 9 to 21), 101 persons in their 50s and 74 in their 60s have succumbed to the virus in Ludhiana.Advocate Arpita Bector, who deals with corporate as well as insurance cases, says there has been a section of the business community in Ludhiana that has become highly proactive to drafting their wills, especially after the deadly second wave.“Life has suddenly become a lot more uncertain. There is a surge in such cases and deaths due to Covid, driving the wealthy to plan the pass down of their estate in advance. A large number of them are declaring their immovable assets,” she said adding that this trend should be further encouraged.Advocate Parupkar Singh Ghuman said there was no dearth of people making wills in Punjab even earlier. “But people in 70s or 60s used to comprise the majority of our clientele till now, which has changed this year. Over the last one month, a number of people in their 50s, 60s and even 40s have approached us for consultation or drafting of wills,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rising-covid-deaths-driving-ludhiana-s-wealthy-to-draft-wills-sooner-101621628217078.html
22-05-2021||Other||Akal Takht opposes dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim’s parole||Akal Takht, the supreme temporal seat of the Sikhs, on Friday opposed the parole granted to Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, stating that the move has the potential to again vitiate the atmosphere of Punjab.Hours after the dera chief, who is undergoing a 20-year jail sentence for raping two of his followers, was released from Sunaria jail on a 48-hour parole, Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said in a video that the government has committed a wrong by granting parole to Gurmeet, who is accused of committing blasphemy.He said, “I have learnt that some of the Sikh prisoners have tested positive for Covid-19 in Burail jail of Chandigarh, but the government is not releasing them, nor granting them parole. On the other side, the dera chief has been granted the same despite committing heinous offences.”“This shows the government’s double standards. Releasing him on parole is nothing but a potential act of vitiating Punjab’s atmosphere. Peace in the state must not be disturbed at any cost and the dera chief’s parole must be cancelled,” demanded the jathedar.The Takht head added, “I think this move is politically motivated. Secondly, once again the government has discriminated against the Sikhs. On the other hand, culprits of the Sikh massacre have not been arrested yet. This is a grave injustice to the community.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/akal-takht-opposes-dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-s-parole-101621628155000.html
22-05-2021||Other||Helpline set up to help Punjab doctors on Covid duty cope with burnout||As challenges around the pandemic increase, doctors on Covid-19 duty are under severe pressure. In the first wave, they were overworked, but now they have to deal with saving lives as the health infrastructure is crumbling.Doctors, including senior residents with just a few years of experience, have to make tough decisions under extreme situations. Death of patients, delay in treatment due to non-availability of ventilator beds and a shortage of medicines, are leaving doctors stressed, and mentally vulnerable.Thus, to ensure their psychological well-being, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) here has started a burnout helpline to address mental health issues.Dr Rajvir Kaur, a junior resident of anaesthesia department, who is working in Covid ward, said, “We have been on regular Covid duty without quarantine for over a year now. PPE kits have become a uniform for us as we are working 12-hour shifts on most days. By the end of the day, the PPEs leave us drenched in sweat and dehydrated. Work has been quite stressful.”“Seeing people die despite every effort to save their lives is affecting our mental health. Many of us have not gone home, as there’s a chance that we may spread it to family members,” said Dr Diksha, also working in the Covid ward.To helpline will be accessible from 3pm to 7pm daily and doctors can seek help on 95677-68078 (Monday-Friday) and 88614-31673 (Saturday-Sunday).BFUHS registrar Dr Ruhee Dugg said that there is no data available regarding mental health issues, but doctors are mentally exhausted because of the workload and tough decision making. “The helpline is aimed at addressing these doctors’ mental health concerns,” she added.“The counselling will be provided free of cost by Dr Ashwani, founder of Mukta Foundation, Bangalore, and fellow psychologists, who would conduct on-call counselling sessions. The helpline would be initially available from 3pm to 7pm daily, and the same would be extended further if demand increases. Any doctor across the state dealing with stress can take these sessions,” she added.A psychiatrist said that there is too much exhaustion and fatigue among doctors while nobody has a clear idea about when the pandemic would come to an end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/helpline-set-up-to-help-punjab-doctors-on-covid-duty-cope-with-burnout-101621628154086.html
22-05-2021||Other||Nihang murdered by aide in Tarn Taran||A 20-year-old Nihang was stabbed to death by one of his aides at Soorwind Bhaini village in the district on Friday morning.The deceased, who hailed from Jalandhar, was identified as Karamjit Singh. He was associated with a Nihang organisation headquartered at Sursingh village. He was staying at the residence of Gurwinder Singh in Soorwind Bhaini along with other members of the organisation.Police said Karamjit was combing his hair in the morning when his aide, Surjit Singh of Tarn Taran’s Sakhira village, attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon, leaving him critically injured. He succumbed to his injuries on the way to a hospital in Amritsar.“The accused was arrested hours after the murder. He had been holding a grudge against the victim ever since their fight over horse riding last month,” said Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman Nimbale.He added that a case was registered against the accused under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC and the victim’s body was handed over to the family after postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nihang-murdered-by-aide-in-tarn-taran-101621628092167.html
22-05-2021||Other||Industrial production in Mohali down by 30% in three weeks||The industry in Mohali has taken a severe hit due to the lockdown with the overall production going down by 30% in the last three weeks.The industrialists say that since they have failed to procure the raw material, 40% of the workers have gone back to their native states fearing a longer lockdown.There are around 13,000 MSME units and 49 major industrial houses in the district employing 1.3 lakh workers.The president of Mohali Industries Association (MIA), Yogesh Sagar, said, “There is an acute shortage of semi-finished products, which were to come mainly from Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, but the states are under complete lockdown. So there is a break in the supply chain due to which 40% of the workers from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have gone back to their villages. This has resulted in the production going down by around 30%.”‘Employees suffering from Covid’“There is an acute shortage of steel due to decline in the supply and very high prices in the domestic market. Some of our employees are suffering from Covid-19, which has also resulted in reduction in production. Also due to the non-availability of containers, the exporters are not able to meet their targets. As most of the markets are under shutdown, manufacturers are not able to sell their final products,” said Vivek Kapoor, vice-president of MIA.Former president of MIA, Sanjeev Vashist, said that the production had also reduced due to the non-availability of oxygen cylinders for manufacturing. This has led to production going down by 40-50% in most of the units, he added.Around 10 industries became operational in Mohali in 1978, growing to about 10,000 units, including manufacturing and IT/ service industry. The Industrial Area is divided into different phases: Phase 1 to 4 fall under the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA), Phase 7, 8-A, and 8-B under the Punjab Small Industries Export Corporation Limited (PSIEC) and Phase 9 under Punjab Infotech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/industrial-production-in-mohali-down-by-30-in-three-weeks-101621627913562.html
22-05-2021||Other||Governor to seek report on BJP’s allegations of ‘illegal resort’ against Maharashtra minister||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has assured the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that he would ask chief secretary Sitaram Kunte to submit a report on the allegations that Shiv Sena leader and transport minister Anil Parab had constructed an illegal resort at Ratnagiri.Parab said that he has nothing to do with the resort. A BJP delegation led by former Member of Parliament (MP) Kirit Somaiya met Koshyari and submitted a memorandum demanding action against Parab as well as the demolition of the resort.“Parab has constructed an illegal resort worth ₹10 crore on agriculture land. The construction was done last year during the Covid-19 lockdown. He has misused his position and indulged in forgery. For this, he should be removed as a minister,” alleged Somaiya.He added that Parab had purchased the plot at Murud from an individual on June 19, 2019, by paying ₹1 crore. “Last year, Parab got a three-storey building with 24 rooms constructed on the plot. This is an illegal construction as it violated the CRZ (coastal regulation zone) norms,” said Somaiya.The minister, however, rubbished the allegations as pack of lies.“I have nothing to do with the resort and Somaiya is just indulging in political vendetta,” he said. Parab is a close confidant of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and a senior minister in the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/governor-to-seek-report-on-bjp-s-allegations-of-illegal-resort-against-maharashtra-minister-101621627311449.html
22-05-2021||Other||Mohali: Mayo hospital directors, CFO in remdesivir row||Three directors of Mayo hospital in Sector 69, Mohali, have lodged a complaint against the chief finance officer (CFO) and company secretary of the hospital Mukesh Sharma for allegedly procuring remdesivir injections and selling them illegally. Remdesivir is in great demand as it used for the treatment of Covid patients.On the other hand, Sharma has also lodged a counter complaint with the police against the directors, alleging fabricating documents pertaining to the drug.In their complaint lodged by hospital directors–Deepak Tyagi, Virender Dhankhad and Dr Manoj Sharma— with senior superintendent of police (SSP) and sub-divisional magistrate, they have alleged that the CFO was found illegally procuring remdesivir injections and selling them at a premium to the patients outside the hospital with the help of his son.The complainant alleged that the matter came to light after one of the employees informed the directors about what was going on. The CFO allegedly used to inform the pharmacy employees to give injections to his son and would complete the inventory consumption record later. On May 1, a bill was issued in the name of directors Dr Manoj Sharma for two injections when he was out of station, the complaint said.Rubbishing the allegation, Mukesh Sharma said the directors were against him as he exposed their scams. “This complaint is the result of personal enmity. One of the directors even assaulted me and I even lodged a police complaint against him. A compromised was reached then. Now, I also have lodged a complaint against them for fabricating documents pertaining to the drug,” he said. Superintendent of police (city) Harwinder Singh Virk said, “We have received a complaint and are verifying it. We have also recorded the statements of employees of the hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-mayo-hospital-directors-cfo-in-remdesivir-row-101621627192681.html
22-05-2021||Other||Ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh gets relief from arrest till Monday in atrocities case||abbas.dodhiya@htlive.com Mumbai The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the state of Maharashtra to refrain from arresting former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in connection with a case under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act filed against him on the basis of a complaint by an Akola cop. The complainant, inspector BR Ghadge, posted at Akola city police control room, belongs to SC community. He has alleged that as he had refused to follow Singh’s illegal orders to benefit some accused in a criminal case, Singh conspired with others and registered three extortion and a corruption case between August 23 and September 3, 2015, against him. Earlier on Friday, the vacation bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade had asked the state if they were willing to continue their stand taken on May 19, that no coercive action would be taken against Singh in the case. However, after special public prosecutor Darius Khambatta for the state said that the statement could not be continued, the bench directed the petition filed by Singh seeking the quashing of the first information report (FIR) against him to be kept last on the list of cases they would hear on their last day as vacation court judges. Singh’s counsel, senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, started the arguments around 10.15pm, during which he stressed that the FIR on Ghadge’s complaint was at the behest of the state government as Singh had refused to withdraw the letter he had written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20. In the letter, Singh had alleged that the then home minister Anil Deshmukh had asked Mumbai Police officers to extort ₹100 crore every month from restaurants, bars and other establishments. Jethmalani corroborated the claim of the mala fides of the state government by referring to the conversation of Maharashtra director general of police Sanjay Pandey, who allegedly asked Singh to withdraw the claims in the letter written to CM. Jethmalani further stated that the FIR, which mentions alleged atrocities under the SC and ST Act by Singh in 2015-16 when he Thane Police commissioner, was filed belatedly. This which shows that Ghadge was prompted to file the complaint by the state government to scuttle the investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) which was ordered by the division bench of HC on April 5 against Deshmukh. Jethmalani concluded that Ghadge’s claim that he was from the Mahar community was not mentioned in his previous complaints and hence, resorting to it now was also proof that the state wanted to heckle Singh. However, Khambatta refuted the submissions. He argued that the complaint by Ghadge clearly made out cognisable offences against Singh and hence, the claim that the state had prodded the Akola cop could not hold. At 11.55pm, the bench stopped the hearing and said that at the stroke of midnight, they would cease to be vacation judges and hence. “As the case is already being heard, we direct the state to refrain from arresting Singh till the next hearing on Monday,” the bench said. Justice Kathawalla in his order further asked the registry to seek the permission of the chief justice on whether the same bench could continue hearing the case on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exmumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-gets-relief-from-arrest-till-monday-in-atrocities-case-101621627191446.html
22-05-2021||Other||Antilia case: Kazi dismissed from Mumbai Police||Assistant police inspector (API) Riyaz Hisamuddin Kazi – who has been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Antilia explosives scare case and the subsequent murder of Thane-based auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran – has been summarily dismissed from service.Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale on Friday issued an order under Article 311(2) (B) of the Constitution, dismissing Kazi with immediate effect without a departmental inquiry. The police chief observed that Kazi’s conduct was more like a “seasoned criminal rather than a police officer”, and that he shows “very grave delinquency” which is enough to justify his dismissal under Article 311(2) (b) without holding a disciplinary inquiry. Kazi is a former colleague of controversial former cop Sachin Vaze, who was also arrested by NIA for allegedly being the mastermind of both the cases. Vaze, who was an assistant inspector, had been dismissed from service on May 11.NIA arrested Kazi on April 11 and he is in judicial custody along with the other accused in the case. After prima facie ascertaining his role in the two cases, NIA had sent a report on his involvement in the crime to Mumbai Police, following which the proceedings for his dismissal from the service have been initiated.During the process, senior police officers observed that NIA’s investigation indicates that Kazi was involved in the conspiracy along with Vaze in placing the explosives-laden SUV outside Antilia and in Hiran’s murder. He also allegedly destroyed the CPU and DVR and other important materials in this offence, which incriminates him. The hammer used to destroy the gadgets, which were important evidences in the Antilia case, was recovered from Kazi’s house by NIA.The dismissal order issued by Nagrale stated that Kazi along with Vaze was also allegedly involved in commission of offences of impersonation, forgery and disappearance of evidence. Considering all these facts, the police commissioner observed that Kazi “indulged in a grave, remiss, perverse conduct, unbecoming of a police officer, and thereby undermining the mandate of duties and responsibilities assigned to him as a police officer”.“Kazi in connivance with Vaze, allegedly abused his official position to commit serious crimes, becoming a part of conspiracy, destruction of evidence etc., having propensity to seriously jeopardise law and order in the state,” Nagrale observed. It was also observed that “Kazi was fully aware of duties and responsibilities assigned to him as a police officer. He was duty bound for keeping utmost integrity and its strict enforcement and compliance”.The former API had joined the police force as a constable on October 17, 2001. He was selected as police sub-inspector on October 7, 2010, and was promoted to the post of API on August 8, 2014. He was posted in Mumbai crime branch’s crime intelligence unit (CIU), headed by Vaze, when a Scorpio car with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note addressed to Mukesh Ambani and his family was found parked outside the industrialist’s south Mumbai residence Antilia on February 25. A case was registered at Gamdevi police station and Vaze was investigating the case for the first two days. Later, it was transferred to Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS). NIA took over the case on March 8, three days after Hiran, the owner of the Scorpio, was found dead in creek near Mumbra. Vaze was arrested on March 13, after his alleged involvement in the explosives case came to light. He had purportedly devised the plan to regain his lost glory in Mumbai Police. He was later arrested for Hiran’s murder too.Meanwhile, Kazi was transferred to Tardeo local arms division, which is considered to be a side branch.NIA has also arrested inspector Sunil Mane, former constable Vinayak Shinde – who is serving life imprisonment in a fake encounter killing case – and cricket bookie Naresh Gor for allegedly aiding Vaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/antilia-case-kazi-dismissed-from-mumbai-police-101621626831316.html
22-05-2021||Other||Missing captain of barge P305 booked by Mumbai Police on crew’s complaint||Yellow gate police in Mumbai on Friday registered an offence against the captain of the barge, Papaa305 (P305), which sank in the Arabian Sea during Cyclone Tauktae, resulting in the loss of at least 60 lives. The case was filed on the basis of a complaint lodged by a crew member of the accommodation barge.Police have booked the barge’s captain Rakesh Ballav – who is still missing –and some others under sections 304(II) (an act done with knowledge that it is likely to cause death), 338 (causing grievous hurt by an act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.“We have registered a case against the captain and others on the basis of a statement given by 49-year-old Mistafizur Rahman Hussain Shaikh, who was a part of the maintenance crew of the barge,” joint commissioner of police (law and order) Vishwas Nangre Patil said. Shaikh has accused Ballav and others of “overlooking the weather alerts and failing to take appropriate care despite knowing that the lapse could result in loss of lives”.In his statement given to Yellow Gate police, the Malad resident said that the barge was anchored near an unmanned platform in Heera oil fields in Bombay High. “Around 11.00pm on Sunday, the wind speed started to increase and an hour later, the speed almost doubled and the crew could hear the roaring storm. At about 2am, two of the eight anchor cables of the barge gave way and the captain sent a distress message to a tug boat which was supposed to be in the vicinity. However, the boat was about 16 nautical miles away and expressed inability to move in the stormy weather,” he told the police. Shaikh added that around 4am, two more anchor cables broke and the barge started experiencing major jerks. Eventually by 8am, all the anchors gave way and the barge started drifting when the wind speed was about 60-70 knots. He said later the barge hit a platform at about 9.45am and water started gushing inside. It was then that the captain sent a distress signal to the Navy and other authorities, said Shaikh.An officer attached to Yellow Gate police station said that they have recorded statements of more than 100 survivors of barge P305 rescued by the Indian Navy and the Coast Guard.According to Afcons Infrastructure, which lead the consortium that had chartered the ill-fated barge along with its marine crew, the captain of P305 chose to stay in the sea despite receiving instructions for returning to Mumbai Harbour in the wake of warnings for Cyclone Tauktae.The Navy has so far rescued 186 on-board the barge and recovered 60 bodies of the crew members. A search is on for the 15 remaining members of P305. The Navy is also looking for 11 crew members of a tug boat, Varaprada, which had gone missing after the cyclone, which is the severest to have hit the Konkan coast in two decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/missing-captain-of-barge-p305-booked-by-mumbai-police-on-crew-s-complaint-101621626592381.html
22-05-2021||Other||Bring down CT scan/HRCT rate to ₹1,800: HC to Chandigarh admn||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday asked UT administration to impress upon private labs to bring down CT scan/HRCT test rate to ₹1,800. Earlier, the Chandigarh administration had told the court that it has decided to reduce the rates from ₹2,000 to ₹1,900, however, it was pointed out that the reduction was only cosmetic in nature. During the hearing, senior standing counsel, UT, Pankaj Jain, also informed the court that the UT has reduced security amount for oxygen cylinders to ₹8,000. The court while fixing the matter for May 25 observed that issue of over-charging by certain laboratories needs to be addressed and also it needs to be examined whether any regulatory mechanism is in place for the purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bring-down-ct-scan-hrct-rate-to-1-800-hc-to-chandigarh-admn-101621626351845.html
22-05-2021||Other||Uttar Pradesh govt extends last date for submission of vaccine bids by 10 days||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday extended by 10 days the last date for submission of the bids to supply 40 million doses of Covid vaccines till May 31.Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said the last date was extended on the request of the vaccine manufacturing companies that were keen to participate in the global tender floated by the state government to procure vaccines. May 21 was the last date earlier, he said.Representatives of various companies told the state government that some of them were yet to get the regulatory approval from the central government, Prasad said. Others said that they needed time to maintain the vaccine stock as, according to the bid conditions, the companies would have to supply the second dose after the first one, he added. The representative of another company said that they needed time for obtaining approval for the vaccine rate, Prasad said.Additional chief secretary (information) Navneet Sehgal said the state government will approach foreign Covid vaccine manufacturers to ramp up the vaccine stock and get the supply soon.In the pre-bid qualification meeting held on May 13, top vaccine manufacturing companies — Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, Zydus Cadila, Pfizer, Serum Institute of India (SII), Bharat Biotech and a Korean company — had raised the issues of storage and transportation of the vaccines and bid security.The state government on May 17 had revised the supply conditions, bid security and eligibility terms for the bidders to pave the way for the participation of maximum companies.In the revised tender, the state government has stated that the manufacturers of vaccines requiring storage or transportation at temperatures like -20 degrees Celsius, -70s degree Celsius or -80 degrees Celsius can participate in the tender. It would pave the way for the entry of foreign vaccine manufacturers like Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson and Johnson in the global tender, Sehgal said.“The more vaccines we get, the maximum number of people will be vaccinated quickly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-extends-last-date-for-submission-of-vaccine-bids-by-10-days-101621625331193.html
22-05-2021||Other||UP’s tally of RT-PCR tests crosses 20 million, says state govt||The tally of RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) tests, considered the gold standard of Covid-19 testing, crossed the two crore (20 million) mark in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, the state government said on Friday. The state’s total of all Covid-19 sample tests stood at 4.61 crore (46.1 million) till Thursday, it added.Additional chief secretary (information and micro, small and medium enterprises) Navneet Sehgal said the state government was organising aggressive sample testing to break the Covid-19 infection chain in the urban and rural areas of the state.Within a year, Uttar Pradesh conducted two crore RT-PCR tests, he said, adding that the state had set a target of 1.50 lakh RT-PCR tests per day.In March last year, Uttar Pradesh’s first Covid case was reported from Agra and the samples were sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune and National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), New Delhi since Uttar Pradesh, at the time, had no facility to test the Sars-Cov-2 pathogen that causes the Covid-19. Later, the state’s first Covid-19 laboratory became functional at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) and it tested just 72 samples on March 23 last year, he added.By April-end this year, the state had a network of 125 government and 104 private laboratories. Twelve laboratories set up by the state health and family welfare department in the backward districts as well as 24 laboratories established by medical education department in the autonomous medical colleges, medical institutes and medical universities in May had given a boost to the RT-PCR tests, the senior official said. The state government was focusing on tests to check the spread of Covid-19 in the rural areas, he added.Surveillance teams have surveyed 89,512 villages and positive cases have been detected in 28,742 villages. Antigen tests are being conducted in the rural areas. Those villagers who had Covid-like symptoms despite the antigen test report being negative underwent RT-PCR test, Sehgal said.Principal secretary (medical education) Alok Kumar said the state government was constantly working to increase the number of RT-PCR tests to identify infected people and isolate them to break the infection chain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ups-tally-of-rt-pcr-tests-crosses-20-million-says-state-govt-101621624911155.html
22-05-2021||Other||Covid deaths during poll duty: SEC says rulebook to be changed soon||Lucknow State election commissioner (SEC) Manoj Kumar said here on Friday that the commission would modify the guidelines by early next week so that the kin of more government staff and others who died of Covid while on poll duty may get adequate compensation. “I will soon hold a meeting with chief secretary RK Tiwari and additional chief secretary, Panchyati Raj, Manoj Kumar Singh to amend the guidelines so that kin of more government staff may benefit. This is the least we can do for the families of those who lost their lives,” said the SEC. He said, “There are a few things that are under consideration. We will make modifications and amendments to frame new modalities. We held a few discussions over phone and once we are able to give a final shape to the amended guidelines, we will share them with the press.” “It will not take more than three days to effect change in the state election commission guidelines. A couple of formal meetings should be enough to amend and modify the guidelines to bring a change in the rule book,” he said on telephone. Chief secretary RK Tiwari said, “Some formal order will be issued very soon in a day or two, effecting changes in the state election commission guidelines. We are revisiting the guidelines and discussions are going on. The idea is to cover more deserving cases. After the process is complete, we will issue a formal order.” Additional chief secretary Panchyati Raj, Manoj Kumar Singh said, “This has to be done with retrospective effect so that the next of kin of government staff who died a few days after completion of panchyat elections may get the benefit. Amendment is possible in election duty guidelines,” he said. To note, on Thursday chief minister Yogi Adityanath said arrangements should be made to give compensation to the dependants of those on election duty who died due to corona infection. “Since the guidelines of the state election commission were put into place when we had not even heard of corona, the commission is requested to amend the rules to provide proper help to the affected families,” the CM said. The chief minister also said: “As the guidelines are old, of a time when Covid did not exist, so there is a need to have a relook with sympathy.” The CM’s directive comes at a time when teachers’ associations have raised the issue that a total of 1,621 government school staff died after they contracted Covid infection during election duty. Hindustan Times has been reporting extensively on the issue, including the need to change the guidelines. In a report, HT spoke to several experts, including former chief election commissioner of India SY Quraishi who said the state government and the state election commission (SEC) should go for a “liberal interpretation” in case of casualty of government staff deployed on election duty, especially when the country was facing the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-deaths-during-poll-duty-sec-says-rulebook-to-be-changed-soon-101621624070922.html
22-05-2021||Other||UP govt declares black fungus a notifiable disease||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh government has declared mucormycosis (black fungus), a life-threatening fungal infection increasingly seen in Covid-19 patients, a notifiable disease following the central government’s Thursday advisory. The move comes after chief minister Yogi Adityanath asked the officers concerned to take necessary action and issue the relevant order on Friday itself. The chief minister also asked them to collect all relevant details like full case history and line of treatment of all the patients who were under treatment for black fungus in government hospitals, medical colleges, or private hospitals and submit them to the black fungus medical expert committee. “This will help the experts in evolving a better line of treatment for the disease”, Yogi said. Telangana, Odisha, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Gujarat have already declared black fungus a notifiable disease since the central government issued the advisory to the states. Uttar Pradesh has already reported 289 cases of black fungus infection in post-Covid patients of which eight have died. A notifiable disease is any disease that is required by law to be reported to government authorities. This allows the authorities to monitor the disease and provides early warning of possible outbreaks. The Centre wrote a letter to all the states and union territories on Thursday, asking them to declare mucormycosis or black fungus a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. At the Covid review meeting with Team-9 Yogi said: “ The state government, after consultation with the medical experts’ panel, is making arrangements for suitable treatment of black fungus cases. Following the advisory of the central government, black fungus should be declared notifiable diseases. The officers concerned should issue the order and make it effective today itself.” Yogi said that arrangements should also be made to ensure sufficient availability of drugs for black fungus’ treatment in all districts of the state. At the meeting, the officers told the chief minister that all districts had been provided drugs for mucormycosis treatment. The patients who were undergoing black fugus treatment in private hospitals may also get the medicines by applying to the divisional commissioner concerned. Mucormycosis is commonly seen in Covid-19 patients who are in the recovery phase of the disease. It usually infects people whose immune system has been compromised due to co-morbidities such as diabetes, kidney or heart failure or cancer. The symptoms of the fungal infection include blackening or discolouration over the nose, blurred or double vision, chest pain, breathing difficulties and coughing blood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-declares-black-fungus-a-notifiable-disease-101621623711015.html
22-05-2021||Other||Pro-Palestine meeting in Kondhwa violates Covid norms; FIR against 25 persons||The Kondhwa police have filed an FIR against 25 persons on Friday, for organising a meeting on May 18 under the aegis of the Kul Jamaat-e-Tanzim , an umbrella body of Muslim organisations, to discuss the Israel-Palestine conflict. No arrests have been made. The FIR has been registered under section 188, 269, 270 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, Maharashtra Police Act, Disaster Management Act and Maharashtra Covid-19 Regulations 2020.Police constable Nizam Mughal of Kondhwa police station in his complaint stated that corporator Haji Gafur Pathan (40), former corporator Rais Sundke (38), Haji Feroze Sheikh (42), husband of corporator Parvin Shaikh, and Maulana Qari Idris (72), president of Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind Pune, all residents of Kondhwa, are among those bookedAccording to police, the meeting took place between 8.30pm and 9.15 pm on May 18 at KGN Hall next to Hotel RC Kitchen in Kausarbaug, Kondhwa. The Maharashtra state government has banned all religious and political gatherings in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic.The FIR states: “The meeting was organised by Mujib Patel and Ilias Sheikh on behalf of Kul Jamaat-e-Tanjim. The meeting was organised to show solidarity with the people of Palestine and to condemn the Israeli attacks in Jerusalem and other areas. It was discussed that those present at the meeting should go to their nearest mosque to offer prayers for the victims of the attack. Also, all Muslims should stand behind the citizens of Palestine. Discussions were held to impose a boycott on as many Israeli items as possible. A memorandum was to be prepared in this regard. A total of 25 people were present.”Cleric Qari Idrees in a statement said, “It was a general discussion where all prominent social workers, lawyers and thinkers of the Muslim community had gathered on the ongoing Israel aggression against Palestinians in Gaza. A separate meeting was held at the office of another community person on the Palestine issue before our meeting. How come the police came to know only about our meet? We have been unfairly targeted by vested interests .”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/propalestine-meeting-in-kondhwa-violates-covid-norms-fir-against-25-persons-101621607569359.html
