23-05-2021||Other||Covid patient escapes from LLRM Medical College||MEERUT A Covid-19 patient escaped from LLRM Medical college on Sunday afternoon. A complaint was lodged in the medical college police station and search was underway to trace the patient. Dr Gyanendra Kumar, principal of LLRM Medical College, said that the patient Surendra,60 was brought to the Medical College from the district hospital on Saturday by a ward boy. Dr Gyanendra said that the patient was physically challenged. As per the ward boy, the patient had no caretaker, so his contact number was noted in his file, he said. Dr Gyanendra said at around 3 pm on Sunday, doctors and nurses on round in the Covid ward noticed that the patient was missing. The staff searched for him but in vain. Following this, the police were informed. “The patient is still missing and efforts are underway to locate him”, said SP (city) Vineet Bhatnagar. To recall, recently the medical college was recently in controversy for a missing Covid patient and received criticism from Allahabad high court. A Covid patient was admitted to the medical college Covid ward on April 21. The staff kept on updating his daughter about his health status till the morning of May 3 and in the evening she was told that no such patient was admitted to the ward. It was later discovered that the patient had the day after his admission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-patient-escapes-from-llrm-medical-college-101621794123707.html
23-05-2021||Other||Union minister lauds Ambala jail inmate for Covid safety song||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday praised an inmate lodged at the Ambala central jail for composing a Punjabi song promoting Covid-19 precautions.“Sheru, an inmate of Ambala jail, has set an example by creating a Punjabi song to spread awareness about Covid-19,” the minister tweeted, sharing the lyrics Muh te mask laga lae tu, nahi to duniya ton jaana... (wear a face mask or risk your life).The 40-year-old prisoner, who is serving a ten-year jail term, along with his six-member team, runs the prison radio station started by Tinka Tinka Foundation in February this year.He was among the 21 inmates selected from three jails in the state to be trained as radio jockeys (RJs) by Dr Vartika Nanda, founder of the foundation and head of journalism department, Lady Shri Ram College, New Delhi.“Before being imprisoned, singing was among his hobbies. He couldn’t get a platform to do it before, but the jail radio has helped shaped his new identity,” an official statement read.Jail superintendent Lakhbir Singh Brar said this will help boost the morale of other inmates.The radio broadcast happens for an hour daily and issues like health, law and order, education are given priority, the jailer said.Established in 1872, Ambala Central Jail is among the historical jails of the country. In 1949, Nathuram Godse, the assassin of Mahatma Gandhi, was executed here along with his co-conspirator Narayan Apte.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/union-minister-lauds-ambala-jail-inmate-for-covid-safety-song-101621793944221.html
23-05-2021||Other||Five years on, piped gas remains a pipe dream for Mohali residents||Already behind schedule by five years, Mohali residents will have to wait longer to get piped natural gas (PNG) as the firm appointed for the project has stalled the work.Earlier in 2019, due to delayed permissions from the municipal corporation (MC), the project could not pick up pace.The work was allotted to Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), in collaboration with the Adani Group, in 2016. The company has only laid the main 12-km gas pipeline on Airport Road, some parts of Industrial Area Phases 7 and 8-B, and in Sectors 67 and 68.Even in April 2018, the Punjab government notified the policy for providing PNG connections to households, but the project got delayed.A senior officer of the company said, “The Government of India allotted the gas pipeline work in 2014 and we applied for digging permission in 2016. However, it was approved only last year. Currently, the company is focusing on commercial areas instead of domestic. The work has been stopped completely now and I believe it will take another three years for the project to complete.”He added that initially, the firm’s plan was to start the work in Phase 10 and 11, but the main pipeline was laid only in the housing societies of Sectors 67 and 68.When contacted, Mohali MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “We have already given digging permission to the company. Why is it delaying the work now?”In Zirakpur, the company has laid a 3-km pipeline on VIP Road, but the permission to connect the main pipeline with households is still awaited.According to the project, the gas pipeline would be laid underground across the city leading to houses, just like water or electricity connections. Meters would be installed to measure the usage.The company has already covered most of the southern sectors in Chandigarh and will start the work in Sector 20 and Manimajra.PNG is around 20% cheaper than LPG supplied in cylinders, but the slow progress in laying underground pipes has been a major stumbling block and eluding customers from cheaper fuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-years-on-piped-gas-remains-a-pipe-dream-for-mohali-residents-101621793824626.html
23-05-2021||Other||Covid claims 29 more lives in Chandigarh tricity||Even as 29 more people succumbed to Covid-19 in the tricity on Sunday, the number of new cases dropped below 1,000 once again with 938 people testing positive for the virus.With more patients being cured and discharged than those testing positive, the active case load has plunged by nearly 50% from the peak of 24,201 logged on May 12 to 12,223 on Sunday.Even recovery rate was recorded at 90% or above across the tricity, while positivity rate dipped below 10% in Chandigarh and Panchkula and stood at 11% in Mohali, pointing to a receding second wave.Mohali, which is the worst hit in the tricity, recorded 454 cases and 16 deaths on Sunday, followed by 360 cases and 10 casualties in Chandigarh, and 124 cases and three fatalities in Panchkula.In Mohali, the number of active cases has dropped to 5,663 with 995 more patients being discharged on Sunday. Of 64,621 people tested positive so far, 58,092 have recovered. Meanwhile, the death toll has climbed to 866.With a dip in cases in the past five days, the demand for medical oxygen has also come down from 26 metric ton to 20 metric ton, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.In Chandigarh, 4,874 cases remain active. Positivity rate stood at 9.8% on Sunday, which means of every 10 people sampled, only one tested positive for the virus. During the peak, it had jumped to around 25%.Meanwhile, among the 10 dead, there was a 37-year-old woman from Burail. While two victims were in their 50s, all others were senior citizens, including a 99-year-old man from Sector 25.As many as 58,489 people have tested positive in the UT so far, of whom 52,913 have recovered and 702 have died. Panchkula is faring better than both its neighbours, as positivity rate has dropped to 6.9%, recovery rate has jumped to 94% and active case load stands at 1,686. The district has reported 29,145 cases so far, of which 27,145 have been cured and discharged and 314 patients have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-claims-29-more-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity-101621793286166.html
23-05-2021||Other||Couple’s marriage called off after altercation, cops help them tie the knot||Lucknow: A couple in Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur got unusual help from local police to get married after their marriage was called off following an altercation between relatives. The local police called the couple to the police station and arranged for their marriage in the presence of only a handful of close family members, late on Saturday night. The parents of Kamlesh Verma, 23 and Kranti Verma, 22, got the shock of their lives when their relatives caused a ruckus during the marriage function of their wards in a village under Ramchandra Mission police station. The altercation took place after an argument between a couple of drunk relatives and escalated to a point that the ongoing marriage was stopped. “The groom and some of his friends returned home after the altercation while his father and the bride’s father reached the police station to lodge complaints against each other’s relatives,” said station house officer (SHO) of Ramkrishna Mission police station Sanjay Kumar, “After speaking to them, I realised that the marriage was being cancelled over an argument between some drunk relatives. I tried to help the couple and their family and offered to arrange the marriage if they agreed.” Realising their fault, the parents of the couple agreed to go ahead with the marriage. “We realised our mistake and agreed to get the children married. However, it was decided that the marriage would be held at some other place because returning to the village of the bride could lead to an altercation again,” said Ram Krishna Verma, father of the groom. The SHO then offered to arrange the marriage in a small temple on the police station premises. The family members asked the groom to reach the police station and a police team escorted the bride to the police station from her home along with some family members and the priest. “The police personnel at the police station helped to make some space in the temple where the priest performed the rituals at around 2 am. Around 20 people, including the family members and police personnel, participated in the marriage and gave their blessings to the newly-weds,” said the SHO. Senior police officials of the district, including the superintendent of police of Shahjahanpur, appreciated the quick thinking of the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/couples-marriage-called-off-after-altercation-cops-help-them-tie-the-knot-101621793163588.html
23-05-2021||Other||UP cities witness rise in black fungus cases||Lucknow/Agra/Prayagraj/Varanasi: Several cities in Uttar Pradesh are witnessing a steady rise in the dreaded mucormycosis or black fungus cases, with the total case count in the state touching 581. Twenty deaths have also been reported till now. To note, the UP government has declared black fungus as a notifiable disease. In the state capital, a black fungus patient died while 11 fresh patients were admitted to the King George’s Medical University. With this, the total number of patients in the KGMU here has reached 135. Doctors operated on 19 patients to remove dead tissues. “A 58-year-old patient of black fungus died during treatment,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson KGMU. Elsewhere, the number of black fungus patients admitted to SN Medical College and Hospital in Agra increased to 20 on Sunday, while two patients were admitted to Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital (SRNH) in Prayagraj and were being treated in isolation, said officials. In Varanasi, 78 patients were under treatment at Sir Sundar Lal (SSL) Hospital, IMS-BHU. Dr Sanjay Kala, principal, SN Medical College and Hospital, Agra, said, “Out of the 20 cases, 12 are in serious condition. In fact, five of these 12 cases are critical. They are admitted to different wards.” In view of rising cases, the hospital authorities are planning to increase the number of beds to 100. “We are constantly getting patients with complaint of black fungus and most of them are coming from nursing homes in Agra and nearby districts with serious complications,” said Dr Kala. “In view of sharp rise in cases, we plan to enhance the number of beds to 100 in days ahead,” he said. In Varanasi, the first patient of black fungus was admitted to Sir Sundar Lal (SSL) Hospital, IMS-BHU on April 24. “So far, 84 patients have been admitted to the SSL hospital. At present, 78 patients are under treatment while six have died. Four black fungus deaths were reported in the past two days, two each on Saturday and Sunday while the rest two occurred two weeks ago. “The black fungus patients who died had comorbidities,” said Prof KK Gupta, medical superintendent of the hospital, on Sunday. A team of 18 doctors from various departments of IMS-BHU had been constituted for treating black fungus patients, he said. He said, “The specialists are providing proper treatment to the black fungus patients admitted here. A total of 78 patients are under treatment in post-Covid and Covid wards here. Of them, 39 black fungus patients are Covid positive.” Prof Gupta said the remaining 39 were admitted to the post Covid ward. These patients had recovered from Covid-19 and suffered black fungus thereafter. In Prayagraj, five black fungus patients are undergoing treatment at SRN hospital at present. They include patients from other districts as well, according to officials. Dr Sujeet Verma, the nodal officer of corona ward at SRN hospital, said the two new cases in the hospital included a man from Dhumanganj and another from Koraon development block. “We have isolated the patients and started anti-fungal treatment as per the set treatment protocol,” said Dr Verma. Earlier, two black fungus cases were reported by two private hospitals of the city. One confirmed case was also operated upon at MD Eye Hospital four days back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-cities-witness-rise-in-black-fungus-cases-101621792864232.html
23-05-2021||Other||Vaccinators face resistance in some Uttar Pradesh villages||Covid-19 vaccinators are facing resistance from villagers in some districts of Uttar Pradesh, so much so that around 200 residents jumped into the Saryu river in Barabanki district’s Sisaunda village as health workers insisted that they take the jab on Saturday.Several other villagers sat on the river’s embankment, threatening to jump deep into water if the vaccinators did not leave the village.After several hours of persuasion, the villagers came out of the water but merely 14 agreed to take the vaccine that day, an official said on Sunday.Ram Nagar subdivisional magistrate (SDM) Rajiv Kumar Shukla said the vaccinators will visit Sisaunda, which has a population of 1700, again on Monday to inoculate the remaining beneficiaries.In a separate incident, residents of Auraiya district’s Kadalpur village did not permit health workers to enter their village.When accredited social health activists (Ashas) appealed to the villagers to take the vaccine, the villagers emerged with sticks, threatening to attack the vaccinators. As the villagers refused to take the vaccine, the health workers left the village.Villager also refused to take the vaccine at Khandi in Lalitpur district. Although health workers visited each household urging people to visit the vaccination camp, the villagers did not turn up. Later, the health workers left the village.In Hamirpur district’s Bhatpura village, too, villagers refused to take the Covid vaccine. There, some of the residents were not willing to give their samples for tests either after a team of health workers reached the village on receiving reports about suspected Covid-19 cases. A group of villagers surrounded the health workers, threatening them with dire consequences if they did not leave.Taking note of resistance to the Covid vaccine in the rural areas, the state health and family welfare department has directed the respective districts’ administration to launch an awareness campaign with the assistance of village surveillance committees and newly elected gram panchayat members to motivate the villagers to take the jabs .Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said the villagers should not believe in misleading publicity about the vaccine.“The vaccine is safe, has no side-effect. It will protect them from Covid infection. Even after taking the vaccine, people should follow the Covid protocol. They should take both doses. The state government has launched statewide test, trace and treat drive in the rural areas to intensify the fight against the second wave of Covid-19,” he said.A state government official said the district administration officials were directed to take strict action against the “anti-social elements” who were spreading rumours against the vaccine. As for the incident at Barabanki’s Sisaunda village, a team led by Ram Nagar sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Rajiv Kumar Shukla visited the spot. The district administration officials and health department team urged the villagers to come out of the river, assuring them that the vaccine would have no side-effects and it would protect them from Covid -19. As a result, 14 villagers relented and agreed to take the vaccine that day.To protect the rural population from Covid-19, the district administration had launched a vaccination drive in villages under a statewide programme for beneficiaries above 45 years of age, Shukla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccinators-face-resistance-in-some-uttar-pradesh-villages-101621792143566.html
23-05-2021||Other||3,057 new Covid-19 cases, 93 deaths in Pune district on Sunday||PUNE As per the state health department, Pune district reported 3,057 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours on Sunday. The district also reported 93 deaths due to the infection. This takes the total count in the district to 0.99 million, of which 0.936 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 11,474, with 51,182 active cases undergoing treatment in hospital or in home isolation. Pune rural reported 1,644 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count up to 2,79,066. With 84 deaths reported on Sunday, the toll in rural areas went up to 3,403. Pune city reported 786 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count up to 4,79,901. With nine deaths reported on Sunday, the toll went up to 6,377. PCMC reported 627 new Covid-19 cases. The progressive count in PCMC stands at 2,40,201. No deaths were reported on Sunday. The PCMC death toll stands at 1,634. The state reported that 29,177 patients have been discharged on Sunday, taking the total to 51,40,272. The recovery rate in the state is 92.12%. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.59%. Currently, 26,96,306 people are in home quarantine and 21,771 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3057-new-covid-19-cases-93-deaths-in-pune-district-on-sunday-101621783923239.html
23-05-2021||Other||Lohegaon Airport is operational, director clarifies after social media rumours on closure||PUNE Daily flight operations from the Lohegaon airport in Pune are as per schedule and there is no plan for closure by the Airport Authority of India (AAI). Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said, “All passengers please note that Pune Airport is operational and there is no closure planned at the moment. The airport is operational between 8 am and 8 pm every day. You can check on airline or travel websites for flights between Pune and Bengaluru.”The clarification on Sunday came after rumours on social media that Pune airport was to be closed for four days.“Please note that all passengers arriving from any airport outside Maharashtra to Pune should have a negative RT-PCR test report before boarding the flight,” Singh said.Flights from Pune travel to Chennai, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Delhi, Patna, Kolkata, Lucknow, Bhubaneshwar, Hyderabad, and Cochin.Frequent flyer Shweta Adlakha said, “I often travel to Delhi and Kolkata for official and personal work. I am planning to go this week, but when I got a message on social media about Pune airport being closed I got confused. With the clarification from AAI Pune on their official Twitter handle, I am relieved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lohegaon-airport-is-operational-director-clarifies-after-social-media-rumours-on-closure-101621783383124.html
23-05-2021||Other||“No-exam” option for HSC students on the table for state education minister||PUNE Maharashtra’s education minister Varsha Gaikwad, on Sunday, hinted that a “no –examination” route will be explored for the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC), Class 12 students. This exam was earlier postponed due to the surge in Covid cases. It is now likely that the education minister is considering the no-exam option for the 1.3 million students who were to appear for the exam this year. The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) had cancelled the Class 10, Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examination, giving relief to 1.6 million students across Maharashtra. However, no decision has been taken on the Class 12 students yet.On Sunday, during a national-level online meeting with Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, regarding the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), Class 12 examination, Gaikwad emphasised that the Central Government should actively examine the “no examination” option for Class 12 CBSE students. She said that keeping in mind the ongoing pandemic situation and the projection that children are vulnerable to new strains of coronavirus, this option should be examined. “Health and mental well-being of children, their families must be our priority. Students and parents have been sharing their concerns regarding sitting for exams amid the pandemic,” said Gaikwad.During a press interaction on Sunday, Gaikwad further added that since most professional courses hold entrance exams for admissions, many experts are of the view that it is possible to evaluate the performance of a Class 12 student based on a retroactive assessment model.“Students have been studying in Class 12 for over 14 months. Personally, I believe that we should remove the uncertainty regarding exams and take a decision that is in the student’s interest. Our focus should now be on evolving a uniform assessment policy, vaccination of all teachers and eligible students, and safe resumption of schools and colleges in the next academic year,” said Gaikwad.Sampada Waghmare, a student of Class 12, said that it will be a welcome decision if the examinations are cancelled. “Students have been under immense stress due to the uncertainty around the Class 12 exams. If the decision to cancel the exam is taken it will be a relief. The final decision should be taken soon without any delay,” said Waghmare.Education expert and former chairman of the state education board, Vasant Kalpande, said that offline examinations should be taken for Class 12 students.“We understand that this is an unprecedented situation. And so the board has to postpone the examination. There will come a time when cases will reduce. During that time, the offline examination should be taken. This evaluation is important for students and their careers,” Kalpande said.He further added that students this year faced a big challenge. “Students have studied online and various internal assessments have been taken through assignments and project work. All these are a part of the complete assessment. At many online examinations, we have seen that students used unfair means and passed. In order to keep the assessment fair and unbiased in the state, offline examinations are the only solution,” said Kalpande.Gaikwad said that a meeting with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will be held in the next few days.“A decision about the Class 12 examinations will be taken soon. We are arranging a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and the decision will be taken,” said Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noexam-option-for-hsc-students-on-the-table-for-state-education-minister-101621782423177.html
23-05-2021||Other||91 hospitals on “severe risk” list in district fire audit||PUNE The district administration, on Sunday, issued directives for immediate compliance with fire safety norms to 91 hospitals that figured in the “severe risk” list of a fire audit recently conducted. A total of 737 hospitals were scrutinised for fire safety norms in the aftermath of the hospital fire tragedy in Nashik recently.District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “We have conducted a fire audit of 737 hospitals where 91 hospitals in the district were found wanting in adhering to fire safety norms, like not having enough hospital space where a fire brigade vehicle can enter, and a lack of fire extinguishers inside the hospitals. At the same time we have ordered an electric audit of all the hospitals to ward off short-circuit-driven fire incidents.” Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao had formed a seven-member committee to conduct fire audits of hospitals in Pune Zilla Parishad, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations and the Cantonment areas. The committee was headed by Suhas Divase, chairman and chief executive officer (CEO) of PMRDA. Earlier, the Bombay High Court had directed the Maharashtra government to ensure municipal authorities conducted an immediate fire audit of all hospitals, nursing homes and Covid-19 care centres across Maharashtra.In April, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had issued notices to 61 hospitals for lacunas in the fire-fighting systems, after it carried out a fire audit of the said medical establishments.The central fire brigade department inspected over 240 hospitals with the help of private auditors and submitted the report to the civic administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/91-hospitals-on-severe-risk-list-in-district-fire-audit-101621781763099.html
23-05-2021||Other||Vaccine on wheels: Requests flow in from retirement homes||The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) “Vaccination on Wheels” service aims to vaccinate residents of retirement homes, and the initiative kicked off recently at the Niwara home, in Sadashiv peth. The civic body is now receiving many applications from other retirement homes for the Vaccination on Wheels Covid-19 service. Retirement homes like Pitashree in Kondhwa, Matoshree near Rajaram Bridge and Janaseva Foundation in Khadakwasla have requested for the service. On Saturday, PMC additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal tweeted: “For decades *Niwara, is the home for senior citizens* in the heart of Pune city - 180 senior citizens were vaccinated at their doorstep through PMC’s initiative Vaccination on wheels”. Agarwal said, “We started this initiative from Niwara and we plan to extend it to others based on the availability of the vaccines.” As of Saturday, Pune city had vaccinated 34% or 1,29,902 of its senior-citizen population with the second dose, while 72%, or 2,74,601 have got the first dose. Ravindra Marathe, a trustee at Niwara, said, “We are grateful to the PMC that they could ease the vaccination process for our members. We have 120 residents and we had to take 20 each day using a bus to the centre. “However, after that, it was very difficult for us to get the second dose and so we requested the PMC to arrange for a special provision. Over 180 of our residents and staff got the second dose. We have 120 senior citizens and 60 employees,” he added. Marathe added that not all could get the vaccine due to the requirement of the Aadhar card. He said, “Usually when these senior citizens come to us they do not have any identity cards so we prepare an Aadhaar card based on the address of our home. However, since the past one year, due to the pandemic, we avoided going out. In the past one year six more residents joined the home, but they could not get their Aadhaar cards. Due to this they have not been vaccinated.” Vaccine on wheels To formally request the service, forward an application to the PMC civic body at vaccination.campus@gmail.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccine-on-wheels-requests-flow-in-from-retirement-homes-101621778763079.html
23-05-2021||Other||Baner hsg society raises ₹5 lakh for family for security staffer who died due to Covid||PUNE Residents of the Nandan Prospera housing society in Baner have collected funds for security personnel of the society who died due to Covid.Lalubhau Dongre (54), a security guard working at the society, passed away on May 3. His wife and daughter were also admitted to the Yeshwantrao Chavan Hospital with Covid.Thanks to the intervention of 216 flat owners of Nandan Prospera, the Dongre family will survive the loss of the main bread-earner.The society members collected ₹5.5 lakh and handed it over to Vandana Lalubhau Dongre, the wife.“Lalubhau was working with us for the past three years as security and was always very helpful, diligent, and cheerful person. When we had undertaken RTPCR tests of 110 housemaids, security personnel, and gardening staff Dongre had tested negative,” said chairman Dattatray Deshmukh. “He tested positive later. With one message, everyone volunteered to help the family, and people donated, with which we created a fixed deposit of Rs5 lakh and the remaining amount was given for hospital charges,” Deshmukh adds.The society has consistently been at the forefront in the battle against Covid, arranged for tiffins, PPE kits, oxygen cylinders, and wheelchairs, as and when needed.When Dinesh Patange’s family, residents of Nandan Prospera, tested positive for Covid, he and his wife were hospitalised. “My condition was very bad, and the society helped search for a hospital and admitted both of us. My little daughter and my mother were positive, but my father, and grandmother tested negative. The society members gave us complete mental and physical support, and also provided food for 20 days for the entire family,” said Patange.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/baner-hsg-society-raises-rs-5-lakh-for-family-for-security-staffer-who-died-due-to-covid-101621777862931.html
23-05-2021||Other||Barge tragedy: MVA wants Union min to go, BJP calls for action against pvt firm||The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were locked in a war of words on Saturday over the P305 barge tragedy off Mumbai coast during Cyclone Tauktae, which has so far claimed 66 lives.MVA has held the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) and the Union petroleum ministry responsible for the tragedy, and the three ruling partners – Congress, Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) – have demanded petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan’s resignation.Meanwhile, BJP has alleged that the Maharashtra government is “shielding” the contractor firm against whom a criminal case should be registered. BJP leader Ashish Shelar has demanded that Afcons Infrastructure, whose chartered barge P305 sank in the Arabian Sea, be charged with culpable homicide and a criminal case be registered against its officials. “Leaders from MVA government are shielding Afcons Infrastructure and its owners Shapoorji Pallonji and its directors. A case has been registered against the captain who is still missing. How can the captain alone be held guilty for the tragedy? The contractor company is solely responsible for the incident , despite which it’s being shielded by the people in the government,” he said.Shelar has also raised questions over the offshore operation by the contractors even after the cyclone warnings were issued. “Afcons was expected to begin the winding up process by May 12, but sought an extension till June 15. It did not bring its employees back despite the cyclone warning on May 11. Other companies, including ONGC, called their personnel back, but Afcons continued the operations. I have met Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale and demanded a thorough inquiry into it by registering a case against the contractor firm,” he said.An Afcons spokesperson said that the company has no comment to offer on the statements by political leaders. In its statement issued on Friday, the company had said, “It’s our moral duty to support not only the families of the deceased persons involved in direct rolls, but also the families of all the deceased who were employed with sub-contractors. The calamity arising from the fury of Cyclone Tauktae was unprecedented, and we share the anguish of the affected families. We will ensure that the families of the deceased receive total compensation.” Meanwhile Shiv Sena, which heads MVA, has demanded a criminal action against ONGC, which comes under the Centre. In an editorial in party mouthpiece Saamana on Saturday, the party said that the deaths were “culpable homicide” as ONGC did not take the cyclone warnings seriously. “The cyclone warning was given well in advance, but ONGC ignored it and didn’t recall the personnel working on the barge. Forty-nine bodies have been found and 26 are still missing [the toll later surged to 66 and nine are said to be missing]. Had the Indian Navy and the Coast Guard not launched the search and rescue operations, around 700 people would have drowned. They were conducting oil rigging for ONGC, and hence, it was the government-owned firm’s duty to protect their lives,” it stated.Sena’s Member of Parliament (MP) and Saamana’s executive editor Sanjay Raut, said, “A culpable homicide case must be filed against the CMD (chairman and managing director) and directors of ONGC for whom the personnel of the private contractor were working. Why did ONGC not take any action to bring them to the shore? Their negligence has led to the deaths of 60 people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/barge-tragedy-mva-wants-union-min-to-go-bjp-calls-for-action-against-pvt-firm-101621713240411.html
23-05-2021||Other||Trial in 13/7 Mumbai blasts likely to be delayed further||Almost 10 years after three coordinated bomb explosions in Mumbai left 27 dead and 127 injured, the trial in the 13/7 blasts case is less likely to start in the near future. The framing of charges is being delayed as some of the accused are insisting for their physical presence before the trial court to respond to the allegations to be framed against them. However, the Maharashtra government has issued an order prohibiting the physical production of those on death row in other terror-related cases. On July 13, 2011, a series of blasts took place at Zaveri Bazaar, Opera House and Dadar between 6.52pm and 7.05pm. Mumbai Police had arrested 11 accused and said they belonged to an outfit named Indian Mujahideen. In 2017, special public prosecutor Ujwal Nikam had moved a plea for issuance of production warrant against the accused for a speedy trial in the case. Most of the accused had been lodged in Taloja jail, Tihar jail and Hyderabad jail for various offences. Hence, the prosecution sought for their production. Two years later on March 29, 2019, the special MCOCA (Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act) court passed an order to frame the charges against the 11 arrested accused, a crucial step to pave a way to begin the trial. However, till date, the court has been able to frame charges against only a few accused as the rest have been insisting on physical appearance before the court. The prosecution has expressed its inability to produce all the accused before the court as few of them are facing capital punishment in the Hyderabad blasts case. One of the accused, Ajaz Shaikh, who is facing a death sentence in connection with the Hyderabad twin blasts case, had approached the court for his physical production for framing of charges and also to meet his lawyer for further aid. The prosecution as well as the prison authorities informed the court that the state government passed a general order for the non-removal of present applicant from prison as he has been facing a death sentence passed in another case. Considering this, the court rejected Shaikh’s application, observing, “Frequent directions have been issued earlier for proceeding expeditiously into the matter. The various other accused persons are however, not cooperating for framing of the charge on the similar ground as that of the present applicant raised, for insisting their physical presence before the court.” The court in its order has hence said, “The accused persons concerned must cooperate to proceed further expeditiously, otherwise the appropriate procedure will be adopted in furthering the proceeding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/trial-in-13-7-mumbai-blasts-likely-to-be-delayed-further-101621713059292.html
23-05-2021||Other||Mohali’s Mayo Hospital issued show-cause notice over remdesivir misuse||Taking a strict note of misappropriation of state supply of remdesivir injections for Covid-19 patients by Mayo Hospital, Mohali, the district administration has issued a show-cause notice to the former.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said they have issued a show-cause notice to the hospital and sought a reply within 48 hours.The district administration received a complaint regarding the drug misuse by the private hospital on Saturday. Dayalan said it was alleged that remdesivir injections, which are being provided to private hospitals at controlled rates by the state government for treatment of Covid patients, were taken wrongfully by the hospital with no corresponding record of the patients concerned.Police too verifying allegations As the three directors of the hospital and chief finance officer have lodged counter complaints against each other over illegal procurement of the drug, police are investigating the allegations.In their complaint, hospital directors Deepak Tyagi, Virender Dhankhad and Dr Manoj Sharma have stated that chief finance officer Mukesh Sharma was found illegally procuring remdesivir injections and selling them at a premium to the patients outside the hospital with the help of his son.While contrary to these claims, Mukesh alleged in his a counter police complaint that the directors fabricated documents pertaining to the drug.The police are verifying the complaints and have recorded the statements of employees of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohalis-mayo-hospital-issued-show-cause-notice-over-remdesivir-misuse-101621712999739.html
23-05-2021||Other||Don’t let down guard despite decline in Covid-19 cases, say Maharashtra’s doctors||Though Maharashtra has shown a decline in the number of new Covid-19 infections by recording 26,133 cases on Saturday against Friday’s 29,644 cases, experts have warned citizens against being causal and asked to strictly adhere to the Covid-19 norms.The warning was issued in the backdrop of a study conducted by the Union health ministry, which pointed that 50% of people still do not wear masks, while 64 % who wear them do not cover their nose. The study conducted in 25 cities across India has concluded that only 14% of people wear masks correctly.Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said citizens need to adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour at least till the end of the year. “Maharashtra has shown a remarkable progress in bringing down the cases. Even in the 15 districts currently showing high number of cases, we should remember that the surge started late and will soon decline in the coming days. However, we cannot afford to let our guard down,” said Dr Lahane.He has credited the lockdown for the decrease in cases and said that the lockdown was imposed as a last resort on April 22 as 67,013 cases were detected on that day and citizens were not adhering to Covid-19 guidelines. “There will be no need for any lockdown if people follow simple rules such as wearing masks properly, sanitising their hands regularly and maintaining social distance,” said Dr Lahane.This view was endorsed by Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, who emphasised on the need for self-discipline among people. “Citizens should not repeat the mistakes that they had made last year after the restrictions were eased, like indulging in social gathering, holding mammoth religious and wedding functions and roaming unnecessarily,” said Dr Mandot. “If people don’t wear masks and indulge in casual behaviour, all the gains achieved till now will be lost, and we will face a more severe third wave,” warned Dr Mandot.Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally has reached 5,553,225 and the toll is at 87,300 after 682 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state on Saturday. The highest deaths – 14,516 – were reported in Mumbai, followed by Pune (11,068).Currently, there are 352,247 active cases in the state, of which the highest –54,198 – are in Pune, followed by Mumbai with 28,232 patients.The state also conducted 281,585 tests. Amravati and Nashik have eased the lockdown restrictions owing to a decline in cases. In Washim, traffic police personnel Manisha Chouke, who is seven-months pregnant, was seen managing the traffic and urging citizens to adhere to Covid-19 restrictions. In Dhule, Washim and Nanded, the police nabbed those roaming or driving without a valid reason and conducted their Covid-19 antigen tests. At Dombivli, a 100-year-old senior citizen was discharged from hospital after he successfully triumphed over the virus.To prevent the Covid-19 outbreak among infants and children, Maharashtra’s paediatric taskforce will guide the doctors in an online meeting scheduled on Sunday between 12pm and 2pm in the presence of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Meanwhile, despite the decline in the Covid-19 cases, the state is facing a new challenge as the number of patients suffering from mucormycosis (black fungus) is increasing rapidly.The state seems to be reeling under a shortage of Amphotericin B injections, used in the treatment of mucormycosis, as relatives of patients have been frantically searching for the drug. State energy minister Nitin Raut has blamed the Central government for lack of adequate supply of the drug.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dont-let-down-guard-despite-decline-in-covid-19-cases-say-maharashtra-s-doctors-101621712939240.html
23-05-2021||Other||New village pradhans in UP to be sworn in virtually on May 25 and 26||The state’s newly elected village pradhans and ward members will be sworn in through a video conference to be organised on May 25 and 26 after district magistrates issue a notification reconstituting all the village panchayats where pradhans and not less than two-thirds of the members have been elected. Also, the reconstituted village panchayats will necessarily hold their first meeting throughout the state on May 27 and discuss the agenda.The government on Saturday issued two notifications, asking districts magistrates to make necessary arrangements for the virtual swearing-in of village heads and members as well as holding of the new panchayats’ first meeting.The oath-related notification issued by additional chief secretary (panchayati raj) Manoj Kumar Singh, says that considering the situation arising from Covid-19 it would not be desirable to call 58,176 newly elected pradhans and 7,31,813 ward members to the blocks to administer oath to them.“Therefore, it has been decided after due consideration that officials nominated by DMs will administer oath virtually to pradhans and members who will be connected to the blocks through laptops etc that panchayat secretaries will arrange in villages’ panchayat bhawans, community centres etc on May 25 and May 26,” the circular says.Another notification issued by Singh asks DMs to ensure that all newly constituted village panchayats necessarily convene their first meeting on May 27 after pradhans and members take oath. DMs will also see to it that constitution of six village committees was put on the first meeting’s agenda.The three-tier panchayat polls in UP were held in four phases between April 15 and April 29. Counting of votes was held on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-village-pradhans-in-up-to-be-sworn-in-virtually-on-may-2526-101621712279166.html
23-05-2021||Other||Dy CM ensures just 21 people attend his son’s wedding||LUCKNOW: Days after the state government decided to restrict the number of guests in marriage functions to 25, UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya ensured that lesser than the prescribed number of guests were present in his elder son’s marriage in Rae Bareli on Friday. Visuals shared by Maurya showed a handful of guests at the wedding, all wearing face masks even as BJP leaders vied to congratulate Maurya for following the Covid protocol in letter and spirit. BJP leaders said though up to 25 people were permitted in weddings by the state government, Maurya’s son’s marriage was attended by only 21 close relatives. “Following the Covid protocol, marriage of my son Yogesh Kumar Maurya with Anjali Maurya was solemnised. I expect your wishes and blessings as I could not receive them directly,” Maurya said tweeting photos of his son’s marriage. Anjali hails from Rae Bareli. “A top minister led by example. Such gestures would help in conveying the message of holding marriages with limited people to break the chain of Covid-19 infection,” UP BJP spokesman Navin Srivastava said. On May 18, the UP government had restricted the number of guests in marriage functions to 25 after revising its previous order in which 50 people in closed halls and 100 people in open spaces like lawns were permitted. The latest order permits only 25 people at wedding functions, both in closed or open space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dy-cm-ensures-just-21-people-attend-his-son-s-wedding-101621711739135.html
23-05-2021||Other||Pvt hospitals keen to treat Covid patients may apply for permission||LUCKNOW: Private hospitals (in addition to the ones already treating Covid patients) which plan to treat Covid cases may apply online for permission/enrolment from Monday.Nodal officer for Covid in Lucknow Roshan Jacob said it had been observed that some hospitals that had been notified by the district administration did not admit patients while those not notified had a few Covid patients under treatment. Hence the process was being simplified to allow all hospitals willing to treat Covid patients to do so. She said such hospitals would not be notified but only their list would be made. At present, 59 hospitals in the private sector are listed for Covid treatment, while the total number of hospitals in the city is 691. In view of a possible third wave, it appeared significant to allow all interested hospitals to treat Covid patients, Jacob said in a press statement. Hospitals can apply via http://dgmhup-gov-in with documents such as registration certificate, Fire NoC and bio-medical waste management certificate.Hospitals which are not enrolled/notified as Covid hospitals have to apply while those already treating Covid patients do not need to follow any further process.A three-member pandemic public grievance committee has also been constituted. The members are Dr Samir Misra, senior faculty of trauma surgery department at the King George’s Medical University, Covid command centre in charge Prabhas Kumar and a special chief judicial magistrate. The committee can be approached by people who are not satisfied with treatment at any hospital or have been overcharged, as well as for any other Covid-related complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pvt-hospitals-keen-to-treat-covid-patients-may-apply-for-permission-101621711499742.html
23-05-2021||Other||Allahabad University to hold convocation on September 23||Allahabad University (AU) will hold its convocation function on September 23, the foundation day of the central varsity. A decision in this regard was taken in a virtual meeting chaired by the vice-chancellor Prof Sangita Srivastava on Saturday.The all-important meeting was attended by all the deans, heads of the departments, directors of institutes and coordinators of centres of the university.After discussion, it was decided that the next convocation of AU would be held on September 23. It was on September 23, 1887, that AU was established as the fourth university in the country.“The decision as to whether the event will be in online or an offline mode will depend on the then prevailing Covid situation,” informed the public relation officer (PRO) of AU Jaya Kapoor while confirming the decision.Earlier, AU had held its convocation ceremony after a gap of 15 long years on September 5, 2019. Noble laureate Kailash Satyarthi was the chief guest at the event who delivered the presidential address. This was the first convocation after AU became a central university in 2005.Before this, AU had organised the last convocation in 2003-04. The convocation was also held in the year 1993-94 when Prof SC Srivastava was the VC. The university had invited Samajwadi Party patriarch and the then defence minister Mulayam Singh Yadav as the chief guest. Former President APJ Abdul Kalam and former chief election commissioner TN Sheshan were awarded honorary DSc and LLD degrees respectively.“A call for the institution of medals and scholarships has been made and those interested in sponsoring them can do so. A three-member committee has been set up to scrutinise the proposals and the details will be available on the AU website soon,” said the PRO.In another important decision, the AU administration has announced that the tenure of the guest faculty, presently engaged in different departments, has been extended till July 15, 2021. The decision has been taken to facilitate the completion of the course of the classes whose exams are scheduled in July.The heads of the departments were also informed that from May 27, the offices will start reopening for administrative work with 50 per cent of staff coming for three days a week, on a rotation basis. “The process of cleaning and sanitisation of the offices and departments is being carried out. The VC has directed the HoD’s to proceed with removing the scrap items and ensure repairs in their department,” informed the PRO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-university-to-hold-convocation-on-september-23-101621711499083.html
23-05-2021||Other||Jabs for 18+ in all UP districts from June 1, says chief minister||The Covid-19 vaccination drive for people in the 18-44 age group will be extended to all districts of the state from June 1, chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced on Saturday.Currently, it was going on in 23 districts, he said at a Covid-19 review meeting in Lucknow.He directed the officials concerned to “also launch the vaccination drive in villages in such districts where the infection rate is high.”A state government official said that the government would soon issue an order with guidelines for the 18-44 age group vaccination in all districts.A state government spokesperson said despite being the most populous state, UP was going about aggressively vaccinating the 18+ age category to counter the pandemic surge. Since May 1, Uttar Pradesh gave the first dose of the vaccine to 10 lakh people in the 18-plus category, the highest number of vaccinations in this age group in the entire country, the spokesperson said.The youths were also enthusiastic about vaccination and on Friday the turnout against the total number of persons registered for the day was nearly 100%, the spokesperson added.The government statement said UP had so far administered as many as 1.62 crore (16.2 million) doses in all categories, including 33.4 lakh (3.34 million) second doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jabs-for-18-in-all-up-districts-from-june-1-says-chief-minister-101621711439091.html
23-05-2021||Other||Of 690 gram panchayats of Agra, Covid cases found in 169: Admn||A survey by the Agra district administration in rural areas has found that of the 690 gram panchayats falling within its limits, 169 were affected while 521 stayed safe from the Covid pandemic.The survey was launched recently under the state government’s test-trace-treat campaign to break the Covid infection chain in rural areas.“On basis of this survey, new strategy is being made for tracing, testing and treating the villagers. The required steps are being taken and those villagers found suspected or symptomatic are being tested,” said district magistrate Prabhu N Singh.He said 67 gram panchayats spread in three blocks of Achhnera, Saiyyan and Fatehpur Sikri were found to be the most affected by the virus. Giving the breakup, Singh said in Acchnera block having 52 gram panchayats most number of infections were found in 25 gram panchayats.Similarly in Fatehpur Sikri block, infections were reported from 21 gram panchayats while 35 remained safe from Covid-19 spread, he said. In Saiyyan block, of the 44 gram panchayats, infections were reported from 21 while 23 were free from the virus.Standing out in the survey was Bah block where no positive cases were found in any of the 50 gram panchayats.The DM further said only a few cases were reported in Jagner, Pinahat and Kheragarh blocks.However, the administration hasn’t released the exact number of positive cases reported in these gram panchayats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/of-690-gram-panchayats-of-agra-covid-cases-found-in-169-admn-101621711079019.html
