24-05-2021||Other||Vaccinate students, teachers, before conducting CBSE class 12 exams: Sisodia to Centre||New Delhi: Conducting the CBSE Class 12 board exams without vaccinating students and teachers may prove to be a big mistake, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Sunday at a high-level meeting called by the Union education ministry to discuss the fate of the pending board and entrance exams, which were postponed in view of the ongoing second Covid-19 wave across the country. The virtual meeting was chaired by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and attended by education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, minister of women and child development Smriti Irani, and information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar. State education ministers and secretaries, CBSE officials, and chairpersons of state examination boards were also present during the meeting. Though the meeting remained inconclusive, officials in attendance said that there was a “broad consensus” that the exams must be held, for a limited number of subjects and with a shorter duration, when the situation is under control. Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s education minister, said the state government was not in favour of conducting exams in the current scenario. “Families across the nation have suffered immense pain and trauma due to Covid-19. It’s time for the Union government to take a decision with respect to board exams, considering it has caused enough tension among our student and teacher community,” Sisodia said in a statement. “Conducting board exams in these unprecedented times will be a big mistake on behalf of the central government. Administering board exams when the world is preparing for the third Covid-19 wave is irresponsible, and at a time when there 2.5 lakh Covid-19 cases a day in our country, our students, parents, and teachers will not be in a good mental state to sit for any kind of exams,” he added. Sisodia said students of Class 12 should be evaluated using alternative methods such as those CBSE used for Class 10 students this year after their exams were cancelled last month. “The central government should cancel the board exams if vaccinations are not possible, and initiate the ‘no-exam policy’ for students, awarding grades on the basis of their (students’) unit tests, pre-board exams, practical exams, similar to the Class 10 promotion policy. Students should also be given a choice to retake exams to improve, in case they are not satisfied with their results,” he said. Sisodia said the Delhi government demanded that both students and teachers must be vaccinated before conducting examinations. “In such a time of crisis, the central government should speak to Pfizer, as it has already developed vaccines for children aged above 12, and acquire these vaccines for the 1.4 crore students (across all boards, all over India) who are in Class 12. Only after procuring vaccines and vaccinating all students should the central government think about conducting any kind of examinations,” the Delhi education minister said. He said 95% of the students in Class 12th are above the age of 17.5, and suggested the Centre consult health experts whether the vaccine given to those above 18 can be given to students of Class 12 as well. “If the vaccine can be given to 17.5-years-olds on the advice of health experts, then the indigenously made Covishield and Covaxin should be given to all Class 12 students on priority,” he said. “Once the vaccine is available, all state governments should ensure that all Class 12 students and school teachers are vaccinated within a week. In Delhi, we can vaccinate these two groups within two days,” Sisodia said. The Centre has asked state governments to send their suggestions on the cancellation/conduct of board and competitive exams by Tuesday. “As envisioned by the Hon’ble PM, the meeting was extremely fruitful as we received immensely valuable suggestions. I have requested the State Governments to send me their detailed suggestions by 25th May,” Nishank tweeted after the meeting. Emphasising that both students’ and teachers’ safety, security, and future are “supremely important to us”, Nishank, in another tweet, said: “I’m confident we will be able to arrive at an informed, collaborative decision regarding the Class 12th board exams and remove the uncertainty among student’s and parent’s minds by informing them of our final decision at the earliest.” The Union government has proposed that the states conduct Class 12 exams only for major subjects, according to the proposal document seen by HT. Nearly 20 of the 174 subjects offered to Class 12 students are considered major subjects by CBSE. Board students take a minimum of five and a maximum of six subjects, of which four are considered major subjects. According to the proposal documents, examinations for the major subjects can be conducted in two ways. In the first option, the examination for major subjects may be conducted at the “designated examination centres and in the existing format” like previous years and for the minor subjects “marks can be calculated as per the assessment scheme based on the performance in the major subjects.” Conducting exams in this mode is possible only if the board has three months, which will include “one month of pre-exam activities and two months for the conduct of exams and declaration of results and another 45 days for compartment exams”, according to the document. The second option involves multiple changes, including conducting exams at schools where the students are enrolled, reducing the duration of examination from three hours to 90 minutes, and switching to only multiple choice and short answer-type questions. The process, as per the second proposal, can be completed in 45 days and results can be declared within 15 days of exams ending. The second proposal also said the examination may be conducted twice depending on the state of the pandemic in parts of the country. “The Class 12 examinations could be conducted two times by the Board. Wherever the conditions are conducive, examinations could commence from a suitable date. In the remaining locations, the examinations will start after a fortnight of the first phase,” the document said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccinate-students-teachers-before-conducting-cbse-class-12-exams-sisodia-to-centre-101621800184020.html
24-05-2021||Other||Parents, students in Delhi against CBSE exams amid Covid-19 spike||New Delhi: With the Centre once again not able to decide on the pending Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 12 exams during a high-level meeting on Sunday, students, parents, principals, and education experts expressed concerns over the delays, with many of them now demanding that the exams be cancelled entirely. On Sunday, while the high-level meeting, chaired by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh remained inconclusive, officials said the majority of states were in favour of conducting exams, regardless of the format. Anand Saxena (17), a Class 12 student at a private school in south Delhi said, “While we are still struggling with the second wave of the pandemic and the possibility of a third wave, how is it even possible to conduct exams in such a situation? Who can take the guarantee that the situation will be better by July and August? We have been in Class 12 for the last 15 months. The government should cancel the exams and promote students using alternative methods of evaluation.” Parents, too, said they weren’t in favour of letting students travel for exams till cases subsided completely. Sweta Singh, the mother of a Class 12 student at a Mayur Vihar private school, said, “The government itself is conducting online meetings, but expects our 16-17-year-old children to appear in exams in person. We are not in favour of sending our children for exams till the number of cases comes to zero in the city.” Several principals said the government should act promptly to stop the anxiety children have been facing for 15 months. Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal of Springdales School, Pusa Road, said, “We can’t leave students in the lurch. A clear decision needs to be taken, since children are going through a lot of mental stress... We need to come up with alternative criteria, since the pandemic continues to prevail. Students went through a lot of anxiety last year and the same is happening this year as well. We can also explore the possibility of delinking board exams from college entrance tests.” AK Jha, principal of the government co-ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya in Rohini, said conducting exams amid the ongoing surge may be extremely risky. “If the government conducts exams by August-September, cases may rise once again. Students who are sick with mild symptoms might conceal their illness and appear for the exams due to the fear of missing out on a year. Students can also carry home the virus and endanger their family members,” he said. Educationist Meeta Sengupta said the government should think about doing away from the tradition of assessing the progress of students on the basis of “exams”. “It takes a lot of courage to be safe. And educational leaders need to demonstrate this courage and move away from tradition. There are several ways to promote students, and they need to work towards that, rather than tinker with the exam as a filter,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/parents-students-in-delhi-against-cbse-exams-amid-covid-19-spike-101621800124024.html
24-05-2021||Other||Delhi cops offer roses to sensitise violators about lockdown norms||New Delhi: Instead of prosecuting people for violating the lockdown and issuing challans, the Delhi Police switched to a non-coercive method by offering roses to the violators and sensitizing them about the need to stay indoors on Sunday. While roses were given to all violators across Delhi, in some parts of the city, the police made the violators pledge that they would not violate the lockdown rules and be more involved in creating awareness. At other places, they urged a group of violators to educate another group about the need to stay safe and follow necessary precautions.At some places, the violators were asked to hold placards bearing messages related to the lockdown. Even policemen were spotted with placards in some places. “For a change, a non-coercive mode has been adopted today (Sunday). The emphasis is on educating violators and utilising them too in furthering awareness among the residents. Policemen are encouraged to adopt effective alternative means instead of issuing challans,” Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava said in a tweet.According to Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police spokesperson, challans were not issued only for this Sunday. “Since the lockdown is a prolonged one, we decided to focus a day on sensitizing the lockdown violators,” said Biswal.The police denied that the day-long drive was in response to the criticism faced by a Chhatisgarh IAS officer, who was purportedly caught in camera slapping a boy who was allegedly violating the lockdown.However, a police officer said that the change in police’s attitude was also because of the feedback that the police were “harsh” on lockdown violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-cops-offer-roses-to-sensitise-violators-about-lockdown-norms-101621800063937.html
24-05-2021||Other||Delhi govt sanctions ₹5k aid for over 150k taxi, autorickshaw drivers||New Delhi: The Delhi government has sanctioned one-time financial assistance of ₹5,000 to over 150,000 drivers of auto-rickshaws, taxis, e-rickshaws and other such modes of public transport, as a relief measure in the light of the Covid-19 lockdown, state transport minister Kailash Gahlot tweeted on Sunday. “...Under chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s guidance, the transport department has sanctioned financial assistance of ₹5,000 per month for 155,301 drivers and owners of para-transit vehicles. The amount will be credited to their bank accounts from Monday,” Gahlot tweeted. The beneficiary drivers received similar aid during the nation-wide lockdown last year and didn’t have to apply for assistance this year. A senior Delhi government official said more drivers are being registered, and several others are likely to be paid in the coming days. On May 14, the Delhi cabinet approved ₹5,000 assistance to drivers of para-transit vehicles and Public Service Vehicle (PSV) badge and permit holders, in view of the limited economic activity during the lockdown and the consequent financial hardships they may face. Among the beneficiaries, an official said, are drivers of auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws, taxis, ‘Phat Phat Sewa’, eco-friendly Sewa, ‘Gramin Sewa’ and drivers of maxi cabs with Public Service badges. Delhi has over 280,000 lakh PSV badge holders and 190,000 permit holders eligible for aid, the government said. Chief minister announced a similar programme on April 2 last year. However, the Delhi high court pulled up the state government on May 30, 2020, and ordered it to disburse the promised amount at the earliest, while hearing a plea by an NGO that cited complaints by several para-transit vehicle drivers who said they hadn’t got any financial assistance. Records showed that the state government eventually disbursed ₹78 crore as financial assistance for over 156,000 auto and taxi drivers in 2020. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-sanctions-5k-aid-for-over-150k-taxi-autorickshaw-drivers-101621800005607.html
24-05-2021||Other||Five NDRF teams airlifted from Varanasi to WB ahead of Cyclone Yaas||VARANASI: Five teams of NDRF were sent to West Bengal from Varanasi on Sunday in view of possibility of Cyclone Yaas in coastal areas of West Bengal and Odisha on May 25 and 26.A senior NDRF official said West Bengal and Odisha governments have asked for NDRF teams to reduce any sort of loss after the Met department’s warning of Cyclone Yaas in the coastal areas.Five NDRF teams under leadership of Commandant Manoj Kumar Sharma were airlifted from Lal Bahadur Shastri, Babatpur Airport Varanasi to Subhash Chandra Bose International Airport, Kolkata by an Indian Air Force cargo plane, said NDRF inspector Jagdish Rana.From there the teams would reach the coastal areas via road and would be deployed in the areas which were likely to be affected by a possible cyclone in West Bengal, he added.Recently, more than a hundred teams of NDRF were deployed to deal with the situation emerged by Tauktae. The teams effectively dealt with the situation and worked for restoring normalcy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-ndrf-teams-airlifted-from-varanasi-to-wb-ahead-of-cyclone-yaas-101621796763790.html
24-05-2021||Other||Serious crimes down amid curbs in Mumbai but lockdown violations surge||Crimes have decreased during the month-long restrictions on movement imposed in the city, similar to last year’s lockdown. According to the crime statistics compiled by Mumbai Police, barring the cases for lockdown violations, body crimes as well as property crimes have shown a decline. Officers have said that the heavy presence of police on roads, including at more than 150 checkpoints across the city, during the lockdown period has directly contributed in getting the crime rate down. On an average, the city witnessed 19 murders and 26 attempted murders during the April-May period. While the number of attempted murders has remained the same since the lockdown started in April, the number of murders declined to nine during the corresponding period this year. Last year, eight cases of murder were reported. According to the police officers, incidents of street crime have also decreased considerably owing to the movement in restrictions. Crimes such as chain snatching also fell below average. Statistics have revealed that only four cases of chain snatching were reported from April 12 to May 9 compared to an average of 20 in the previous years during the same period. Vehicle thefts also came down considerably from an average of 262 in the past years to 156 during this lockdown. Officers said that city has also seen a decline in the cases of crimes against women. Rape cases decreased from an average 84 in the pre-Covid years to 39 during the current lockdown. Last year in April 17 cases of rape were registered. The police attribute this decline to the strict lockdown measures implemented by the department and steps like ‘Operation All Out’ and other preventive measures to lower the crime rate and increase the detection of earlier crimes. “Greater presence of police personnel in the field is the reason behind the decrease in street crimes,” said deputy commissioner of police Chaitanya Siriprolu. However, the total number of cases recorded in the April-May period skyrocketed with 9,037 crimes being registered this lockdown against the 5,702 last year. Two years ago, 3,272 crimes were reported, while in 2018, 2,886 cases were filed. The police attribute the rise to cases registered under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) for violation of lockdown restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/serious-crimes-down-amid-curbs-in-mumbai-but-lockdown-violations-surge-101621796404315.html
24-05-2021||Other||Ex-dept of atomic energy chief Srikumar Banerjee dies at 75 in Navi Mumbai||Padma Shri awardee scientist Srikumar Banerjee, who was the former chairperson of the department of atomic energy (DAE), passed away early on Sunday.Banerjee, who had recently recovered from Covid-19, succumbed to a heart attack at his Navi Mumbai residence. A specialist in physical metallurgy and material science, Banerjee had turned 75 last month.Having completed his Bachelor of Technology from the Indian Institute of Technology-Kharagpur in 1967, Banerjee joined the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) in Mumbai as a scientific officer. In 2004, he became BARC’s director and held the post till 2010. He then took over the reins at DAE for the next two-and-a-half years.Banerjee was also the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Award recipient and a fellow of the Indian National Science Academy. The academic circle in Mumbai has grieved the loss of a prolific scientist.Indian nuclear physicist Anil Kakodkar, who preceded Banerjee’s terms at both BARC and DAE, said, “We are shocked by this sudden loss. He and his wife had completely recovered from Covid-19. He was not only a professional colleague but a very dear friend.”Kakodkar remembers Banerjee as an energy enthusiast, who loved sharing ideas about clean energy on a regular basis. “Even after retirement, we had continued to work on our ideas. He would call me often and share ideas about energy. We had a conversation just a week or so ago,” he added.Banerjee was a council member at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Mumbai.The institute’s director Srinivasan Ramakrishnan said, “Dr Banerjee had a deep understating of fundamental research and was an ardent supporter of research activities in TIFR for at least a quarter of a century. He played the role of a mentor for TIFR’s past directors and was continuing to do so for the present director too. His enthusiasm for research had no bounds. Many new research initiatives of TIFR (such as the Indian Neutrino Observatory) flourished due to him. As a member of the governing council, he was always supportive of new ideas and encouraged the researchers by talking to them directly.”The late scientist had agreed to deliver the Foundation Day lecture at TIFR on June 1. “He chose the title ‘Small science to big science: A journey’. We are saddened that this lecture will never happen now. To honour his long and fruitful association with TIFR, we are planning to hold a memorial service for him on the same date. However, the tribute from TIFR, which he would surely have liked the best, is to follow the path he had taken. This will certainly be our sincerest endeavour,” Ramakrishnan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exdept-of-atomic-energy-chief-srikumar-banerjee-dies-at-75-in-navi-mumbai-101621795928020.html
24-05-2021||Other||50-year-old rams into 2 pedestrians, crashes into 5 four-wheelers at Navi Mumbai||Koparkhairane police booked a 50-year-old man on Saturday night after his car allegedly hit a woman and her son and also crashed into five other four-wheelers. The woman and her son have suffered minor injuries in the accident. The police said the accused, Popat Nagargoje, was driving under the influence of alcohol and they will soon arrest him.Nagargoje, a resident of Ghansoli, was rashly driving an Innova while going back home from Koparkhairane. “Around 10.30pm, the accused was on a road at Koparkhairne when he crashed into five cars while trying to overtake them, and also hit a woman who was standing at a corner with her son. Luckily, the two did not suffer major injuries,” a Koparkhairne police officer said. The woman, identified as Nisha Gupta, 46, later filed a police complaint about the incident. “Nagarjore was in an inebriated state and was not able to answer anything on Saturday. His car has been seized,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/50yearold-rams-into-2-pedestrians-crashes-into-5-four-wheelers-at-navi-mumbai-101621795863815.html
24-05-2021||Other||Param Bir Singh’s offences as Thane top cop cognisable: State to HC||The counsel for the Maharashtra government has claimed that the documents provided by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh along with his petition to seek the quashing of a case under the Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against him itself shows that the cop had committed cognisable offences. During the hearing on Singh’s petition on Friday, the state pointed to the fact that as police inspector BR Ghadge, the complainant in the case, had refused to comply with the former top cop’s orders to shield corrupt developers in Kalyan-Dombivli civic body, he was charged with false cases at the behest of Singh, who was the then Thane Police commissioner. The state further submitted that Singh was aware that Ghadge belonged to the Mahar community (categorised as SC). The state also argued that as per Singh’s documents, it is also proved that Ghadge’s complaints to the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis in 2017 and 2018 against the former top cop were not heeded. While arguing on behalf of the state, special public prosecutor and former advocate general, Darius Khambatta had informed the bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade that the claims made by Singh’s counsel, senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, were far from the truth. Singh’s counsel had argued that the first information report (FIR) against him for allegedly committing atrocities under the SC/ST Act on Ghadge were baseless and aimed at heckling the former top cop for complaining against ex-home minister Anil Deshmukh. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in March, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked Mumbai Police officers to extort ₹100 crore every month from establishments. Jethmalani had tried to impress upon the bench that the atrocities case was forced upon Singh by Ghadge as the former top cop refused to withdraw his letter. Jethmalani said that none of the complaints by Ghadge from 2016-18 against Singh and the false cases registered against him had mentioned that he belonged to an SC community, and hence, filing the complaint after five years of the incident clearly pointed out that it was meant to put pressure on Singh. However, Khambatta pointed to the letters and complaints which Jethmalani referred to and showed HC that Singh not only knew about his junior officer’s caste but had also asked both reserved and open category officers to probe the various allegations foisted upon Ghadge. In all, four FIRs were registered against Ghadge in 2016 and charge sheets in the cases were filed against him. He spent over a year in jail and was later acquitted in one of the trials. Khambatta said that the state had then appealed against the acquittal and Jethmalani was misleading the court. As the hearing had started late on Friday, the bench stopped it at 11.55pm and posted it for the hearing on Monday. Singh’s plea will be heard by a division bench headed by justice SS Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/param-bir-singh-s-offences-as-thane-top-cop-cognisable-state-to-hc-101621795683730.html
24-05-2021||Other||Facilitate return to Chinese varsities, say medical students||With no response from the Chinese government so far, Indian students enrolled in medical programmes in China have written to the ministry of external affairs as well as to the Indian and Chinese governments to facilitate their return to campuses. On Thursday, students wrote open letters to both the governments, stating that the looming uncertainty over their return to campus has led to mental strain. They have requested the governments to prioritise the return of the students who need to complete their hospital shifts and clinical rotations in order to graduate by September, at the earliest. “Studying online for prolonged period of time is exacting an immense mental toll on students. An increasing number of students are suffering from anxiety and stress due to uncertainty in the tentative date of return,” read the letter. The students have demanded clarity on return dates, proposal for possible chartered flights for sending them, facilitation of visa application, recognition of vaccination certificates of immunised students and facilitating inoculation of students in China. Students of Chinese universities returned to India last year amid the pandemic as their universities imposed lockdowns. More than a year on, they have not been able to return to the campuses as China continues to impose a travel ban for international students. Last month, students pursuing their degree in Chinese universities approached the United Nations (UN) hoping for a positive development. In a letter signed by over 20,000 medical, graduate and undergraduate students studying in the universities in China, Japan and Australia have urged UN to intervene in the matter and help lift the border restrictions which has left thousands of students stranded in their home countries for the past one year. The Indian Embassy in Beijing, China, in a statement on March 22 clarified that the Chinese government’s recent decision related to visa facilitation for foreigners does not apply to students.“Chinese authorities at various levels continue to maintain their position that on account of last year’s announcement by the ministry of foreign affairs of the People’s Republic of China to suspend temporarily the entry of foreigners holding valid Chinese visa and residence permits following the outbreak Covid-19 in many countries, the visa suspension on foreigners stays until further notice,” read the official statement released by the embassy. Students are now gearing up to complete their courses online without having any practical experience. A third-year student from Jianghan University in Wuhan, said, “Our teachers are sending us videos of practical classes and assignments. Medical education without practical experience is incomplete.” According to data from Unesco (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization), in 2018 and 2019, China received around 500,000 international students each, the third highest in the world after the United States (US) and the United Kingdom (UK). Over 23,000 Indians were enrolled in various programmes in China in 2018, shows data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/facilitate-return-to-chinese-varsities-say-medical-students-101621794603702.html
24-05-2021||Other||Balgandharva checkpost’s “tripawd” canine gets designated “special police officer” by police chief||PUNE Raja (aka – Tridev), a three-legged “Special Police Officer” at the Balgandharva police chowky is seated at the barricades at the check post on the Balgandharva most days. He has been on duty ever since the lockdown kicked from April 5. The check post has been this canine’s home for the last 50 days. “Ever since the lockdown started, he has started to stay at the check post. He is not an aggressive dog. All enjoy his company. Raja has turned out to be a companion for us, bringing a smile to our faces,” said Murlidhar Karpe, inspector, Deccan Police Station. A tweet from Pune Police Commissioner Amitabh Gupta, read: “An ode to our Special Police Officer: Raja, the three-legged dog at the Balgandharva nakabandi - a vigilant companion and a true friend who has been with our Officers, throughout the lockdown.” The tweet generated a lot of traction among Puneties. Sushma Date, a pet lover and head of Deccan Gymkhana Animal Welfare Association, tweeted, “This is our sweetheart Tridev! So happy to see he is assisting the police”. ‘Tridev was the name given to the “tripawd” dog when he was found by Deccan Gymkhana association members – Ashlesha Pathak, Gauri Bopatkar and Anjali Kudale, at Dnyaneshwar Paduka chowk, as he has three legs,” says Date. “Since the lockdown started, we have continued to feed him. He has shifted his location from a tea shop to the check post where he is getting a lot of affection from the police personnel,” added Pathak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/balgandharva-checkpost-s-tripawd-canine-gets-designated-special-police-officer-by-police-chief-101621779482986.html
24-05-2021||Other||Four die of black fungus in Haryana||Three persons aged 64, 67, 75 died of mucormycosis (black fungus) in Jhajjar, and one 40-year-old dies in Karnal, said officials on Monday.With 33 new cases in the last 24 hours, the state has detected total 454 cases of black fungus so far.Of the new cases reported in state, seven are from Hisar, six from Gurugram, four from Panipat, five from Faridabad, three each from Ambala and Fatehabad, two each from Rewari and Sirsa, and one from Rohtak.Family of one of the deceased from Jhajjar alleged that his father died due to shortage of liposomal amphotericin-B injection and doctors failed to provide it.Jhajjar civil surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya said nine black fungus patients were undergoing treatment at the World Medical College, and three of them succumbed.“We had shifted these patients to the college as per government guidelines. I have asked doctors to ascertain reasons behind the death of these patients. These patients did not die due to shortage of drugs. I have asked doctors to check whether the deceased had any co-morbidities,” Dr Dahiya said.The Karnal victim was admitted at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital.Dr Jagdish Dureja, director, KCGMC, said Karnal had witnessed 24 cases of black fungus and four of them have died so far, while 18 are undergoing treatment at KCGMCH.PATIENTS STRUGGLING TO GET ANTI-FUNGAL MEDICINEEven as an expert committee formed by Haryana director general health services has approved vials of anti-fungal medicine, liposomal amphotericin-B injections for black fungus treatment, the patients’ kin are still struggling to get vials for the medicine in the last 3-4 days.Raju Mann, of Dadri, said his friend, who is a government lecturer, had contracted black fungus and is admitted at a private hospital in Rohtak.“We are waiting to get vials of the approved medicine for the last three days. His condition is deteriorating due to unavailability of the drug. We contacted Rohtak DC Captain Manoj Sheoran but he too failed to provide the drug. Any delay will worsen the patient’s heath,” he added.Rahul Kumar said his relative from Jhajjar is admitted at a private hospital in Rohtak and the hospital has no drug to treat him.Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry said she got phone calls from kin of many black fungus patients and they are running from pillar to post to get the drug but to no avail.“If the state has a shortage of drugs, how will patients get the drug? The DCs concerned told me that they cannot provide the drug,” she added.State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary, said Haryana is facing acute shortage of drugs and cases of black fungus are rising which is a matter of concern for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-die-of-black-fungus-in-haryana-101621876387970.html
24-05-2021||Other||Khattar launches ‘Sanjeevani Pariyojana’ for home-isolated Covid patients in Karnal||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar virtually launched ‘Sanjeevani Pariyojana’ to provide medical care to people in district in home isolation and having mild and moderate Covid-19 symptoms.As per officials, pilot project ‘Swasth Karnal-Banega Misal’ will ensure medical assistance, including tele-consultation, homecare kit, field hospitals, etc to help patients fight Covid from home.The project will be implemented in other districts of Haryana, subsequently.In his brief address during the launch, the CM said formalities of the project were completed within a period of two weeks and ₹5 crore will be spent on the project.The project was launched in collaboration with Deloitte India and the initiative will be extended to all districts in state.Khattar said the second wave has reached its peak faster than the first one as active cases have reached 1.16 lakh against the 22,000 of the first wave, but now cases are coming down.The CM said that door-to-door survey in rural areas has helped break the chain of infection and around 3,000 Covid patients have been detected during the survey so far.He expressed concerns over surge in cases of black-fungus. He said around 400 cases have been reported so far.The CM said the third wave of Covid could target children and asked the authorities concerned to make proactive arrangements for the same.Briefing about the project, Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said ‘Sanjeevani Pariyojana’ will provide six services to home-isolated patients including tele-consultation, homecare kit, field hospitals, ALS ambulances, integrated command, and control centre.He said that 200 MBBS students have been appointed to provide assistance over tele-consultation services to the patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/khattar-launches-sanjeevani-pariyojana-for-home-isolated-covid-patients-in-karnal-101621876328683.html
24-05-2021||Other||Doc who threatened to thrash minister arrested, Saryu Roy warns govt||JamshedpurA doctor, who owns a private hospital and had allegedly threatened to thrash Jharkhand’s health minister Banna Gupta, was arrested late Sunday evening from his residence in Seraikela-Kharsawan district and was sent to jail early Monday morning, police said.A team of state drug controller’s office also raided the residence of the doctor, O P Anand, inside Gayatri Siksha Niketan School premises in Adityapur-2 Monday afternoon and seized an ambulance loaded with medicines. The arrest came after a series of actions and a fresh FIR for filed against Dr Anand at RIT police station on Saturday evening by relative of a patient who died of Covid-19 during treatment at his 111 Save Life Hospital in Adityapur. The FIR was filed under section 304 of the Indian Penal Code, which relates to culpable homicide not amounting to murder. “Dr Anand was arrested late last evening and he was sent to judicial custody after production in the CJM court this morning,” Srinivas Singh, RIT police station officer-in-charge, said.Earlier, Seraikela-Kharsawan civil surgeon in-charge Dr Bariyal Mardi had filed an FIR against Dr Anand at RIT PS on Sunday for obstructing government work, threatening and abusing health department probe team and health minister on May 16.Meanwhile, Jamshedpur (East) MLA Saryu Roy slammed the action as “excesses against a doctor whom police and administration were treating as a criminal”.“New FIR, series of fast-changing developments ... this now looks much beyond ego class. It’s something more deep and police and administration are working as agents. Government has power and force, they have done whatever maximum they could. Let’s see if this stands the trial in court or not... this type of actions damage the credibility of a government. I had written to the CM to ensue that the hospital remain functional when government is trying to increase beds and treatment facilities for Covid-19,” Roy said after visiting Dr Anand’s residence Monday afternoon.Dr Anand, on the other hand, said the state government stood exposed and defeated and he would share his victory message after coming out of jail. He said he treated the father of two girls as his own brother but he was now going to jail on their complaint. “Truth will come out. People in power have spared no tricks,” he said in a video message before being taken to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doc-who-threatened-to-thrash-minister-arrested-saryu-roy-warns-govt-101621870387163.html
24-05-2021||Other||SHO suspended days after killing, arson in Purnia village||PURNIAThe station house officer (SHO) of Baisi police station in Purnia district was suspended on Monday, five days after an old man was beaten to death and a dozen houses set ablaze in Masjhuwa village falling under his jurisdiction, an incident that sparked widespread outrage and prompted a visit by National Commission for Scheduled Castes. Purnia’s superintendent of police Daya Shankar confirmed the suspension of SHO Amit Kumar, who has been replaced with Sunil Kumar Suman.“Five persons, including prime accused Md Yakub, have been arrested so far,” the SP said.Three FIRs have been lodged at Baisi police station in connection with the incident.Police forces have been deployed in adequate numbers and police have carried out raids to nab the rest accused.On May 19, about 150 people, equipped with arms, attacked the people belonging to the mahadalit community at Masjhuwa village. A former village chowkidar Mewa Lal Roy (70) was allegedly beaten to death and several persons, including women and children, were injured. Later, they set their houses on fire.A police official said an old dispute was the reason behind the incident, adding that clashes had taken plave between them on April 24 this year and in 2015 too.Meanwhile, on Sunday, a team of National Commission for Scheduled Castes, led by vice-president Krishna Kumar Rishi, visited the village on Sunday. BJP leader Dilip Jaiswal also visited the village. “We want safety and security of the mahadalit community at any cost,” BJP he said. Congress MP from Kishanganj, Mohammad Javed condemned the attack and demanded stern action against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sho-suspended-days-after-killing-arson-in-purnia-village-101621869427811.html
24-05-2021||Other||BJP upset with curbs on movement of ministers||PATNAThe Bihar government’s decision to restrain ministers from moving in their respective constituencies or the districts they have been assigned as the ministers in-charge during the lockdown period has not gone down well with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders. Several BJP ministers, who recently visited their respective constituencies and inspected medical facilities for treatment of Covid infected persons, have questioned the rationale behind banning movement of elected representatives during the crisis period. On Monday, the cabinet secretariat department issued letters to the private secretaries of all the ministers, asking them to not visit their constituencies to inspect medical facilities or any scheme during the lockdown phase to check the spread of pandemic. West Champaran MP and state BJP chief Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal, who is currently in his home town to supervise the drive to check spread of Covid and arrange proper medical facilities, said, “Ask the ministers and JD(U) national chief RCP Singh why such an order has been issued.”“Just because the CM and JD(U) ministers are not moving does not mean BJP leaders should also not go out and help people tide over the crisis. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has toured over 50 districts during the lockdown to monitor medical facilities and relief operations,” said another BJP minister, wishing not to be quoted. Another BJP minister said they would lodge a complaint regarding the curbs at an appropriate party platform. “Since we are in the ruling alliance, the coalition dharma does not allow us to make our grievances public,” said the minister. Congress MLC and All India Congress Committee (AICC) media panellist Prem Chandra Mishra said everything was not well in the ruling coalition. “How could the ministers be the cause for spread of pandemic? Are officers immune to the pandemic? Why the ruling party leaders asking about physical presence of opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav if the government has banned activities of its ministers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-upset-with-curbs-on-movement-of-ministers-101621869427179.html
24-05-2021||Other||After getting 2nd shot, Manjhi aims a jab at NDA: Why PM pic on vaccine certificates||PATNAIn an apparent embarrassment to the ruling alliance in Bihar, former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, whose party Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) is a constituent of the ruling NDA in the state, has objected to putting Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s picture on Covid-19 vaccination certificates and either his picture should be dropped or they be put on death certificates too.Manhi’s party had won four out of the seven seats it contested during assembly elections held in 2020 and his son Santosh Manjhi is a minister for minor irrigation and SC/ST welfare in the Nitish Kumar-led government. “If you are so fond of putting (the PM’s) photograph on the vaccine certificate, his photo should be put on the death certificates too. Only this will be fair,” Manjhi tweeted on Monday. Earlier on Sunday, soon after taking the second dose of vaccination and after receiving the vaccination certificate, the former CM had questioned the logic behind putting picture of the PM on the certificate. “President Ram Nath Kovind’s photo would be more appropriate on the certificate as he is the highest constitutional functionary in India,” Manjhi said. As an alternative, the former CM suggested, the certificates can have the photos of the President, the Prime Minister as well as the chief minister of the respective states. The Jharkhand government has already started using CM Hemant Soren’s photograph on vaccination certificates, so has the Chhattisgarh government.The main Opposition RJD was quick to back Manjhi. “What he raised today, we have already been demanding. If you (Manjhi) are against the autocratic system, come out of the NDA. Otherwise, people will think you are issuing statements to stay in news,” said RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary.BJP and JD(U), both part of the ruling NDA in Bihar, were guarded in their reaction. “I can say for sure that the certificate is an authentic letter for one and all anywhere in world,” said BJP Bihar president Sanjay Jaiswal.JD(U) state president Umesh Kushwaha said, “Manjhiji is a mature leader and part of the NDA. In democracy, everybody has the right to put forward his views and at times people come out with personal views as well, which is always welcome. This is the beauty of democracy.” HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan, while justifying Manjhi’s demand, alleged that vaccination percentage among Dalits and Adivasis had been abysmally low in the state. “Not 1% of the population of Dalit and Advisasis have been vaccinated yet, because they fear vaccination. Putting President’s picture, who is also a Dalit, will inspire them,” Rizwan said. Political analyst D M Diwakar said Manjhi, by issuing such statements, was sending “confusing” signal. “This means all is not well for him in the ruling alliance and he is testing waters. Problem with him is that he cannot adjust anywhere, but, he along with VIP and AIMIM can be helpful in forming a government in such fluid conditions in Bihar,” said Diwakar, former director of A N Sinha Institute for Social Studies. Headline: Why Manjhi mattersIntro: His party HAM(S) has four MLAs and support is crucial for NDA govt which has slim majority Total number of assembly seats: 243Half-way mark: 122NDA tally: 128BJP: 74JD(U): 45HAM(S): 4VIP: 4Independent: 1Opposition alliance: 110RJD: 75Congress: 19CPI-ML: 12CPI: 2CPM: 2 The outlierAIMIM: 5||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-getting-2nd-shot-manjhi-aims-a-jab-at-nda-why-pm-pic-on-vaccine-certificates-101621869367234.html
24-05-2021||Other||Bihar extends lockdown till June 1, CM says it’s working||PATNAThe Bihar government on Monday extended the Covid-19 lockdown by a week till June 1 following a review meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar. This is the second time the state has extended the lockdown first announced from May 5 till May 15.“Reviewed the ongoing lockdown in Bihar with ministerial colleagues and officials. The lockdown is showing good results and positive cases are coming down. Therefore, we have decided to extend the lockdown in the state for seven days, from May 26 till June 1, 2021,” Kumar tweeted in Hindi.On Monday, Bihar reported 2,844 positive cases, down from the 14,836 positive cases reported in the state on May 5, the day lockdown came into force. The state reported 93 deaths in the last 24 hours, which takes the total toll to 4,642 deaths since the outbreak of Covid-19 last year. “The impact of the lockdown has been very encouraging and the crisis management group has decided to continue with restrictions and relaxations announced on May 16,” said additional chief secretary (home), Chaitanya Prasad. Bihar had been struggling to curb the spread of Covid-19 and the continuing shortage of life saving drugs, medical oxygen and hospital beds when it announced the lockdown decision on May 4.Curbs on movement of ministersThe state government has advised its ministers not to make rounds of their constituencies in violation of the restrictions clamped earlier this month to contain the Covid-19 spread.A notification issued by additional chief secretary (cabinet) Sanjay Kumar to all personal secretaries of the ministers noted with concern “reported instances of ministers touring their constituencies or districts under their charge” for reviewing the progress of development works etc.“Such acts by honourable ministers will send a wrong message to the common people who might become disinclined to scrupulously adhere to the restrictions in place during the lockdown. These restrictions have been in place to control the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic which has gripped the state,” the notification said.The letter advised the ministers to avoid tours of their areas for reviews and inspections. If required, they may opt for video conferencing, it suggested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-extends-lockdown-till-june-1-cm-says-it-s-working-101621869308072.html
24-05-2021||Other||New garden in Balewadi will be city’s 204th||PUNE The city is to get new garden, taking its tally of public gardens to 204. The new addition is a garden on survey number 35 in Balewadi, proposed in 2018. The garden is spread over seven acres (1.5 hectares), opposite Moze college in Balewadi.Work officially began on May 21, with Sanjay Kolate, CEO, Pune Smart city development corporation limited (PSCDCL) and corporator Amol Balwadkar inaugurating the event. The plan, as per PSCDCL, who are developing the space, is to have a lawn area of 1.25 acres encircled by a 320-metre walkway.“There is a provision of an underground water tank with 78,000 litres of storage. We have segregated a fruit garden on the south-west, while flowering trees will be on the north side of the garden. The new garden will also have a seating area with a water body,” said Kolate.According to Sarang Wable, a resident of Balewadi, “Balewadi has developed as a good residential area, but it lacks gardens and open spaces. With the proposal finally coming into reality, this will be much needed green cover for the area.”Balewadi public gardenTotal area - 2.25 acresLawn - 1.25 acresWalkway- 320 metres 78,000 litres - underground water storage867 sq metres - Fruit trees on south-western side200 sq metres - sitting area||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-garden-in-balewadi-will-be-city-s-204th-101621867687192.html
24-05-2021||Other||Audit old structures, clear riverbeds of illegal structures: Collector||PUNE The district administration, on Monday, issued notices to all local self-governing institutions to carry out a structural audit of all structures under their jurisdiction, especially those that may be construed to be “old and/or dilapidated”. Collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “Taking into account the large number of old and dilapidated structures located in Pune district, it is imperative that a structural audit is conducted so that during the monsoon, there is no loss to life or property.”Deshmukh, in a separate notice, also issued on Monday, ordered the demolition of illegal structures on riverbeds or along riverbeds, citing these as existing in the danger zone of the earmarked floodline. According to him, most structures are under the jurisdiction of the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), and Deshmukh ordered that they be demolished. “During recent years, the number of incidents of flooding and loss to human life and property has gone up, which makes planning important to face future climate-induced challenges,” Deshmukh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/audit-old-structures-clear-riverbeds-of-illegal-structures-collector-101621865166986.html
24-05-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh Police records statement of former CM Raman Singh in toolkit case||Chhattisgarh Police on Monday recorded the statement of senior BJP leader and former Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh in connection with the FIR lodged related to the alleged fake toolkit case, officials said. “A team of Raipur police recorded Singh’s statement. Singh gave written replies to the questions mentioned in the notice sent to him last week and said everything he has posted or shared on social media are in the public domain,” said Superintendent of Police, Raipur, Ajay Yadav, adding that the police are examining the written answers submitted by Singh Meanwhile, Singh later told reporters that the FIR was a Congress conspiracy, adding that, the “police in Chhattisgarh was being governed by the Congress and not the law”. “The notice issued to me by the police was tweeted by the Congress even before I got it. The document, which should have been with the police, was with the Congress. It clearly indicates from where the police are getting directions and working under pressure,” the former CM alleged. The complaint against Singh and others was lodged by Congress’s student wing leader Akash Sharma. “They forged, falsely fabricated and manufactured the said documents on the letterhead of AICC research department and spread such material in social media which has the potential of creating communal disharmony, unrest in the country and the said document is being utilised by the BJP to spread fake news which has the potential of evoking violence and fueling hatred,” the complaint said. On May 19, an FIR was registered at Civil Lines station of the state capital against Raman Singh, BJP’s national spokesperson Sambit Patra and others for allegedly spreading fake news and “promoting enmity between classes”, in the toolkit row. The Civil Lines Police Station of Raipur on the complaint filed by National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) Chhattisgarh chief Akash Sharma had registered a case under sections 504, 505 (1) b, c, 469 and 188 of Indian Penal Code. A notice was served by Raipur Police last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-police-records-statement-of-former-cm-raman-singh-in-toolkit-case-101621862287589.html
24-05-2021||Other||Mask it right to keep Covid away||The central government’s advisory on double masking to beat the highly virulent, contagious and unpredictable coronavirus variants is in keeping with the more stringent masking moves made in several other countries to deal with the rapidly mutating viruses.However, in order to implement it and break the cycle of transmission, the government needs to quickly distribute the masks free of costs to all those who cannot afford them and also educate all consumers on the importance of wearing the mask and donning it right. This becomes extremely important in view of several scientific studies confirming the effectiveness of universal masking to curb the spread of the disease.The quality of the mask is as important. In fact increasing scientific data on the comparative efficacy of different kinds of masks, the way the virus is transmitted as well as its mutations into more deadly variants –the virus is said to mutate almost every 11-15 minutes- are all forcing many countries around the world to re-visit their masking guidelines. France, for example, has banned wearing of home-made cotton masks and industrially made fabric masks with lesser filtering qualities in public, on the ground that they do not offer sufficient protection to the wearer from more contagious variants. Germany has made medical masks mandatory in stores and on public transit.In India too, the government had last year recommended a simple home-made mask, but obviously, that is not adequate to protect the wearer any more. The principal scientific adviser to the government, while recommending double masking to prevent the spread of the virus, made three important points: (a) N-95 masks offer maximum protection against the virus (b) double masking should be done with an inner layer of surgical mask and a tight fitting outer layer of cotton mask and (c) if a surgical mask is not available, you can use two cotton masks. ‘ A double layer of home-made cotton masks is better than none’, said the advisory to prevent transmission of the virus.The problem with home-made single layered masks is that there is no quality standard, they do not have a nose pin nor proper ear loops to ensure a tight fit as required and their filtration efficiency is poor when compared to three-layered non-woven surgical masks or N-95 masks or even multi-layered hybrid fabrics. Several studies have also shown the poor protection offered to the wearer by loose fitting masks with gaps between the skin and the mask.So effective masking to prevent community spread of the virus requires protection through either double masking with a surgical mask and a cotton mask or an N-95 mask. However, this obviously costs more than wearing a single layered home made mask and puts an additional burden on families already reeling under poverty and unemployment. Besides, all citizens should get equal protection from the virus. In the absence of free mask supplies, the poor will be placed at a very big disadvantage. In fact a large percentage of the economically disadvantaged do not wear the mask at all or wear the same surgical mask, probably given free , repeatedly, thereby giving them no protection from the virus. Another problem is with fake and sub-standard masks flooding the markets since the beginning of the pandemic. Whether surgical, N-95 or even cotton masks, poor quality masks will become an even major problem in rural areas, as the virus stalks villages in the second wave, taking a heavy toll.We are already worried about a third wave and experts are also warning us that the virus is not going to disappear for quite some time and we need to be wearing masks even after full vaccination. So all these factors make it imperative that good quality masks be distributed by the government free of cost to the economically vulnerable sections through fare price shops, anganwadis, primary health centres, vaccination centres and such other facilities. Of course, it is equally important to educate people about the correct way to wear the mask. Quoting a sample survey, the union health ministry recently said only seven per cent of the population wore the mask right, covering their nose, mouth and chin with a mask fitted with a nose pin and drawn tightly over the face.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mask-it-right-to-keep-covid-away-101621861986982.html
24-05-2021||Other||Monday Musings: A sellers’ market as pvt hospitals begin to ease vaccination burden on state||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, on Sunday, said that the state would soon begin a 24-hour vaccination drive, as production capacity is likely to ramp up in June. Presently, vaccination for people aged between 18-45 years at public hospitals in Maharashtra has been put on hold due to lack of a smooth supply of vaccines. The Maharashtra government has, instead, decided to continue vaccinating those above 45 years of age, for whom doses are being purchased by the Centre and then distributed among the states. The state government, in view of the non-availability of vaccines, has completely withdrawn from the responsibility of vaccinating those in the age group of 18-44 years over the last few days; this age group has been most vulnerable to the virus during the second wave. On an insistence from various states, the Centre had, mid-April, allowed them to purchase vaccine doses directly from manufacturers to inoculate those above the age of 18 years. The shortage of vaccines made it difficult for states to continue with the vaccination programme. With only two firms supplying vaccines in India and different states and local bodies, including the Brihan Mumbai and Pune municipal corporations awaiting a response to proposed global tenders, it is increasingly proving to be a suppliers’ market. As the state is unwilling to immediately restart immunisation for all adults, the responsibility of inoculating this class is now partially being shared by private hospitals in cities like Pune. After starting vaccinations on Friday, as reported by Hindustan Times Pune in its May 21 edition, more private hospitals have received Covishield doses from the Serum Institute of India, the city- based Covid vaccine manufacturer. In two days, at least 12 private hospitals procured doses and begun the inoculation programme across the city. These hospitals from Pune are charging ₹900 for each dose of Covishield, almost four times higher than the ₹250 price determined by the Union government at “non-public” hospitals, when the drive had started for those above the age of 45 years. The private hospitals are getting each dose from the manufacturer at slightly more than ₹600, including transportation and GST. They will also have to take into account wastage of some doses. For employees of corporate houses, the hospitals have priced each dose at ₹1,200 given that jabs are likely to be given on campus. There are scores of corporate houses, IT firms and manufacturing units in Pune who have lined up with these private hospitals and the on-campus drive is likely to start within two days. (See Page 3). Initially, the Cowin portal showed that almost all slots with most private hospitals are booked. With demand far higher than supply as the virus is unsparing in taking lives, most hospitals are witnessing long queues. The involvement of private hospitals in vaccination programme is a welcome step, given that the state government has shunned its responsibility. The need of the hour is to vaccinate as many, and as quickly as possible, as it will help the city drive towards herd immunity to withstand a possible third wave. The chief minister has repeatedly said the state is willing to buy 120 million doses to inoculate the entire 60 million population of Maharashtra, but it may take time for Maharashtra to start the drive for everyone, given that the shortage of doses from manufacturers is likely to continue. Pune has so far vaccinated close to 2.6 million people from various categories. It still has millions to be inoculated. Compared to the economic cost that city has been paying due to lockdown in the past two months of the second wave, the benefit of vaccinating the maximum number of citizens, even through private hospitals where the price is higher, clearly outweighs the cons. Those who can afford the price and are opting for private hospitals are actually reducing the burden on the government, which may at a later point resume vaccination for the larger population free of cost. For suppliers, it makes sense to sell doses to private hospitals rather than to the government, which is procuring the doses at a cheaper rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monday-musings-a-sellers-market-as-pvt-hospitals-begin-to-ease-vaccination-burden-on-state-101621853227407.html
24-05-2021||Other||Helplines, mobiliser teams to fight vaccine resistance in Haryana’s Nuh||Already grappling with the second wave of Covid-19, the Nuh district administration in Haryana is also facing challenges in encouraging people to get themselves tested or inoculated, and has had to come up with innovative ideas to educate the people about the pandemic. This Sunday, the Nuh administration launched dedicated, round-the-clock Covid-19 helplines -- 1950,1800 180 1256, 01267 282 002, +91 70826 26686 -- to provide citizens critical information related to Covid-19 resources.Officials said that chatbot number +91-8059312201 has also been activated on WhatsApp on queries regarding sampling, bed availability, vaccination, home isolation, RT-PCR reports and medical team consultations.Dr Basant Dubey, district immunisation officer of Nuh, said they are facing challenges getting people to come forward for vaccination and testing. “We have involved mobiliser mitras to spread awareness among the villagers to get tested and vaccinated. Villagers are facing issues with online registration and for that, we have tied up with 317 computer operators in different villages who are running customer service centres to help in the registration,” he said. Vaccination for 45+ age group is done through on-the-spot registration at all 17 primary health centres, four community health centres, the government medical college in Nalhar and village routine immunisation session sites . Those in the 18-44 age group need to register online on the CoWin portal.Dr Dubey said they have written to the state government to allow them to start offline vaccinations across the district. “The vaccination number will increase once the offline process starts and people can walk into these centres,” he said.Nuh deputy commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata said the WhatsApp chatbot sources information directly from district administration officers. “The helpline will connect villagers to official sources of information and medical services, thus enabling quick access and helping the administration streamline its relief efforts,” he said. The chatbot has processed over 5,000 conversations on WhatsApp from users across the district, including over 1,000 messages sent on Sunday,” he said.Khadgata said the district has seen vaccine hesitancy to a large degree. “To motivate more people to go for Covid vaccination, we have roped in 100 mobiliser mitras, one at each subcentre, for supporting AAAs (ASHA, anganwadi worker and auxiliary nurse midwife) with activities. The teams are regularly doing activities among the community though there have been instances of aggressive behaviour against even our female field workers in the villages. There are 38 villages where despite our regular mobilisation activities, we could not vaccinate a single individual,” he said.The district administration has also roped in maulanas and other social figures to create awareness and get more villagers to come forward for vaccination, said officials.They said since April, they have conducted several meetings at public places, like dhabas, grocery stores, barbershops, and community centres, where villagers were counselled. Nuh total population is nearly 1.4million and 65% of its population belongs to the15-60 age group. Of the adult population, 237,451 people have been vaccinated with the first dose and 22,847 have been vaccinated with the second dose until May 23.The district sees around 1,700 Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) and RT-PCR tests on average each day, but officials are planning to increase it to 2,000 soon . Till May 23, 4,746 people have tested positive. Two mobile RT-PCR and RAT sampling vans have been deployed at 22 fixed sites -- primary, and community health centres-- to improve testing. “In containment zones, we are doing sampling every day and trying to reach each house. Currently, our positivity rate is 6.1%( May 22), last week’s average was 7.94% . In the past week, the cumulative report was 1.74% , the lowest in the 22 districts of Haryana,” said Khadgata, adding that the recovery rate of the district is more than 92% and contact tracing is 20%, which is the highest in 22 districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/helplines-mobiliser-teams-to-fight-vaccine-resistance-in-haryana-s-nuh-101621843031670.html
