25-05-2021||Other||Tributes paid to departed AMU faculty members and doctors||Agra : In a bid to honour the contributions of faculty members and doctors who passed away recently; the faculty members of the department of medicine, Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC), Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) held a condolence meeting on Tuesday. Prof Anjum Mirza Chugtai (department of medicine) recalled how the deceased Prof Shadab Ahmad Khan (Former Chairman) lost his life while working tirelessly to provide care for patients. Speaking about the work of late Prof Mohammad Shoaib Zaheer for the development of the department; Prof Chugtai said, “The demise of these faculty members is a big loss to the medical fraternity”. He extended condolences to families of the deceased and read the condolence letters sent to sent to Nargis Alam, wife of Prof Shadab Ahmad Khan and Fatima Zaheer, wife of Mohammad Shoaib Zaheer. Prof Chugtai also paid homage to deceased retired faculty members, Prof Arif Siddiqui, Prof M Mobashir, Prof Sifat Afzal and Prof Abu Qamar Siddiqui and mourned the demises of sisters and brother-in-law of Prof Shahzad Faizul Haque and wife of Prof Khwaja Saifullah Zafar. During the meeting, Prof Chugtai also grieved the demise of his mother, who passed away at the age of 90. Prof Shahzad Faizul Haque who was also present at the meeting recalled his association of over 40 years with late Prof Shoaib Zaheer. “I was batch mate of late Prof Shoaib Zaheer in MBBS and MD and was appointed as a lecturer with him and Prof Shadab Khan,” he said adding that the demise of Prof Shoaib Zaheer and Prof Shadab Khan is a personal loss. Prof Haque added that all faculty members of the department stand with the families of the deceased to provide them with all the support. Dr M Aslam (Associate Professor, department of medicine, spoke about the support and guidance he received from Prof Shadab Khan during student life and after his appointment as a faculty member. Dr M Uwais Ashraf (assistant professor, department of medicine) elaborated how both Prof Shadab Khan and Prof Shoaib Zaheer were always there to support||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tributes-paid-to-departed-amu-faculty-members-and-doctors-101621966390806.html
25-05-2021||Other||Head constable dismissed, 2 others held for kidnapping accused in dacoity case||New Delhi: A Delhi police head constable has been dismissed from service after he and his two associates allegedly kidnapped a dacoity accused and hid him at the Jamia Nagar police station in south-east Delhi, the police said on Tuesday.The 25-year-old victim, Varun, was rescued from the police station itself where he was confined without the knowledge of other police personnel, said RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east).“The head constable, Rakesh Kumar, has been arrested and dismissed from service,” Meena said.The head constable’s two alleged associates, Amir Khan and Mukesh Kumar, too have been arrested. While Khan is a police informer with a criminal record, Mukesh Kumar is a Delhi Home Guard personnel, the officer said.The kidnapping came to police’s notice after they received a PCR call on May 15 about a woman waiting in Sarai Kale Khan with ₹1 lakh as ranson money.Her brother was kidnapped and the abductors used his mobile phone to demand a ransom of ₹3 lakh, but the deal was settled for ₹1.8 lakh. But the police call was made before the money could exchange hands.The Sarai Kale Khan police registered a kidnapping case and began searching for Varun. They got the hint of his location after a photo of the kidnapped victim showed police chairs and tables in the background.The police eventually rescued Varun from Jamia Nagar police station where he was allegedly kept captive by the head constable and Khan.What emerged was an unusual story.“Earlier this year, Varun and his associates robbed a person in East Delhi’s Gandhi Nagar. Varun’s share of the loot was ₹1.5 lakh,” said the DCP.One of Varun’s associates, Anubhav, happened to mention this to Khan, who was the head constable’s informer. The policeman and Khan allegedly decided that if they kidnapped Varun, they could recover the robbed money from him and share it among themselves.So, the duo allegedly roped in the home guard jawan Mukesh Kumar in the plan and used his car to carry out the kidnapping.Once the police sorted out the kidnapping case, they also ended up solving the Gandhi Nagar dacoity case, in which a police case was registered earlier but the crime was not cracked. The DCP said that ₹1.4 lakh of that money has been recovered from Varun’s home and a search is on for his associates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/head-constable-dismissed-2-others-held-for-kidnapping-accused-in-dacoity-case-101621966033091.html
25-05-2021||Other||Covid curbs extended till June 3 in Jharkhand||RANCHiThe Jharkhand government on Tuesday decided to extend the lockdown in the state by another week during which interstate, interdistrict movement of people would continue to remain shut. The restrictions, which first came in force on April 22 with stricter measures introduced from May 13, were to end 6 am on May 27. After Tuesday’s decision, all these restrictions would continue to be in force till 6 am on June 3.The decision was taken at a meeting of the state disaster management committee chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren, a statement from the CM office said. “The Swasthya Suraksha Saptah (lockdown) has been extended till 6 am on June 3. All the restrictions which are currently in place would continue to be in force,” the statement said. The officials said mandatory e-paas system for travel within the city from 7am to 2 pm, when essential services are allowed, would continue to remain in place. However, government employees, media persons, employees of big companies and industrial units have been exempted from the e-pass system. Their office IDs would be enough would be considered as pass for their travel, the statement said. The government has also decided to open its Secretariat, with 33 per cent attendance in all its departments. However, all officials from the level of joint secretary and above are expected to attend office regularly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-curbs-extended-till-june-3-in-jharkhand-101621961410719.html
25-05-2021||Other||Mayor’s letter to Union health minister asks for permission to buy 2.5 million Covishield doses||PUNE In a bid to provide Punekars with the Covid-19 vaccines, first and second dose, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol has written to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, requesting for at least 2.5 million doses of Covishield. Mohol has also made a similar request to the Serum Institute of India (SII), to which they have responded, asking the city to get clearance from the central and state governments.In the letter, Mohol stated, “We the representatives of Pune, with the help of the administration, are working hard to supply the necessary medical aid, but as the population of the city is about 50 lakh (5 million), we are running short of the available facilities. The third wave is yet to come and it is forecasted that it will affect the younger generation, and I think this is more serious. Now, we can say that vaccination is the only weapon in our hand to fight against the coronavirus. It is the only antidote available to us to survive. Vaccination drives are being conducted in the city on large scales. But as compared to the population of the city the number of the vaccines we receive, is less and that is why we cannot reach each and every person in the city.”The letter added: “With reference to the above mentioned subject we are in correspondence with Serum Institute of India to provide us at least 25 lakh doses of Covishield vaccines. Pune Municipal Corporation is ready to buy 25 lakh doses of Covishield vaccines and we will be adhering to all the terms and conditions of payments. We are ready to buy vaccines for citizens. The Central Government of India has 50% shares of vaccines produced in India and the State Government and private hospitals the remaining 50 per cent. It is my humble request to you to grant us the permission to buy the vaccines directly from the Serum institute of IndiaReplying to the letter sent by the mayor, SII executive director Dr S S Jadhav said, “Cyrus Poonawala, chairman of Serum Institute, is keen to help the Pune Municipal Corporation. He also wants to give priority to Pune. However, as per the guidelines of the Central Government, the company can only supply vaccines to the Centre, state governments and private hospitals. Therefore, permission should be obtained from the Central Government to supply vaccines to Pune.”Vax on campus @ Magarpatta cityMeanwhile, vaccination for corporates on campus began, with Noble hospital at Magarpatta city. Today, 200 doses of Covishield were given to staff of Magarpatta City, in Hadapsar. “On the first day, 200 vaccine doses were given and gradually the number will increase to daily 1,000 doses. It will also cover the corporate employees and residents inside the city,” said Dr H K Sale, executive director, Noble Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mayors-letter-to-union-health-minister-asks-for-permission-to-buy-2-5-million-covishield-doses-101621957570571.html
25-05-2021||Other||Now, drones to help keep Ganga clean in Varanasi||In a novel step, the Varanasi administration on Tuesday deployed four unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) or drones to ensure regular monitoring of Ganga ghats in the temple town.Inaugurating the facility, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the step has been taken to ensure that no one dumps any sort of waste in river Ganga anymore.“These drones are connected to big TV screens at Kashi Integrated Command and Control Centre (KICCC). They will send live pictures to the centre where a team will regularly monitor the river banks. Whenever somebody tries to dump any waste in Ganga, his picture will be captured and the Nagar Nigam team, along with the police team, on the spot will be alerted,” said a senior official of Varanasi Nagar Nigam (VNN).Municipal commissioner Gaurang Rathi said monitoring through drones began soon after the chief minister inaugurated the facility.CM lauds Mirzapur team for Covid managementMeanwhile, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said the Uttar Pradesh government with its effective management of Covid-19 has proved many experts wrong who claimed that cases in UP will go above 30 lakhs in May. The CM was reviewing Covid-19 management in Mirzapur.Lauding the team for controlling the spread of Covid-19 in the district, the CM said, a few experts claimed that UP will witness over 1 lakh positive cases daily from April 25 to May 10 and they will cross the 30-lakh mark in May.“Following the mantra of ‘trace, track and treat’, the health department officials, with the cooperation from the public, succeeded in effectively controlling Covid in the state,” said the CM.“On April 28, over 38,000 cases were reported in a single day in the state. At present, active cases in the state are 69,000. Daily active cases have come down to 3,900. The recovery rate is increasing, and the positivity rate is decreasing,” he said.The CM said oxygen plants were being set up in every district to make them independent in terms of oxygen and the infrastructure at the hospitals is being spruced up.“When the first wave started, there was no facility for Covid testing in the state. Still, till date, we have managed to conduct 4.70 crore Covid tests. At the same time, 1.65 crore people have been vaccinated. The state has over 80,000 ventilator beds and preparations to deal with the possible third wave are underway,” the CM said.He appealed to the people to go for testing in case of experiencing Covid-19-like symptoms and also get the vaccination.The chief minister said the vaccination of people aged between 18 and 45 will begin across all districts from June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-drones-to-help-keep-ganga-clean-in-varanasi-101621956911751.html
25-05-2021||Other||State dept urges district authorities to ensure children do not miss out on regular vaccines||PUNE On Tuesday, the state immunisation department held a meeting with district authorities, asking them to ensure that all children are vaccinated under the routine immunisation programmes. The anticipated third wave of Covid-19 is likely to affect children and also, the upcoming monsoon season puts children at risk for various other infections. Pune district authorities have missed their regular immunisation target for April, given that the second wave of Covid-19 was at its peak in the same month. Pune rural has vaccinated about 7% of its target children, while PMC has vaccinated 3% of the target children under the routine immunisation programme, which includes pentavalent, BCG, measles and rubella. District immunisation officer, Sachin Edake said, “We have vaccinated less than the annual target of 8.3% children every month. By the end of March 2022 we should have covered every child for routine immunisation. However, the pandemic, strict lockdown and a fear of stepping out and the hesitancy of parents to bring kids to primary health centres hindered the routine immunisation.” “However now we are planning to create more awareness and open up more immunisation centres so that children are vaccinated. The third wave could hit us anytime and during the monsoon season children fall ill, so it is important to immunise them. In the rural areas about 7% have been vaccinated of the 8.3% target set for each month.”Similarly Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has also fallen back on its routine immunisation as only 3% of its target of 60,900 children for the have been vaccinated. A senior health official at the PMC, requesting anonymity, said, “We have missed our target due to the lockdown and due to the Covid-19 peak. Our own staff was involved in treatment and vaccination process for Covid-19. However, routine immunisation is essential to make sure that we keep other epidemics away. To ensure children are vaccinated with the three most important vaccines in the first 11 months after birth, we may plan to start more immunisation centres.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-dept-urges-district-authorities-to-ensure-children-do-not-miss-out-on-regular-vaccines-101621956910513.html
25-05-2021||Other||Despite upward trend in Satara and Kolhapur, Pune division’s positivity rate drops by 5% over 7 days||PUNE The collective positivity rate of five districts in the Pune division has reduced by five per cent over the past seven days. Pune district clearly indicates a downward trend of Covid cases, according to officials of the division commissionerate, while Satara and Kolhapur are still showing the upward trend. The number of daily positive cases in Solapur and Sangli has stabilised. The total number of mucormycosis patients in the five districts is now at 1,030. From May 10-16, the Pune division recorded a positivity rate of 22.31%. This reduced for the duration of May 17-23 to 17.43%. “The case fatality rate in the division is 1.95. Of the five districts in the division, Pune is clearly showing a declining trend. Whereas Satara and Kolhapur are showing an upward trend. The number of Covid patients in Solapur and Sangli has stabilised. These districts have hit a plateau and a phase of decline is expected to begin,” said Anil Ramod, additional divisional commissioner, Pune division. The number of active patients in the Pune division was 1,40,765 on May 17. This reduced to 1,03,510 on May 24. Satara district recorded 23,458 active cases on May 17, which marginally reduced in a week to 21,294 on May 24. Kolhapur district had 13,316 active cases on May17. On May 24 it recorded 13,521 active cases.According to the officials, Satara and Kolhapur can be said to have an upward trend because the number of positive cases have not gone down vis-à-vis the number of tests conducted. To contain the spread of the infection in the hotspot districts the administration has decided to emphasise institutional quarantines. “We have asked the collectors to isolate patients in rural parts in institutional quarantine centres. We are emphasising village- based isolation,” said Ramod. The increasing cases of Mucormycosis, colloquially known as “black fungus”, has posed a new challenge to the administration. As of May 24. Pune division recorded 1,030 total cases of black fungus and 52 deaths. Most of the total cases number of, at 620, are recorded in Pune district. Currently, a of total 813 patients are undergoing treatment in the division for black fungus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/despite-upward-trend-in-satara-and-kolhapur-pune-division-s-positivity-rate-drops-by-5-over-7-days-101621956010462.html
25-05-2021||Other||RTO’s new rates for hiring ambulances sees “marginal” increase||PUNE The Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) has revised ambulance fares for a second time, in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. RTO authorities said the current increase is marginal as compared to previous fares and are applicable in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Baramati.Pune RTO Ajit Shinde said, “The revised rates are to be adhered to by the ambulance owners and drivers as they should follow the norms as laid down in the GR. Any charges beyond the specified limits will invite strict action against the violators.” Exorbitant ambulance rates being charged during the first wave of Covid-19 had become a cause for concern. RTO authorities stated that they have considered that some ambulances have an air-conditioning system while fixing the new rates.For a distance of 25km or a time period of two hours, the fare has been increased from the existing slab of ₹500 to ₹900 for regular ambulances, and from ₹600 to ₹950 for ambulances with an AC. The fare for commuting beyond 25km has been fixed at ₹12 to ₹14 per km, up from the existing ₹11 to ₹13 per km. Also, waiting charges have been fixed at ₹100 to ₹150 per hour.RTO authorities maintained that the fare includes charges for the return distance and is calculated from the time the patient sits in the ambulance till the point of disembarkation. The fare charges are to be prominently displayed inside the ambulance.Private ambulances are at the service of the municipal corporation, government or semi-government agencies, local self-government institutions and government undertakings. The cost of fuel, driver’s salary, and maintenance of these ambulances will be borne by the municipal authority. There are separate rates for these ambulances to be provided to the ambulance owners by the respective institutions. Depending on the type of ambulance, charges for these ambulances must not exceed ₹1,600 per day.New ambulance rates25km or a time period of two hours ₹900 for regular ambulances ₹950 for ambulances with ACBeyond 25km  ₹12 to ₹14 per km (for both AC and non-AC ambulances)Waiting charges - ₹100 to ₹150 per hour||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rtos-new-rates-for-hiring-ambulances-sees-marginal-increase-101621955830539.html
25-05-2021||Other||Jamshedpur stops Covid vaccination||Three teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) were deployed in Jamshedpur, while as East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur) district administration stopped Covid-19 vaccination drive at all centres on Wednesday and Thursday in view of Cyclone Yaas expected to hit the state on Wednesday, officials said on Tuesday.“We have stopped vaccination drive for both 45-plus and 18-45 group, while house-to-house testing drive has also been stopped for Wednesday and Thursday. People have been asked not to venture out from their houses for next two days. Companies have been asked to manage with minimum employees and call only those staff on duty who are absolutely necessary,” Suraj Kumar, Jamshedpur deputy commissioner (DC), said.As per Indian Meteorological department, cyclone Yaas is expected to reach Jamshedpur and it’s neighbouring districts by late Wednesday night and cross the next day at an estimated speed of 100-120kmph. The effect of the cyclone was, however, visible from Tuesday itself with intermittent rains and overcast conditions throughout the day.The weather department predicted heavy rains and storms in and around Jamshedpur district on Wednesday and Thursday, while the effect is likely to slow down gradually from Friday. South Eastern Railways (SER) has also stopped movement of over 60 trains for next 72 hours, barring three trains Tata-Danapur, Tata-Chapra and South Bihar Express trains. “Eleven more trains passing through Tatanagar have been cancelled Tuesday,” SER informed in a press statement. Earlier, it cancelled 50 pairs of trains, including Covid-19 special trains. The district administration also ordered closure of all markets on Wednesday and Thursday, while Tata Motors announced to take block closure. Tata Steel also issued an alert for it’s Jamshedpur Plant. Around 50 shelters have been set up in low-lying areas and riverside areas of the district. The DC has set up control rooms with detailed deputation of officers, and cancelled leave of all electricity department officials for the two days. The health department has also been put on high alert and emergency numbers have been issued by district administration and SER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jamshedpur-stops-covid-vaccination-101621955650568.html
25-05-2021||Other||CUSB set to introduce NCC as elective subject at undergraduate level||PATNAIn a first, Central University of South Bihar (CUSB), Gaya, is set to introduce the National Cadet Corps (NCC) as an elective subject in graduation courses from the academic session beginning in 2021.Varsity officials said the decision was taken after approval of the University Grants Commission (UGC) to consider NCC as generic elective credit course (GECC) under Choice Based Credit Scheme (CBCS) in consonance of the New Education Policy 2020.CUSB vice-chancellor HCS Rathore said, “After approval of UGC and circulars issued by the All India Council of Technical Education and Ministry of Defence for offering NCC as a main subject in colleges, we received the proposal of Brigadier CC Jaleel, group commander of Gaya NCC, for introducing the course in the varsity’s curriculum.”“We have accepted the proposal but still need to fulfil certain formalities like recognition of course through board of studies, expert committee, approval of Academic Council prior offering the course. If all goes well, we would commence the course in the coming academic session”, he said.Elaborating the course plan, CUSB’s public relation officer Muddasir Alam said, “The NCC course consists of 24 credits in which 14 are allotted for Institutional Training and 10 credits are allotted for two 10 days Annual Training Camps. After completing the prescribed criteria, cadets would be to earn the credits for their concerned degrees along with the A, B & C certificates”.“We are the first varsity in the state to initiate the course as full-fledged main subject at undergraduate level,” he said.In 2018, CUSB initiated NCC as service organisation only for female students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cusb-set-to-introduce-ncc-as-elective-subject-at-undergraduate-level-101621955470443.html
25-05-2021||Other||28 new cases of black fungus, 2 die||PATNATwenty-eight new cases and two deaths due to mucormycosis or black fungus were reported in Bihar on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 229 and deaths to seven. The two deaths were reported from Patna’s Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), said its superintendent Dr Manish Mandal. He, however, did not share the details of the deceased. All these cases were associated with coronavirus. While some patients had contracted the fungal infection during treatment of Covid-19, many others reported it as a post-Covid complication, said health officials. Bihar reported 3,306 new cases of coronavirus and 104 deaths to the virus on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases so far to 6,95,726 and deaths to 4,746. Even as new infections were down, the number of deaths remained high. The state had reported 111 deaths in a single day on May 18, the highest so far this month. Among the new cases of mucormycosis, 19 were reported at the IGIMS, two at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital (JLNMCH) in Bhagalpur, one at the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Patna, and seven at different private health facilities across the state, said health officials. IGIMS, with a total 91 patients, had the highest number of black fungus cases. AIIMS was next, having reported 61 cases so far, JLNMCH 9 and one each at the Patna Medical College Hospital, Nalanda Medical College Hospital (both in Patna), Darbhanga Medical College Hospital and the Sri Krishna Medical College Hospital in Muzaffarpur, among the government medical colleges in the state. Paras HMRI hospital (13 patients) and Ruban Memorial Hospital were among the 12 private facilities with highest number of cases of black fungus. Cases of mucormycosis had also been reported from Purnia, Aurangabad and Nalanda. Hike in pay of contract docs, paramedics In the midst of the pandemic, the Bihar government on Tuesday increased by ₹25,000 the monthly remuneration of senior residents and tutors, having three years tenure post at state-run medical college and hospitals. They would now get ₹85,000 in the first year, ₹90,000 in the second and ₹95,000 in the third year. The order comes into effect from February 25 this year. The doctors were drawing ₹60,000 in the first year, ₹65,000 in the second and ₹70,000 in the third as per the last revision in 2017. The revision was undertaken as the stipend of post graduate medical students at medical college hospitals was more than the senior residents and tutors, after the increase in PG stipend in January this year. PG medicos, commonly called junior doctors, will get ₹68,545 in the first year, ₹75,399 in the second and ₹82,938 in the third year of their masters’ curriculum. Prior to the revision in January, they used to get ₹50,000, ₹55,000 and ₹60,500 in the first second and third year, respectively, The government also increased by ₹3,000 to ₹5,000 the monthly remuneration of contractual paramedics and support staff posted at government health facilities. Among the 30 positions, include X-ray technicians, laboratory assistants, operation theatre assistants, X-ray mechanic, ECG technicians, holter and radiotherapy, dialysis, echocardiogram technicians, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/28-new-cases-of-black-fungus-2-die-101621955410471.html
25-05-2021||Other||Police hit hard by second wave, 33 dead so far||PATNAThe second wave of coronavirus has hit the Bihar Police harder than the first one, leaving 33 of its members dead in just two months of this year, April and May, compared to 26 fatalities reported last year since the pandemic outbreak in March 2020.An official in the state police headquarters said exposure to the public during the assembly election duty in the neighbouring West Bengal and Assam may also have led to a spike in infection among the police personnel. The second wave has also hit the force’s upper echelons and several top officials are in home isolation. Meetings are now being held online. “It’s a worrisome situation for the police department as we are not able to work in a systematic way as we used to because of this virus,” the official said.According to the information obtained from police headquarters, the 33 police persons who died were from various ranks, from inspector to chowkidar. Around 2,400 have been infected in the second wave, of which 150 were hospitalised, some in serious condition. There are around 445 active cases in the state police department. The number of Covid cases among police personnel last year wasn’t immediately available.Bihar Police has a strength of 80,000, including personnel posted in about 1,100 police stations across the state and other police wings such as CID, special branch, STF, Vigilance, government rail police, etc. Additional director general (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said, “We have observed that vaccination has been effective in containing infections or its impact on our personnel. We are trying our best to get all our personnel vaccinated as soon as possible. About 90% have received the first dose, and of them, 75% have received the second dose.”Bihar Police Association’s state president Mrityunjay Kumar Singh has requesting the state police chief to make special arrangements for treatment of police personnel and their families. He also urged to deploy a police officer with a dedicated mobile number at the headquarters to coordinate with the affected family members of the police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-hit-hard-by-second-wave-33-dead-so-far-101621955352118.html
25-05-2021||Other||HC keeps lens on deaths, state seeks time to compile||PATNAThe Patna High Court, which has been hearing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) on Covid management in Bihar, on Tuesday said it was important that every death, Covid or non-Covid, was reported and documented, as it could go a long way in helping the state prepare for the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic.Referring to its May 17 order, the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar said the official website for death registration must be updated with information compiled from every village, panchayat, block, district or town. Instead of information regarding the infrastructure available in districts, the correct figure of deaths should be reported as it would give an overall view of the ground situation, the bench said.The court also wanted to know if there was only one crematorium at Buxar and why the state’s affidavit was silent with regard to burial grounds. “The affidavit is also conspicuously silent as to how many public functionaries related to panchayati Raj institutions have reported deaths in their respective areas within 24 hours, as directed earlier, and why the official website is not updated. Why it is that the digital India programme is not being put to use in Bihar?,” the court asked, adding if the authorities needed time to compile data, that could be granted for the sake of correct and complete information.The court granted one week to the government for presentation of complete and correct information after advocate general Lalit Kishore said that the chief secretary had directed all the district magistrates for the same and sought 10 days of time. “Till now, the civil surgeon used to inform the health department regarding Covid death figures in his district. Now, after the court direction, the chief secretary has directed the DMs to furnish all death figures, whether they take place in village, panchayat, block or district town, or at home or in hospitals or dedicated facilities. Separate affidavits will have to filed for each district, starting off with Buxar,” the AG said. Earlier, the AG said that due to efforts of the court, things had started improving, with positivity rate dropping to two per cent, recovery rate increasing to 97% and number of active cases coming down to 27,000 in less than two months, while “states like Maharashtra, Gujarat etc, with better medical infrastructure, are still battling the pandemic, though they, too, have witnessed significant improvement in the situation”. The bench said while what the AG’s observation sounded good, the court would not let its guard down and like to maintain the momentum, “as we are preparing ourselves for a situation that may arise six months from now in the form of expected third wave”. “The government’s affidavit says that bed occupancy in hospitals has come down to 50%, oxygen supply has improved and ventilators are available, even if some are non-functional, as reported in newspapers. But the best way we can serve the residents of the state is by coming up with facts and figures. That is why we said Buxar is a test case with regard to reporting and registration of deaths. It is equally important that deaths are reported,” the bench observed. The bench said while the state’s stated policy was “test, track and treat”, what percentage of its population was actually being tested. “If 1.25 lakh tests are being conducted in a state with a population over 10 crore, what percentage it comes to population wise compared to Delhi, Maharashtra or other states? The state is working, but it needs to work more, have more equipment and infrastructure,” it said. The bench was also informed that the state government had withdrawn from the ESIC Hospital, Bihta, where 76 beds were manned by the Army and 50 by the hospital authorities. The court asked if the ESIC hospital under one management would be able to serve better. “Bihta is an important hospital to cater to rural population. With cases of black/white fungus rising, it would require dedicated wards. As is emerging, the cases are rising in rural areas due to indiscriminate use of steroids and drugs by quacks,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-keeps-lens-on-deaths-state-seeks-time-to-compile-101621955350607.html
25-05-2021||Other||Tripura man accused of abducting, raping differently abled minor arrested||Tripura Police arrested a 29-year-old man accused of abducting and raping a 15-year-old differently abled girl at a village in North district of Tripura. The man, identified as one Jasimuddin, is currently in judicial custody. Police said that the girl’s brother lodged a complaint against Jasimuddin on May 23. On the basis of the complaint, police registered a case under Section 366(A) (procuration of a minor girl) , 376 (rape) of Indian Penal Code and 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) Act and arrested Jasimuddin. Also Read | Minor gang raped, three arrestedDuring the preliminary investigation, they found that Jasimuddin introduced himself as Tenu Das to the girl. He used to work as plumber near her house. Police added that Jasimuddin said that he married the girl and they lived together. “ We arrested him on Sunday and sent him to court the next day. We are investigating the matter,” said North superintendent of police Bhanupada Chakraborty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tripura-man-accused-of-abducting-raping-differently-abled-minor-arrested-101621930990869.html
25-05-2021||Other||Cyclone Yaas inches closer, West Bengal to evacuate around a million people||Around a million people are likely to be evacuated and taken to cyclone shelters in West Bengal before very severe cyclone Yaas hits the West Bengal-Odisha coast on Wednesday noon. “Evacuation process has already started and we plan to evacuate around a million people before the cyclone hits on Wednesday noon,” said a senior official of the state government. On Monday, the administration started moving people living on some of the remote islands in the Sunderban delta and on islands, such as Ghoramara, located close to the confluence of the River Ganges and the Bay of Bengal. “The sea and the river get very rough as a cyclone approaches and hence people living on Ghoramara Island had to be evacuated on Monday,” said a senior official of the South 24 Parganas district administration. In the early hours of Tuesday, the cyclone was located around 450 km south-east of the West Bengal coast. “From a cyclone, Yaas has already intensified into a severe cyclone. It is likely to intensify further into a very severe cyclone and is expected to hit the land somewhere around Balasore in Odisha on Wednesday noon,” said a senior official of the Indian Meteorological Department’s regional office in Kolkata. Click here for LIVE Updates on Cyclone YaasChief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday that around 20 districts, including those in north Bengal, would be affected. The worst affected would be the coastal districts of East Midnapore, South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas. Winds with speed reaching up to 70-80 kmph and gusting up to 90 kmph are likely to hit Kolkata on Wednesday. Rain and strong winds have already started in the coastal areas and the sea has turned rough. In East Midnapore which is located closest to Balasore, the wind speed may reach up to 155 - 165 kmph gusting up to 185 kmph. In some areas, such as Gosaba Island in the Sunderban delta, block administration has evacuated pregnant women and shifted them to ‘mother hubs’ on Monday. “As Covid-19 is taking a heavy toll we have arranged separate facilities for pregnant women, particularly those whose estimated date of delivery is very close. Also, this time safe homes and quarantine centres have been set up to isolate suspected and confirmed Covid-19 cases,” said a senior official of Gosaba in the Sunderbans. What is a cause of concern for the administration is the cyclone coinciding with the spring tide phase during the full moon, sp the storm surge could be higher and more devastating this time. In May 2020, when cyclone Amphan hit the state, low tide was prevailing. Hence, the storm surge was not so high even though the gale was strong. “The water level is already high because of the spring tide and once the cyclone hits, we are expecting waves at least 2-4 m high at East Midnapore district which shares its boundary with Odisha. In North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas, the storm surge would be 1-2 m high,” said an official of the meteorological department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyclone-yaas-inches-closer-west-bengal-to-evacuate-around-a-million-people-101621919050277.html
25-05-2021||Other||Maharashtra mulls relaxation in curbs as Covid cases continue to drop||With Covid-19 cases on the decline, Maharashtra is planning gradual unlocking from June 1, by allowing shops and establishments dealing in non-essential commodities also to operate, albeit with timing restrictions, and government offices to run with more employees. However, the suburban train network is unlikely to be open for the general public for a few more weeks.Maharashtra reported 22,122 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, the lowest single- day spike in 69 days after 17,864 infections were reported on March 16. The state tally has touched 5,602,019, while the death toll stands at 89,212 after the addition of 361 new fatalities on Monday.Also Read | ‘Centre driven by obsession with exams, mustn’t let schools be superspreaders’The state has witnessed a steady decline in cases over the past three weeks as the daily caseload dropped below 30,000, from hovering around 55,000 three weeks ago. The active cases in the state dropped to 348,395 on Sunday, from its peak of 699,858 cases on April 22. The daily growth rate also dropped to 0.69% on May 18, from 1.45% on April 30. This has led to the rising demand of relaxation in the ongoing lockdown, which has been imposed in a phase-wise manner beginning from April 5. The ongoing lockdown is in force till 7am on June 1.The government is discussing gradual relaxation in the lockdown and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to decide on it towards the end of the week. The state is expected to also allow the establishments from non-essential sector to operate for limited hours, along with those in the essential sector. The timing of operation of those in the essential sector is also expected to increase. “Industrial units, too, may get some relaxations, while the workforce in government offices is expected to go up from the current permission of 15%. However, establishments like restaurants, malls, multiplexes will continue to remain shut as they have been proved to be superspreaders in the past,” said an official from Mantralaya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-mulls-relaxation-in-curbs-as-covid-cases-continue-to-drop-101621912269875.html
25-05-2021||Other||31 doctors hired for Ramlila ground Covid facility disengaged from duty||New Delhi: Thirty-one junior resident doctors who were hired to work at Ramlila ground Covid care facility attached to Guru Tegh Bahadur (GTB) for three months, have been disengaged from duties days after they joined. While the doctors alleged they were removed due to disagreements over “payments”, hospital authorities said their services were not required since Covid-19 cases have been on the decline in the national capital. The hospital earlier this month appointed 136 junior resident doctors on a per-day and per-shift basis at the 500-bed facility, initially for a three-month period, and doctors joined between May 10 and May 15. On Sunday, however, the GTB hospital issued an order saying the services of at least 31 of these doctors were terminated immediately. Dr Nitin Bagari, one of the residents who was discharged, said, “The authorities hired us for three months. However, we have been removed from duty within days of joining, without any prior notice. I joined the facility only on May 12.” Dr Bagari recently completed his MBBS programme and internship. Another junior resident, who asked not to be named, said, “Some of us recently raised an issue regarding the night shift. We demanded that it be counted as a double shift and we be paid accordingly. Within days, authorities removed us from duty.” GTB hospital officials rejected these claims. “The doctors were hired on a daily honorarium basis to manage Covid-19 cases during the peak. They were to be hired for a maximum of three months but not necessarily so. Right now, cases have gone down and we cannot justify having so many doctors. Interns from GTB hospital have now been diverted to manage any patients admitted in the facility,” said a senior official from the hospital administration, asking not to be named. Meanwhile, the 31 doctors said they plan to protest against the move at the Covid facility on Tuesday. “We will gather to ask authorities why we were removed so abruptly,” said Dr Bagari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/31-doctors-hired-for-ramlila-ground-covid-facility-disengaged-from-duty-101621887727924.html
25-05-2021||Other||Struggling to stay afloat amid lockdown, Amritsar’s hoteliers mulling to quit biz||With occupancy almost down to zero amid the pandemic-induced lockdown and the recurring expenses weighing heavy on the pocket, several hoteliers in Amritsar are mulling to quit the business.Home to several tourist attractions such as Golden Temple, Partition Museum, Town Hall, Sadda Pind, War Memorial, Jallianwala Bagh, Attari-Wagah border, Durgiana Temple, Heritage Street, Ram Tirath Temple, Gobindgarh Fort and Pul Kanjri, Amritsar is considered to be the hub of tourism in Punjab and has around 700 hotels. Of these, at least two dozen hotels are already up for sale and around 50 other hotel owners are planning to follow suit, as per the hoteliers’ association. Most of these hotels have already laid off several staff members and are working at 30 to 50% strength. But with no income, they are struggling to meet regular expenses, such as electricity and rent. Surinder Singh, president of Federation of Hotel and Guest Houses Association, Amritsar, says, “At least 50 to 60 hoteliers in the city are eager to leave the trade. Nearly two dozen have already put up their hotels for sale, but no one wants to buy a sinking ship. These hoteliers are reeling under debt from banks and taxes imposed by the government. If the lockdown continues for some more time, we fear that many hoteliers may commit suicide like the farmers. Our association, at the national level, is planning to approach the Supreme Court demanding relaxations.”AP Singh Chatha, president of the Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association (Ahara), said, “Four five-star hotels of our association have already shut their operations. Many members are under depression as there is zero occupancy in their hotels. Unable to pay taxes, they are being harassed by government officials. Heavy penalties are being imposed for late payment. Many who had taken hotels on lease have also left the business. Most of the hotels are running with 25 to 50% staff strength and their salaries have also been decreased to 50%.”A hotelier, wishing to be anonymous, said, “With no customers, I am unable to pay the installments of my bank loan and the interest is piling up. We are receiving electricity bills and constant tax filing reminders but how do we pay when we have no income?”Hotelier Jatinder Singh alias Moti Bhatia demanded that the government waives off all taxes since March 2020. “We should also be exempted from paying electricity bills. Otherwise the industry will not be able to revive even after the next ten years,” he said.Amritsar district tourism officer (DTO) Gursharan Singh said, “We are in constant touch with the hoteliers and hope that the situation improves in the coming days. The state government is also concerned about the grievances of the hoteliers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/struggling-to-stay-afloat-amid-lockdown-amritsar-s-hoteliers-mulling-to-quit-biz-101621886048358.html
25-05-2021||Other||Amphotericin B shortage in Lucknow’s private hospitals makes doctors fall back on other anti-fungal treatment options||The lack of amphotericin B injections for the treatment of black fungus in private hospitals has prompted doctors to use other anti-fungal options, which are not as broad spectrum as amphotericin B.“Anti-fungal drugs are available in different categories. Amphotericin B is first choice and covers almost all the types of fungal infection. But if not available, there are other anti-fungal injections being used,” said Dr RK Mishra of SIPS hospital where 12 black fungus patients have recovered till now.“Ten patients recovered without amphotericin B, while two managed amphotericin B on their own. However, those given other options took a longer time to recover. But they recovered,” said Dr Mishra.Dr Farookh Ansari, medical director of Chandan hospital, another private hospital treating black fungus patients, said instead of waiting for amphotericin B, other options were used on patients. Chandan hospital has treated over a dozen black fungus patients.Amphotericin B is in short supply in the private sector while government-run medical colleges treating black fungus cases have an adequate stock. Hence, doctors in the private sector are using alternatives to save lives.“We use amphotericin B as it covers all types of fungal infections. It takes 28 days to get a fungal culture report. Hence, instead of waiting, we start other available anti-fungal treatment options. In several cases it has worked.”“The injection amphotericin B has been found most effective in black fungus cases. hence it is the preferred one. But if not available, the other options can be used instead of waiting,” said senior plastic surgeon Dr Vaibhav Khanna, director of Healthcity hospital.Dr Ved Prakash, head of the department of pulmonary critical care medicine at King George’s Medical University, said, “Posaconazole has also been used in black fungus cases. Instead of injection amphotericin B, which is considered to cover maximum fungal infections, the alternatives can also work among black fungus patients.”Who’s at risk?Covid patients with prolonged hospital stay on oxygen support having comorbidity such as diabetes were at the risk of getting black fungus, said doctors.“Covid induced poor immunity contributes 50% while history of uncontrolled diabetes where patients are irregular in monitoring of their sugar levels and also fail to take the prescribed medicine regularly, contributes to another 30% getting the black fungus infection. Those who develop high sugar during Covid treatment due to use of steroids are also at risk,” said Dr RK Mishra of SIPS hospital.At times, Covid-induced hypoglycaemia too causes poor immunity for getting infected, said Dr Mishra who has treated 14 black fungus patients.“I do not agree with the theory that only prolonged oxygen support is responsible for black fungus infection. Two patients I treated never needed oxygen support,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amphotericin-b-shortage-in-lucknow-s-private-hospitals-makes-doctors-fall-back-on-other-anti-fungal-treatment-options-101621885927779.html
25-05-2021||Other||Ghaziabad DM asked to file affidavit on alleged black marketing of oxygen||The Allahabad high court has directed the Ghaziabad district magistrate (DM) to file his personal affidavit in a public interest litigation (PIL) on the alleged black marketing of oxygen in UP’s Ghaziabad district resulting in the deaths of several Covid-19 patients during the second wave of the pandemic.The court also asked the DM to file the inquiry report in the probe instituted by him on a complaint filed by the petitioner Nand Kishore, the sitting BJP MLA from Loni constituency of Ghaziabad, alleging involvement of ADM (City) of Ghaziabad, and some other persons in the black marketing of oxygen.The bench comprising justice Sunita Agarwal and justice Sadhna Rani (Thakur) passed the order on the PIL filed by Nand Kishore. The order was passed on May 21 and came into the public domain on May 24.The petitioner requested a CBI probe against the ADM (City) of Ghaziabad, and some other persons for their alleged involvement in black-marketing and illegal sale of oxygen in Delhi, Haryana, etc, “resulting in the deaths of scores of Covid patients in Ghaziabad and nearby areas”.Appearing for the petitioner, senior advocate SFA Naqvi argued, “ADM (city) is in charge of oxygen distribution in Ghaziabad and under his nose black marketing of oxygen was taking place.”“Ghaziabad has several oxygen plants and can easily sustain and fulfil the entire oxygen demand in the district. Regardless, the city has been facing a shortage of medical oxygen,” said Naqvi.The petitioner has filed some audio and video clips along with the petition.The state government counsel submitted that shortage of oxygen was not reported in the district of Ghaziabad during the period of the complaint, that was in the last week of April 2021, and the allegations in this regard in the petition are baseless.“Further, the petitioner on May 1 filed a complaint to the senior superintendent of police (SSP), Ghaziabad, after which a three-member inquiry committee was set up by the DM Ghaziabad, which is conducting an inquiry.” submitted the state government counsel.The court directed the Ghaziabad DM to file his personal affidavit, bring on record the inquiry report and fixed June 7 as the next date of hearing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ghaziabad-dm-asked-to-file-affidavit-on-alleged-black-marketing-of-oxygen-101621885808856.html
25-05-2021||Other||Teen’s death in Unnao: Suspended constable arrested, DNA test likely||A suspended police constable, who is accused of beating a teenage vegetable vendor to death in Unnao’s Bangarmau area on Friday, was arrested on Monday afternoon, according to the Unnao police. The arrest of Vijay Chowdhary comes a day after a sacked home guard jawan, Satyaprakash, was arrested in the same case. Another police constable Simavat, the third accused in the case, is yet to be arrested. While Satyaprakash was sacked after the teen’s death, the two constables were suspended. After Chowdhary’s arrest, a Unnao police team left for Lucknow to seek permission for a DNA sample test from additional director general of police (Lucknow zone) SN Sabat. Sabat was not available for comment. But people familiar with the issue said the police had taken the clothes and shoes worn by the constable on the day of incident into custody. Forensic experts would lift the DNA samples and they would be matched with that taken from the vendor’s body, said a senior officer. The DNA matching, the officer claimed, was imperative to build a strong case against the constables. Meanwhile, Satyaprakash was interrogated for about 30 minutes and sent to the Unnao jail. Replying to the two-three questions put to him, the home guard said the vendor was forcibly taken from his shop and brought to the police station sandwiched between him and constable Vijay Chowdhary. “As we reached the police station, the vendor slumped to the ground, everyone got scared,” he said, according to officials privy to his interrogation. His version of the teen being taken away by force is corroborated by the footage from CCTV camera, which was installed opposite his shop. The footage shows Chowdhary and Prakash arriving on a motorcycle and stopping a metre away from the shop. Chowdhary is seen gesturing to the vendor to come and the vendor follows the instruction. Then, Chowdhary is seen slapping him thrice with force and compelling him to sit on the motorcycle. The home guard, on his part, has denied beating the teen inside the police station. But the vendor’s family insists he was assaulted inside the police station where his condition deteriorated. The home guard’s denial was in line with the police station CCTV footage, which was mysteriously released a day after the death on Saturday. According to the footage, the vendor apparently was allowed to go back, but he had difficulty walking and nearly fell at the gates. Policemen are seen attending him and carrying him away. The CCTV footage raises doubts as no camera number is seen, nor is there any mention of time and date, those privy to the issue indicated. Unnao district magistrate Ravindra Kumar said the police were looking into who released the footage and whether it was edited. The vendor’s father alleged that his son was beaten up in the police station and the footage was deliberately produced to refute this allegation. “Then where else was he beaten up? The post-mortem has found 14 injuries, the one on the back of the ear was fatal,” he said. His mother was inconsolable and said her son was handed over to her and a relative in an unconscious state at the police station. “We took him to the hospital in a battery rickshaw that we arranged. The policemen did nothing,” she alleged. According to people familiar with the issue, the release of the footage has raised more questions than answers. None of the policemen present in the Bangarmau police station on the day had been questioned yet, according to them. “It has been two days since the investigation was transferred to the crime branch and they haven’t been questioned,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teens-death-in-unnao-suspended-constable-arrested-dna-test-likely-101621885567791.html
25-05-2021||Other||Want to respond to plea into CBI probe against Anil Deshmukh: Lawyer Jaishri Patil to HC||Advocate Jaishri Patil has moved a praecipe in the Bombay high court (HC), seeking that she be added as a respondent in the petitions filed by the Maharashtra government as well as former state home minister Anil Deshmukh. The government and Deshmukh have sought an interpretation of HC’s April 5 order, which directed an independent probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into corruption allegations made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against the politician. Patil has claimed that as the independent probe ordered by HC was based on her complaint to Malabar Hill police, she should have been added as a respondent in both the petitions. However, as neither the state nor Deshmukh had done so, HC should consider her application and be allowed as a respondent in the petitions. Pointing to the fact that the state had tried to bypass her and pressed for an urgent hearing on May 21 before the bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade, Patil in her praecipe has said that the government wanted another bench to interpret parts of the April 5 order to suit its purpose. She has stated that as the order was passed by the bench headed by the chief justice, the interpretation of the order should also be done by the same bench. Justifying her request to be included as respondent, Dr Patil said that as her complaint was the basis of the April 5 order, she should be given an opportunity to explain the grounds of the plaint and the Singh’s intention in the letter which he wrote to the chief minister on March 20 making the allegations against Deshmukh. The praecipe has sought tagging her application along with the petitions filed by the state and Deshmukh, so that she may also be heard and allowed to be added as a respondent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/want-to-respond-to-plea-into-cbi-probe-against-anil-deshmukh-lawyer-jaishri-patil-to-hc-101621885389683.html
25-05-2021||Other||Expand boundary of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve: Maharashtra CM to forest dept||The boundary of the popular Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve in Maharashtra will be expanded after chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Monday directed that the two villages from the buffer zone of the national park be shifted owing to the rising number of tigers in the sanctuary.Located at Chandrapur district of Vidarbha region, Tadoba sanctuary is a popular tourist destination owing to frequent tiger sightings. During a review meeting, Thackeray directed the forest department to expand the reserve area, amid the possibilities of a potential growth in the number of tigers. Out of 312 tigers in state, 203 are within Tadoba and its buffer zone. The man-animal conflict in Chandrapur forest, which houses Tadoba, has resulted in the deaths of 33 people in 2020 and 18 so far this year. “To reduce the conflict and offer free area to the wild cats, the relocation of the two villages should be immediately undertaken,” Thackeray told officers.The state forest department has already relocated locals of four villages from the forest area. “The relocation will help avoid such conflicts. The villagers should be given cash compensation during the relocation. At the same time, measures need to be taken to reduce the accidental deaths of tigers. Most of the tiger deaths have occurred by falling into wells. Measures such as heightening of the fencing walls of the wells should be undertaken,” CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/expand-boundary-of-the-tadoba-andhari-tiger-reserve-maharashtra-cm-to-forest-dept-101621885327763.html
25-05-2021||Other||48 freshwater turtles found dead in Maharashtra; no case filed yet||The forest department in Maharashtra’s Jalgaon recovered carcasses of at least 48 Indian flapshell turtles from an under-construction aqueduct in Asoda village, Jalgaon district, on Sunday. The development incidentally took place on World Turtle Day, observed globally on May 23. While post-mortem reports of the reptiles were not available till the time of going to press, department officials claimed that the turtles had likely died of heatstroke. “Post-mortem reports will be available only on Tuesday,” said Vivek Hoshing, deputy forest conservator, Jalgaon. Flapshell turtles are categorised as ‘vulnerable’ in the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) red-list of globally threatened species, as they face a “high risk of extinction in the wild.” The deaths were reported to the forest department early on Sunday by locals from Asoda, where construction work is underway to provide an irrigation channel from Waghur damn to the agricultural fields of Mamurabad village. A seasonal stream known as the Lavki nullah has been temporarily diverted by the contractor to lay the main water pipeline. A biodiversity register, prepared at village level under the mandate of the Biodiversity Act, had previously documented the presence of these freshwater turtles in the nullah. “It seems that once the kaccha nullah was diverted and the water in it dried up, the turtles living there went to the aqueducts of the main pipeline, which is being built adjacent to the stream. These are metal pipes which absorb a lot of heat. Because there was no mud or water, it is possible that the turtles died of overheating. The pipes were being welded together, which may have contributed to the deaths,” said Hoshing. Despite the scale of mortalities in this incident, the forest department has not yet registered an offence against the contractor or any other persons under the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972, citing that the Indian flapshell turtle is not protected under the law. Justifying this claim, Hoshing referred to a December 2020 judgment of the Supreme Court (SC) against a Kerala resident, George Kurian, in which it was ruled that possession of a specific sub-species of flapshell turtles (lissemys punctata punctata) will not be punishable under WPA. Kurian was found to be in possession of Lissemys punctata punctata (sometimes known as the South Indian flapshell), which the SC ruled this to be different from the species Lissemys punctata (commonly known as the Indian flapshell), which is indeed protected under Schedule 1 of the WPA.“This is a flippant technicality, and holds no water scientifically speaking. WPA has not been updated since 1972 to reflect changes in modern taxonomy. Scientific names keep changing all the time, but the species remains the same. Lissemys punctata punctata is a sub-species of lissemys punctata, which is afforded the highest protection under the law.A startling number of them have died under suspect circumstances. It warrants an investigation by the forest department,” said Dr Varad Giri, noted herpetologist and taxonomist. Moreover, Giri added that the 2020 SC order concerns only possession of the animal and not its death. “You cannot even kill vermin without permission under the law. The forest department needs to do more in asking who is responsible for these deaths,” he said. When asked for a response to these arguments, Hoshing said, “No, the flapshell is not protected in any schedule of WPA. There is no mention of this specific species, so how can we register an offence? Besides, the incident has occurred on non-forest land, where we have no jurisdiction.” Experts also pointed out that the exact taxonomy the dead flapshells in Asoda is not yet proven. “It is not easy to simply distinguish only by looking. How the forest department come to the conclusion about the sub-species is not clear,” said one herpetologist working in Maharashtra, not wanting to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/48-freshwater-turtles-found-dead-in-maharashtra-no-case-filed-yet-101621885208791.html
25-05-2021||Other||Covid tests: Three institutes in Lucknow asked to correct data glitches||The details of over 8000 patients, who underwent Covid RT-PCR tests, were filled erroneously by three labs at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) and Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences that has created problems in contact tracing, an official letter indicates.The staff at KGMU made the erroneous entries against 3749 samples tested there; there were data entry errors at SGPGIMS with regard to 1078 samples and at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Science there were such 4049 samples (total 8876 ), said a letter of the director general medical health to the three institutes.“You may correct the incorrectly uploaded data and also ensure that such errors are not done so that the rapid response teams at the community health centre level are able to perform their duty. Else the responsibility of incorrect data will be upon you,” said DG in his letter to the three premier institutes of the state that collectively conduct the maximum tests in the state via RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) method.The issue came to light when rapid response teams went to the addresses mentioned against IDs of the tested persons with Covid-19 positive reports. The teams found the persons had been already given medical kits. On being asked, the persons told the teams that they had given the swab sample again to check their current Covid status (second test).In case, the person gives a sample again for Covid test, the reference ID generated by the labs has to be kept the same as in the first instance so that the teams get the data of the previous test and do not unnecessarily visit their homes again.In many cases, repeat samples of the same person have been mentioned with different IDs generated by the labs. As a result, the teams that went to the address found the person was tested earlier also and had already received medical kit and medical advice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-tests-three-institutes-in-lucknow-asked-to-correct-data-glitches-101621885027760.html
25-05-2021||Other||Mumbai man kills wife after she confronts him about his affair||An online food delivery app employee was arrested by Bhandup police on Sunday for allegedly strangling his wife to death when she confronted him over his affair. According to the police, on Saturday, they had received a call from Sonu Jha, 27, who informed them that his wife Soni, 28, had become unresponsive after falling in the house. The police reached the spot and rushed Soni to a hospital. “She was declared dead by the hospital, following which we registered an accidental death report in the case,” said senior inspector Sham Shinde of Bhandup police station. Shinde said that Soni’s autopsy report stated that her death occurred due to strangulation. “The victim had a ligature mark around her neck after which her death was ruled as a murder,” said Shinde. They then detained Soni’s husband. “Jha was the only person living with Soni and he was present in the house at the time of her death,” Shinde said. During interrogation, Jha confessed that he had killed his wife by strangling her with a saree. He told the police that they had married after a long courtship. However, after getting married, there were quarrels between the couple on regular occasions. Jha in his statement said that Soni was upset with his long hours of work and had found out about his extra-marital affair a few days ago. “On Saturday when Jha returned from work, Soni confronted him about his affair. Enraged with the constant questioning, Jha picked up the victim’s saree and strangled her with it,” said Shinde. The police then arrested Jha for murder under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-man-kills-wife-after-she-confronts-him-about-his-affair-101621884728327.html
25-05-2021||Other||Widely publicise free treatment of black fungus for poor: HC to Maharashtra govt||The Maharashtra government on Monday informed the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) that 1,000 hospitals were being empanelled for the treatment of mucormycosis, apart from the 130 existing hospitals treating fungal ailments as well as the 19 medical and surgical packages earmarked for treating the infection under the Mahatama Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY). MJPJAY facilitates cashless treatments to needy patients from below poverty line. HC has directed the state to widely publicise the facility for the “poorest of poor, the illiterate and semi-literate as well as those living in tribal belts”. The information was furnished by the state in a suo motu public interest litigation (SMPIL) instituted by HC after news reports pointed to shortage of oxygen, black marketing of essential drugs to treat Covid-19 and issues pertaining to the last rites of victims of coronavirus. After reports raised an alarm on the rising number of mucormycosis cases in the state and the plight of people from the economically weaker sections who contracted the infection but were unable to afford treatment for it, the court included the issue in the PIL. The state government on May 18, through a government resolution (GR), had said that the grievances of the underprivileged would be considered, and that the treatment for black fungus infection would be covered under MJPJAY. A division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Bhalchandra Debadwar in a hearing of the SMPIL on May 21 had asked the state government to ensure “proper distribution” of Amphotericin B injections and other medicines required to treat black fungus and consider the request to cover its treatment – which can cost nearly ₹8- ₹10 lakh – under MJPJAY. On Monday, chief public prosecutor DR Kale for the state said that in line with the May 18 GR, medicines for treating mucormycosis would be made available through district civil surgeons. Referring to a report filed by the regional manager of state health insurance society, Kale said expenses for mucormycosis treatment would be capped, so that non-government hospitals do not raise exorbitant bills. The state government further said that antifungal medicines required for the treatment of the ailment would be provided free of cost to patients admitted in pre-identified hospitals, and district civil surgeon and state health assurance society would reimburse the cost of the drugs. He added that daily consumption of medicines while treating mucormycosis patients would also be monitored through MJPJAY web portal. “The hospitals treating mucormycosis patients would display instructions for the public at large at conspicuous places and make information as regards availability of beds on the portal. This would prevent unscrupulous elements [hospitals] from fleecing poor people by raising large bills. Needless to state, the list of hospitals identified for such treatment and through which the medicines would be made available should also be given wide publicity, so that patients do not land in the wrong hospital for availing treatment on mucormycosis,” noted the bench in its order. The court further directed the government lawyer to take instructions and address the issue of availability of medicines or injections necessary for treating mucormycosis patients and posted the further hearing of the SMPIL on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/widely-publicise-free-treatment-of-black-fungus-for-poor-hc-to-maharashtra-govt-101621884669959.html
25-05-2021||Other||Black fungus patients’ kin face agonising test of patience for injections||It took Rahul two days to get a letter from the additional commissioner (administration) permitting 18 doses of the amphotericin B injection for his relative admitted to Chandan hospital in Lucknow for the treatment of black fungus (mucormycosis).Till now, the state has reported 598 cases of black fungus, including over 200 in Lucknow, and there have been 19 deaths across Uttar Pradesh.Having received the letter on May 22, Rahul thought he would get the vials, possibly that day itself. His hope did not bear fruit.Despite having the letter, Rahul has been waiting outside the Red Cross office in Qaiserbagh here for two days to get the injection. He had nothing to show for his effort even on Monday.“It took two days to get the letter from authorities. Now, it is even tougher to actually get the injections at the Red Cross office, while my relative remains in a serious condition,” said Rahul, resident of Gorakhpur’s Chauri Chaura. He was among several other attendants waiting on the Red Cross office campus near the Qaiserbagh bus station here on Monday.Patient admitted to government-run medical colleges and government hospitals get the injection from there (medical colleges and government hospitals) but those admitted at private hospitals need to take injection from Red Cross. The attendants outside the Red Cross office were those who had their relatives admitted to private hospitals.When asked about the situation, Lucknow divisional commissioner Ranjan Kumar said, “We are continuously distributing the injection/medicine for black fungus. The stock is coming and the committee formed to screen the need approves the application for distribution. The supply is coming.”The Red Cross that is supposed to distribute amphotericin B to patients admitted to private hospitals in districts under Lucknow division has received applications from 70 attendants who have their relatives admitted at private hospitals in the state capital and the districts nearby such as Gonda, Kanpur, Unnao, Hardoi, Rae Bareli and Sitapur. Those admitted at government medical colleges/hospitals are provided this injection by medical colleges/hospitals only.“It seems the authorities have evolved this paperwork just to buy time. They do not have the injections and the paperwork took two days that I fear might go in vain,” said another attendant standing at Red Cross office campus, who did not wish to be named.“There had been 40 applications for a three-day dose (18 doses @ 6 per day) that required 720 injection vials. But only 90 have come since Red Cross was entrusted the task of distributing the injection on May 20,” said Indian Red Cross Society (Lucknow) chairman Om Prakash Pathak. “We gave only one-day dose, that is six injections, to 15 attendants/applicants by Sunday, and no fresh stock has come on Monday,” he said.Patients admitted to private hospitals can purchase the injection from medical stores, but there are hardly any injections with the medical stores in and outside Lucknow.According to an order issued by additional chief secretary (medical health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad on May 19, the Red Cross has been entrusted the task of distributing amphotericin B injection for black fungus patients admitted to private hospitals, after approval from the committee.In view of the shortage of these injections, the health department had started an arrangement that medical colleges will get a separate stock. Patients admitted at private hospitals will be provided the doses via open market or through the Red Cross society in four divisions of Lucknow, Varanasi, Agra, Meerut.14 fresh cases, three more deaths With 14 fresh black fungus cases, the state’s tally reached 598. Nineteen deaths have been reported, including 3 at King George’s Medical University on Monday. Those who died included 40-year-old man from Bihar, a 53-year-old woman from Deoria and a 70-year-old woman from Lalganj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/black-fungus-patients-kin-face-agonising-test-of-patience-for-injections-101621884488330.html
25-05-2021||Other||Varanasi police launches op ‘Dastak’ to identify, trace criminals||Commissionerate of Police, Varanasi on Monday launched operation ‘Dastak’ to identify, trace hardcore criminals and send them to jail.A brainchild of the commissioner of police of Varanasi A Satish Ganesh, operation ‘Dastak’ is a combination of digital and manual policing for ensuring action against the criminals active for the last five years and committed various incidents of loot and contract killing.A Satish Ganesh said that the operation ‘Dastak’ has three phases. In the first phase, the police teams will knock at the door of the criminals and collect detailed information about the criminals from their respective family members and locals and will document the details. In the second phase, which has to be completed with the first phase, the police teams will focus on getting the latest picture of the criminals for their identification. The third phase will focus on tracing the criminals and sending them to jail.He said that with the launch of the operation a list of the criminals, who were involved in various crimes during the last five years, has been sent to police stations in the Varanasi police Commissionerate area for the verification of the criminals. The verification, as part of this operation, will begin on Tuesday. Ganesh said that the cops have been instructed to complete the verification within a fortnight.He said that a mobile app is being developed for digital policing. It will be available at the Google play store soon. The cops in the Varanasi police Commissionerate will upload the app on their mobile. It will have details of the hardcore criminals with their latest photographs and criminal history that will help in tracing the criminals and arrest them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-police-launches-op-dastak-to-identify-trace-criminals-101621884428315.html
25-05-2021||Other||Delhi police visit Twitter offices in city, Ggm over ‘toolkit case’||New Delhi: The Delhi Police on Monday said they have sought a clarification from Twitter in connection with a tweet by Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) national spokesperson Sambit Patra about an alleged toolkit released by the Congress party that the micorblogging site tagged as “manipulated media.”Delhi Police officers on Monday evening visited offices in South Delhi’s Lado Sarai and Golf Course Road in Gurugram. A police team from Lodhi Colony’s special cell visited the offices to secure the participation of Twitter’s Managing Director Manish Maheshwari as part of the probe. “The person(Manish Maheshwari) who had to join investigation said he is not the concerned person. He sent a reply to the DCP of special cell that he was part of Twitter India and not Twitter Inc. Any tagging to that concerned tweet was done by Twitter Inc. Though his bio said he is the MD of Twitter in India. So we visited the Twitter office to summon the concerned and verify his claims. This is just a preliminary inquiry,” a senior police officer said. The visit came after the special cell of Delhi Police asked Twitter to explain the “manipulated media” tag.  The city police’s special cell has been conducting an enquiry into a complaint filed with the police chief and the Tughlak Road police station on May 18 by two Congress party leaders, seeking a first information report (FIR) against some BJP leaders for allegedly “forging documents, and circulating fabricated material on Twitter under the hashtag CongressTolkitExposed.” No FIR was registered till Monday evening in the matter, the police said.But it wasn’t immediately clear whether the police were investigating this or the “manipulated media” tag which means, according to the platform’s policies, “deceptively altered media”. Twitter flagged the Patra tweet on Friday. In his tweet, Patra released details of the Toolkit, a social media campaign playbook, that the Congress allegedly prepared to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi and build a biased narrative over India’s management of Covid-19, and the Central Vista project. The IT ministry has already written to Twitter , expressing its displeasure at the tagging, and asking it to remove the “manipulated media” descriptor. “Delhi Police is enquiring into a complaint in which clarification is sought from the Twitter regarding the classification of a tweet by Sambit Patra as manipulated . It appears that Twitter has some information which is not known to us on the basis of which they have classified it as such. This information is relevant to the enquiry. The special cell, which is conducting the enquiry, wants to find out the truth. Twitter which has claimed to know the underlying truth should clarify,” the Delhi Police said in a statement released on Monday evening by their spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.Twitter did not immediately respond to queries on the incident. On May 18, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sambit Patra posted two purported documents of the Congress’s research department on Twitter and called them a toolkit with “elaborate plans” to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi, politicise religion and help build a “biased narrative” over Covid-19 management and the Central Vista project. Other BJP leaders also joined Patra in the allegations.Rajeev Gowda, who heads the Congress’s research department, immediately hit back and accused the BJP of propagating a fake “toolkit” on Covid-19 mismanagement and attributing it to his party. The same day Godwa and Rohan Gupta, chairman of the party’s social media department, filed a police complaint.Gowda on Monday said, “This is an effort to cover up the whole thing. The BJP hatched a conspiracy to cook up a forged document and they have been caught. Now they are trying to browbeat twitter. They have no legal authority to do that.”On Wednesday, a case was registered in Raipur in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh against the state’s former chief minister Raman Singh and other BJP leaders for allegedly promoting enmity by allegedly spreading fake news related to the “toolkit”. In response to a summons from Chattisgarh police, Patra has sought a week’s time. A Twitter spokesperson declined to comment on the matter. Patra did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-visit-twitter-offices-in-city-ggm-over-toolkit-case-101621882627682.html
25-05-2021||Other||Minister’s brother appointment row: University VC sends report to governor||LUCKNOW Vice chancellor of Siddharth University, Kapilvastu, Prof Surendra Dubey on Monday confirmed that chancellor governor Anandiben Patel had sought a report about the appointment of state’s basic education minister’s younger brother in the university and said he had sent his report to the governor.The appointment of Arun Kumar, UP’s basic education minister Satish Dwivedi’s brother, as assistant professor in psychology, under the economically weaker section (EWS) quota, had created a political storm with the opposition seeking minister’s resignation on the issue.Arun’s wife is also an assistant professor in another institution, reason why opposition parties claimed that his appointment under EWS quota wasn’t justified. However, the VC said the EWS certificate produced by minister’s brother was issued by the district administration. “If the document submitted by him turns out to be fake, the university will take action against him as per the rules which includes his termination and recovery of salary. Arun joined the university on May 21,” the VC added.“I was not even aware that Arun is the brother of the basic education minister in the UP government,” the VC said adding that though he was aware of viral posts on social media pertaining to minister’s brother appointment, he would order a probe only if asked by a competent authority to do so.“I will order probe only if any competent authority ask me to get the matter investigated. On the basis of social media reports, EWS certificate of the faculty members will not be made public,” the VC said.“Posts were advertised in October or November 2019. Arun used EWS certificate that was valid for a period of one year. The last date for submitting application was December 2019. The scrutiny of the applications got delayed because of pandemic COVID-19 that broke out in March 2020. Subsequently, Arun was appointed by the selection committee in March 2021,” the VC said.Meanwhile district magistrate Siddharth Nagar, Deepak Meena said the certificate of Economically Weaker Section (EWS) that was issued to the minister’s younger brother in 2019 by the district administration was “genuine”.“It was valid for a period of one year. The university concerned must have cross checked its validity when he applied to the post of assistant professor,” the DM said.IPS Amitabh Thakur and his wife social activist, Nutan Thakur lodged a complaint with governor Anandiben Patel, who is chancellor of the university, saying that prima facie the minister’s brother used EWS quota to get the job which “looks to be fake” and an inquiry should be set up to settle the dispute.The basic education minister Satish Chand Dwivedi had denied any foul play in his brother’s appointment.“My brother got selected to the post of assistant professor through a fair selection process followed by the university. Anyone having doubts on his selection may seek probe,” the minister said in a video statement.The minister added that he was not involved in the selection process in any way. Asked about his brother using EWS quota, the minister said if a family member is earning well, it doesn’t mean that all members of the family are financially stable.“My brother applied for the post using an income certificate issued by the district administration which must have been checked by the university,” said the minister who represents Itwa constituency in Siddharth Nagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ministers-brother-appointment-row-university-vc-sends-report-to-governor-101621882328169.html
25-05-2021||Other||Water police keep vigil to prevent dumping of bodies in rivers||: In a bid to stop dead bodies from being dumped in the Ganga and other rivers, Jal police is busy patrolling the rivers on motorboats round-the-clock. Besides stopping people from dumping bodies in rivers, Jal police is also ensuring that buried bodies do not get uncovered and fall in the rivers as the river changes course from time to time.Senior police officials are also inspecting different ghats in the district regularly and are patrolling in the river with their teams.Teams of Jal police, PAC and SDRF have been deployed at different ghats of the district to stop people from immersing or burying dead bodies. However, no dead body has been found floating in rivers yet, officials claimed.On Sunday, SSP Sarvshrestha Tripathi, SP Crime Ashutosh Mishra, SP trans-Yamuna Saurabh Dixit and SP City Dinesh Kumar Singh patrolled the waters in Sangam area and inspected the cremation ghats. They issued instructions to Jal police, PAC and SDRF teams to remain alert and keep strict watch at the ghat and surrounding areas.SP Crime Ashutosh Mishra said Jal Police personnel have been asked to remain mobile on motorboats and water scooters. A PAC platoon along with two motorboats have been deployed at Shringverpur ghat, an SDRF team with two motorboats are present at Phaphamau Ghat, half PAC platoons along with one motorboat each are deployed at Arail and Chhatnag Ghats. Moreover, Jal police teams with motorboats are active at Dshahshmegh and other ghats. SP Crime further said no dead body had been found floating in river. All steps were being taken to ensure that bodies were properly cremated instead of being immersed or buried in sand, he added.Earlier, video footages and photographs of graves at Shringverpur and other ghats have gone viral around a week back. Later, some videos of dogs digging graves and feasting on bodies also went viral following which administration spring up into action. Not only force was deployed at ghats, but efforts were launched to cover up the bodies that have come up in the sand due to winds or rains.Residents living on riverbanks said that large number of bodies buried in sand may come up and pose health hazards if water level rises in coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/water-police-keep-vigil-to-prevent-dumping-of-bodies-in-rivers-101621882208240.html
