26-05-2021||Other||Most Covid deaths in Agra in 61+ age group||Agra An analysis done by the district administration has traced that most of those who caught Covid-19 infection in the past one year were in the age group of 21 to 40 years (44%), while the highest number of deaths took place in the age group of 61 years and above (43%) in Agra district. The analysis made it clear that only 8 % (2071) of those below 20 years tested positive for Covid-19. The next age group of 21 to 40 was most vulnerable in catching the infection and 44 % (11079) tested positive for corona in over a year. Next came the age group of 41 to 60 where 32 % (8274) tested positive, followed by the age group of 61 and above in which the percentage of infection was 16 % (3995), informed district magistrate of Agra Prabhu N Singh. While analysing Covid -19 deaths, it was learnt that the most vulnerable was the age group of 61 years and above, facing 43 % (166) of deaths. In the age group of 41 to 60, the vulnerability was 39 % (150) followed by the age group of 21 to 40 in which 16 %, i.e. 61 deaths took place. There were only 10 deaths in the age group of up to 20 years, making it 2 % of total deaths in Agra district, informed Singh. On Wednesday, 23 new cases were tested positive, taking the total tally of positive cases to 25442, out of whom 24449 were discharged while 395 died, informed Singh. “Agra now has 598 active cases and recovery rate has increased to 96.10 %. The sample positivity rate stands at 2.87 % and fatality rate at 1.55%. The number of samples tested in the district is 887358,” said the DM. In the past 24 hours, 8632 samples were tested and 23 were found to be positive while 112 patients were discharged. Caption ::: Graphic for number of cases and deaths due to Covid -19 in Agra district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/most-covid-deaths-in-agra-in-61-age-group-101622052434134.html
26-05-2021||Other||BSE CEO Ashish Chauhan is new AU Chancellor||PRAYAGRAJ: Ashish Chauhan, managing director (MD) and chief executive officer (CEO) of BSE (formerly Bombay Stock Exchange, India), has been appointed as the new Chancellor of Allahabad University (AU). President and Visitor of AU Ramnath Kovind appointed Chauhan to the post for a period of five years on Wednesday, informed varsity officials. Chauhan has acted as the CEO of IPL cricket team Mumbai Indians in its formative years and worked as the president and chief information officer (CIO) of Reliance group from 2000 to 2009 in the field of IT, e-commerce, public relations, media, telecom,sports, organised retail, IPO, petrochemicals, refining, oil and gas etc.He started his career as a banker with IDBI. Chauhan is one of the founders of NSE (National stock exchange) and is considered the father of modern financial derivatives in India due to his work there from 1993-2000. He is also the creator of Nifty index and was in charge of creating the first screen-based trading. Prior to Chauhan, renowned educationist Prof Govardhan Mehta was the Chancellor but he had resigned even before his term was over, four years back. Later, on June 29, 2019, the ministry of education asked for names of eminent scientists or other persons of the country for the post of Chancellor. The varsity administration sent some names to the ministry but they were turned down and fresh names were sought from AU by the ministry. On February 24 this year, the AU administration discussed the issue at the meeting of the Academic Council (AC). It was decided that all the members of the council would suggest two names and e-mail the same to the vice-chancellor directly. Nearly all the members suggested the names and after screening it, five names were agreed upon by the AU administration and forwarded to the ministry. Following this, the President appointed BSE CEO Ashish Chauhan as the Chancellor of AU for five years. Chauhan thanked the President, PM and education minister for appointing him as the Chancellor of AU. In a tweet, Chauhan wrote, “Thank you for my appointment as the Chancellor of University of Allahabad, a nationally important education institution, one of the four oldest universities in India set up in 1887.Truly honoured and humbled by your gesture.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bse-ceo-ashish-chauhan-is-new-au-chancellor-101622052254064.html
26-05-2021||Other||BSP schemes could have helped during Covid crisis: Maya||Lucknow: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said on Wednesday that the BSP government had launched 18 development and welfare schemes under Dr Ambedkar village integrated development programme. The BSP government had planned to equip the villages with basic facilities. After grabbing power, the rival political parties dumped the village development schemes. Had the successive governments continued the BSP government schemes, the rural population would not have faced problem, poverty and deaths during the Covid pandemic, she said. Wishing the people good health and life on the occasion of ‘Buddha Purnima’, the BSP chief said Gautam Buddha gave the message of universal peace, non-violence and brotherhood. Buddha devoted his life to the service of humanity. Today when the people were facing crisis due to the Covid pandemic, the message and teachings of Buddha could provide them solace and courage, she said. Mayawati said the four BSP governments launched several development projects and welfare schemes to highlight contribution of Gautam Buddha, including Gautam Buddha University, Gautam Buddha highways, airstrip in Kapilvastu, guest houses and Gautam Buddha parks. The development schemes promoted tourism and generated employment for a large number of people, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bsp-schemes-could-have-helped-during-covid-crisis-maya-101622052074055.html
26-05-2021||Other||Expert committee approving only 2 vials per day for black fungus patient in Haryana||Mucormycosis (black fungus) patients’ kin alleged that the expert committee formed by Haryana director general health services is approving only two vials of anti-fungal medicine, liposomal amphotericin-B, per day to each patient against the demand of 4-7 injections.As per data accessed, the expert committed had allotted two vials each to nearly 220 patients on Tuesday while nearly 18 patients could not get the vials because the prescribing doctor’s sign and UHID were missing and some patients were asked to submit after re-investigation.Anurag, of Dadri, said his brother-in-law has been admitted at a private hospital since May 23 but they got only two vials on Wednesday.“The doctors are asking us to arrange at least four vials per day or his situation can worsen. Patients’ details have been uploaded on the portal but we got only two vials in four days. Doctors said that if they get four vials per day, they will scrape off the fungus,” he added.Rohit Kumar, of Hisar, said his uncle is admitted at Maharaja Agrasen Medical College, Agroha (MAMC) in Hisar and his health is deteriorating as he could not get vials as his UHID and prescribing doctor’s sign were missing.“We are hoping to get the vials on Thursday but two vials are not enough,” he added.Union minister for chemicals and fertilizer Sadanand Gowda tweeted that Haryana had 436 black fungus patients till May 25 and 1,110 vials of amphotericin-B drug, used in treatment of mucormycosis, were allocated to Haryana.Dr Aditya Bhargava, head of ENT department at PGIMS, said 60 vials are averagely required to treat a black fungus patient.PGIMS, Rohtak medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said 104 black fungus patients are undergoing treatment at the institution and they had received over 100 vials on Tuesday, and all of these were used.“I have talked to the expert committee and asked them to provide us more vials so that we can treat patients effectively and aggressively. We can start with liposomal amphotericin injection, and switch to other drugs if that is not available. Amphotericin-B deoxycholate is also effective, but can cause kidney damage,” she said.“We are exploring other drugs that can be used to treat black fungus patients in shortage of liposomal amphotericin. I told the doctors to share details of new confirmed cases with the expert committee so that they can provide us vials after accessing a patient’s case,” she added.Dr Jasneet, nodal officer at World Medical College, Jhajjar said they got only 10 drugs and eight patients are undergoing treatment at the institution.One of the state expert committee members, Dr RS Chauhan, head of ophthalmology at PGIMS, said they are equally distributing anti-fungal drugs to the patients.“Once we get new supply, we again distribute it equally to all patients undergoing treatment,” he added.“We had already sent the prescription of 60 vials per patient. Some patients need 2-3 vials per day and some need more. We have to see the severity of the patients. We are receiving two vials per patient in two to three days of time because of shortage of drugs. We are giving the allocated drug to patients for whom it is approved,” Dr Bhargava added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/expert-committee-approving-only-2-vials-per-day-for-black-fungus-patient-in-haryana-101622051174641.html
26-05-2021||Other||Khattar inaugurates ECMO machine at KCGMCH, Karnal||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday virtually inaugurated the extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) facility to help treat critically ill Covid patients at the Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital (KCGMCH) in Karnal.After the inauguration, the CM said the therapy is already in practice at PGIMS, Rohtak and will help save lives of critical Covid patients.“This machine can be used to treat critically ill Covid patients whose lungs are damaged and require ventilator support during their treatment,” he added.The CM hailed the contribution of social and religious organisations and urged the citizens to come forward and extend their cooperation to social institutions during the hour of need.He inaugurated a 10 MT medical oxygen storage tank and jetting-cum-suction machine for cleaning purposes at KCGMCH to double the capacity of oxygen storage in the hospital to 20 MT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/khattar-inaugurates-ecmo-machine-at-kcgmch-karnal-101622050755131.html
26-05-2021||Other||Never saw such rush of bodies before, say Panipat volunteers||Five volunteers from Panipat district have been working tirelessly to arrange a dignified cremation to Covid-19 victims, claiming to have dealt with over 600 bodies since the pandemic gripped the country last year, 450 of them in April-May this year alone.The organisation — Jan Sewa Dal (JSD) — has been cremating unclaimed bodies for 10 years, but only five members stood up to the occasion when it came to Covid victims. The members who are doing this volunteer service have their private businesses and are in the age group of 40 to 60 years.JSD member Chaman Lal Gulati says they attend to all bodies irrespective of their religion. “We arranged burial for six Muslims even,” he said.“We have been cremating unclaimed bodies for the past ten years, but I never saw such a large number of deaths as we even cremated 35 bodies in a day,” said another member Kapil Malhotra. At the peak of the pandemic earlier this month they were cremating bodies round the clock, having their food in the cremation ground itself, he added.“Kin of most of the victims didn’t even stay to witness the cremation, and nobody came to collect the ashes of 35 victims. We had to take them to Haridwar for immersion,” said Gulati.They said since March last year, they have spent most of the time with the Covid victims but not even a single member of the team got infected. Each member of the team gets himself tested for Covid every fourth day.According to them, the second wave is now receding and the number of daily Covid deaths has come down to four-five from 15-20 earlier. The JSD has hundreds of regular donors and it also provide free ambulance service, free food and medical assistance to the poor Covid patients.However, there is big difference in number of deaths claimed by the district health authorities and the number of bodies cremated by the JSD. The state health department records only 406 Covid victims in Panipat district. The officials said that several patients from NCR districts especially from Delhi also died in different hospitals.Panipat chief medical officer Dr Jitender Kadyan said, “In our record, we have reported the deaths of people, who belonged to the district and they (JSD) might have also cremated bodies of people who do not belong to Panipat.”Panipat’s nodal officer for Covid Ravinder Malik also gave the same explanation. Panipat deputy commissioner Dharmender Singh did not respond to the phone calls and text messages sent to him for his comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/never-saw-such-rush-of-bodies-before-say-panipat-volunteers-101622050694718.html
26-05-2021||Other||Can’t force anyone, but people believe in ayurveda: Vij on Coronil distribution||Amid the raging controversy over a statement by Baba Ramdev on allopathic medicines in treatment of coronavirus, Haryana will start distributing one lakh Patanjali-manufactured Coronil kits to infected patients in state this week.On viability of the medicine, state health minister Anil Vij said that they cannot force the patients to take this medicine, but many believe in ayurveda.“Both ayurveda and allopathic have their own role to play and our state’s AYUSH department is working on distribute immunity booster ayurvedic medicines and suggesting ‘asanas’ and ‘pranayam’. There might not be scientific evidence that these are helpful and there is acceptance,” Vij said.The Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Haryana unit has termed the step as a ‘waste’, for which half of the cost will be borne by Patanjali and half from the Covid Relief Fund of Haryana.‘NO EVIDENCE TO JUSTIFY THIRD WAVE’Weeks after principal scientific advisor to the Centre, Prof K Vijay Raghavan said: “Covid’s third wave is inevitable”, Vij has contradicted the statement and said that there is no evidence to support this prediction.“People making such announcements have no proof that the third wave will come. They cannot even justify that the wave will affect children at large,” he said.On preparations and infrastructure in Haryana, Vij said the state is ready for any eventuality and there are dedicated paediatric facilities in hospitals (Nikoo ward) for this.Vij said the wastage data of Covid vaccine has also been rectified after compiling all figures and there is currently 2-2.5% vaccine wastage in state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cant-force-anyone-but-people-believe-in-ayurveda-vij-on-coronil-distribution-101622050575155.html
26-05-2021||Other||Haryana farmers observe ‘black day’||Following the call of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), farmers on Wednesday observed ‘black day’ across Haryana to mark six months of their agitation against Centre’s three farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP).Farmers hoisted black flags at the protest site tents, houses, vehicles and villages.INLD general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala, who had resigned from the Haryana assembly in support of the agitation, marked ‘black day’ at his Teja Khera farmhouse in Sirsa.Farmers wore black badges and burnt effigies of PM Modi, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala at Tikri, Singhu, Khatkar toll plaza in Jind, Rohad in Rohtak, Kitlana toll plaza in Bhiwani and many other areas.At Tikri border, the protesters took out a bike rally, led by BKU Ekta (Ugrahan) chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan.Ugrahan said they are ready for a long-haul and farmers have started coming to all protest sites after harvesting their crops.“We will not go back until the farm laws are repealed. We will discuss the next moves to intensify the agitation. We are ready to hold talks with the government and are waiting for government’s response,” he added.Hundreds of women participated in the protest at Karnal’s Bastara toll plaza by wearing black scarves.“Men of our families are leading the protest in Delhi and we have come here to hold protest as our agitation has completed six months,” said protester Sonia Tanwar at Bastara toll plaza.In Kurukshetra, leaders associated with BKU (Charuni) took out a protest march. BKU (Charuni) spokesperson Rakesh Bains said farmers are camping on Delhi borders for the last six months but government is not concerned about them.He said the government is misleading people and is not ready to hold talks even as the morcha leaders have written to the PM.In Panipat, the protesters gathered outside BJP’s district office and burnt effigies of the PM and the CM.Similarly protests were reported in all sub-divisions and district headquarters of Panipat, Kurukshetra and Kaithal.SKM leader Inderjit Singh said farmers, including women and children, came out in large numbers at all protest sites to observe ‘black day’.Some farmers were seen flouting Covid norms by not wearing masks or maintaining social distance.Farmers observed ‘black day’ at the Shambhu toll plaza (Ambala-Patiala Border) in Ambala and at Milk Majra toll plaza in Yamunanagar.BKU’s Ambala district vice-president Gulab Singh said, “There is some movement on part of the government as now, their leaders in Punjab have started expressing anger over no solution. The government must have assumed that we will leave the protest sites, but we are ready to face them for years.”Political parties including the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Haryana Democratic Front and many labour unions supported the protest.PINK DHARNA IN ROHTAKPink ‘dharna’ was started by women at Rohtak’s Kheri Asadh village against the farm laws. This is the first dharna site in Haryana led by women protesters.Jagmati Sangwan said women from across villages will gather here every day in rotation.“This site is setup to mobilise women protesters. All activities here will be supervised by women. We plan to setup such dharnas across state,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-farmers-observe-black-day-101622050402411.html
26-05-2021||Other||Teachers’ recruitment: Bihar moves HC for lifting stay||PATNAThe Bihar government has moved the Patna High Court seeking removal of its stay on recruitment of 1.25 lakh primary and secondary school teachers. The court had stayed the recruitment while hearing a writ petition filed by the Blind Association, which claimed 4% quota for the physically challenged, including visually impaired, was not being honoured. Advocate genera Lalit Kishore said he made a special mention before the division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar for an early hearing in the case, as requested by education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, as the state was ready to start the recruitment process.“The matter was mentioned earlier also and it was scheduled for hearing in March itself, but It could not happen due to Holi and Covid-19 second wave. I made another mention on Tuesday. The government is ready to keep 4% vacancy aside and wants the process for the remaining 96% to continue with court’s permission,” the AG said.He said the Chief Justice had directed the court master to place the file before him. Education minister Vijay Kumar Chowdhary had earlier said that the government was ready to go ahead with the new recruitment process for teachers fully enforcing the reservation roster formula if the court so allowed.“The government will guarantee adherence to the reservation roster in letter and spirit. The government wants to give benefits to all the categories. We have to carry out around 91,000 recruitments in elementary schools and 30,000 plus in secondary and higher schools. As soon as we get the go-ahead from the court, the process will be on. We will assure the court that there will be no deviation from the roster,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teachers-recruitment-bihar-moves-hc-for-lifting-stay-101622043614243.html
26-05-2021||Other||Cyclone Yaas brings rain in Bihar; ECR cancels trains||PATNACyclone Yaas brought light to moderate rain and stormy weather at several places in Bihar, said officials of Patna Meteorological Centre on Wednesday.Meteorologists said the state is likely to receive widespread heavy rain coupled with thunderstorm on Thursday and Friday.Weatherman SK Patel, said, “Very severe cyclone Yaas made landfall over Odisha in daytime. Afterwards, the cyclonic storm has weakened. Outer cloud band of the cyclone has already hit Bihar, which triggered light to moderate rain. Wind gusted at the speed of 24 to 26 kmph in the state. Rain activities are likely to intensify in next 24 to 48 hours.”“The impact of cyclone Yaas will be higher over southern and central parts of the state in comparison to north Bihar. The major impact of cyclone Yaas is expected to be felt over districts of Gaya, Katihar, Buxar, Aurangabad. Bhojpur, East and West Champaran,” he said.Meanwhile, the state government has deployed 22 disaster management teams in districts adjoining Jharkhand and West Bengal. An emergency control room with helpline number 0612-2210118 for 24x7 has been set up in Patna for monitoring of the cyclone situation.Patna district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh said, “Instructions have been given to ensure uninterrupted power supply, especially at government and private hospitals where Covid-19 treatment is going on. Electricity department has been asked to keep generators ready for backup to avoid any inconvenience. The forest division and civic body has been directed to be ready for removing uprooted trees to ensure free vehicular movement.”Trains cancelledThe East Central Railway (ECR) has announced the cancellation of more long-distance trains in view of the cyclone, its chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyclone-yaas-brings-rain-in-bihar-ecr-cancels-trains-101622043613585.html
26-05-2021||Other||CM reviews steps to fight AES as Muzaffarpur reports 1st death this year||Muzaffarpur A day after a two-year-old child died of acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) at Sri Krishna Medical College and Hospital in Muzaffarpur, chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday reviewed the preparedness and announced extension of the socio-economic survey to all the AES-affected districts, including the five blocks of Muzaffarpur where it is already going on.This is the first case of death of a child in the district due to AES this year. Sitamarhi, East and West Champaran have reported one AES death each this year The disease, which mainly affects children below 15 years of age and returns almost every year in certain districts of north Bihar, particularly Muzaffarpur, has left over 200 children dead in 2019 alone.Confirming the death, deputy superintendent of the SKMCH, Dr GS Sahni, said the child, registered as Md Afran of Paru area, was brought to the hospital on Monday morning with high temperature and convulsions. “Pathological and clinical tests confirmed AES in him. His blood sugar level was also very low, resulting in his on Tuesday,” he said, adding that altogether 20 cases of confirmed AES have been reported so far.Last year, the state had selected 15 endemic districts for AES and Japanese encephalitis survey. Nearly 22 districts were affected by AES last year.This year, 14 teams, having two members in each group from All India Institute of Medical Sciences at Jodhpur, have reached in the villages worse affected last year.Talking to media persons, team leader and HOD of neo-natal department at AIIMS-Jodhpur, Dr AK Singh, said his team members would collect data from the affected families. “The teams will collect data regarding the food habits of children below five years of age and about other activities from their guardians,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cmreviews-steps-to-fight-aes-as-muzaffarpur-reports-1st-death-this-year-101622043553635.html
26-05-2021||Other||Misappropriation of CSW funds: Collector to review probe report on May 27||PUNE The district collector will review the report presented by an inquiry committee under the chairmanship of a sub-divisional officer on the misappropriation of state funds for sex workers. Part of the ₹7.94 crore, released by the Maharashtra government as financial aid to be paid to sex workers (CSW) in Pune, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, was deposited in accounts of women who were not CSWs.Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “I have received the data and the report from the inquiry committee will be reviewed on May 27.”Meanwhile, the police have not been successful in apprehending the main culprit in the case. According to PI Krishna Indalkar of Dattawadi police station, “Prasad Sonawane, district-level National Aids Control organization (NACO) officer, is the only person with authority who planned the misappropriations of funds. NACO was the only organisation authorised to verify the sex workers before delegating the funds. The office has 7,100 women registered as sex workers. Of that, the funds reached 6,000 women.”Meanwhile, the collector has appealed to CSWs to come forward and register their complaints.An appeal has also been made that the complaint should be lodged with the sub-divisional officer’s office along with documents of evidence, or by e-mail with Venkatesh Chiramulla, divisional officer, Hadapsar (9823398712) on tashsildarhavelipune@gmail.com; or Rajesh Divte, Talathi, Hadapsar (9168232519), or Prakash Whitkar, deputy tehsildar, (9423339192) or on tahasildarpunecity@gmail.com; or Parikshit Dhavare, Talathi, Parvati (8329963056).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/misappropriation-of-csw-funds-collector-to-review-probe-report-on-may-27-101622041813472.html
26-05-2021||Other||Pune-Nashik railway line runs into objections from villagers in Khed||PUNE The land acquisition process for the Pune-Nashik semi- high-speed railway line has begun in Pune district. District officials and officials of the Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation (Maharail) have started the land measurement process. In Khed tehsil, however, they is a strong resistance from four villages. Land owners from these villages have sought clarity on the proposed construction plan as agricultural lands are going to be divided. The issue of low monetary returns in exchange for fertile agricultural land, has also been raised. The proposed length of the semi-high-speed railway line is 235 km. There are 24 stations and 18 tunnels planned on the route. The speed of the train will be 200 km per hour and the expected cost of the project is ₹16,039 crore. This railway line is expected to reduce travelling time between Pune and Nashik to two hours. A total of 1,458 hectares in 107 villages across three districts will be acquired for this project. Land owners in villages such as Holewadi, Manjarewadi, Rase and Kelgaon in Khed tehsil have also raised objections. “I have three acres in Holewadi and one acre is going to be affected by this project. There is no clarity from the rail officers about planning. My land is going to be divided in two parts. How am I supposed to access the other part? They haven’t said anything about a red- zone area that land is going to remain empty and inaccessible. We should get returns on that also. We repeatedly have conveyed our objections to the officers. They have come for land measurement, so we had to take a stand to clarify the doubts,” said Jaysing Manjare, a resident of Manjarewadi. Another villager who will be losing his land in this project claimed that the rates offered for the acquisition are less than the current market price. “They are saying Takarkdwadi will be a station. If it is a junction, then more land will be needed. Also the rates which they have offered are low. If a farmer is losing his substantial means of livelihood, he should get good returns,” said Satish Rakshe, resident of Rase. In March 2021, Ajit Pawar, Maharashtra deputy chief minister and finance minister, okayed the pending Pune-Nashik railway project in his annual budget for 2021-22. The rail line will pass through Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik. Land acquisition has begun in these three districts. Vikrant Chavhan, sub-divisional officer of Khed tehsil, said that all efforts are being made to convince the land owners. “We have held meetings in four villages in Khed tehsil. Residents of Holewadi did not let us measure the land. It is understandable that people have apprehensions. Holewadi and Manjarewadi are near Khed, and have irrigation. The rate for land is higher there. We are trying to address problems and resolve doubts,” said Chavhan. An officer of the Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation admitted resistance from these villages in Khed. “The land acquisition process began in April. Resistance is there in some pockets. We are trying to address their issues. We have been trying to resolve the issues of the land owners in Khed,” the officer said on condition of anonymity.Pune Nashik semi-high-speed railway lineLine will pass through main districts of Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik, and offer connectivity to industrial zones like Chakan, Khed and NarayangaonLength: 235.15km Speed potential: 200kmph Travel time from Pune to Nashik: two hoursStations proposed: 24Tunnels: 18Project cost: ₹16,039 crore (approx.)(Source: MAHARAIL website)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punenashik-railway-line-runs-into-objections-from-villagers-in-khed-101622039173341.html
26-05-2021||Other||Standing committee sanctions ₹150 crore for restoration project at Vishrambaug wada||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to preserve and restore a canopied structure, known as a Meghdambari, that is part of the Vishrambaug wada, in itself a Grade 1 heritage structure.The PMC’s standing committee, on Wednesday, sanctioned ₹1.50 crore to restore and preserve the Meghdambari. Shivaji Lanke, superintendent engineer of the construction department of the PMC, said, “As of date, PMC has spent ₹2 crore on restoration of the wada structure. Now we will restore this Meghdambari which is made of wood. We have been given six months to complete the work.”Vishrambaug wada, influenced by the Peshwa style of architecture, was built in 1807 AD, designed by Mansaram Laxman and Daji Suthar. “In the late 1950s, when Pune was a municipal council, it was used as an administrative building,” Lanke added. The wada is primarily built out of wood and decorated with cypress tree-shaped columns. Each of these columns is built from a single teak tree, a traditional residential form of Maratha architecture. The wada sits on an acre-and-a-half of land.Meanwhile, the PMC will audit all dilapidated buildings, including wadas, before the monsoon. The PMC has also started a structural audit of its employee residential complexes, located at Wakdewadi, Pandav Nagar (Ghorpade peth), Rajewadi (Nana peth), Sane Gurujinagar and Rajendranagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/standing-committee-sanctions-150-crore-for-restoration-project-at-vishrambaug-wada-101622037913342.html
26-05-2021||Other||Rajindra hospital docs save black fungus patient’s eye||Doctors at the Rajindra Hospital in Patiala performed an advanced endoscopic procedure to preserve the eyes of a patient suffering from black fungus after recovery from Covid-19. The infection had spread to the eye orbit, putting the vision of the patient at risk.The doctors cleared the infection through an advanced endoscopic process and successfully preserved the patient’s eye. The surgery was carried out by a team from the ENT department, led by Dr Sanjeev Bhagat, Dr Dinesh Kumar Sharma and Dr Vishav Yadav. Professor and head of the ENT department, Dr Sanjeev Bhagat said, “Early diagnosis and early surgical intervention is required to prevent the spread of fungus to vital organs.”Dr Rajan Singla, director-principal, Government Medical College, Patiala, said, “At present, there are five patients of mucormycosis (fungal infection) under treatment at the institute. This is the first such case in which debridement has been done. A panel of experts is keeping a watch on other patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rajindra-hospital-docs-save-black-fungus-patient-s-eye-101621973051660.html
26-05-2021||Other||Researchers document new species of African Violet in Mizoram||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) in Bhopal have documented a new species of plant belonging to the family of African Violets – a popular horticultural choice in herbariums and green-houses across the world – at Mizoram.The discovery has been recently documented in the peer-reviewed journal Systematic Botany (published by American Society for Plant Taxonomists), nearly four years after the specimen was first observed in the field.Researchers have also documented the presence of the same species in adjacent Myanmar, and said it may also exist in parts of China.The species belongs to the genus ‘Didymocarpus’, belonging to the plant family Gesneriaceae (which are more popularly known as African Violets). “Its members are distributed from Western Himalayas to Sumatra. Most of these species are narrow endemics and require specialised habitats to survive, thus acting as an indicator of pristine habitats. There are 106 currently known species of this genus, of which 26 are present in the North-Eastern states of India,” the paper’s authors said in a statement on Monday.The newly described species has been christened ‘Didymocarpus vickifunkiae’, and named after the late Dr Vicki Ann Funk, who was a renowned botanist with USA’s Smithsonian Institute. “The species is currently known to occur only in three locations in Mizoram, and can be categorised as an endangered species based on a standardised assessment devised by the International Union for Conservation of Nature,” said Dr Vinita Gowda, associate professor, department of biological sciences, IISER.“These findings continue to highlight the taxonomic endemism that we see among the flora of the north-east. Such endemism is typically seen in island habitats, where the species arrives and then the further evolutionary process becomes much localised. It’s something that we have seen in the north-eastern states but we don’t know exactly why, because tectonic histories in India are so complex,” Gowda added.These findings, which are based on in situ and ex situ studies (including molecular phylogenetic analyses with similar African Violet species from other herbariums across the world), are part of a larger study currently being undertaken by Gowda and her PhD students, to extensively document the genus Didymocarpus in India. This will help researchers to better understand the plant’s evolutionary traits needed to survive in this country (as opposed to China, Japan, African countries and South American countries, where it is also widely distributed).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/researchers-document-new-species-of-african-violet-in-mizoram-101621972571046.html
26-05-2021||Other||₹3.46 crore, docus seized from home of Aarey Colony CEO in Mumbai||The Mumbai anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has seized cash worth over ₹3.46 crore during an overnight search at the official six-bedroom bungalow of Aarey Milk Colony’s chief executive officer (CEO) Nathu Vitthal Rathod, 42, while probing a bribery case against him. ACB officers said that the cash were in denominations of ₹500 and ₹2,000. “The cash was hidden mainly under the bed, in old plastic bags at the backyard and on the terrace. By the time the cash could be counted and seized as per the prevailing procedure, it was already [Tuesday] morning. Some documents, which were seized during the search at the bungalow, are being scrutinised,” said an ACB officer.A resident of Aarey Colony in Goregaon (East) had complained against Rathod to ACB on May 14, alleging that the CEO had demanded bribe from him for granting permission to carry out the repair work of his house. It is mandatory to secure prior permission from the CEO’s office to carry out any construction/repair works in Aarey Colony.Rathod’s aide Arvind Tribhuvam Tiwari, 57, was caught on Monday while allegedly accepting bribe of ₹50,000 on the CEO’s behalf. Rathod was arrested after that. A team of ACB officers on Monday night then carried out searches under the supervision of additional commissioner of police (ACB) Lakhmi Gautam at Rathod and Tiwari’s residences at Aarey. ACB officers suspect that the accused may have amassed huge amount of illegitimate assets during his service, and an open inquiry would soon be initiated against him. Rathod also held charge as Worli Dairy’s deputy commissioner.The officers did not seize anything from Tiwari’s house. Rathod and his family’s financial transactions and bank accounts would now be scrutinised, officers said. “Based on the findings of the trap laid and the subsequent seizures, we would secure permission from the authority concerned to initiate an open inquiry against Rathod to look into alleged illegitimate assets. An offence of disproportionate assets would be registered against him,” an ACB officer said. “Rathod is not co-operating with the probe. A court remanded in four days custody,” said Neelam Waval, assistant commissioner of police, ACB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/346-crore-docus-seized-from-home-of-aarey-colony-ceo-in-mumbai-101621972451038.html
26-05-2021||Other||Dept of atomic energy to build India’s 1st reactor on PPP model||The department of atomic energy (DAE) on Tuesday announced that it will be constructing the country’s first research reactor on public-private partnership (PPP) model. DAE is shortlisting the private enterprises for a partnership in the project. The research reactor, which will be designed by Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC), will produce radioisotopes, and is expected to bring down the costs of nuclear medicine that is used in cancer treatment in India. DAE will provide the upfront capital and build the plant through its subsidiary – Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd – the department said in a statement. On April 15, the department had held an informal consultation with 17 companies from around the world, who are interested in joining hands for the project. “The participants represented businesses across the nuclear medicine value chain such as nuclear medicine, pharmaceutical, healthcare, medical devices and nuclear reactor equipment suppliers from USA, Canada, Argentina, Russia, France, UK and two-three Indian suppliers,” read the statement. The design, regulatory clearances and other preparatory work is going at a good pace, the DAE statement further read. In India, all major radioisotopes are produced by BARC, which houses research reactors in its Trombay campus and an accelerator in Kolkata. Some radioisotopes are imported from Europe, Australia and other Asian countries. Radioisotopes are radioactive isotopes that have an unstable atomic nucleus. They emit energy and particles when they change to a more stable form. Radioisotopes are widely used in nuclear medicine for diagnostics purposes as well as to treat diseases like cancer. The industrial uses of radioisotopes include identifications of flow malfunctions, measurement of flow parameters, evaluation of design of chemical reactors, monitoring of product quality and process efficacy.Private entities that are willing to invest in the construction of the reactor and its processing units will get exclusive rights to process and market the radioisotopes produced in the reactor. Radioisotopes in India can be procured and handled only by the users duly authorised by Radiological Safety Division (RSD), Atomic Energy Regulatory Board (AERB). The demand for radioisotopes for nuclear medicine is on the rise. Between 2018 and 2020, the nuclear medicine departments in hospitals in India has grown from 293 to 349, as per AERB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dept-of-atomic-energy-to-build-india-s-1st-reactor-on-ppp-model-101621972391088.html
26-05-2021||Other||Promotions after cancellation of 33% quota subject to court orders: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday made it clear that the promotions given by Maharashtra government pursuant to its May 7 government resolution (GR) would be subject to outcome of the petition challenging the GR. The court has directed the state to file its response to the petition before the next hearing on June 21. The resolution has scrapped the 33% reservation in promotions in government jobs for those employed under the Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribe (ST), Vimukta Jati (denotified tribes), Nomadic Tribes (VJNT) and Special Backward Classes and are being offered to employees from the open category. The vacation bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice Madhav Jamdar, was informed that while the main petition challenged the May 7 GR, others were filed to oppose the plea challenging it. The 33% reservation in promotions was introduced in 2004, under which 13% was for SCs, 7% for STs, 3% for Vimukta Jati, 2% to special backward class and the rest for VJNT. It was applicable to those who joined the state government service on or before April 25, 2004, as per their seniority. Those joining after April 25, 2004, were to get promotion as per the date of joining. However, the May 7 GR cancelled the reservation in promotion two days after the Supreme Court quashed the HC judgment allowing reservations for the Maratha community. The GR also mentioned that promotions by seniority to the 33% vacancies would be subject to the court’s final orders. Sanjay Ghodke, who has challenged the May 7 GR, said that the rights of those belonging to reserved categories would be affected by the decision. “These reservations of 33% existed since 1974, but now in a single stroke, the state has de-reserved all the seats,” his counsel Indira Jaising argued. The senior counsel further said that the state had no authority to issue the order, nor had it given any reason or justification while on it and hence it was arbitrary and an about turn from its earlier position. “In fact, Maharashtra is the only state in this country to de-reserve the posts reserved for SC, ST categories,” she said, adding that the state’s decision is galloping to fill up all the posts meant for reserved categories. Jaising sought a stay on the operation of the May 7 GR. However, the bench said that before passing any orders, the matter requires to be heard at length as there are several stake holders involved who too had to be heard. State’s counsel Mihir Desai said the state has proposed to grant promotions based on the GR. Following this the bench said, “We make it clear that any promotion that would be made by the state government pursuant to the Interim GR May 7 and circular dated May 10 shall be subject to further orders that would be passed by this court at the stage of admission. The promotees, if any promoted pursuant to the GR and circular, shall be informed about the pending proceedings in this court.” Directing the state government and other respondents to file affidavits in reply to the petitions within two weeks, the bench posted further hearing to June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/promotions-after-cancellation-of-33-quota-subject-to-court-orders-bombay-hc-101621972151028.html
26-05-2021||Other||Money laundering case: ED raids properties of Anil Deshmukh’s ‘aides’ in Nagpur||Troubles for former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh could mount as Enforcement Directorate sleuths on Tuesday raided properties of some businessmen in Nagpur who reportedly have close proximity with the politician. ED is investigating allegations of money laundering based on a complaint by former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh. It is learnt that three of Deshmukh’s close associates in Nagpur had come under ED’s radar after their bank transactions had linked them to the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and his family. According to reports, the ED team raided at least three places, including the residence and offices of businessman Sagar Bhatewar at Shivaji Nagar. Bhatewar is said to have had some financial dealings with the Nagpur-based politician, who is also facing a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the allegations, following a high court order. Despite repeated attempts, Bhatewar did not respond to HT’s calls and messages. The Central agency also raided the houses and offices of two other businessmen, reportedly close to the former home minister, at Jafar Nagar and Sadar areas in west Nagpur. It was said that ED had seized laptops and vital documents from these places. ED had earlier registered offences against Deshmukh based on by CBI’s first information report (FIR). CBI had raided Deshmukh’s Civil Lines residence at Nagpur last month and seized several documents, along with some cash. ED had also recorded the statement of a bar owner in Mumbai in connection to the case and also summoned some more people. Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked to dismiss assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and other police personnel to collect ₹100 crore every month from establishments in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/money-laundering-case-ed-raids-properties-of-anil-deshmukh-s-aides-in-nagpur-101621972091028.html
26-05-2021||Other||Petrol 29 paise short of reaching ₹100-mark in Mumbai||A day after remaining constant, fuel prices surged in the city on Tuesday. The price of petrol was short of only 29 paise to touch the ₹100-mark, after a litre of the fuel was priced at ₹99.71 on Tuesday. One litre of diesel was available at ₹91.57 following a 22-paise surge.On Monday, petrol and diesel were available for was priced at ₹99.49 and ₹91.30 per litre.In Thane, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹99.83, while diesel was available for ₹91.69 on Tuesday. Among the metro cities, Mumbai had the highest fuel prices. In Delhi, petrol and diesel were available for ₹93.44 and ₹84.32, respectively. At Hyderabad, petrol and diesel were priced at ₹97.12 and ₹91.92, while in Chennai, they were available at ₹95.06 and ₹89.11, per litre, respectively. Transporters’ bodies have stated they have approached the Centre, demanding a cut down on excise duty. “We have asked the government to cut down on excise duty. State governments should reduce their value-added tax (VAT) to provide some relief to the bleeding transport sector and the common man. Also, petrol and diesel should be brought under the goods and service tax (GST),” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress.“The government’s failure and deliberate reluctance to provide any relief to distressed sectors by way of blanket moratorium, freeing tolls or extending insurance or retraining corruption by its officials on roads only points to its arrogance,” added Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-29-paise-short-of-reaching-100mark-101621971671044.html
26-05-2021||Other||348 newly elected gram pradhans sworn in, 274 others to take oath today in Prayagraj||In a first, 348 newly elected gram pradhans in 23 development blocks of the district took the oath of office in virtual ceremonies on Tuesday. The remaining 274 gram pradhans will take the oaths on Wednesday. The virtual oath-taking ceremonies conducted with the help of Google and Zoom links were held at primary schools and Panchayat Bhawans, intimation regarding which were provided to the gram pradhans concerned in advance by the Panchayati Raj department officials, informed district Panchayati raj officer (DPRO) Renu Srivastava. She said that returning officers were stationed at each site of the swearing-in ceremony to ensure the physical presence of the newly elected gram pradhans while block development officers had been entrusted the task of taking signatures of each of the individual being administered the oath on the document as required under the norms. The rest of all the proceedings were held in virtual mode. The district has a total of 1540 Gram Sabhas but many of these have posts of gram panchayat members lying vacant and for the swearing-in, the set quorum must be complete. As a result, swearing-in of just 629 is scheduled to be held on the two days while the remaining 911 gram pradhans would be sworn in only when this quorum gets completed, officials shared. The DPRO said that the district has a total of 19,820 posts of gram panchayat members who are sworn in along with the gram pradhans and so around 7,500 of them would also be sworn in later when their respective gram pradhans are administered the oaths. Earlier, district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami had issued the notification for the swearing-in ceremonies of newly elected gram pradhans and panchayat members to be held in virtual mode late on Monday night entrusting the responsibilities of conducting the ceremonies on respective officials of the various development blocks. They were sent the Google and Zoom links on Tuesday morning through which they then administered the oaths. Polling under the first phase of the three-tier panchayat elections had taken place in Prayagraj on April 15. Voting in all 1540 gram sabhas of 23 development blocks of the district was held at 5269 polling booths. The counting began on May 2 at centres set up in each development block and results of the elections were declared on May 2 and May 3. PHOTO CAPTION: Swearing-in ceremonies underway at two different sites in Kaudihar and Phulpur development blocks of the trans-Ganga region of Prayagraj on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/348-newly-elected-gram-pradhans-sworn-in-274-others-to-take-oath-today-in-prayagraj-101621970171570.html
26-05-2021||Other||Seventh Tihar prisoner succumbs to Covid-19||A 37-year-old prisoner at Delhi’s Tihar jail died of Covid-19 related complications on Sunday night -- the seventh prisoner to have died of the infection in the last two months.Jail administration said Lala Bohta,37, an inmate of jail 8/9 tested positive for the infection on May 3, after which he was admitted to the Burari hospital the following day. The officials said, Bohta, was discharged on May 19.“After being discharged,he developed breathing difficulties on May 21 and was referred to DDU Hospital. He passed away on Sunday night,” a senior prison official, who asked not to be named, said.The officer added that Bohta was arrested in a theft case and lodged in the prison on April 9.In the last two weeks, around 3,000 prisoners from Delhi’s jails have been released on interim bail and emergency parole. The high-powered committee, consisting members of the high court, state government, prison department and the Delhi police, on May 7 recommended the release of such prisoners as one of the steps to decongest the prisons . Until last month, Tihar had around 20,500 prisoners against its sanctioned capacity of 10,026.Till date, 1,922 prisoners have been vaccinated within the complex. Of these 50 prisoners above 45 have got second dose of vaccination. Total number of vaccinated prisoners above 45 years is 1,552. Also, at least 370 prisoners between 18 and 45 have been vaccinated, jail officials said.Currently there are 22 prisoners who are infected with the disease. Since April 6, the prison has reported at least 370 cases of Covid-19, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/seventh-tihar-prisoner-succumbs-to-covid19-101621969930936.html
26-05-2021||Other||Delhi: Licences of 25 chemist shops suspended for selling Covid drugs without prescription||Delhi government’s drugs control department has suspended the licences of 25 drug stores and initiated action against 12 others for selling medicine used in the treatment of Covid-19 without prescriptions. Department officials said they sent decoy customers to various stores across the city during drives conducted this month to purchase Ivermectin, antibiotics like azithromycin, and steroids to check if the medicines were being sold without a doctor’s prescription. The action comes when cases of secondary mucormycosis or black fungus are on the rise, which doctors are attributing to compromised immunity due to indiscriminate use of steroids in patients who have recovered from Covid , besides other factors such as diabetes.  “After streamlining the availability of medicines such as remdesivir and tocilizumab during the peak of Covid wave, we focussed on the ones that are usually readily available such as ivermectin, antibiotics and steroids. These drugs, however, should not be given without a doctor’s prescription. In view of the pandemic, we took quick action and suspended the licences of 25 chemist shops within three days, after giving them a day to respond to the show cause notices,” said A K Nasa, head of Delhi’s drug control office. The licences of the 25 drug stores were suspended after they sold ivermectin and antibiotics to the decoy customers without prescription on May 14 and 15. The drugs come under schedule H and H1 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, that requires that the retailers sell it only on prescription from registered medical practitioners and maintain records of their sale. Showcause notices have been sent to 12 other drug stores which were found selling steroids such as dexamethasone and budesonide without prescriptions on May 17 and 21. Their licences are also likely to be suspended. Last Saturday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) ordered all pharmacies across the city to display the stock position and MRP of eight medicines such as Ivermectin, Doxycycline, Dexamethosone that are used for the treatment of Covid-19. “Now we will conduct regular drives to see whether this is being followed,” said Nasa. Last year, when there was a shortage of remdesivir as cases of Covid-19 started increasing, the drugs control department stationed its inspectors with the seven stockists in the city to ensure people in need get it after submitting documents like Aadhaar, doctor’s prescription, and a positive Covid-19 report. This, however, could not be done during the current wave because of the large number of cases and huge demand for the medicine. “We decided to create a portal to make the process transparent. The suppliers were told to upload details of available stock of remdesivir as per Centre’s allocation on the portal and details of which stockist was given how many vials of the injection. Then, the stockists had to upload how many vials they received and which hospitals they sold to. The hospitals were also asked to enter details of patients who were given the medicine. This way, no one could hoard the medicines or sell it directly to people. Now, there is good availability of the medicine in Delhi,” said Nasa. To be sure, the number of new Covid-19 cases has also reduced from over 28,000 at the peak of the fourth wave of Covid 19 on April 20 to around 1,500 cases currently. For tocilizumab, the government has set up a technical expert committee that goes through every request raised by hospitals to ensure that the drug is not overused or misused. The drugs control department then ensures the availability of the medicine to the respective hospitals through its list of stockists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-licences-of-25-chemist-shops-suspended-for-selling-covid-drugs-without-prescription-101621969692246.html
26-05-2021||Other||No exams without vaccine, prepare for next year now: Sisodia writes to Centre||New Delhi: Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday urged the Centre to hold a high-level meeting by next month to discuss school and competitive exams scheduled next year, saying in view of the current situation arising out of Covid-19 pandemic, governments must “start preparing early”.In a letter to the Union education ministry, Sisodia reiterated Delhi government’s stand that Class 12 Central Board of Secondary Education exams should not be conducted until all students and teachers are vaccinated. “I request the Centre to hold a high-level meeting within one month to discuss the exams scheduled to take place in 2022. Keeping all aspects of the situation in mind, we should begin preparations now,” Sisodia wrote.Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, said if the students and teachers cannot be vaccinated, the exams must by scrapped immediately. He suggested the students can be evaluated on the basis of their performance in Class 10, 11 and 12 (internal tests) examinations. “If the vaccination option is not feasible currently, then we recommend that the board exams this year be scrapped. Class 12 students have spent at least 12 years in our schools. Students should be evaluated on their previous performance in Class 10 board results, Class 11 marks, and the internal tests in Class 12, and get their results immediately,” Sisodia wrote, adding that those who wish to appear for the board exams can do so when the situation is conducive.The Centre had organised a digital meeting of state education ministers and secretaries on Sunday to decide on the Class 12 board exams and subsequent entrance examinations that were postponed from March-April due to the second wave of Covid-19 across the country. The meeting was chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh and attended by three Union ministers including education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank. The Centre offered two proposals to states on conducting exams only in major subjects – either in regular format at designated centres or a multiple choice question-type paper with shorter duration and at schools where the students are enrolled. It asked the states to come up with their suggestions by Tuesday. On Tuesday, at least a dozen states said on Tuesday that they preferred the second option to conduct the exams. Among them were Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Delhi and Punjab also preferred the second option, but said the exams should be conducted only after all teachers and students were vaccinated.Emphasising that India was still reporting nearly 250,000 Covid-19 cases every day and the apprehensions over an impending third wave, Sisodia wrote, “..Neither of the two options given by the Union ministry of education is not the answer for the challenge ahead of us. Not only will the students be at risk in both the options, the choices also ignore their mental health.”“We believe that without vaccination, children should not be called for any examination. Following vaccination, the ministry of education should conduct exams as per Option B,” he wrote.Sisodia also suggested that the Centre should talk to health experts and see if the vaccines for 18-45 years age group can be given to Class 12 student, are mostly around 17.5 years of age. “If health experts agree, then these students, which constitute around 95% of Class 12 students, can be vaccinated on priority,” he wrote.“Centre should immediately hold talks with Pfizer and buy vaccines approved for children above 12 years of age,” he minister wrote, adding that if Centre and state governments work together, Class 12 teachers and students across India would be inoculated within three to four weeks.Most Delhi schools on Monday said they want the exams cancelled and would choose option with multiple choice questions, if the government decides to go ahead with conducting board exams. Madhulika Sen, senior adviser at Tagore International School, said that neither parents nor the teachers were in favour of holding exams. “Maybe the government is considering to hold physical exams considering the drop in cases. But what about the third wave or the increase in black fungus cases? We don’t know what the situation will be in July,” she told HT on Monday.On Sunday, after the meeting with state ministers, Nishank tweeted: “I want to reiterate that both students’ and teachers’ safety, security, and future are supremely important to us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-exams-without-vaccine-prepare-for-next-year-now-sisodia-writes-to-centre-101621969632122.html
26-05-2021||Other||No Covaxin stock for 45-plus beneficiaries: Delhi govt||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Tuesday said that its vaccine centres for the 45-plus age group have run out of Covaxin stock. “Delhi government has run out of both Covaxin and Covishield doses for the 18-45 age group. Now, government centres have also run out of Covaxin doses for the 45-plus age group, even though centres offering Covishield doses to people aged 45 and above will continue to function. We have around 13 days’ stock of Covishield for this beneficiary group,” said Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator Atishi, while reading out the government’s vaccine bulletin on Tuesday in a live-streamed video.For the last one week, Delhi government-run vaccine centres offering Covaxin were only entertaining people coming for the second dose of the vaccine in the light of a shortage and no assurance of supplies from the central government for the remaining days in the month.Atishi on Tuesday also urged the central government to give approval to more Covid-19 vaccines and direct domestic manufacturers to further scale up production. “Developed countries are using vaccines from Pfizer, Johnson and Johnson, Moderna, etc. The Indian government is yet to give approval to these vaccines. We request them to expedite the approval process so that more vaccines can be imported. Also, the government should direct domestic manufacturers to scale up production. We need to increase vaccine coverage at the earliest,” said Atishi.To be sure, private hospitals in the city have their independent stocks for both 18-45 and 45-plus beneficiary groups.DRIVE-THROUGH VACCINE CENTREThe national capital will get its first drive-through vaccination centre at the Aakash Healthcare Super Specialty Hospital in Dwarka on Wednesday.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will inaugurate the centre, said the hospital in a press statement, adding: “It will be a first-of-its-kind association between the Government of NCT of Delhi and a Corporate Hospital in the National Capital.”So far, government records said, 5.14 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in Delhi.(ends)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-covaxin-stock-for-45-plus-beneficiaries-delhi-govt-101621969512163.html
26-05-2021||Other||Delhi reports fewest Covid deaths since mid-April||New Delhi: Delhi reported 156 fatalities due to Covid-19 on Tuesday-- the lowest single-day death toll since mid-April, when the cases of the viral infection shot up significantly in what was the Capital’s deadliest surge with 28,400 cases logged on April 20. The toll peaked 14 days later with 448 deaths reported in a single day on May 3. So far, 23,565 people have died of Covid-19 in the city, as per the government’s daily health bulletin, which also showed 1,568 new infections on Tuesday. The number of cases dipped below the 10,000-mark 12 days ago. “The deaths are likely to remain high for nearly two weeks even after the cases go down because that is the timeline of Covid-19. Those who were critically ill during the peak of the infection are still admitted in the hospital. It takes a patient admitted to the ICU nearly three weeks to recover and those on ventilators nearly four weeks. And, some of them will continue to die,” said Dr Sumit Ray, critical care specialist and medical superintendent of Holy Family hospital. However, with the number of cases going down and a high number of deaths being reported, the seven-day rolling average case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive over the last seven days – has shot up to 7.96%. The CFR has never been this high since the first wave of the pandemic in June-July last year. Even when 437 fatalities were added to the city’s death toll on June 16 last year as Delhi reconciled its mortality figures, the seven-day rolling average CFR was 6.97%. However, the cumulative CFR – calculated on the basis of total cases and deaths – has remained low at 1.66% on Tuesday compared to 4.11% on June 16. This is still higher than the national average of nearly 1.1%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-reports-fewest-covid-deaths-since-midapril-101621969511565.html
26-05-2021||Other||Delhi govt serves notice to 74 private hospitals for not updating bed status on app||New Delhi: The Delhi government has served show cause notices to 74 private hospitals and nursing homes on Tuesday for not uploading the status of beds earmarked for Covid-19 regularly on the Delhi Corona app. Notices have been served to both the Max hospitals in Saket, VIMHANS, and Primus among others. Maximum hospitals that have been served notices are those with 100 beds or less, according to a Delhi government official. “Action will be taken depending on the hospitals’ responses,” the official said. On May 7, the government ordered all hospitals, including the ones run by the Delhi government, were asked to update the information on the application every two hours to ensure that the information could be used by those looking for beds. The CM also said that no calls on the helpline should be missed. The app was developed by the government to inform people about the real-time availability of beds in June last year before Delhi saw its first surge in the cases of the viral infection. Along with the bed status, now the application also displays the amount of oxygen the hospitals have in stock after the city faced an oxygen crisis in April-end. Max and Primus hospitals were contacted, but no response was received. Dr Ubaid Hamid, medical director of VIMHANS hospitals, said, “We haven’t received the official notice but it has been communicated to us through WhatsApp. I am not sure whether the notice was meant for us because the address stated is different. We have been updating the app regularly, except on two days when the person in-charge took a leave after losing their brother who was also undergoing treatment at the hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-serves-notice-to-74-private-hospitals-for-not-updating-bed-status-on-app-101621969451508.html
26-05-2021||Other||Publicise Covid helplines widely, HC tells Centre and Delhi govt||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Tuesday directed the Centre and the Delhi government to give wide publicity to Covid-19 helplines to inform people about facilities for testing, treatment and mental health issues arising from pandemic remarking that they were “lagging behind” on this.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said the helpline numbers should be widely circulated through print and audio visual medium daily and a corner or column on a page could be dedicated for these helplines in the newspapers.“In newspapers, one does not find these inserts on a daily basis. These things should be there in the papers every day. Fix a corner or column, may be on page 1 or page 3. Some column on a page should be dedicated to it daily so that people know where to go when they need it. People would be habituated. This is where you are lagging behind,” the bench said.“As we grew up, we used to see the amount of advertisement, propaganda for family planning ‘hum do humare do’. It was on buses, newspapers, it was everywhere and it worked. We just have to keep bombarding people with information. This has to be regular exercise,” it said.“You are playing a message which was made 6 months ago. Situation has changed. What is the difficulty? You should make a new ringtone and change it. You have to be agile on your feet,” the bench remarked.“Helpline numbers have not been broadcast as frequently and as effectively it should have been done on a daily basis. Their publication on one or the other medium is not sufficient. We have earlier as well emphasised this and we are compelled to once again take this observation since there is not much ground covered on this aspect”.“We again direct the Union of India and Delhi government to undertake publication of all relevant helpline numbers and information through all audio video and print mediums on continuous and daily basis to educate people of the facilities created by the State for testing, treatment and mental health issues arising out of Covid-19 pandemic,” it said.The observations and directions came after amicus curiae senior advocate Rajshekhar Rao, told the court that it would be helpful if the government could consider publicising more about the helpline numbers and other data in newspapers or through any other medium. The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who along with several hospitals sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the city.Senior advocate Rahul Mehra suggested that a central helpline could be created by both the governments as there is a lot of misinformation on social media.Central government standing counsel Kirtiman Singh assured the court that measures would be taken for daily publication. Questioning the Centre, the court said, “AIR, Doordarshan they are all your mediums. Please show us how frequently have you done it on Doordarshan? I have watched Doordarshan and I can say that I haven’t seen anything at all….You can employ people for making such content. Looking at the enormity of the problem, war makes propaganda, no? What is the fatigue?”Black fungus medicineDuring the proceedings, the bench also asked Ganga Ram Hospital to place before it the particulars of all black fungus patients treated at the hospital and how the injections were distributed to them.The order came on the plea by a man who was seeking directions to the Delhi government and Ganga Ram hospital to give Ampohtericin-B for his treatment.On court’s direction, one of the doctors of the hospital joined the proceedings and informed them that they don’t have only one patient but many and they have to administer the medicine as per the patient’s condition and requirement and that they have distributed all the 360 vials.The doctor said currently he was not having the data of patients being treated at the hospital, however, he will give the details on Thursday.Additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, advocate Satyakam told the court that the Delhi government does not have the medicine and as soon they are supplied by the Centre, it will be immediately distributed to the hospital.Appearing for the petitioner, advocate and his granddaughter, Iqra Khalid told the court that even though some vials have been given, he needs more and may lose and eye. The court asked the authorities to look into the matter and see if something can be done.The court said if any more vials are available with the hospital, it should be given to the woman lawyer’s grandfather, “whose eye has swollen since morning and is in great pain”.Plea for compensationThe bench also asked the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and Delhi government to respond to a plea seeking compensation for the parents and wife of a Covid-19 patient who died allegedly due to want of medical attention.It asked Delhi government’s Rao Tula Ram Hospital to respond to the plea which claimed that the victim’s condition was critical and his oxygen level was very low, still the doctor of the hospital allegedly did not recommended him for admission and due to the medical practitioner’s negligence, the man died while waiting for an ambulance.The family sought an appropriate compensation for the loss of life of the deceased due to complete mismanagement and criminal negligence of the authorities.Senior advocate Mehra informed the court that the state government is proposing to give ex gratia relief of ₹50,000 each to families of Covid-19 victims and that the proposal will be placed before the cabinet next week.The court was hearing the petition filed by the parents and wife of Naveen, who died of Covid-19 on the intervening night of April 26-27 allegedly due to want of medical attention and doctor’s negligence.MRP of oxygen concentratorsThe Centre also informed the court that pricing authority NPPA has initiated the process to fix a formula to determine the MRP of oxygen concentrators, needed for Covid-19 treatment, as people were being charged exorbitantly. The process for fixing the formula for MRP is likely to be concluded and the court will be informed about the development on May 31, the Centre said.Justice Sanghi observed that the pricing formula was important as most of the manufacturers were not putting MRP or maximum retail price on oxygen concentrators and were not readily available in shops.“It is not that it is available at Khan Market, it is through the back door only that people have been able to secure oxygen concentrators,” he said.In a lighter vein, Justice Singh added “actually this time it was available only at Khan Market”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/publicise-covid-helplines-widely-hc-tells-centre-and-delhi-govt-101621969450954.html
26-05-2021||Other||Delhi airport operates 100 Covid relief flights in one month||New Delhi: The Delhi airport has handled at least 100 Covid relief flights in the past 29 days. The 100th flight on Tuesday brought about 10 metric tonnes of medical aid from Russia, the airport operator said. During this period, the Indira Gandhi International airport successfully handled some of the largest military and commercial aircrafts, which include Antonov-124, C-130 Globemasters and IL-76 among other freighters, it said. The airport operator, DIAL (Delhi International Airport Ltd) said on Tuesday that during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the airport has so far has handled 100 Covid-19 relief flights in the past 29 days which brought in aid from over 36 countries. “Between April 27 and May 25 the Delhi Airport handled 1,750 metric tons of relief material that arrived from countries such as the US, the UK, Canada, Ireland, Germany, France, Austria, Belgium, Russia, Spain etc. During this period, some of the largest military and commercial aircrafts like the Antonov-124 and C-130 Globemaster were also successfully handled. These planes brought in consignments of various relief materials such as oxygen generating plants, oxygen generators, concentrators and cylinders and live saving drugs,” DIAL said in a statement. Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO, DIAL said the handling of 100 COVID relief flights in less than a month has been possible due to the airport’s largest cargo network in the country with different parts of the world and the airport’s state of the art cargo handling facilities. “Our teams are working 24x7 to provide uninterrupted services and ensure consignments are processed and cleared in the least possible time,” he said. The airport operator said it is also being ensured that relief flights get priority in landing and parking at cargo bays to make sure that consignments are processed and cleared in the least possible time. “All the material is brought to JEEVODAY warehouse after customs clearance, where they are sorted and further distributed to other parts of the country by government agency HLL as per the distribution plan. Distribution is done immediately after it is brought to the warehouse. The relief materials were received by Indian Red Cross Society at Delhi,” DIAL said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-airport-operates-100-covid-relief-flights-in-one-month-101621969390894.html
26-05-2021||Other||IITR-Lucknow team collects Ganga water sample in Prayagraj||: A team from Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)-Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR), Lucknow collected water samples of the Ganga from various ghats of Sangam city, on Monday. The team from IITR has collected river water samples from different locations in Kanpur and Varanasi also. “The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) requested us to collect the samples from various locations along the river and analyse the specimens against different parameters which throw light on the quality of water in any river”, said chief scientist of CSIR-IITR, Lucknow, KC Khulbe. “Now that the samples have been collected by our team members, we would be finding out the results in a month,” he added. After reaching Prayagraj, the team collected samples from Shringverpur ghat, one of the sites where bodies were buried on the banks. After taking water samples from the ghat, the team of scientists reached the Phaphamau ghat. They took sample of water of the Ganga from around the sites where bodies were buried on the edge. The team members were wearing PPE kits for their own safety during the exercise. Although the team members, who collected the water samples refused to comment on the reason for collection of the river water samples, but experts who have worked in the field of ground water and UP Pollution Control Board claim that the water is being tested in the backdrop of the mass burial points spotted besides the banks. “Although there are bodies buried at Phaphamau and Shringverpur ghats but there is no need to panic as Ganga water is still fine. However, analysis of Ganga water samples is a welcome step, and the result would further make the picture clear” said executive engineer, irrigation department, SK Singh. Former regional officer of UP Pollution Control Board, Mohd Sikander said that groundwater was found on the banks near Ganga just below two feet. If bodies are buried on the river edge, the groundwater may get infected, and this infected groundwater could get mixed with the flow of the Ganga and can pollute it too.Officer in-charge of UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), Prayagraj Pradeep Vishwakarma said, “The samples have been collected to check the quality of water of the river and I can comment only after getting the final results”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iitrlucknow-team-collects-ganga-water-sample-in-prayagraj-101621968850998.html
26-05-2021||Other||Recruitment anomalies at madarsas in Azamgarh, SIT registers FIR||Teachers at 20 madarsas in Azamgarh were appointed in violation of norms with the alleged involvement of managers and other staff, said officials of the UP police special investigation team (SIT) here on Tuesday. The anomalies in the appointment of teachers also resulted in major loss to the state exchequer, they said. On the basis of findings that surfaced while scanning the records provided by district minority welfare officer and madarsa authorities, the SIT had registered an FIR against 21 managers and staff of these madarsas and other unidentified people under IPC sections 409 for criminal breach of trust by public servant, 420 for fraud and 120-B for criminal conspiracy in the matter on May 20. SIT officials said the case had been further investigated to ascertain the role of people involved in the fraud through the years. It was found that the teachers’ appointment was done on the basis of certificates issued by the institutions that are not recognised by the state or the central government, said an SIT official. He said the appointment of one teacher was done when he was not even 18 years of age, which is the minimum age criterion for appointment of assistant teachers at madarsas. In another case, four sisters were appointed in the madarsa where their father was manager, added the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/recruitment-anomalies-at-madarsas-in-azamgarh-sit-registers-fir-101621968130875.html
26-05-2021||Other||Foundation work of Ram Mandir expedited||Filling work of Ram Mandir foundation in Ayodhya has been expedited. Larsen and Toubro, which is carrying out the construction work, on Monday started laying fifth layer of the temple’s foundation. During the ongoing filling process, around 44 layers of 300 mm each will be laid. Thereafter, each layer will be compressed with simple and vibrating rollers. Last month, the Ram Mandir Construction Committee started the filling work with the target of completing 1.25 lakh cubic metre dug-up ground at Ram Janmabhoomi by the end of September. The Tata Consulting Engineers is working as project management consultant and is assisting the Larsen and Toubro in the constructions work. According to Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, the Larsen and Toubro has appointed Balaji Construction Company of Rajasthan as its assisting partner to complete the foundation work at the earliest. The Larsen and Toubro has also increased its working hours from eight to 12. The temple’s foundation, which will be 107 feet above the sea level, is being made of layers of stones. For filling the temple’s foundation, crushed stone (gitti) of Banda, coarse sand, fly ash and asbestos are being used. “We want to complete maximum work of Ram Mandir’s foundation before the onset of monsoon. The construction company has also increased its working hours to finish foundation work at the earliest,” said a member of the Trust. Nripendra Misra, chairman of the Trust, is taking updates of the construction work from New Delhi where he resides. Trust’s general secretary Champat Rai keeps Misra updated of all development and progress in work. Misra also regularly visits Ayodhya and stays back in town for two-three days and reviews progress of construction work of Ram Mandir. Construction work of Ram Mandir began on August 5 last year after Prime Minister Narendra Modi presided over its Bhoomi Pujan in Ayodhya.R||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/foundation-work-of-ram-mandir-expedited-101621968010868.html
26-05-2021||Other||Goa police files appeal against Tarun Tejpal’s acquittal in High Court||The Goa government has approached the Bombay High Court at Goa challenging the acquittal of journalist and former editor of the Tehelka magazine Tarun Tejpal, HT has learnt. Tejpal was acquitted by the Additional Sessions Judge Kshama Joshi at the dedicated fast track court in Goa on May 21 with the judge saying that there wasn’t enough evidence to warrant a conviction and proceeded to give him the benefit of doubt. No sooner than the verdict was pronounced in court, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant, who was addressing a press conference later in the day, claimed that the state would file an appeal “as soon as possible” and that “a woman has been wronged” with Tejpal’s acquittal. The chief minister, who claimed that he had personally seen the evidence and documents submitted before the Court, said that “there cannot be an acquittal.”“I feel a woman has been wronged. The Goa government will not tolerate it. We are filing an appeal in HC as soon as possible,” Sawant had said on Friday.On Tuesday, the Goa government filed an appeal before the Bombay High Court at Goa which is currently on vacation. The development was confirmed by a member of Tejpal’s legal team, who however said they were yet to be officially intimated. The judge in her judgement, copies of which were handed out to the parties on Tuesday, gave Tejpal, who is facing charges of sections 376 (rape), 354A (sexual harassment), 354B (criminal assault with intent to disrobe a woman), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code, the benefit of doubt and acquitted him on account of lack of sufficient evidence. Tejpal, in a statement after the verdict was pronounced, thanked the court for a fair and impartial trial. “It is with profound respect that I thank this court for its rigorous impartial and fair trial and for its thorough examination of the CCTV footage and other empirical material on record… I wish to make no further statement at this time and request my family’s privacy be respected as we try and reclaim our broken lives. I will make a comprehensive statement at an appropriate time in the future,” Tejpal said.“In an awfully vitiated age, where ordinary courage has become rare, I thank her for standing by the truth. The past seven and a half years have been traumatic for my family as we have dealt with the catastrophic fallout of these allegations on every aspect of our personal, professional and public lives. We have felt the boot of the state but through it all, we have cooperated fully with the Goa Police and the legal system, through hundreds of court proceedings. We have unwaveringly followed every mandate of due procedure and abided by every principle of law as laid down in the Constitution. We have also endeavoured to uphold every norm of decency expected in a case like this,” Tejpal said in a written statement handed out to the reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-police-files-appeal-against-tarun-tejpal-s-acquittal-in-high-court-101621967886239.html
26-05-2021||Other||Jayant Chaudhary elected new RLD president||Soon after he was elected the new national president of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), Jayant Chaudhary on Tuesday extended his party’s full support to the farmers’ proposed May 26 dharna to mark six months of their protest against the Centre’s three farm laws passed in September last year. He asked his party leaders and workers to participate in the dharna in large numbers. He also appealed to the Centre to resolve the farmers’ issue by inviting them to a dialogue. Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farm unions, has organised the dharna.Earlier, the decision to elevate Chaudhary, 42, who was till now the party vice president, was taken during a virtual meeting of the party’s national executive. His elevation to the post comes following the demise of party president and his father Ajit Singh, who had succumbed to Covid on May 6.During the meeting, party’s general secretary Trilok Tyagi proposed Jayant’s name for the post of national president which was approved by former MP and national general secretary Munshiram Pal and unanimously supported by all members of the national executive.In his first address after being elected president, he expressed his gratitude to his party leaders and workers and called upon them to follow in the footsteps of party ideologues Chaudhary Charan Singh (his grandfather and former PM) and Ajit Singh ( former union minister and a multiple-time MP). He also asked them to work towards making the party organisation stronger. He also said his party’s struggle to espouse the farmers’ cause will continue. Expressing his concern over the prevailing pandemic, Jayant accused the state and the central governments of failing to control its spread. He said Covid vaccination in rural areas should be expedited with the help of accredited social health activists (ASHAs) and Aanganwadi workers.Born on December 27, 1978, Jayant Chaudhary, a former Lok Sabha MP from Mathura (2009-2014), graduated from Delhi University and in 2002 did his MSc in accounting and finance from the London School of Economics and Political Science.Meanwhile, senior Samajwadi Party leader and former member, state planning commission, prof Sudhir Panwar congratulated Jayant Chaudhary on his elevation as the RLD national president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jayant-chaudhary-elected-new-rld-president-101621967830889.html
26-05-2021||Other||Oppn rattled by Yogi’s popularity among masses: UP Dy CM||Without taking name of Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav for his “no examination without vaccination” tweet, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma and UP cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh on Tuesday asked the opposition to explain how children below 18 could be inoculated when there was no vaccine available for them. “Those sitting at home and engaged in Twitter politics do not have this basic information how children can be inoculated when there’s no vaccines available for them. The opposition is trying to incite children against the government that reflects their negative politics. They are wasting their energy in quest of an issue on which they can do petty politics,” Sharma said in a statement.“The opposition must learn from chief minister Yogi Adityanath, should step out from their homes and serve the people,” Sharma added. He said to maintain their existence in political arena, the opposition was working hard to find an issue. Sharma said how those who refused to take the jab were now talking about vaccination.“The oppositions is rattled by the popularity of chief minister Yogi Adityanath among the masses. CM visited 50 districts in Covid times to take stock of measures taken to contain its spread. As a result, recovery rate in UP has gone up to 95%. Those sitting inside AC rooms and are only sending out tweets are disturbed how government has succeeded in controlling the spread of corona,” the deputy CM said.“There is no vaccine available for children and Yadav is now trying to mislead them and has put their future in danger. Is he (Akhilesh’s) dreaming of ruining the state?,” asked cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh in a tweet. “He misled the people by saying he was not going to get vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as he didn’t trust the BJP government. Subsequently, he risked many more by violating Covid protocol,” Singh, also the spokesperson for the UP government, said. He said the former chief minister was trying to change the goal post for his own convenience. “He first refused to get vaccinated and is now demanding vaccination for children below 18,” the minister said. Earlier in the day, the SP chief had tweeted, “Pehle tika, phir pariksha (No examination without vaccination).”On the issue of examinations, Singh said over the phone that union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ and defence minister Rajnath Singh held meetings with all education ministers and secretaries across the country on Sunday to get feedback on conducting board exams.“Both CBSE and ISC have deferred class 12 exams and cancelled class 10 exams. A decision to conduct UP Board high school and intermediate examinations will be taken in consultation with chief minister Yogi Adityanath,” Sharma said.Covid vaccination drive started in country on January 16 this year with two indigenously developed Covaxin and Covishield vaccines. The second phase of the drive to inoculate people above 60 and those over 45 with comorbidities began on March 1. The third phase began on April 1 for all above 45 years of age while people in 18-45 age group became eligible for inoculation in the next phase which started on May 1.On CM’s recent visit to Saifai and Azamgarh, Singh said Yogi had visited Saifai, the native village of SP chief, and Azamgarh, the parliamentary constituency of Akhilesh, without any semblance of partisan politics in which the SP indulged all through.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oppn-rattled-by-yogi-s-popularity-among-masses-up-dy-cm-101621967654888.html
26-05-2021||Other||Akhilesh lashes out at BJP for ‘planning poll strategy amid pandemic’||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), describing it as “audacious and shameless” for having held a meeting of top leadership to strategise for the coming UP Assembly polls. In a statement, Akhilesh said, “People are dying of Corona and black fungus due to government’s lack of administrative acumen and negligence; even last rites aren’t possible in many cases. Still, the party is doing a brainstorming with the prime minister and BJP state leadership for preparing a strategy for the polls (2022 UP assembly elections). We have never seen such a display of shamelessness in democracy.” There have been news reports that top BJP-RSS (Rashtriya Swayamasewak Sangh) leadership had been in a huddle in Delhi over the forthcoming UP assembly elections. Akhilesh said: “All that the BJP is bothered about is selfish politics and fake publicity. It is least bothered about peoples’ lives or livelihood and is focused on political power. Would people of UP forget all this? Anyways, the people in the state have resolved to dislodge BJP in 2022 and they will get relief when SP government returns.” He said: “There is no let-up in Covid and black fungus death yet. In rural areas, the situation is worst, but in the state capital and big cities patients were suffering and dying because of lack of life-saving medicines. The CM is hopping from place to place making tall claims, completely oblivious to the grim situation at home.” He said that those harping on ‘saving lives and livelihood’ were actually endangering both. The condition of daily wagers is deteriorating, the poor, labourers, vendors, and small traders are the worst hit, he said. “For the last one month prices of essential food items have shot up. Oil, vegetable prices have gone up multifold. Prices of petrol, diesel, cooking gas have increased, and household budgets have gone haywire. Animal farmers are facing problems regarding feed and fodder, milk consumption has been badly hit,” he said. “Small scale industries have begun retrenching employees, daily wagers aren’t getting employment, the books-notebooks-stationery businesses have collapsed, and textile or footwear industry too is out of business,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/akhilesh-lashes-out-at-bjp-for-planning-poll-strategy-amid-pandemic-101621967533293.html
