27-05-2021||Other||Delhi HC asks IRDA to consider insurance claims of Covid patients who couldn’t get hospital beds||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Thursday said that several people were not able to avail the benefit of the insurance policies during the second wave of the pandemic as they did not get hospital beds, “not due to their fault, but for the dearth of infrastructure”.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, while noting that thousands of patients had to take treatment at home, asked the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) to consider such cases and see whether the insurance claim can be given to the insurers.“It’s a matter of common knowledge and we can take judicial notice at the same time that for about 3-4 weeks when the current wave of pandemic was at its height, there was acute shortage of hospital beds, not only in NCT of Delhi but all over the country. People suffering from Covid-19 requiring hospital were not getting beds much less ICU beds and those with ventilators. Thus thousands of patients had to take treatment at home and make arrangements at home.”“The insurance policies issued by several insurance companies which have been in existence do not cover claims unless the insurer is a hospital. It appears that it is only the Corona kavach policy which has been introduced as a standard policy. However, a large number of insured people would not be able to receive any benefit under the insurance policies held by them only because they did not get hospitalization for no fault of theirs, but for the dearth of infrastructure,” the court noted in its order.According to the insurance companies, the claims could be made on their policies, only if they are hospitalized for at least 24 hours.The bench also noted a submission by central government standing counsel Amit Mahajn who said that several people who have been paying premiums for years but did not get the insurance premium. Petitioner lawyer Rakesh Malhotra also told the court that he could not avail the insurance claims because he was discharged 23 hours later than the stipulated time to avail the benefit.“It seems unfair if somebody is paying insurance for 20 years but when he actually wants it... Now IRDA has come up with a new policy which is a good thing covering home care also,” the court noted even as the insurance companies were not doing charity but also making money.During the hearing, advocate Abhishek Nanda, appearing for the IRDA, told the court that they have introduced four new policies the first among them being the Corona Kawach policy which is a common policy which is mandatory for all the companies to issue it. He said that these were short term policies issued for specific months.He submitted that Corona Rakshak has been also issued by IRDA but it’s not mandatory for all the insurance companies to issue. He informed the court that more than 31 lakhs insurance policies have been sold.However, the bench did not seem impressed with the figures and said, “If you consider the population of this Country, this isn’t enough…. We feel it’s a very minuscule number”.It also questioned the provision of the Corona Kavach policy that covered only the age group of 18-65. “The data which we have shows that people who are above 65 are more prone to covid. You’re excluding these people. How does it help then?” the court questioned.“The way to go about it is to increase the age from 18 to 65 and cross subsidise. Increase the policy above 65,” it added. It asked the IRDA to consider this aspect and posted the matter for further hearing on July 14.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who along with other petitioners, had sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-hc-asks-irda-to-consider-insurance-claims-of-covid-patients-who-couldn-t-get-hospital-beds-101622139960515.html
27-05-2021||Other||HC asks Delhi govt to consider aid for judicial officers who died of Covid-19||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Thursday asked the city government to “empathetically and sensitively” consider the issue of granting ex-gratia and compassionate appointment to family members of judicial officers who died of Covid-19.Senior advocate Dayan Krishnan, appearing for the Delhi Judicial Services Association, told a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh that judicial officers have been recognised as frontline workers for the purpose of Covid vaccination directly procured by the state governments.On May 25, the Delhi government, in an order said that judicial officers, media persons and special public prosecutors will be treated as frontline workers for vaccination out of the doses procured by the state government (Delhi government).The order was brought out in accordance with a central government communication of May 15 on vaccination which had said that states may make provisions for other categories beyond the categories communicated by the ministry of health and family welfare from the vaccines directly procured by state governments.“A suitable provision is also being made in Co-WIN for on-site registration and vaccination of such facilitated cohorts of beneficiaries that the states may identify to be benefitted exclusively out of the vaccine doses directly procured by the States,” the communication had said.On Thursday, additional standing counsel Satyakam, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that category is created primarily for the purpose of vaccination only and in future, if there are other aspects covered, it shall be extended to judicial officers also.The court was also informed that the government was looking into the aspect of granting ex-gratia and compassionate appointments to family members of judicial officers, who died of Covid-19.“We hope and expect the Delhi government to approach the matter with adequate empathy and sensitivity considering the fact that judicial officers have been recognised frontline workers by the Delhi government itself,” the court said while noting the submissions.The court was hearing a petition by a group of lawyers, including Shobha Gupta and Rajesh Sachdeva, seeking a coordination mechanism for judicial officers who were unable to get Covid-19 medical treatment and beds in hospitals. The association’s application was filed in the pending petition raising the issues of medical facilities for judicial officers here.The court disposed of the petition and the application along with another plea seeking certain reliefs for court staff, noting that the issues raised are adequately addressed.Senior advocate Dayan Krishnan, representing the association, said after the court’s earlier order, the Delhi government has addressed the issues in a positive manner and the principal secretary (law) has been appointed as nodal officer for interacting with all the district judges in the matter of providing medical assistance to judicial officers who are Covid-19 patients.He submitted that a committee appointed by the Delhi high court chief justice, headed by justice Mukta Gupta and which also comprises justices Navin Chawla and Prathiba M Singh has issued directions in relation to expenditure incurred on treatment of judicial officers and the issue has been addressed.Regarding another lawyer’s prayer that judicial officers and staff who go for treatment at non empanelled hospitals be reimbursed with the expenditure, the court said it would be premature to pass an order directing the government to clear all the claims.The court said there are sufficient precedents available dealing with the situation where government employees, in case of emergency, take treatment in non empanelled hospitals.“In our view, it would not be justified to pass blanket orders directing the government to pass all such claims as it needs to be examined in each case,” it said.The court had earlier expressed concerns over the condition of subordinate judiciary’s judicial officers who are at risk of contracting Covid-19 owing to the nature of duties and observed that politicians and bureaucrats find it very difficult to accept their failure and inability as it was not in their veins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-asks-delhi-govt-to-consider-aid-for-judicial-officers-who-died-of-covid19-101622139720520.html
27-05-2021||Other||Delhi: Matrix Cellular’s plea to release seized concentrators rejected||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Thursday dismissed a plea by Matrix Cellular seeking to release the oxygen concentrators seized by the city police, saying that the company “was selling untested oxygen concentrators to people desperate for these devices at exorbitant prices” amid an acute shortage.“The facts show the petitioner was engaged in selling untested oxygen concentrators to people desperate for these devices and at exorbitant prices through false representations, especially, when the State and the whole country saw a unprecedented surge of covid-19 infections and severe lack of oxygen cylinders and/or concentrators,” Justice Yogesh Khanna said.The court said that there was “no illegality by the Delhi police in seizing the concentrators especially when the State was reeling under acute shortage of drugs, cylinders, concentrators and attendants of patients were running pillar to post, ready to part with their life savings for its purchase”.“The police official, when got information about black marketing and hoarding of medical devices (concentrator) and of violation of the law orders, had acted and seized the material,” said the court while rejecting a submission by Matrix that police acted arbitrarily or their action has no legal backing.The single judge bench said that the “prima facie the act of the petitioner (Matrix Cellular) is in violation of an office memorandum of the ministry of chemicals and fertilizers, government of India, dated June 29, 2020 which had directed the petitioner and others like it, selling oxygen concentrators, to not increase prices of oxygen concentrators by more than 10% of the maximum retail price in a year of the Drugs Pricing Control Order (DPCO), 2013.“Hence, the investigation being at initial stage, the reliefs sought for in this petition cannot be granted by this Court except the concentrators so seized be put an identification mark(s) and its coloured photographs be kept for future reference, by the respondent (Delhi police),” the court noted in its 17-page order.The court also said that the release of the concentrators would be a violation of an order of the division bench last month where it had said that such equipment be deposited to the District Magistrate who would distribute it for further use in wake of the acute shortage.The order comes on the plea by Matrix Cellular which had sought release of its concentrators seized by the police during raids at the company’s collection centre at Lodhi Colony and its office premises at Mehrauli on May 5.The plea had said that the petitioner company is dealing in oxygen concentrators and not oxygen cylinders and the equipment which are seized from them are sold over the counters and is not a regulated/controlled item.“These items are being sold by Amazon and other online portals and the acts of petitioner have been carved out separately is a mischief of the concerned Investigating Officer,” the company argued before the court.According to the plea, 32 boxes of oxygen concentrators of 9 and 5 litres; one box of thermal scanner and KN-95 Masks were recovered. An FIR was registered following this and four persons were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhimatrix-cellular-s-plea-to-release-seized-concentrators-rejected-101622139660480.html
27-05-2021||Other||SP distributing rations & food, offering medical aid to needy||Lucknow: Samajwadi Party (SP) activists in small towns and rural areas have started distributing ‘Samajwadi ration’ and ‘Samajwadi bhojan’ (food) through ‘Samajwadi kitchens’. They are also offering medical aid across the state, including free ambulance services in some places, according to a party statement issued on Thursday. In the statement, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav said while the BJP was spreading confusion and lies among people during Covid times and no relief work was visible. In such a situation, the Samajwadi Party cadre was busy helping people state-wide. Akhilesh said that the SP leaders and workers, keeping Covid safety protocol in mind, were helping people with rations, cooked food, medicines and medical tools. In some places they were even running free ambulance service. He said that SP MLC Rajpal Kashyap was distributing Samajwadi ration and food packets among the needy at different places, while former SP candidate from Lucknow’s Sarojini Nagar assembly constituency Anurag Yadav had provided a consignment of oxygen, oximeters, nebulisers, thermometers, glucometers, masks, sanitizers and medical kits etc to the KGMU administration. He said that in Meerut, SP district president Chaudhary Rajpal Singh and others were running an ambulance services. In many places, the SP volunteers were giving food to patients and their relatives outside hospitals. Samajwadi kitchens were running in Maharajganj, Varanasi, Rae Bareli, Lucknow, Kannauj, Sidharthnagar, Hamirpur and other places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sp-distributing-rations-food-offering-medical-aid-to-needy-101622139181276.html
27-05-2021||Other||ANM penalised for throwing vaccine-loaded syringes in dustbin||Agra District magistrate of Aligarh Chandra Bhushan Singh has issued show cause notice to an ANM (auxiliary nurse midwife) deputed at Jamalpur urban primary health centre for throwing 29 vaccine-loaded syringes in the dustbin. He also recommended termination of her contractual service, after a probe committee indicted the ANM. The matter came to light on Monday when 29 Covid vaccine -loaded syringes were found in the dustbin at Jamalpur urban primary health centre in Aligarh. The ANM on duty Neha Khan was suspected of allegedly having thrown these syringes. Chief medical officer (CMO), Aligarh, Dr Bhanu Pratap Kalyani ordered probe by a committee of additional CMO Dr MK Mathur and deputy CMO Durgesh Kumar. The ANM denied the allegations, calling them a conspiracy against her. The probe committee reached the urban primary health centre on Tuesday, questioned the staff, including ANM Neha Khan, and submitted its report on Wednesday, following which a show cause notice was issued to the ANM and recommendation made for termination of her services. “No such incident would be tolerated and whosoever is found guilty would face the action,” said DM Chandra Bhushan Singh. To note, there has been much focus on minimizing wastage of Covid vaccine and so the incident at Jamalpur PHC has raised many eyebrows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/anm-penalised-for-throwing-vaccine-loaded-syringes-in-dustbin-101622139000120.html
27-05-2021||Other||Covid –ve woman delivers corona+ve baby||VARANASI: A Covid-19 negative woman delivered a Covid-19 positive baby girl at Sir Sundar Lal hospital, BHU, on May 25. The woman was admitted to the hospital on May 24. A senior official of the hospital said that Supriya Prajapati (26), a native of Semra in Chandauli, was admitted to the gynecology ward of SSL hospital on May 24. The woman’s sample was taken for RTPCR test and sent to microbiology lab, BHU. She was found Covid negative. She delivered a baby girl on May 25. The infant’s Covid test was done and was found positive for Covid-19. Supriya Prajapati and her kin are surprised over the baby being Covid positive. Her kin said Supriya was healthy and both mother and baby were doing well.. SSL hospital medical superintendent Dr KK Gupta said that this was not a rare or abnormal incident. RT PCR test’s sensitivity was up to 70%. The woman’s sample might have gone beyond that sensitivity. So the woman’s Covid-19 test would be done again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-ve-woman-delivers-corona-ve-baby-101622138760154.html
27-05-2021||Other||Weapon fired, 3 hurt in dawn incident at resort on Sinhagad road; cops hunt for suspect||PUNE: Three people were injured in a violent incident at a resort on Sinhagad road early on Thursday morning, where a weapon was also allegedly fired. The police are on the lookout for Bhagwan Narayan Pokharkar, member of the Khed Panchayat Samiti and the Shiv Sena.The injured have been identified as Prasad Dashrath Kale, Santosh Sandbhor and Sakharam Shinde, according to police.Pokharkar arrived at a hill-top resort located on the Khadakwasla stretch of Sinhagad road at 5:30am on Thursday, along with 15-20 of his supporters, according to the complainant.Pokharkar’s supporters manhandled the resort staff, Pokharkar fired his weapon in the air, and the men molested the women from the families of the injured men. Pokharkar then forced Sandbhor and Shinde in one of the cars he had arrived in, and dropped them off at a distance from the resort, according to the complaint.“The complainantis are telling us that there was a shooting. We also have CCTV [footage] showing a hand-held weapon,” said Vivek Patil, additional superintendent of police, Pune rural police. The deputy superintendent of Pune rural police Sayee Bhore Patil said police were confirming if a weapon was fired at the resort. “Currently, there is a complaint by Kale and they all have injuries caused by wooden sticks and metal rods. We are looking for one suspect and are in the process of identifying his accomplices,” Patil said. “Khed taluka Panchayat Samiti chairperson Bhagwan Narayan Pokharkar had completed his prescribed tenure, but was refusing to relinquish charge due to which other members of the Shiv Sena in the samiti, had sent a complaint to the district collector against him. The hearing of that matter was scheduled on May 31 and the other members of Shiv Sena in the panchayat samiti had gone to the resort on Wednesday,” read a statement from Pune rural police.Pokharkar allegedly believed that the men visiting the resort were plotting against him in the run-up to the hearing, according to the police.A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 452 (wrongful restraint), 363 (kidnapping), 354 (sexual harassment), rioting, and 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), of the Indian Penal Code, along with Section 3, 27 of the Arms Act; Section 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Haveli police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/weapon-fired-3-hurt-in-dawn-incident-at-resort-on-sinhagad-road-cops-hunt-for-suspect-101622130179363.html
27-05-2021||Other||MeT sees no severe impact of cyclone Yaas on Bihar||PATNACyclone Yaas, which was ripping through Jharkhand, was expected to enter Bihar on Friday afternoon, but was unlikely to trigger intense rain in the state or inflict much damage, officials at the Patna Meteorological Centre said on Thursday.Addressing a press conference, Vivek Sinha, director of Patna MeT Centre, said, “The cyclone, which is situated over central Jharkhand, has weakened into a depression. It is likely to move northwards at the speed of 8 to 10 kmph and reach Bihar within 24 hours. However, the state will not witness severe rainfall or high-velocity winds like seen in West Bengal and Odisha coastal areas.”Meanwhile, south-central parts of Bihar witnessed moderate to heavy rain, coupled with strong winds, on Thursday. As per daily bulletin issued, the highest rainfall was ar Sherghati (70 mm). Wind speed was recorded at 25-35 kmph in the state. Winds uprooted trees near Patna airport while several low-lying areas in the state capital, like Mithapur Bus stand, Kankarbagh, Rajendra Nagar and pockets of Bailey Road, were waterlogged.District magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh inspected sump houses and big drains to assess monsoon preparedness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/met-sees-no-severe-impact-of-cyclone-yaas-on-bihar-101622128079184.html
27-05-2021||Other||Pappu Yadav’s bail plea rejected||PATNAA Madhepura Court on Thursday denied bail to Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav in a 32-year-old kidnapping case in which the former MP was arrested from Patna on May 11.“I told the court that the case was lodged in some confusion and the complainant further told the court he was not kidnapped. The court of additional chief judicial magistrate heard us and asked us to move the sessions court for bail. We will soon file bail plea at sessions court at Madhepura within three to four days,” said Shivandan Bharti, an advocate of Patna High Court who appeared for Yadav at the Madhepura court in the virtual hearing.On March 22, 2021, the ACJM court at Madhepura had issued an arrest warrant against Pappu Yadav in the case.Yadav is currently undergoing treatment at Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) while in custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pappu-yadav-s-bail-plea-rejected-101622128019192.html
27-05-2021||Other||Drug crunch hits patients with black fungus in Bihar||PATNAThe two top medical institutions in Bihar — Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) — are facing an acute crisis of drug for treating patients with mucormycosis or black fungus, associated with coronavirus. Liposomal Amphotericine-B injection, a specific drug for the fungal infection, has flown off the shelves. The AIIMS, which has around 65 patients of black fungus, is struggling in the absence of drugs. “It will be butchery if we operate upon patients and don’t make drugs available. Surgery is 50% cure, the remaining 50% recovery is through drugs,” said a doctor. With 98 patients out of the total 109 admissions and eight deaths, the IGIMS has the highest number of patients with black fungus in any health facility in the state, said Dr Bheem Ram, assistant professor of medicine, IGIMS. Its stock of Amphotericin-B is enough to barely last a day. The IGIMS received 500 vials and AIIMS 400 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin-B on Wednesday evening after the two institutes sent SOS to the state health department. Their stock has now exhausted. The AIIMS had earlier received 2,000 vials and the IGIMS 1,300 vials of the injection. “We have around 65 patients of mucormycosis. Each patient requires between six and 12 vials of Amphotericin-B injection per day. The drugs replenished are woefully inadequate to last even a day. The drug is out of stock,” said Dr Kranti Bhawna, additional professor and head of ENT department at AIIMS-Patna. To make matters worse for the AIIMS, its empanelled vendors have refused to supply Amphotericin-B at the approved rate of ₹1,700 per vial after the Centre agreed to purchase it at ₹4,000 to ₹6,000 per vial from manufacturers. Purchasing the drugs is a costly proposition for patients, given that its average daily requirement is 6-12 vials per patient a day, considering the patient’s body weight — more the weight, higher the drug requirement. The state government, which declared mucormycosis a notifiable disease on May 22, has decided to supply it free to patients. Meanwhile, the IGIMS, a dedicated Covid-19 hospital, on Thursday initiated an integrated outdoor patient department (OPD), comprising experts from the ophthalmology, ENT and neurology departments for patients with mucormycosis. “The idea is to facilitate patients so that they don’t have to run about and wait in queues subsequently when referred for consultation from OPD of one department to another,” said Dr Manish Mandal, medical superintendent, IGIMS. “The experts in our integrated OPD unit for patients with mucormycosis will evaluate patients and decide on their admission for treatment. Those who are very serious and unstable will be examined and admitted in emergency,” added Dr Mandal. The government, on the other hand, defended itself. “We have made available 10,000 vials of the drug to hospitals, including private, across the state. Since the drugs supplied are not one-time allotment, they are being replenished continuously, as per availability. We are relocating drugs from facilities having no patient of black fungus to those where the patient burden is high. We are also purchasing drugs directly from manufacturers. There is some supply issue, which we hope to tide over soon,” said an official of the health department, handling the allotment of Amphotericin-B. Used in the treatment of kala-azar, Bihar had some stock of Liposomal Amphotericin-B, which it had received from the WHO. It diverted 10,000 vials of the drug for treatment of mucormycosis after obtaining the Centre’s nod. Bihar reported 14 deaths and 244 cases of mucormycosis till Wednesday after the first case of mucormycosis was reported in the state late last month. The mucormycosis miseryCases and deathsBihar reported 14 deaths and 244 cases of mucormycosis till Wednesday after the first case of mucormycosis was reported in the state late last month. AIIMS-Patna has 65 patients while IGIMS in the state capital has 98. Both are faced with an acute crisis of the drug used to cure black fungus.Injection for infectionLiposomal Amphotericine-B injection, a specific drug for fungal infection, has flown off the shelves. Since it’s used in the treatment of kala-azar, Bihar had some stock, which it had received from the WHO. It diverted 10,000 vials of the drug for treatment of mucormycosis after obtaining the Centre’s nod.A drug gone dearerAt AIIMS-Patna, empanelled vendors have refused to supply the drug at the approved rate of ₹1,700 per vial after the Centre agreed to purchase it at ₹4,000 to ₹6,000 per vial from manufacturers. Average daily requirement is 6-12 vials per patient a day. More a patient’s body weight, higher the drug requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drug-crunch-hits-patients-with-black-fungus-in-bihar-101622127959903.html
27-05-2021||Other||Ignore Ramdev, Bihar BJP chief tells doctors||PATNAAmid the ongoing row between the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and yoga guru Baba Ramdev, Bihar BJP president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal has advised the IMA not to give weight to his diatribe against allopathic medicine. “Don’t waste your years of education and energy in useless discussion and instead concentrate on our noble profession,” Jaiswal, a doctor himself and MP from West Champaran in his Facebook post.“Concentrating on our profession would be the most befitting service to our innumerable colleagues who have lost their lives attending to their duties in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said the Bihar BJP president.Baba Ramdev has been in the eye of a controversy when he questioned the efficacy of allopathic medicines in treating the dreaded coronavirus.“Ramdev is a Yoga guru. Nobody can question his mastery of Yoga. But he is certainly not a Yogi. A Yogi is one who has control on all his senses and brain. What he has done for Yoga is comparable to what Coco Cola did for beverages. Indians have been, since ages, consuming Shikanji and thandai but after the advent of the soft drink giant, every home seems to be stocked with bottles of Pepsi and Coke”, Jaiswal said in his post.“There is no need to reply to all baseless talks. If you speak more, you start giving more weight to others,” he advised the IMA. Jaiswal, who is the first BJP leader to speak on the controversy, however, lauded yoga. “It is important as it keeps you disease free but this is not a system of medicine,” he said. “Every system of medicine has its own limitations, which held true for Yoga, a sophisticated form of physiotherapy which can help us ward off illnesses but can create problems if we take to it to cure existing ailments.”The IMA, however, seemed unmoved. “Over five lakh doctors associated with the IMA across the country, including 12,000 in Bihar, are hurt. He shouldn’t demoarlise doctors who have done yeomen service in treating patients during the ongoing pandemic. He should stick to yoga and his Patanjali products,” said Dr Shahjanand Kumar Singh, IMA national president (elect). “Every state organization is contemplating legal action and now only PM’s intervention can bring sanity,” he said.The Indian Medical Association has been up in arms against Ramdev over his recent diatribe and its Uttarakhand chapter has slapped the yoga guru with a hefty defamation suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ignore-ramdev-bihar-bjp-chief-tells-doctors-101622127959200.html
27-05-2021||Other||Man posing as Ayurvedic doctor, working at Pimpri-Chinchwad hospital, arrested||PUNE A man posing as an Ayurvedic doctor and working at a hospital in Pimpri-Chinchwad has been arrested by the local police on Wednesday, charged with cheating, and impersonating a doctor.The man, identified as Akshay Keshav Neharkar, is a native of Pisegaon in Kej, Beed, and currently resides at the Onyx Hospital, Bijlinagar.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Vishal Bhaskar Katkar (49), a resident of Worli Koliwada, Mumbai.According to the complainant, the man tried to apply for a job as medical consultant at a major insurance company, sending them his resume.The resume allegedly mentioned that Neharkar had a BAMS degree and an MD from the DY Patil College of Ayurvedic Research, Pimpri-Chinchwad.Neharkar allegedly claimed to have worked at the Citi Care Hospotal, Unique Hospital, ONP Leela Hospital, and at the Onyx hospital, according to the complaint. The man is believed to have been working at a hospital in Bijlinagar for the past one year, according to the complainant.A case under Sections 419 (personation), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Sections 33 and 33(a) of the Maharashtra Medical Practice Act, 1961, was registered at the Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-posing-as-ayurvedic-doctor-working-at-pimpri-chinchwad-hospital-arrested-101622126999155.html
27-05-2021||Other||Social media group of cops and e-commerce reps prevents online frauds worth ₹15 crore||A social media group that has nodal officers from e-wallet firms and e-commerce portals, and police officers from across India, has been able to prevent fraudulent transactions amounting to ₹15 crore across the country over the last six months. The informal group, opened by two cyber police staff from Madhya Pradesh, now has 2,000 members on Telegram. The mission is to stop online frauds and prevent money reaching the fraudsters, all in real time. A recent example is the quick refund to an online fraud victim from Pune. A private school teacher has ₹2.5 lakh siphoned from his account after he made an online payment of ₹10, as a token amount towards for an RT-PCR report, prior to his air travel to Ladakh. The above fraud details were put on the group by the Pune cyber cell, after which nodal officers of the e-wallets involved checked their domains, and blocked the transaction. The money was immediately refunded to the victim. The cyber cell helped a Dhanori-based computer engineer get back ₹1.93 lakh, a businessman from Kothrud received a refund of ₹1.5 lakh and a senior citizen from Bibvewadi got back ₹97,000, all in various cases of cyber fraud. Pune police have, so far, helped victims recover a total of ₹8 lakh from fraudulent online transactions. An online financial transaction is made on one of, or all of, four platforms - banks, e-wallets, e-commerce and bill payments. Nodal officers from all four platforms are on the group, which makes it easy for cyber sleuths to block a payment to a fraudster. Police inspector Chandrakant Hake, incharge of the Pune cyber police station, said, “The group is indeed very helpful for us to stop payment before it reaches the destination of the fraudster. The group has proved to be a very useful platform for sharing critical fraud-related information and also get results in real time, so that victims are assured that their money is safe. It’s a country-wide group which is effectively run by all the participants for the public good.” The Maharashtra coordinator of the social media group, speaking on the condition of anonymity said, “This group has served to protect victims from losing money to scammers and results are encouraging. This process works faster based on the basic nature of the complaint, like an email, and later the necessary paperwork can be completed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/social-media-group-of-cops-and-e-commerce-reps-prevents-online-frauds-worth-rs-15-crore-101622126639697.html
27-05-2021||Other||Annual waterhole wildlife census missed for second year running||PUNE The annual waterhole wildlife census, undertaken by the Maharashtra forest department, has not happened for two years in a row in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.The exercise is traditionally carried out on a full moon night when it is easier to spot animals at national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and tiger reserves. The waterhole census is a conservation exercise and environment experts believed it should not be missed. “We are working with 15 per cent staff, which makes it very difficult to organise and arrange this census. We need at least two persons, a forest officer and a volunteer, at each location across all sanctuaries, keeping a vigil at waterholes atop machaans (a platform erected on a tree or at a height off the ground),” said Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forests, Pune. Though Patil added that counting of animals happens throughout the year using cameras placed inside the forests.The last census was conducted in 2019 at four wildlife sanctuaries - Nanaj, Bhimashankar, Rehekuri and Mayureshwar, where it was found that there has been an increase in the number Sambar deer, Chinkara, antelope and wolves. The Pune division of the Maharashtra forest department registered 2,497 different types of wildlife species during the 2019 census.According to the census, the number of Sambar increased from 29 in 2018, to 31 in 2019. Along with that the Chinkara number increased from 399 to 417. The census report also shows that antelope figures increased from 858 to 1,071. The number of Bengal foxes had come down from 39 to 38.Sunil Bhoite, honorary wild life warden in Satara, said, “Due to the pandemic, we could not get a group together, though we are constantly monitoring cameras, with motion sensors and infrared. We have recent tiger sightings on the Western ghats and have set corridors. If we can’t conduct an animal census, it affects the forest ecosystem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/annual-waterhole-wildlife-census-missed-for-second-year-running-101622126639043.html
27-05-2021||Other||Case filed against 7 for hurting sentiments of Buddhists in Nidgi||PUNE One person has been arrested and released on bail on Thursday, while six others have been booked for hurting religious sentiments of Buddhist community members living in the Ota scheme in Nigdi.The arrested man has been identified as Rajanikant Uttam Kshirsagar (50), also a resident of Ota scheme, Nigdi.A complaint in the matter was lodged by a social worker Ramdas Kundalik Tathe (51), a resident of the same area.“Some eight years ago, the community had built a mural of the Constitution of India. This man felled it and built a tin shed where he was going to start a shop,” said assistant police inspector Shaikh of Nigdi police station who is investigating the case.The complainant, as well as the accused, are all from the same community, according to the police.Three of the six others booked in the case include Ratilal Uttam Kshirsagar (53), Dhammaprakash alias Dhamma Rajnikan Kshirsagar (28), and Pramod Rajanikant Kshirsagar (28), all residents of Ota scheme.A case under Sections 141 (unlawful assembly), 143, 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class), and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of Rs10) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at Nigdi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/case-filed-against-7-for-hurting-sentiments-of-buddhists-in-nidgi-101622125978962.html
27-05-2021||Other||Fake assessment notices served to several taxpayers, case filed||The income tax department has filed a case against an unknown person/group for allegedly issuing fake and illegal assessment notices to several taxpayers in Gurugam last year. The matter came to light when in April, the department received an undelivered notice served to taxpayers in the city. During an interval investigation, it was found that the notice under section 147 of the IT Act was signed with a fake name. The stamp and letterhead were allegedly found to be fake, said police. The department complained that someone or a group impersonating as IT officials were trying to dupe taxpayers, said police. The notice was dated June 2018 and addressed to a private company based in Sushant Lok-1. The notice was signed by someone named Naresh Yadav, who identified himself as an assistant commissioner of IT circle (4) of Gurugram, said police. K K Rao, commissioner of police, said on the date when the notice was issued, no assistant commissioner named Yadav was posted in the IT department. Moreover, the stamp affixed on the notice was not the one used by Income Tax authorities. “The seal used on the said notice was also forged. The notice pertains to the assessment year 2017-18. However, the said year was not under regular assessment so it was not possible to issue notice for that year,” he said. Besides, the notice had several other defects like wrong e-mail address and wrong letter serial numbers. Rao said during investigation, it was found that the notice was sent from the website of the department of post and it was posted from Delhi and not Gurugram. It was clear that the notice in question was not issued by the IT department. Seema Dhankhar, joint commissioner of Income-tax, Kurukshetra, said they had complained to police last year when she was holding charge as deputy commissioner. “We were suspecting the role of an insider who worked on a contract basis. The suspect tried to impersonate as an Income Tax authority and sent a forged notice to the taxpayer. The dispatch number used was correct, which led to the suspicion that it was a doing of an insider. It is a matter of serious concern,” she said. On the basis of the complaint, a case was registered under section 170 (personating a public servant) of the IPC at Udyog Vihar police station on Tuesday. “We have conducted a thorough investigation and it seemed someone tried to settle a personal score with the victims. Maybe an individual or a gang is involved,” said Rao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fake-assessment-notices-served-to-several-taxpayers-case-filed-101622116306126.html
27-05-2021||Other||Gang held executive hostage, blackmailed him with intimate footage, booked||Gurugram Four members of a gang, including a woman, were booked on Tuesday for allegedly blackmailing a 37-year-old executive of a private company after they held him hostage and filmed him in a rented room in DLF Phase 3 in March. Police said the suspects had managed to extort ₹1 lakh and a gold chain by reportedly blackmailing him with videos and photographs. They also asked the victim to arrange ₹20 lakh but he left the city, following the accused started harassing his family.The victim said the woman suspect, whom he had met on social media last year, had called him on March 21 and asked him to meet her at her rented room in DLF Phase 3.Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said the woman told him that she had broken up with her boyfriend and was leaving Gurugram as she feared for her life. “When the victim reached her room, she told him that she had no money to pay the rent and to buy groceries. Due to lockdown she had lost her job and was finding it difficult to make ends meet. After spending half an hour, she opened the door on the pretext of disposing garbage when suddenly three men entered the room,” he said. Police said the suspects allegedly took him at gunpoint, snatched his mobile phone and wallet, and even took his gold chain. Police said the suspects also allegedly assaulted him and took mobile numbers of his family members, including his wife. The victim later fell unconscious after he had a glass of juice which he suspects was laced with sedatives, said police.Goel said when the victim gained consciousness, he found himself naked on a bed. “The suspects filmed videos and clicked pictures of the victim with the woman and threatened him with a fake rape case. They even threatened to send the recordings to his family and transferred ₹1 lakh from his account. Since he didn’t have any more money in his account, they asked him to arrange ₹20 lakh,” he said. However, the victim went to Manesar, where he lived in a rented accommodation, packed his stuff, and switched off his mobile phone. Fearing for his life, later that day he also resigned from his job and left for his native place in Haryana’s Bhiwani. The suspects, however, started calling his father and wife and threatened them too. Since March 21, the victim’s family members had been allegedly receiving over 10 threatening calls every day, following which they approached police and lodged a complaint on Tuesday. A case under section 385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion), 389 (putting a person in fear or accusation of offence, in order to commit extortion), 342 (wrongful confinement), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison), 323 (assault), 506 (criminal intimidation), 379A (snatching), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and sections of Arms Act was registered at DLF Phase 3 police station on Tuesday. Police said the suspects have been identified as natives of Nuh and Manesar. “Their mobiles have been switched off since the matter was reported. We have formed teams and are conducting raids to arrest them. All of the suspects were known to the victim through a common friend,” said Goel, adding that they are probing whether the gang members had indulged in similar acts in the past too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gang-held-executive-hostage-blackmailed-him-with-intimate-footage-booked-101622116246262.html
27-05-2021||Other||J&K to construct 4,200km of road under PMGSY this fiscal||The Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) government plans to construct 4,200 kilometres of road connecting remote areas with Central assistance during 2021-22 under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY).The PMGSY scheme was launched in 2001.J&K chief secretary, BVR Subrahmanyam held a meeting with the principal secretary, Public Works Department (R&B), to review the progress made under the PMGSY in the previous financial year and fixed a target of completing 4,200km of road this fiscal.Appreciating the progress made in the previous financial year, the chief secretary observed that the department has completed the construction of 3,300km of rural roads under various schemes.Also Read | Kashmiris hope for reopening of Srinagar-Muzaffarabad trade route“The projected target [this year] includes 800km and 3,400km rural road in Kashmir and Jammu province, respectively,” a government spokesman said, quoting Subrahmanyam.The J&K chief secretary directed the principal secretary to periodically review district-wise progress for timely resolution of bottlenecks and associated challenges.Officials said that since the scheme was implemented in J&K, around 14,053km of road has been completed, for which 90% of the fund came from the Centre, while 10% was arranged by the UT administration (or the erstwhile state).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-to-construct-4-200km-of-road-under-pmgsy-this-fiscal-101622111657755.html
27-05-2021||Other||Vaccine shortage: No jabbing for 18-45 age group in P’kula today||The Panchkula health department has run out of vaccines for the 18-45 age group, prompting it to suspend jabbing for this group on Thursday. No inoculations have been conducted for this group for the past two days.On Thursday, first and second doses of the vaccine will be administered only to beneficiaries above the age of 45. On May 24 and 25, only 200 slots were opened for the 18 to 45 age group in the district. Immunisation officer Dr Meenu Sasan said, “Over 5,000 doses were administered during the drive-through vaccination that took place last week. So we ran out of our stock. Only a few doses are left for the 18 to 45 age group, which have been reserved for those living in slum and rural areas.”On Wednesday, 1, 347 persons were vaccinated in all.Earlier, Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Haryana, had said: “Currently, vaccination sourcing is a controlled commodity. We are getting vaccines for the 45-plus group from the government of India, and for the 18 to 45 group, the state government is directly coordinating with the company. But this is also regulated and we get limited supply, and there is nothing much that we can do.”Though the vaccination drive has not been stopped for even a day in Panchkula, getting a jab has not been easy task for residents. Days after starting the drive for the 18-plus group, the administration stopped giving the first dose to the 45-plus group. And now, it has halted jabbing for the 18-plus group while resuming the drive for the 45-plus category.As per Meenu Sasan, “We are managing with whatever limited resources we have. We have been vaccinating people without a break. Even people from adjoining states are coming to Panchkula to get a shot. But we cannot do much, unless we get a fresh stock.”Till date, 2, 08, 807 persons have been vaccinated by the Panchkula health department, out of which 37, 674 are in the age group of 18-45 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccine-shortage-no-jabbing-for-18-45-age-group-in-p-kula-today-101622063235214.html
27-05-2021||Other||Covid treatment: More trouble for Mayo Hospital as 100 cases of fleecing surface||Trouble mounted for Mohali’s Mayo Hospital (now Mount Star Hospital), which was recently found guilty of black marketing 83 remdesivir injections, as the district administration detected around 100 instances of overcharging of Covid patients at the hospital. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said it had come to fore that the hospital has been charging around ₹20,000 a day from Covid patients.As per the rates set by the government, a private hospital can charge ₹16,500 a day from a patient requiring ventilator support while for a bed without ventilator, the charges are capped at ₹14,500 a day. This includes all expenses including room rent, visiting charges and PPE requirements. “Mayo Hospital was found to be offering a package of ₹40,000 for the entire span of hospitalisation but was adding ₹6,000 a day as visiting charges, which is completely illegal,” said the DC. Referral money The administration also found that the management of the hospital was paying 10% to the doctors of other hospitals for referring patients here and in the last two months, the management has paid ₹17 lakh as referral money. Dayalan said, “Strict action will be taken against the hospital.”One of the directors of the hospital admitted that the patients were charged more than the limit set by the government but added that the management has decided to refund the money.Hospital’s managing director KD Singla said, “I am not aware of overcharging but have I have already submitted my resignation to the board of directors due to ongoing controversy in the hospital.” On Monday, a four-member inquiry committee headed by sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Jagdeep Sehgal had recommended penal and legal action hospital after discrepancies were found in the bills issued for purchase of remdesivir, a drug used in Covid treatment. In the report submitted to Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, the committee stated that the bills for the injection were issued in the name of a prominent cement manufacturing firm, besides the chief finance officer (CFO) Mukesh Sharma and a few doctors of the hospital. One bill was also issued in the name of a woman on March 17 even as she was admitted on March 18. While doctors reportedly denied getting any injections, the reply to the show-cause notice issued to the hospital was also unsatisfactory, the committee stated in its report.Internal controversyWhen the controversy erupted, three directors of the hospital — Deepak Tyagi, Virender Dhankhad, and Dr Manoj Sharma — had accused the CFO and his son of illegally procuring remdesivir injections and selling them at a premium to patients outside the hospital. The CFO, on the other hand, has alleged that the directors had fabricated documents pertaining to the drug sale to frame him. Both allegations are being probed by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-treatment-more-trouble-for-mayo-hospital-as-100-cases-of-fleecing-surface-101622060174993.html
27-05-2021||Other||Mohali: Five years on, basic amenities continue to elude Aerocity residents||Even after more than five years of calling Aerocity their home, basic amenities continue to elude thousands of residents of the prime neighbourhood.Greater Mohali Area Development Authority’s (GMADA) pilot project, Aerocity promised a high-flying lifestyle to homeowners who were given possession of apartments in 2015, but the situation is going from bad to worse.There are around 1,500 families in the 10 blocks of Aerocity. Multinational conglomerate Larsen and Toubro (L&T) is responsible for its maintenance.The residents’ complaints range from blocked stormwater pipes and ill-maintained parks to wild outgrowth. They say internal footpaths and periphery berms are either missing or in dilapidated condition, while there are no benches, canopies, or swings for children. Stray cattle and herders also have a free run in the residential area. Moreover, GMADA has failed to construct a dedicated bus stop, dispensary, milk booth, police post and community centre.Ranjit Malhotra, who is building a house in Block H, decried the poor-quality infrastructure. “The procedure for getting water and sewerage connections is so cumbersome that allottees are always at receiving end,” he said.He added that GMADA has failed to check illegal encroachments by street vendors that too on the main road. “Vendors are using electricity panels and street poles for free advertising and defacing homes and parks,” he complained.Vasudev Gupta, president of Block A, said, “Dangling electricity wires are a potential hazard. Fogging against mosquitoes and pests is not done on a regular basis, leaving the resident to fend for themselves and remain indoors in the evening and early morning hours.”“The sewerage system is mess and even stormwater pipes are blocked in most parts of Aerocity. Parks are in shambles in absence of maintenance,” said Kuldeep Singh Issapuri, president of Block J.Bhupinder Singh, president of Block H, alleged that only 60% of the streetlights work, while electricity panels for meters in most of the blocks are either missing, damaged or need to be replaced immediately. Also, high and low-tension power lines have been damaged at numerous places and residents have to bear the brunt of the power cuts for long hours. “What makes the situation worse is the absence of three-phase power lines and a dedicated grid for Aerocity,” he rued.GMADA chief engineer Davinder Singh said L&T is responsible for the maintenance work and we will seek a report from the latter. “As far as dispensary, police post and community centre are concerned, the department concerned should contact the GMADA officer for getting sites earmarked,” he said.When contacted, Ravi Kumar, L&T project manager for Aerocity, said, “Allottees are responsible for the blocked sewerage as they dump construction material over manholes. Our power cables are damaged due to this frequently. Parks are being maintained time to time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-five-years-on-basic-amenities-continue-to-elude-aerocity-residents-101622059636983.html
27-05-2021||Other||Kashmiris hope for reopening of Srinagar-Muzaffarabad trade route||Some locals are hoping that the Srinagar-Muzaffarabad trade and transit route connecting the two parts of Kashmir across the Line of Control could be reopened in the coming months following the renewal of the ceasefire agreement between India and Pakistan and moves to develop Kaman post into a major tourist attraction.Kaman post is the first point on the national highway 1A on the Indian side of the LOC in Jammu and Kashmir’s Baramulla district and served as a trade point on the Srinagar Muzaffarabad route before its suspension in 2019. After renewal of the 2003 ceasefire agreement in February this year, the Indian Army has renovated an old cafeteria at the Kaman post and also installed a 60 feet National Flag Pole. The post was named in 1956 in the memory of Lt. Col. Kaman Singh, the hero of ‘Thikal war’ in 1948 and a Mahavir Chakra awardee.“The post is especially popular for its view across the Line of Control,” said defense spokesman Emron Musavi. He adds that Kaman Post was once popular for motivational tours organised by schools and colleges.The Srinagar-Muzaffarabad route was first thrown open in the year 2005 and was seen as one of the biggest Confidence Building Measures (CBM’s) between India and Pakistan. The route was made inoperative in April 2019 purportedly for some repair work but could not be reopened after relations between the two countries nosedived after abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union Territories in August that year.The Indian Army officials have spoken of plans to turn Kaman post into a major tourist attraction offering stunning views across the LoCs with accompanying tales of snipers shooting from pigeon hole bunkers at one of the most hostile boundaries between India and Pakistan. The renovated cafeteria near Kaman bridge also known as ‘Aman Setu’ (bridge of peace) was thrown open a few days ago and is now being run by a local former army soldier. Hilal Turkey, chairman of Salamabad Cross LoC Trade termed the reopening of the cafeteria a good omen.“After the ceasefire, this is a welcome step and the people are hopeful that once Covid-19 situation improves, the road will be thrown open for both trade and the bus service. This was the most hostile place; now it’s being revived again which gives all the traders a hope of trade and bus resumption.”Turkey said that around 4,229 families have suffered due to the suspension of trade through two trading points of Uri-Muzaffarabad and Poonch-Rawalakot.“We have suffered an annual loss of about ₹40 crores due to trade suspension. Now we feel the ice is again melting between the two neighbouring countries,” Turkey added.The developments have also made locals hopeful. “Many families could meet their family members after decades when Srinagar - Muzaffarabad road was opened 18 years ago. After its closure, hopes were crushed. Now, there is again a hope that this road will open again,” said Farooq Ahmad Shiekh whose relatives live at Muzaffarabad. He travelled many times to Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK) via Kaman.“Though it’s premature to say anything when it comes to India-Pakistan relations, we have not lost hope,” Shiekh adds.Some experts say that the renewal of the ceasefire agreement through back channel negotiations pointed to an effort towards improving relations, however, it would be too early to hope for a significant breakthrough given the fact that the two sides are currently sticking to their respective stands on Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kashmiris-hope-for-reopening-of-srinagar-muzaffarabad-trade-route-101622058799457.html
27-05-2021||Other||53 Rohingyas test Covid+ at Jammu sub-jail, quarantined||At least 53 illegal Rohingya immigrants, out of a total of 222 detained at Hiranagar sub-jail in Kathua district, have tested positive for Covid-19.All 53 have been quarantined in exclusive barracks within the jail premises. Chief medical officer of Kathua district, Dr Ashok Choudhary, said, “The 53 who have tested positive have been isolated within the holding centre in separate barracks exclusively identified for them. For now they are all fine.” Earlier, all the Rohingyas were kept in common barracks. “Some among them have Covid symptoms and remaining are asymptomatic, but they are all normal. Kits have been distributed and the doctors are regularly checking on them,” he claimed.“To check further spread of the contagion, the prison has been sanitised. The remaining inmates will be tested on Wednesday and Thursday,” he said.On vaccinating the inmates, Dr Choudhary said the health authorities will have to wait for Covid tests of all. A senior prison official, however, said, “58 of them above the age of 45 years have already been vaccinated. We have 222 inmates in the holding centre.” No instructions on releasing immigrants“We have not received any instructions from the higher authorities on releasing the remaining Rohingyas. We have enough space and proper arrangements to deal with the situation. Proper Covid protocols are being adhered to in the holding centre and in all the prisons across Jammu and Kashmir,” the official added.A Rohingya, who lives in Kiryani Talab in Narwal in Jammu, said, “We are also hearing that testing and vaccination drive will be started soon in all our clusters, but so far no one has come to us.”On March 6, on the instructions of the Union ministry of home affairs, the Jammu and Kashmir administration had started a verification drive of the Rohingya, and moved 197 of them to the Hiranagar holding centre.There are close to 7,000 Rohingya refugees in Jammu & Kashmir, numbers that have increased since the late 2000s when they first arrived in the region after escaping from Myanmar, where they were facing persecution.Rohingyas plead administration to provide rationNajmul Haq, plot in-charge at Rohingyas’ cluster at Kiryani Talab in Narwal, said, “Is there any possibility of releasing the inmates from the holding centre because we have younger ones here in the cluster, whose parents have been lodged in the holding centre.”“We request the administration to provide us help during the pandemic because there is a lockdown and we are not able to get any work to eke out a living. We appeal to the government to provide us ration for survival,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/53-rohingyas-test-covid-at-jammu-sub-jail-quarantined-101622058797025.html
27-05-2021||Other||On Buddha Purnima, Dalai Lama calls for collective efforts to end pandemic||Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama in his message on the occasion of Buddha Purnima on Wednesday called for collective efforts to end the Covid-19 pandemic, which, he said, had brought pain and hardship across the world.On this auspicious day, Buddhists will hold prayer services in holy places such as Bodhgaya, Lumbini and Kandy. “Let us all join together in doing whatever we can to overcome the global threats we face, including the Covid-19 pandemic that has brought such pain and hardship across the world,” the 14th Dalai Lama said.The spiritual leader said that Lord Buddha’s teachings were essentially practical and “people can follow this path according to their ability and inclination”. Citing his example own example, he said that he started his Buddhist education as a child and although he was 86, he was still learning.“Although our world has changed substantially since the time of the Buddha,” the Dalai Lama said the essence of his teaching remained as relevant today as it was 2,600 years ago.The Buddha’s advice, stated simply, was to avoid harming others and to help them whenever we can and in whatever way possible, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/on-buddha-purnima-dalai-lama-calls-for-collective-efforts-to-end-pandemic-101622058795813.html
27-05-2021||Other||‘The voice of people, who inspired all’: Tributes pour in for Doreswamy||Bengaluru: Freedom fighter and activist Harohalli Srinivasaiah Doreswamy, 103, died in Bengaluru on Wednesday, days after recovering from Covid-19 this month. He was cremated with full state honours at Chamarajapet crematorium on Wednesday evening. A school teacher, Doreswamy joined the freedom struggle in June 1942, at the age of 23, on Mahatma Gandhi’s call. He was also jailed for organising protests against the British government. CN Manjunath, the cardiologist at Jayadeva Hospital said that Doreswamy had heart failure and a cardiac arrest and passed away around 1.40 on Wednesday. Adding that Doreswamy had pre-existing valvular heart disease for the last 10 years, he was admitted to Jayadeva Hospital multiple times in this period. “He tested positive for the novel coronavirus earlier this month. This could be a precipitating factor since he tested positive and was hospitalised till May 12. He was readmitted to the hospital on May 14,” Dr CN Manjunath added. “It is very sad to hear the news that senior freedom fighters, Gandhian, journalist, social worker, and the voice of the people, HS Doreswamy, has passed away. Praying for goodness to their soul, I ask that God grant their families the power to bear the pain,” Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa tweeted. Doreswamy actively participated in the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens in Bengaluru in 2019-20. “HS Doreswamy, who parted from all of us, was our self-conscience. He condemned us when he saw wrong, supported us when he saw right and guided us. He was an inspiration from a young age, came to the streets when he saw injustice and was an inspiration to all of us,” tweeted former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah. Former chief minister and JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy tweeted, “I am deeply saddened by the death of the centenary and freedom fighter Doreswamy.” Many ministers and senior Congress and the BJP leaders expressed their sorrow over the demise of Doreswamy. “I am deeply pained by the death of freedom fighter and journalist HS Doreswamy. The state has become poorer losing a great social activist who fought for the upliftment of people throughout his life,” said former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda in his tribute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/the-voice-of-people-who-inspired-all-tributes-pour-in-for-doreswamy-101622057594268.html
27-05-2021||Other||Delhi: 50 cops, footage from 1,350 cameras and nine days of probe nail three in cow slaughter cases||New Delhi: Five teams of 50 police personnel from three police stations worked for nine days, scanned footage from 1,350 CCTVs installed across 62 kms of road length to arrest three suspects in three cow slaughter cases reported from outer Delhi’s Baprola village and Nihal Vihar between May 16 and 20, investigators associated with the case said.On May 16 morning, the carcass of a cow was found on a vacant plot in outer Delhi’s Baprola village, said Parminder Singh, deputy commissioner of police (outer district). A crowd gathered at the spot and they informed the police. A case was registered at Ranhola police station under sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Delhi Agricultural Cattle Preservation Act and the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, Singh said. Around the same time, another carcass was found at a different spot in the same village. The DCP said, “An inspection of the scene and the animal carcass suggested that same people could be involved in the two cases.” He said a separate FIR was registered in this case. While the police were investigating the two cases, a similar crime was reported from Nihar Vihar on May 20. An FIR was registered there too.Since the recoveries of animal carcass led to tension in the two areas, the police constituted five teams of a total 50 personnel from police stations in Ranhola, Mundka and Nihal Vihar. The team was led by two additional deputy commissioners. The personnel were drawn from different wings such as the special staff, the anti-auto theft squad (AATS) and the narcotics department, an officer associated with the case said.The officer said CCTV footage revealed that a Vitara Brezza car was used in the crime. Thereafter, the police scanned footage from 1,350 CCTVs spread over 62 kilometers to finally trace the suspects to Jamia Nagar in south-east Delhi, said Singh.Between Monday night and Tuesday afternoon, the police arrested the three men from Jamia Nagar. These included two brothers, Asif and Monis, and their cousin Naeem.The DCP said while Asif had two dozen cases against him, including two in which he was convicted, Monis had four cases registered against him. Both carried a reward of R50,000 each that was announced by the Uttar Pradesh Police, on their arrests.The officer said they were using a curfew pass purportedly issued by APMC in Azadpur Mandi to travel around the city to allegedly slaughter cows during the lockdown.The police are checking the authenticity of the pass as well as looking for other people that could possibly be involved in the alleged crimes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-50-cops-footage-from-1-350-cameras-and-nine-days-of-probe-nail-three-in-cow-slaughter-cases-101622057475662.html
27-05-2021||Other||Man claiming to be head of a youth organisation arrested for cheating Covid patients||New Delhi: A 21-year-old man who claimed to be a social worker and the national president of a youth organisation having 18 lakh members and followers, was arrested along with his associate for allegedly duping Covid patients and their families in the name of delivering oxygen cylinders, police said on Wednesday.Investigators said Ritik Kumar Singh and Sandeep Pandey have duped nearly 50 people in different states of ₹8-10 lakh since the second wave of Covid-19 hit the country in April. They had circulated their cellphone number on various social media platforms as suppliers of oxygen cylinders and promised home delivery. They tricked Covid patients or their families into transferring the token money into their online payment wallet for securing a cylinder. But after receiving the money, they used to block the person or deactivated their contact number, said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram.The two suspects were arrested from Greater Noida on Tuesday following investigation into a cheating case filed at the Vivek Vihar police station on the complaint of Sanchet Aggarwal, whose mother was ill and needed an oxygen cylinder. Aggarwal told the police that on May 6, he found a supplier’s number on social media (Instagram ) and contacted the person, who promised the home delivery of two cylinders after receiving ₹14,000 as token money. The family paid the money through an e-commerce payment gateway. However, neither the cylinders were delivered nor the money was returned. The family found the phone number switched off and filed a police complaint, the DCP said.Although the website of the youth organisation named “India Youth Icon Team” and his social media profile show that Singh is allegedly connected with a national political party and its senior leaders, the Delhi Police said they have not come across any evidence that linked him to any party.“Also, India Youth Icon Team that Singh claims to be heading and has branches in at least seven states is not a registered organisation. He claims that his organisation had over 18 lakh members and followers. But it’s a matter of investigation. Singh was running this unregistered organisation to project himself as an influential social worker and to cheat people,” said DCP Sathiyasundaram.Singh’s social media accounts have images in which he is seen with luxury cars, surrounded with bodyguards carrying weapons, distributing essential items to needy people and standing with politicians. He also claims to be running a consultancy firm for admissions in educational institutions, said the DCP.“We interrogated Singh and he told us that he used to hire bouncers and luxury cars regularly to influence people, including those associated with his organization, and to give an impression that he is a powerful person having political links. In reality, he doesn’t own a car,” added the DCP.During the investigation, DCP Sathiyasundaram said, the investigating team collected details of the online wallet in which the money was deposited and also of the bank accounts in which the money was routed. The phone number linked with the online wallet and the bank account was the same and belonged to one Sandeep Pandey. It was also learnt that the phone number and the accounts were used for similar frauds. The money was further transferred into two more bank accounts belonging to Ritik Kumar Singh. On the basis of mobile phone location and local intelligence, Pandey and Singh were arrested from Greater Noida, the police said.The DCP said that Singh, who originally belongs to Bihar, is the mastermind of the racket that he was running in connivance with Pandey to cheat people for money they needed to live lavishly. Singh’s bank account had ₹4.23 lakh while Pandey’s had ₹2.43 lakh, which they had accumulated through cheating people in the name of delivering oxygen cylinders. Two cellphones and two SIM cards used in the crimes were also seized, he said.Police said Pandey is from Uttar Pradesh’s Ghazipur and he completed his diploma in civil engineering from a college in Allahabad, UP. He has been working as a property dealer and also runs a wheat flour mill in Greater Noida with his friends, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-claiming-to-be-head-of-a-youth-organisation-arrested-for-cheating-covid-patients-101622057474327.html
27-05-2021||Other||Will help people despite 1K PILs, says Gambhir on allegations of hoarding meds||East Delhi MP and former cricketer Gautam Gambhir on Wednesday said he will continue to “save people’s lives” even if a thousand public interest litigations (PIL) are filed against him, two days after the Delhi high court said that he has done “disservice” by storing large stocks of medicines used to treat Covid-19 during severe shortage of the medicine in the city.Speaking at the Delhi BJP office, Gambhir said, “I entered politics to help people and save their lives. I’m not afraid if one or hundred or thousand PILs are filed against me.”He added, “Whatever the court decides, we will accept it. But whenever I’ll get an opportunity in the future to help people, I will do it because saving people’s lives is the meaning of politics.”The court on Monday directed the Delhi government’s drug controller to launch an inquiry into three politicians — Gambhir and Aam Aadmi Party MLAs Praveen Kumar and Preeti Tomar — for allegedly buying and storing Covid-19 drugs and medical oxygen in bulk amid a severe shortage in the Capital.To be sure, all three did not sell the medicines or oxygen, but distributed them for free to people in their constituencies. Also none of the politicians were named as party in the case.On April 21, Gambhir announced on twitter that people who needed Fabiflu tablets, an anti-viral, could get them for free at his east Delhi office.The court, however, said it was not responsible behaviour. “Gambhir must have done it with best of intentions. He has been a national player for our country. But when you know the medicine is in short supply and you buy over 2,000... Is that responsible behaviour? Should he not have realised that medicines are in shortage for others?,” the high court bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/file-1k-pils-will-still-save-people-s-lives-gambhir-101622057414810.html
27-05-2021||Other||K’taka revises discharge policy to detect black fungus cases||Bengaluru The Karnataka government on Wednesday said that it has formulated a new discharge policy for Covid-19 persons to help detect any possibilities of Mucormycosis, more commonly known as black fungus cases in the state.The decision came after Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education, held a meeting with experts on the topic amid a rise in cases of black fungus.“There is more clarity now after meeting with experts. It has been found that administering steroids in the first week of treatment of Covid-19 is one of the main causes of black fungus infection. We need to avoid this and steroids should be administered only from the second week,” Sudhakar said in a statement on Wednesday.He added that there are around 95 known cases of black fungus being treated in Bengaluru, of which 75 have either uncontrolled diabetes or have been administered steroids during Covid treatment.Karnataka has formed a task force dedicated to black fungus, under the chairmanship of Dr HS Satish, and ENT specialist at government-run Victoria Hospital. There are nearly 481 persons known to have contracted black fungus and are being treated in Karnataka, according to information shared by the Centre. There are at least two suspected cases of white fungus in Belagavi, about 500 kms from Bengaluru.Several states including Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan among others have reported a sharp increase black fungus cases, which can be fatal in the third stage when it enters the brain if not detected and treated early.He said that the discharge policy will include a provision in which recovered Covid patients will be subjected to further tests for black fungus and even an MRI scan, if necessary. “After one week of discharge, Covid recovered persons should get themselves tested here or they can also get a tele-consultation. Every Covid recovered person will be contacted to check for any symptoms of fungus infection. If symptoms are found they will be called to hospitals for further diagnosis,” the minister said.He added that post-recovery, the patients will be contacted for nearly two weeks based on their condition.“It has been found in a preliminary report that the infection is reported in small hospitals, taluk hospitals and those under home isolation in some cases. We will get more clarity in the final report,” he added.Meanwhile, union minister for chemicals and fertilizers, DV Sadananda Gowda said that the Centre had made more allocations of 29,250 vials of Amphotericin B, a drug used to treat black fungus.“Additional 29,250 vials of #Amphotericin- B drug, used in treatment of #Mucormycosis, have been allocated to all the states/UTs today. The allocation has been made based on the number of patients under treatment which is 11,717 across the country,” Gowda said in a post on Twitter. Of this Karnataka has received 1,221 vials, according to the information shared by the Union minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-revises-discharge-policy-to-detect-black-fungus-cases-101622057114350.html
27-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana firm illegally imports peas worth ₹2 crore, booked||Officials of the Customs Commissionerate at Kila Raipur have booked a Ludhiana based firm for illegally importing around 102 metric tonnes of peas, valued at ₹2.04 crore, to save customs duty.Customs officials from Inland Container Depot, Hind Terminals Private Limited (HTPL), while examining the goods imported by Resham General Trading, Ludhiana, found the peas concealed behind bags of bamboo beans. AS Ranga, commissioner of customs, Ludhiana, said that the firm has filed a bill of entry through their customs broker, Safe Clearing Forwarding and Service, Ludhiana, for import clearance of bamboo beans. During examination, the containers were found fully stuffed with bags containing bamboo beans and peas. The value of the goods, as declared by the firm in the bill of entry, is ₹44.6 lakh for 5,198 bags of bamboo beans. But, it was found during a detailed examination that 4,050 of the bags contained peas, which was not declared by the importer. The Union of India, vide notification dated March 29, 2019, had exercised the powers conferred to it under Section 3 of the Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act and amended the import policy conditions wherein peas were restricted for import and only quota-based import at minimum import price of ₹200 per kg was allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-firm-illegally-imports-peas-worth-2-crore-booked-101622056996324.html
27-05-2021||Other||NGOs set up Covid counseling centres in 3 Kashi villages||: For free help and treatment in rural areas, non-government organisations (NGOs) have set up Covid-19 help and counseling centres in three villages in Varanasi. These centres have been set up in Nagepur, Harsos and Aswari Bhimchandi villages where doctors have been treating people for fever, cold and other seasonal diseases. Villagers turning up with high fever are being referred to the nearest primary health centre (PHC). Nagepur is among those villages adopted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is the Varanasi MP. Social activist Nand Lal Master said that medicines from these centres were also being sent to the Covid patients in home isolation in these villages. Counseling of Covid-19 patients is also being done by the experts. Dr Jai Prakash attended around 35 patients at Nagepur centre and gave them medicines. Master said that the centres that would function for a month will also create awareness about measures to prevent getting infected by Covid-19. Thermal scanning is being done of each and every person reaching the centre and persons with high fever were being advised to visit the nearest primary health centre (PHC) and get tested for Covid-19 infection, Master said. Father Anand, a social activist, who inaugurated the centres, said that serving the poor during the pandemic was true service to humanity. NGOs running these Covid care centres include Asha Trust, Lok Samiti, Vishwa Jyoti Jansanchar Samiti along with Cairitas India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ngos-set-up-covid-counseling-centres-in-3-kashi-villages-101622055735032.html
27-05-2021||Other||BKU stages protest across west UP to mark 6 months of farmers’ stir||Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leaders and supporters observed “black day” in many districts of west UP on Wednesday to mark six months of the ongoing farmers’ movement against the Centre’s three new agriculture reform laws.Blaming the government for ignoring the farmers’ movement, they blocked traffic on the Delhi- Saharanpur highway for some time. They vowed to continue their movement until withdrawal of three farm laws and a new law on MSP was enacted.The protesters hoisted black flags on their houses and tractors in villages of Meerut, Shamli, Baghpat, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor and Saharanpur districts, burnt effigies, shouted slogans and took out processions.At many places, farmers wore black kurtas and turbans. They engaged in scuffles with police personnel who wanted to prevent them from burning the effigies at some places.Leaders and supporters of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and the Samajwadi Party (SP) supported the protesting farmers and unfurled black flags.A group of farmers led by BKU general secretary (National Capital Region) Mangeram Tyagi gathered at Kala Aam crossing in Bulandshahr district with black flags and had a scuffle with the police.“Heavy force was deployed there, which tried to prevent us from burning effigy, but we managed to burn it,” said Tyagi.Villagers also burnt an effigy at Ghopla village in Partapur area of Meerut district. The protesters shouted slogans against the union government and showed black flags to police personnel who reached the site.Farmers took out a motorcycle rally through many villages in the Chausana area of Shamli district.BKU supporters gathered at Vandana Chowk in Baghpat and put up black flags there.They handed over a memorandum to sub divisional magistrate Anubhav Singh in which they demanded immediate withdrawal of contentious farm laws and a law guaranteeing the purchase of crops at minimum support price (MSP).Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Sudhir Panwar staged a protest at Kandhla town in Shamli district with his party workers.BKU activists also held protests at Shahpur, Mansoorpur, Purkazi and other places in Muzaffarnagar district.The family members of BKU leader Rakesh Tikait unfurled a black flag at their house on Circular Road in Muzaffarnagar district. BKU and RLD workers burnt an effigy of the union government in the Bhooraheri area of Muzaffarnagar district.BKU activists also staged a protest outside their city office in the Numaish area of Saharanpur district.Farmers displayed black flags and burnt effigies in Najibabad, Dhampur, Kiratpur, Nageena, Chandpur and Bijnor (all in Bijnor), besides various places in the districts of Amroha, Sambhal and Moradabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bku-stages-protest-across-west-up-to-mark-6-months-of-farmers-stir-101622055734249.html
27-05-2021||Other||Setting up Covid centres in Thane gram panchayats: Collector||With the state government banning home isolation for Covid patients in 18 districts; the Thane district collector has informed that they are making arrangements to set up Covid care centres (CCC) in various gram panchayats, within rural areas of Thane district. These are being set up within zilla parishad schools and ashramshalas that are located within the proximity of the public health centres in the rural areas. The district’s rural areas have witnessed around 36,000 cases last year, whereas the district’s rural areas have already recorded 61,114 cases in five months of this year. Keeping this in mind, the preparations for the possible third wave has begun in the Thane district. There are 2,181 active patients, of which, around 1,546 patients in home isolation and 219 in CCC. The collector has shortlisted three spots in Bhiwandi rural, Shelar grampanchayat and Shenale village in Murbad to build a 30-60 bedded CCC. “We are having one CCC in each taluka and in case of a bigger taluka, we are looking for a suitable space in a cluster of gram panchayat to build CCC. By preferring institutional quarantine, we can curb the further spread of the virus. Moreover, immediate medical help can also be provided in case any individual has more symptoms or health issues,” said Rajesh Narvekar, collector, Thane district. Similarly, Thane Municipal Corporation has made basic preparations for the same, “We already have a centre in Bhayanderpada which is being used as a CCC; it has ample space. With the available infrastructure, if need be we can easily increase the number of beds and provisions in CCC,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC.As of now, TMC has 86% beds available, from among the 895 CCC beds available. Thane city currently has 2,105 active cases and 678 from among them are under home quarantine. During the peak of cases in mid-April, the city witnessed 16,700 active cases and around 12,650 were under home quarantine during that period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/setting-up-covid-centres-in-thane-gram-panchayats-collector-101622055674148.html
27-05-2021||Other||Thane civic body floats global tender for 5 lakh vaccine doses||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has floated a global Expression of Interest (EOI) for buying five lakh vaccine doses on Wednesday. The last date of submission for EOI is June 8, while the bids will be opened on June 9. The civic body has a budget of ₹50 crore for the buying of these five lakh vaccine doses. With the unavailability of adequate vaccine doses from the Central government, the TMC has planned to buy the vaccines from the global markets. The civic body got approval for the EOI from the general body last week. As per the EOI, manufacturers, Indian partners, wholesalers, authorised dealers and distributors who have vaccines duly approved by the drug regulator, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) can submit the EOI. An officer from TMC said, “We have asked the bidders to give us a clear timeline of vaccine stock, which will be available in the first 15 days after the EOI is signed in the next 15 to 30 days. Those who will provide maximum stock in a lesser time frame at a feasible cost will be given preference. The vaccine suppliers should also be responsible for providing their own transporting agents and cold storage facilities till the vaccines are supplied to the TMC centres. Moreover, if the vaccines need any specific cold storage conditions, other than the normal available with the corporation, provision for the same should also be done by the concern provider.” The bidders who apply should also attach an earlier success story of supplying vaccines to any other government agency across the world. He added, “The rate quoted in the bid should clarify the rate of per vaccine dose, which needs to be inclusive of all taxes, licensing fees, transportation cost and other charges. The bidder can be from anywhere across the world, except for those countries which share a border with India. The bids will be scrutinised by our Bid Evaluation Committee and will be approved for the further process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-civic-body-floats-global-tender-for-5-lakh-vaccine-doses-101622055614139.html
27-05-2021||Other||Navi Mumbai: Enough beds to isolate all patients if required, says NMMC chief||After the state government announced a ban on home isolations in the 18 districts where the positivity rate is higher than the state’s average, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) said that despite its positivity rate being low, the city has enough beds to isolate all Covid-19 patients, if required. The civic body claimed that 70% of its patients are institutionally quarantined and that it has enough beds for 100% institutional isolation of patients. NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar, said, “The city has enough beds to isolate all the patients if required. The government’s latest guidelines are for those areas where the positivity rate is not coming down. We are doing very well in that regard as our positivity rate is a very good 3%. Anything below 5% is good.” According to civic body data, there are 1,771 active patients in the city at present. Of these, 533 are under home quarantine, while 1,238 are in institutional quarantine. 859 patients are admitted to NMMC-run Covid care centres and hospitals, while 379 are admitted to private hospitals. The city has a total of 6,803 beds capacity including ICU, oxygen, general and beds with ventilators. With the daily Covid positive cases dropping to less than 100 in the past couple of days, just 2,183 of these are occupied, while 4,620 beds are available. For the third wave, NMMC is further planning to increase the isolation facility to 12,000 beds. These will include 1,500 ICU beds and 5,000 oxygen beds. Bangar, however, explained, “The more people we have in institutional quarantine, the more opportunity we will have to reduce the death ratio. Late reporting and delayed treatment are main reasons for an increase in the number of deaths.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/navi-mumbai-enough-beds-to-isolate-all-patients-if-required-says-nmmc-chief-101622055434108.html
27-05-2021||Other||Noida: Child PGI ramps up infra for patients||The Super Specialty paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute, better known as Child PGI and the only hospital for children in the district at the moment, is recruiting more medical staff and increasing beds“We are in the process of recruiting more senior residents and staff for the emergency ward. Every week interviews are being held on walk-in bases. The process will be completed in a fortnight. We currently have around 36 doctors, while 5-6 junior residents have come from Meerut and other districts in the paediatric department. Some consultants may be appointed from other hospitals as well,” said Dr. (Major) B P Singh, senior emergency medical officer (EMO) of Child PGI.Dr Akash Raj, medical director of Child PGI, said that the 50-bedded paediatric Covid ward will be increased to 100. “Out of these, 50 will be paediatric ICU [PICU] beds for Covid patients,” said Dr Raj. Currently there are 150 general PICU beds in Child PGI, the officials said.On a visit to the district on May 16, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced that all districts in the state will be equipped with adequate PICU beds.“The district health department is working to ensure at least 425 PICU beds and 20-30 additional neonatal ICU (NICU) so that we have over 450 PICU/NICU combined beds in the district,” said Dr Ohri.Dr (major) Rakesh Gupta, director of Government Institute of Medical Sciences, said, “Currently we have some 20 beds combined for neonatal and paediatric care which we will now increase to 100. Around 30 will be equipped with ventilators and other 20 will be with other oxygen support systems.” The hospitals are also planning on helping each other.“We will map all the paediatric beds in the district and mark them as level 1, 2 and 3 in increasing order of severity. In case patients have to be shifted from one hospital to another, we can ensure the transfer with this data. We can coordinate among ourselves and arrange medicines from one another,” said Gupta.He added that currently GIMS does not have any paediatric Covid patients. “Third wave is inevitable we expect it will come in October-November. We had relaxed after the first wave and were not as much prepared for the second wave as much we should have been. Now for any such wave in the future, we are preparing more than needed so that we are prepared for the worst,” he said.Meanwhile at Sharda Hospital too, a task force has been formed to increase medical facilities.“In our hospital, from oxygen to beds, NICU wards, ICUs, general wards etc. are being kept ready. We currently have six NICU and 14 PICU beds which will be increased to 20 each soon,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, Director, Sharda Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-child-pgi-ramps-up-infra-for-patients-101622054234864.html
