28-05-2021||Other||HC seeks response of Centre, Delhi govt on plea to vaccinate those below 18 yrs||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Friday sought the response of the Centre and the Delhi government on a plea seeking immediate vaccination of minors between 12-17 years.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Centre and Delhi government over the petition which has also sought that vaccination be prioritised for parents having children up to 17 years of age.There are two petitioners in the matter -- the first is a minor represented through her mother and the second is a mother of a minor child, Tia Gupta.The petition filed through advocate Abhinav Mukerji, has claimed that the number of Covid-19 cases has risen “tremendously” between April and May.“There are also reports of many children getting orphaned due to deaths of their parents,” the petition said, adding the vaccine policy in the country has failed to factor in children or parents of children and the Centre and Delhi government have also failed to prepare a plan to take care of minors affected by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-seeks-response-of-centre-delhi-govt-on-plea-to-vaccinate-those-below-18-yrs-101622225786664.html
28-05-2021||Other||20 more Ludhiana residents lose battle to contagion||The Covid-19 pandemic snuffed out 20 more lives in the district on Friday, pushing its toll to 1,965, even as the daily cases continued to remain on the lower side.With 416 people testing positive for the virus in the past 24 hours, the daily cases remained below the 500 mark for the fourth straight day.On the deaths’ front, the district has logged 20 fatalities as many as three times in the past six days.While the cases have been dwindling steadily ever since hitting the record high of 1,729 on May 9 – down by 76% in the 19 days since – the there hasn’t been a significant drop in the daily deaths, which have constantly remained in double digits.40-year-old woman youngest among Friday’s fatalitiesAmong Friday’s fatalities, that comprised 12 women and eight men, the youngest was a 40-year-old woman from Chaminda village, while the oldest was a 75-year-old man of Haibowal Kalan.For the first time in a month, there was no casualty in the 20 to 40 age bracket, but as many as seven deceased were aged between 40 and 50.Four were in their 50s and another seven in their 60s, while two who died were in their 70s.Active cases down to 5,829On the bright side, at 5,614, the number of active cases fell below the 6,000 mark for the first time since April 22, when 5,829 patients were under treatment. Currently, 49 patients are on ventilator support in various hospitals in the district.Of the 83,251 people found positive since the beginning of the pandemic, 75,672 have successfully beaten the virus, a recovery rate of 90.89%. On Thursday, the district’s recovery rate had crossed the 90% mark for the first time in almost a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/20-more-ludhiana-residents-lose-battle-to-contagion-101622225785459.html
28-05-2021||Other||Vaccination centres to be set up at Chhota Imambada, two Lucknow stadiums||Mega vaccination centres will be set up at the iconic Chhota Imambada, KD Singh Babu Stadium and the Bharat Ratna Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Cricket Stadium in Lucknow. The initiative is part of the district administration’s vaccination drive aimed at breaking the Covid 19 infection chain.The move comes as the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to launch an aggressive strategy to expand Covid vaccination coverage from June.As part of the strategy, the state health and family welfare department has decided to launch workplace Covid vaccination centres (WCVC), guardian special booths and drive through vaccination facilities.District magistrate Abhishek Prakash, along with health department officials, on Friday carried out an inspection and reviewed the preparations for the mega camps.“We are setting up three mega Covid 19 vaccination centres— Chhota Imambada, KD Singh Babu Stadium and Bharat Ratna Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Cricket Stadium — to cater to the people residing within the city limits,” said Prakash.The district administration is yet to announce the dates when the camps would become operational.Prakash said the administration had also made arrangements for buses that would ferry women, senior citizens and specially abled people free of cost to and from the camps.The mega camps, he said, would have all kinds of amenities, including drinking water facility and seating arrangements.The DM also said that the city vaccination drive would be followed by another vaccination drive of similar nature where mega vaccination centres would be established in the days to come. Prior to this, Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Jawad had suggested the transformation of the Imambadas into Covid-19 hospitals. The senior cleric had said that in Islam nothing was bigger than saving life and hence he felt that the transformation should take place in the national interest.He had also said that Imambadas could easily accommodate around 1,000 beds. His idea, however, failed to find favour with historians, who had said that there were non-heritage structures other than the more than 200-year-old Bada Imambada and other imambadas that could be used for the purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-centres-to-be-set-up-at-chhota-imambada-two-lucknow-stadiums-101622225484001.html
28-05-2021||Other||Corona curfew effect: Prayagraj airport sees sharp fall in flights, air passengers||The statewide partial corona curfew that has been in place for almost a month now has led to a sharp dip in the number of air passengers and flight operations at Prayagraj airport located in Bamrauli, said airport authorities. According to the data provided by officials of Airport Authority of India (AAI), till May 27 the airport has seen a decline of 17,000 passengers as compared to the April figures. In April, 31,230 passengers used the airport (including both arrivals and departures) whereas this number declined to 13,920 (till May 27). According to the data, Bamrauli airport catered to 17,038 passengers in the first fortnight of April 2021 of which 8,636 passengers were from the very first week. This was the period when corona cases were slowly picking up in the city. Likewise, the numbers of flights, that operated for different cities have also recorded a sharp fall. As many as 486 flights flew or landed in April 2021 here while in the present month just 284 flights have operated from this airport till May 27. Last month, there were around 16-18 flights operated on daily basis and on April 18, 23 and 25 there were 22 flights that were operated by the airport. As compared to this, on May 17 and 26, just 4 flights were operated from the airport as all the other flights were cancelled. “The flight service has been badly affected during the pandemic but at the same time the airport also witnessed a history in making when we started direct air connectivity with Dehradun,” said regional director of AAI, Achal Prakash. There is direct air connectivity for different cities of the country including Delhi, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Pune, Kolkata, Gorakhpur, Raipur, Indore, Bhopal, Dehradun, Bhubaneshwar etc from Prayagraj. The fall in numbers of passengers can also be noted by the fact that last month (till April 25) there were either more or close to 1000 passengers on a daily basis using the airport. On April 4, the airport catered to 1500 passengers, which is highest since April 1, 2021 till date, officials said. The pandemic affected the flights from Mumbai and Delhi the most, the officials said and added that the worst affected days, in terms of fall in number of air passengers, were May 1 (441), May 17 (260), May 19 (365) and May 26 (293). On May 27, a total of 503 passengers used the airport and 14 flights operated for 7 destinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/corona-curfew-effect-prayagraj-airport-sees-sharp-fall-in-flights-air-passengers-101622223563669.html
28-05-2021||Other||‘Haryana to distribute 8.6 lakh free tablets for online education’||Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal on Friday said the state government will distribute 8.6 lakh tablets for free to school students for online education.“Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has cleared our request to distribute these tablets to students of Class 8 to 12 as we are aware that those studying at government schools are economically weak and lag behind in this mode of education,” the minister said while addressing a press conference at his Jagadhri residence.He said Haryana is among top states that provided online education in a smooth way to students last year.“Online education was the only option left with us during lockdown last year, but we are in favour of continuing e-education in future,” Pal, an MLA from Yamunanagar’s Jagadhri seat, said.On raging apprehensions over Class 12 board exams, he said, “In a meeting with the Union government, we explained that the state is ready to conduct the exams by doubling exam centres at home schools. We are prepared for three-hour exam and those under isolation due to Covid-19 will be given another chance.”Pal spoke on “control of social media apps” through new IT Rules and said that there should be a command on these platforms as “absolute freedom of expression is not good for the society.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-to-distribute-8-6-lakh-free-tablets-for-online-education-101622219663923.html
28-05-2021||Other||Five more deaths of black fungus in Haryana||Two persons died of mucormycosis (black fungus) in Jhajjar; one succumbed at the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak; and two others died at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital in Karnal.Jhajjar is the worst-hit district in Haryana in terms of death rate as six of 12 black fungus patients have died so far. Jhajjar civil surgeon Dr Sanjay Dahiya said, “One of the patients from Jhajjar had hypertension and the other was overweight. We are trying to ascertain the cause of these deaths.” Dr Jagdish Dureja, director of KCGMCH, said 11 Covid patients who tested positive for black fungus have died in the hospital so far.Bahadurgarh private hospital authorities refused to share information about how many vials were required per day to the patients and how many they received.‘BLACK FUNGUS BIGGER CHALLENGE THAN COVID’PGIMS, Rohtak and Maharaja Agrasen Medical College, Agroha (MAMC) have witnessed a sharp rise in black fungus cases and decrease in Covid patients. PGIMS has total 153 Covid patients and 123 black fungus patients undergoing treatment, while MAMC has 104 Covid patients and 84 black fungus patients.Dr Geetika Duggal, director of MAMC, said black fungus patients are increasing gradually. They have been waiting for liposomal amphotericin-B injection.“We have not received a single dose of liposomal amphotericin-B injection today and the treatment is being affected. Doctors have performed surgeries today. Due to dedicated efforts of medical staff and availability of oxygen cylinders and medicines, we managed to save lives of Covid patients but black fungus is a bigger challenge now,” she said. “A black fungus patient, with an average weight of 70kg, needs 6-7 vials of amphotericin-B per day. I have sent the prescription before the expert committee and am hoping that we will get the vials by late evening so that our work won’t suffer,” she added.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said Covid patients are decreasing while black fungus cases are soaring.“Patients from across state are coming in and we cannot refuse them treatment. We performed successful surgeries of five black fungus patients today. Still, there is a shortage of drugs and patients are receiving less vials than prescribed,” she added.One of the state expert committee members, Dr RS Chauhan, head of ophthalmology at PGIMS, said there is shortage of drugs across country and Agroha Medical College will get its share of vials by Saturday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-more-deaths-of-black-fungus-in-haryana-101622219544201.html
28-05-2021||Other||Police announce cash reward for info on Tikri assault case accused||The Jhajjar police on Friday announced a cash reward of ₹25,000 each for providing information on the three absconders who were booked in connection with the rape of a 25-year-old woman from West Bengal, who had later died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh on April 30.Bahadurgarh DSP Pawan Sharma, who is heading the SIT, said they have issued arrest warrants and a cash reward of ₹25,000 each against three accused - Anil Malik of Delhi, Anup Chinaut of Hisar, and Ankush Sangwan of Charkhi Dadri.“During investigation, we interrogated 22 persons and it came to fore that Anil had assaulted the woman and Anup had supported him. Third accused Ankush did not appear before the SIT for interrogation and his interim bail plea was rejected by the court. We have issued arrest warrants and cash reward on them. We have sent notice to Jagdish Barad, who was among six persons booked in the case,” the DSP added.Police teams are searching the three accused in Haryana and Delhi. “The probe is moving in the right direction and we will arrest the accused soon,” he added.Earlier, the DSP had said that one of the accused, Yogita Suhag, had appeared before the SIT.“She had confessed that she along with others made a video of the victim in which she alleged that Anil had misbehaved with her when they were coming to Tikri from West Bengal in a train,” the DSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-announce-cash-reward-for-info-on-tikri-assault-case-accused-101622219363773.html
28-05-2021||Other||Kosi threatens embankment in Saharsa, restoration on||PATNAEngineers of water resources department (WRD) have launched restoration work on an embankment on Kosi near Kundah village of Saharsa district, which was partially damaged due to gushing current on Thursday. The heavy rain caused by cyclone Yaas in the catchment areas of the river, originating from Nepal, led to excess flow of water and subsequently damaged a portion of embankment which was recently strengthened near the village. Rajesh Kumar, engineer-in-chief (flood control) at the WRD, said, “Gunny bags fortified by wires and iron ropes are being placed at the damaged site and cracks are being filled up.” “All embankments are safe and anti-erosion work is going on in full swing. It will be complete in the next few weeks,” said the engineer in-chief. A senior official of WRD said special attention was being paid to strengthen the embankments of all troublesome rivers like Gandak, Kosi, Mahananda, Bagmati, Burhi Gandak, Lak Bakeya, etc, which wreak havoc with life and property of people in north Bihar. “Embankments on Gandak, which was breached at three places last year, have been fortified and heightened as per the required design to stop flooding,” he said. He said the WRD engineers got cooperation from their counterparts in Nepal to strengthen the embankments in bordering areas on different rivers. “Following correspondences and talks with officials of the neighbouring country, we did not face any issue to carry out the strengthening work this year. Last year, the work suffered after Nepal objected to fortification of embankments near the border,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kosi-threatens-embankment-in-saharsa-restoration-on-101622217323085.html
28-05-2021||Other||Teachers’ recruitment: No headway on govt plea to lift stay, next hearing on May 31||PATNAThe Patna High Court on Friday scheduled for Monday the next hearing on a petition seeking 4% quota for the physically challenged persons, including visually impaired, in the recruitment of teachers in the schools of Bihar. The court had earlier stayed the recruitment till further orders and the matter came for early hearing on Friday after a special mention by advocate genera (AG) Lalit Kishore on the request of education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary that the government would guarantee adherence to the reservation roster in letter and spirit. The division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar heard both the AG as well as the counsel for the petitioners, the National Federation of the Blind (Bihar branch).The AG said the panel for recruitment was ready and the court nod was awaited to publish it. “The government is ready to earmark 4% quota for the physically challenged, including the visually impaired. The government will also accept the second option of keeping 4% seats vacant till the final disposal of the case and it be allowed to carry on with the remaining 96% recruitment, if the court permits,” he said.However, the counsel for the petitioners countered it, saying many applicants had not been able to apply and so they be given fresh opportunity to apply. Besides, the counsel wanted details of the number of vacancies, steps taken to fill up the backlog and reason for non-implementation of reservation provisions for them.The petitioners have also been contending, citing an apex court order, that the state has not taken any action for identifying the vacancies from the year 1996 onwards or towards filling up the backlog thereof, as is mandated by provisions of the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995 as also the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.In 2019, the HC had sought personal affidavit from the chief secretary, indicating the extent of the vacancies, the backlog thereof, as a result of inaction on the part of the authorities, as also the steps taken for filling up the same and, more so, specific in terms of 1995 Act as also the 2016 Act and the reasons for inaction on the part of the state.Bihar has to appoint around 1.25 lakh primary and secondary school teachers, but the court stay has come in the way. The education minister had earlier said that the government was ready to go ahead with the new recruitment process for teachers fully enforcing the reservation roster formula if the court so allowed.With the tenure of the Panchayati Raj institutions (PRIs) ending mid-June and some interim measures likely to be put in place till fresh elections are held, the legal wrangle could further delay the recruitment process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teachers-recruitment-no-headway-on-govt-plea-to-lift-stay-next-hearing-on-may-31-101622217263632.html
28-05-2021||Other||Heavy rain lashes Bihar as Yaas enters state, NMCH waterlogged||PATNASeveral areas in capital Patna, including the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital which has been dedicated for Covid patients, remained waterlogged on Friday as extremely heavy rain lashed places in eastern parts of Bihar while heavy rain drenched most parts of the state as cyclone Yaas entered the state. As per the Patna Meteorological Centre, Manihari in Katihar received the highest rainfall (250 mm), followed by Kadwa (240 mm), Barari 230 mm, Purnea (210 mm) while Parsa and Katihar recorded 180 mm each over the past 24 hours.Gaya set its new rainfall record by registering 120 mm in 24 hours, from 8.30 am on Thursday to 8.30 am on Friday. Prior to this, Gaya’s single-day record was of 91.8 mm May 31, 2013.Patna recorded 92 mm of rainfall, very close to its record of 92.2mm on the same day as Gaya.Meteorologist SK Mandal said, “Cyclone Yaas has weakened into a well-marked low pressure area and is likely to lie over the state till Saturday. Due to change in wind direction, the cyclonic system might move towards north. As a result, northern parts of the state are expected to receive extremely or heavy rain at isolated places in the next 48 hours while rest of the parts are likely to experience light or moderate rain.”Meanwhile, the incessant rain flooded low-lying areas of the state, throwing life out of gear.In Patna, Kankarbagh, Moin-ul Haq stadium, Mithapur Bus stand, Rajendra Nagar, Nala Road, Patliputra Colony and pockets of Bailey Road were waterlogged for hours.Stormwater also gushed into several hospitals. Visuals of medicines floating in Jay Prabha Medanta Hospital went viral on the social media.In Gaya, Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital (ANMCH) had prepared 40-bed special ward for treatment of black fungus patients. However, rainwater gushed inside the premise including OPD and ENT ward.At Hajipur Sadar Hospital, patients were seen wading through knee-deep rainwater, which entered OPD, emergency ward and X-ray room.“It’s very difficult for both staff and patients. Rainwater is everywhere, be it the emergency room or operation theatre,” said Dr SK Verma, hospital superintendent.The second largest hospital in the state, the NMCH in Patna, which is dedicated for Covid-19 patients, remained waterlogged on Friday after heavy rainfall since Thursday evening. The road leading to the hospital was waterlogged too.The hospital administration shifted Covid patients from the medicine ward to paediatrics ward. Hospital superintendent Dr Vindo Kumar Singh said, “There is a normal situation. Our sump powers are working and have released the water. Water has not entered the wards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heavy-rain-lashes-bihar-as-yaas-enters-state-nmch-waterlogged-101622217263059.html
28-05-2021||Other||SHO removed for kicking physically challenged man||PATNAThe station house officer (SHO) of Dighwara police station in Bihar’s Saran district, who was caught on camera kicking a physically challenged man for violating the ongoing lockdown, was removed from his post on Friday. A video clip of the incident, took reportedly place at Sheetalpur Bazar on Thursday, had gone viral on social media. Saran’s superintendent of police (SP) Santosh Kumar, who ordered the removal of sub-inspector Dinesh Kumar Das from the post of the SHO, apologised for the officer’s behaviour. “We will ensure such incidents do not recur.” Earlier, in Patna’s Paliganj police station area, a probationer deputy SP, Rajeev Kumar Singh, had been accused of assaulting Vikash Kumar (22) and his father Bhushan Verma on Sunday morning. The matter came to light on Friday after alleged photos of their injuries surfaced. Patna senior SP Upendra Kumar Sharma said he was looking into the allegations and would seek a report from the officer concerned. In Purnia, an assistant sub-inspector was recently suspended by SP Dayashankar after a video went viral purportedly showing him thrashing a vehicle driver. To be sure, police too had been at the receiving end of people’s anger while enforcing the lockdown. A police team was attacked while trying to disperse a huge gathering during a marriage function at Malpur village under the Khusrupur police station area in rural Patna. In Siwan, a police team had to brave stone pelting while enforcing lockdown provisions during a marriage function at a village on Thursday evening.At Bakhri in Begusarai district, a group of people attacked the police for beating up a youth for violating the lockdown. Meanwhile, additional director general of police (headquarters), Jitendra Kumar, said, “The police in Bihar have arrested 764 persons, lodged 400 FIRs, seized 28,461 vehicles and realised ₹5.51 crore in fine from the people for violation of Covid-19 guidelines and lockdown between May 1 to 24.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sho-removed-for-kicking-physically-challenged-man-101622217203604.html
28-05-2021||Other||Covid deaths: IMA finds political support for aid to private docs||PATNADoctors working with political parties as office bearers have backed the demand of the Bihar chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to extend the insurance cover of ₹50 lakh under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to private doctors dying of Covid-19. Dr Sunil Kumar Singh, an ophthalmologist and state president of the ruling Janata Dal (United)’s medical cell, and gastroenterologist Dr Manoj Kumar, state convener of Bihar BJP medical cell, have written separately to their respective leaders, chief minister Nitish Kumar and health minister Mangal Pandey, in support of the demand. Dr Singh, in his letter to the chief minister, said the notification on compensation under PM Garib Kalyan Yojana was not averse to paying compensation to the families of doctors who worked in their clinics and helped in screening or treatment of Covid patients as per directions of the government. He urged the CM direct the health department to treat all Covid martyrs, including those from the private sector, “as drafted for work” by the government and to recommend compensation for their families under the insurance scheme. As per the Centre’s letter of April 26, a copy of which is with the Hindustan Times, the insurance scheme launched on March 30, 2020, was to provide comprehensive personal accident cover of ₹50 lakh to 22.12 lakh healthcare providers, including community health workers and private health workers drafted by the government for Covid-19 related responsibilities, “who may have to be in direct contact and care of Covid-19 patients and who may be at risk of being impacted by this”. The insurance policy has been revived for 180 days, effective April 24, and will now extend up to October 20. The IMA hopes to garner more political support. “We will tap doctors, who are MPs or former MPs, present and past legislators across the political spectrum to push our demand for compensation to private doctors,” said Dr Ajay Kumar, senior vice-president, IMA-Bihar, currently officiating as its president. Till Thursday, Bihar had lost 144 doctors to the pandemic. As many as 104 doctors from Bihar are among over 520 medical practitioners in India who have succumbed to the virus during the second wave of the pandemic. Forty doctors from Bihar died last year, Dr Kumar said. Delhi (103), Bihar (96) and Uttar Pradesh (41) were among states with high Covid-related fatalities among doctors, as per figures released by the IMA on May 25. “Of the deceased, 101 doctors are from the private sector, which includes those who resigned or superannuated from government service, while the remaining 43 were in active government service,” said Dr Kumar. Meanwhile, the IMA-Bihar also sought the CM’s intervention to lift curbs on supply of medical oxygen among non-Covid hospitals. It regretted that oxygen supply was restricted only among 90-odd private health facilities, allowed by the government to treat Covid-19 patients in Patna. It also requested the CM to allow more health facilities, having the requisite infrastructure, to treat Covid-19 patients. This, it said, would ease the burden on existing facilities and help patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-deaths-ima-finds-political-support-for-aid-to-private-docs-101622217203017.html
28-05-2021||Other||Two Covid patients end life in 24 hours||BETTIAH/PATNASuicide by two Covid patients in the state in last 24 hours, one at Raxaul and other at AIIMS-Patna, has brought the spotlight on the impact of virus on the mental health of patients. So far, five Covid patients have committed suicide, four of them at AIIMS-Patna, over the last one year. On Thursday, a Covid patient jumped off the third floor of a hospital at Raxaul in West Champaran district. According to officials, the incident occurred at Dunkan hospital at Raxaul around 8 pm on Thursday.The deceased was identified as Ram Sharan Sah (36). “He had been insisting for discharge from the hospital for the past few days. He took the extreme step immediately after his family members, who had come to deliver meal for him, returned home,” said Chandeshwar Singh, administrator, Dunkan hospital, Raxaul.The deceased had been under treatment at Dunkan hospital since May 20. “Autopsy on the body could not be done since he was a Covid patient,” said Sagar Jha, Raxaul’s subdivisional police officer. On Wednesday, a 57-year-old man under treatment for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna jumped off the fifth floor bathroom of the hospital. He was admitted to the hospital on May 18. This is fourth case of suicide by a patient at AIIMS-Patna since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. In October 2020, a 68-year-old Covid-19 patient had committed suicide at the hospital. Earlier, a 38-year-old locomotive driver of the Indian Railways, posted in Delhi, and hailing from Khagaul in Patna, died on June 22. A month later, a 21-year-old youth from Bihta jumped to death on July 25 from the ward on the third floor of the institute where he was undergoing treatment.Psychiatrists attribute aloofness and hopelessness among patients as major reason behind taking extreme steps. “The fear of death is quite common among the Covid patients. In some cases, the amount of time spent in an episode of depression, aloofness and hopelessness become so high that they could well be forced to end their life,” said Dr Subhash Soren, director of Ranchi Institute of Neuro-Psychiatry & Allied Sciences (RINPAS), Ranchi. “Proper counselling by the experts is the most effective way to handle such patients,” said Dr Doren.Advendra Prasad, a medicine shop owner who spent 25 days at a private hospital after being infected with Covid-19, recalled his ordeal. “All sorts of negative feelings affected me. This was compounded by the fact that as a patient I was on bed surrounded not only by Covid patients but among the bodies as they were not removed for hours. You are cut off from your family, near and dear ones and doctors are impolite at times,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-covid-patients-end-life-in-24-hours-101622217143052.html
28-05-2021||Other||7 oxygen plants in the works, Nuh readies for next Covid wave||Gurugram Seven oxygen plants will be set up in Nuh district in the next two months to ensure hospitals have adequate supply to take care of patients who are otherwise forced to travel to other districts and states for Covid-19 treatment. One plant has started operations while another is scheduled to begin generating oxygen from June 1, said officials on Thursday. Located 60 kilometres to the south of Gurugram, Nuh has reported 4,811 positive cases, with 132 patients in home isolation and 143 undergoing treatment in hospitals currently . Nuh deputy commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata said that oxygen plants of 1,000 litres per minute (LPM) and 500 LPM capacities are being set up in Nalhar Medical College and Mandikheda Hospital in collaboration with Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). While another oxygen plant has already been started by in Mandikheda, two others will be set up in community health centres (CHCs) in Tauru and Nuh. Two more plants will be set up in Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College in Nalhar with the help of Indian Institute of Technology ( IIT) Kanpur, using corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds under Mission Bharat O2 which aims to develop indigenous solutions for solving India’s oxygen crisis amid the deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. A senior official said that setting up a medical oxygen plant designed for a flow rate of 1,000 litres per minute (LPM) costs nearly ₹2 crore and a 500 LPM cost ₹1 crore. “The two plants coming up in CHCs in Tauru and Nuh, which will be readied through CSR, will have capacities of 500 LPM,” said Khadgata, adding that preparations to deal with the challenges ahead are underway so that they can reduce the dependence on oxygen from outside in the future. Khadgata said the seven plants, once operational, will cater to over 1,100 patients requiring oxygen beds. “We are now well prepared for a probable third wave. With these upcoming oxygen plants, we will be able to generate 3,650 LPM of oxygen in the district and will not be dependent on other sources,” he said.While the oxygen plants will be able to fill over than 500 cylinders per day, officials said these will be set up within the hospital premises to reduce the dependence on oxygen cylinders, as the plants will supply oxygen directly through pipeline to the beds. It will also help in reducing the time and cost involved in arranging the logistics of bringing oxygen from Palwal and Faridabad, said officials.Khadgata said the demand for medical oxygen went up by five times due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. “Installation of the in-house infrastructure by Covid facilities will go a long way in reducing the dependence on outside sources for medical oxygen, if a similar situation arises the in future,” he said. The central oxygen gas pipelines in Nalhar and Mandikhera are being laid by NHAI and the work is likely to get over by the end of this month, said officials. Khadgata said currently they have 279 oxygen beds in the district which will be increased to 1,300 by July end.”We have 196 oxygen beds in Nalhar medical college which will be increased to 450 with 80 ICU beds. Similarly, we have 35 oxygen beds in Mandekhera which will be increased to 100 with six ICUs. 100 oxygen beds will be ready in CHC Nuh and CHCTauru with 10 ICU beds,” he said. With 250 oxygen concentrators, portable beds are also available in the district, said officials. Presently 60% of patients admitted in Nuh are from Palwal and Alwar in Rajasthan due to lack of facilities in their areas. “Currently, Nuh’s positivity rate is 1.6%. In the past week, the cumulative rate was 1.74% , the lowest in the 22 districts of Haryana,” said Khadgata, adding that the district’s recovery rate (95.07%) and contact tracing (20%) is highest in the 22 districts. The fatality is also the lowest with only 95 deaths reported so far. Meanwhile, all suspected Covid cases are sent to village isolation centres for observation and further testing. Around 74,424 people above the age of 45 have been vaccinated so far. Khadgata said until Thursday, 261,804 samples have been collected out of which 253,691 people have tested negative. Results of 2,364 samples are awaited.Suresh Kumar, NHAI project director, said the two plants will be functional next month and together they will generate 1.5 ton of oxygen which will cater to 50 Covid patients. “With this the beds will be increased and nearby districts will benefit,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7-oxygen-plants-in-the-works-nuh-readies-for-next-covid-wave-101622211742536.html
28-05-2021||Other||CSIR-NCL principal scientist Prasad appointed director of CeNS||PUNE BLV Prasad, senior principal scientist from the Physical and Materials Chemistry (PMC) division of CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory (CSIR-NCL) Pune, has been chosen as director of the Centre for Nano and Soft Matter Sciences (CeNS), Bengaluru. CeNS is an autonomous research institute under the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India.Presently, Prasad is working as chairman of the CSIR-NCL division. He had his schooling and early education in Vijayawada, in Andhra Pradesh. He obtained a master’s in Science and PhD in Chemistry from Hyderabad Central University. After two post-doctoral stints, one at Tokyo Institute of Technology, Japan, and the second at the Kansas State University, United States, he joined CSIR-NCL in 2003. His department actively works in the general area of material synthesis and in particular nanoparticles and nanoscale materials. Prasad has been recognised with several awards that include the most recent Prof CNR Rao national prize for Chemical research, MRSI-ICSC Materials Science Annual Prize for 2020, a Young Career Award from the DST Nano Mission, a bronze medal from the Chemical Research Society of India in 2013, and the Raman Research Fellowship (CSIR) in 2012. He was admitted as a fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry (London) in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/csirncl-principal-scientist-prasad-appointed-director-of-cens-101622210962464.html
28-05-2021||Other||Nagaland extends lockdown till June 11||The Nagaland government on Friday announced it would extend the ongoing statewide total lockdown till June 11. The state’s high power committee decided to extend the lockdown on the basis of the health and family welfare department’s advisory, government spokesperson on Covid-19, MLA Mmhonlumo Kikon said .With 228 new cases reported on Thursday, the state’s total caseload now stands at 21,023 with 4,941 active cases and 326 deaths.Nagaland went into lockdown from May 14, restricting all activities except for essential services and movement of goods. Also Read | Lockdown norms to be relaxed partially in Delhi from MondayHowever, with an increase in Covid-19 cases and related deaths, the government activated strict community surveillance even in rural areas, while in urban areas like Kohima and Dimapur, different colonies are imposing stricter rules on the movement of people except for emergency services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nagaland-extends-lockdown-till-june-11-101622205322401.html
28-05-2021||Other||Cyclone Yaas: PM Modi announces ₹500 cr package for Odisha||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced financial assistance worth ₹500 crore to Odisha in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas. He said the Centre will deploy an inter-ministerial team to visit Odisha and West Bengal to assess the extent of damage, based on which further assistance will be granted.Odisha did not demand any immediate package from the Centre for undertaking relief and restoration works in the aftermath of cyclonic storm Yaas. The state, however, demanded assistance for a disaster resilience power system and protection from coastal storm surge.Ahead of PM Narendra Modi’s aerial survey of cyclone Yaas-affected districts of Balasore, Bhadrak and Kendrapara in Odisha, chief minister Naveen Patnaik, in a meeting with the PM at Bhubaneswar airport, said Odisha does not seek any immediate financial assistance from the Central government as the country is at the peak of the pandemic.“We would like to manage it through our own resources to tide over the crisis. However, we sought assistance for long term measures to make Odisha disaster resilient as we are frequented by such climate hazards every year. Odisha demands a disaster-resilient power infrastructure and resilient coastal protection with storm surge resilient embankments,” Patnaik said.PM Modi, who landed at Biju Patnaik International Airport in Bhubaneswar at 10.50 am, was received by Governor Ganeshi Lal and CM Patnaik, among others. Later, he held a review meeting at the airport with the Governor, Patnaik, DGP Abhay, chief secretary Suresh Mohapatra, Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Jena, Union petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Union minister of state for fisheries and MSME, Pratap Sarangi. After the meeting, the PM proceeded on the aerial survey of the worst-hit Balasore and Bhadrak districts.In June last year, the state government, during a visit of the inter-ministerial central team for damage assessment of cyclone Amphan, asked for a ₹20,000-crore package from the Centre for the creation of a disaster-resilient infrastructure in the state instead of spending a huge amount each year towards restoration and rehabilitation following disasters brought about by cyclones, among others.The state government wanted the Centre’s assistance for laying of underground cable in urban areas, resilient power transmission and distribution infrastructure in rural areas, building remote control GIS grid, raising the height of saline embankments to at least 6.5 metres above sea level and converting 1.66 lakh kaccha houses to cyclone resilient pucca houses.When cyclone Fani struck Odisha coast, it caused huge damage to the power infrastructures that left over 1 lakh km of 11-KV and low tension lines damaged while 2.18 lakh electric poles were damaged. Electricity could not be restored in Puri district for over a month. Fani caused damage worth at least ₹1,160 crore to Odisha’s power sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-yaas-odisha-seeks-long-term-assistance-for-disaster-resilient-power-system-101622199372296.html
28-05-2021||Other||Global Village Idiot: Why data matters... and why it does not... even when it should||I love data. And how can one not? There’s so much of it around and more being generated every second. With so much information available and more on its way, one would think decision making and action-taking would be so easy, so precise, and so always-right for everyone everywhere. That’s not how the world is working at the moment. Data is defined as factual information that can be used as a basis for reasoning, discussion, or calculation. Even when we have tonnes of data and analysis, and even when it is all very compelling, it does not seem to spur governments, societies, and people to act on the basis of it. Take Covid-19 data for instance. When I look at statistics available, I am thinking stay indoors for another two-three months, maybe the whole of 2021, and definitely not sending my children to school. Many of my friends are looking at the statistics and saying, “Just another week or two and we will finally be able to get out of the house!” Governments seem to be looking at stats and weighing when they want to ease restrictions. The USA, I believe, has looked at all the stats and already eased restrictions, to the extent that people don’t have to wear masks. The UK had a concert I believe. From where I am sitting, third, fourth, fifth waves are inevitable, because we are not learning how we are perpetuating the pandemic.Why the different interpretations? Because we are looking at different parts of the data. Some are looking at number of cases, or positivity or new cases or related rates, et al. I am looking only at number of deaths. Why? Because I have written more obituaries this last year than I have done in my entire 30-year career. That’s called “proximity” in design terms, a concept that was explained to me 17 years ago by a former colleague and design wizard, Reena Roy. You see, sometimes we act differently or don’t act on data, because the data has no immediate relevance to our daily actions. The classic example that comes to mind is what we see on TV news. I can’t remember the last time I saw something on TV news that was relevant to my daily life here in Pune. You know which media has proximity to me and my needs? The local newspaper and the local edition of this national newspaper. In English, and in Marathi. They have people who are from the location and have lived here half their lives, if not all of it.Then there is familiarity. The more we see information and terminology, the more comfortable we get with it and start believing we understand what it means. Familiarity brings comfort, which in turn facilitates a contempt for urgency. Eventually, it influences only our words and communication without us ever having analysed or understood what the information was conveying, or how it affects the world, because we conclude that it is important to others, but not us.The example I think of in this context is jobs data. Jobs data and emerging trends make sense only when one doesn’t have a job, or has been laid off, or is in danger of being laid off. Another key reason why data may not lead to action is the source. The first thing I do when I see a graph or data chart, is to look at who’s produced the report. Then I know who they represent, can guess what the purpose of the information is and make an educated guess on whether I need to look deeper or beyond the data. Data does not really change our underlying behaviour which comes from deep conditioning. We use information to make conversation, analyse, and socialise. But our default decisions and therefore, behaviour, does not change. Data is simply fodder to strengthen our convictions.When we do act upon data? What kind of data do we act upon? At the moment, I am in Dhayari, Sinhagad road. Which means I understand what water woes mean. One moment you have water, the next moment you don’t… for three days. When you have water, you may not have electricity. You know who has the correct level of proximity and data relevance in such situations? The society secretary, gram panchayat, and water supplier.People in Dhayari, especially the under-privileged and the old are struggling for vaccines. And the struggle is a little different in areas like this that are on the outskirts: you have to try for slots online half the day and stand in long lines with no social distancing in the scorching heat, just to be told there is no vaccine and to come back another day. Who has the right level proximity? Your family members and friends who take turns to try for online slots; the Mayor’s list of vaccination centres for the next day; the village sarpanch and grassroots-level politician who genuinely make an attempt to get actionable information; but above all, our maid who called at 6.30 am when she learned that her local village school was a centre - she couldn’t get her first dose, but she stood in the line so that our 70+ elders could get a token for their second dose.That’s data proximity, relevance, and support at its very best.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/global-village-idiot-why-data-matters-and-why-it-does-not-even-when-it-should-101622198832606.html
28-05-2021||Other||Bihar’s vegetable vendor is on a mission to arrest pandemic in his own way||Akhbar Ali, a vegetable hawker in Bihar’s West Champaran district, has taken to the distribution of masks and sanitiser among the poor and underprivileged in his bid to arrest the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. A resident of Dafalitoli area of Bagaha in West Champaran, Ali is on move for weeks now and has already distributed masks and sanitiser worth over ₹10,000. Ali was moved by an incident where he saw a poor family picking up masks littered at a place in Bagaha Bazaar.“The incident was the one which prompted me to stand for such people. The early it (pandemic) gets over, the better it is for all of us. One needs to stand for each other in this hour irrespective of one’s earning, “ he said.“Yaha gaarib aur majbooron ko free mask diya jata. (free masks are available for poor people here),“ read one sticker put up by Ali.Other read, “Samajik duri banaye rakhe. Mask ka upyog kare. (maintain social distancing and use masks).”Ali, whose primary mode of livelihood is by selling vegetables on carts in Bagaha every day, has his handcart laden with masks and sanitiser with stickers pasted all around. He plies it through the weary roads and by-lanes of Bagaha after 10 am. “He mainly gives the mask and sanitisers generously to the have nots. Those shelving the precautionary measures by not using masks are persuaded by him to follow the preventive protocol,” said Ashok Gupta, a Bagaha-based businessman.“He makes no compromise with his business. Till 10 am, he is a sabjiwala who ferries vegetables in the town,” said Gupta. Ali, however, is not dependent on any contribution to carry forward his social work. He purchases the masks from his savings and earnings that he makes by selling vegetables.“A couple of days back only he purchased masks and sanitiser in bulk from my shop to distribute them among the needy,” said Naveen Kumar, a Bagaha-based businessman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihars-vegetable-vendor-is-on-a-mission-to-arrest-pandemic-in-his-own-way-101622194992165.html
28-05-2021||Other||‘Lower mortality...’: Goa govt defends Ivermectin’s efficacy against Covid-19||In defence of its decision to administer Ivermectin, an anti-parasitic medicine for the use as prophylaxis, to Covid-19 patients, the Goa government, in a statement, has claimed that the mortality rate is much lower in patients who take the medicine than those who don’t. In a statement filed before the Bombay High Court at Goa, which had asked the Goa government to explain its stand on Covid-19, the government referred to reports which said that the advice of the World Health Organization to not experiment with Ivermectin, as its efficacy is yet to be proved, is “flawed”. “Various studies conducted in different countries have shown that the medicine has a positive effect on prevention and treatment/cure of patients. I say that the studies and reports are available on the website ivmmeta.com... There are some reports which have found that the analysis by WHO on this medicine is flawed and that the mortality rate is actually much lower if the said medicine is used for early treatment as well as prophylaxis,” Goa joint secretary, health, Vikas Gaunekar said in a statement before the Court. Gaunekar said that the Goa government decided to hand out Ivermectin tablets as prophylaxis on the advice of its expert committee. “This aspect was discussed by the State Expert Committee for Covid in the meeting held on May 13 under the chairmanship of the health minister [and] also comprising different expert doctors from government and private institutions. I say that after deliberations, it was recommended to use the said medicine once daily for five days to the population over 18 years. However, pregnant/lactating women, as well as those persons with allergy and those having liver/kidney are advised to consult a doctor before taking the medicine,” he added. The Goa government has decided to administer Ivermectin to all those above the age of 18 with the advice that it should be taken every day for five days as a preventive measure and to prevent severe symptoms in case one contracts the disease. The decision, however, has been met with bemusement. “Patients will be treated with Ivermectin 12mg for a period of 5 days. Expert panels from the UK, Italy, Spain and Japan, found a large, statistically significant reduction in mortality, time to recovery and viral clearance in Covid-19 patients treated with Ivermectin,” Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane said when announcing his decision earlier this month.The World Health Organization (WHO), however, has advised against the use of Ivermectin among the general population.“Safety and efficacy are important when using any drug for a new indication. @WHO recommends against the use of Ivermectin for #COVID19 except within clinical trials,” chief scientist, WHO, Soumya Swaminathan said in a tweet on Tuesday.Merck, a company that manufacturers Ivermectin have also advised against its use in Covid-19 situations.“Company scientists continue to carefully examine the findings of all available and emerging studies of Ivermectin for the treatment of Covid-19 for evidence of efficacy and safety. It is important to note that, to-date, our analysis has identified: No scientific basis for a potential therapeutic effect against Covid-19 from pre-clinical studies; No meaningful evidence for clinical activity or clinical efficacy in patients with Covid-19 disease, and; A concerning lack of safety data in the majority of studies,” the company said in a statement earlier this year.Goa’s opposition political parties have now questioned the government calling for “evidence” that the drug works.“The World Health Organisation has advised that Ivermectin only be used to treat Covid-19 within clinical trials. This information is available on the official website of WHO. Now, the question comes who authorised the health minister to decide on this prophylaxis treatment? The BJP government must explain to the people of Goa,” state Congress president Girish Chodankar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lower-mortality-goa-govt-defends-ivermectin-s-efficacy-against-covid19-101622188817860.html
28-05-2021||Other||Odisha groom dies of Covid-19 on day of his marriage||A young man in the western Odisha district of Bargarh succumbed to Covid-19 the day he was supposed to get married, officials said.“He was an amiable person. He was supposed to get married on May 25 but Covid took him away from us,” said a relative of the deceased groom.Jibardhan Bhoi, in his twenties, was supposed to get married on May 25. Hailing from Attabira in Bargarh district, Bhoi worked in a child care institution in Sambalpur district as a manager.However, on May 17, a day before he was supposed to come home for marriage, he tested positive for Covid-19 and had to be admitted to a Covid hospital in Sambalpur town. He succumbed to the infection on May 25, the day of his marriage.A pall of gloom descended over the small town of Attabira after Bhoi’s death.Early this month, a 26-year-old man in Kendrapara died of Covid-19 just 5 days after he got married. Sanjay Kumar Nayak, a native of Durgadevipada village in coastal Kendrapara district, got married on May 10 after returning from Bengaluru. However, he developed flu-like symptoms and tested positive for Covid-19 on May 13.Initially, he was in home isolation but after his condition worsened, he was admitted to a private hospital in Bhubaneswar where he succumbed to the infection on May 15.In May this year, at least 550 people in Odisha died of Covid-19, the highest since Covid-19 infections were reported in the state last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-groom-dies-of-covid-19-on-day-of-his-marriage-101622184430913.html
28-05-2021||Other||As cyclone Yaas raged, pregnant woman in Odisha carried on charpoy to hospital||As cyclone Yaas lashed Odisha coast with a wind speed of 130-140 km per hour on Wednesday morning, a 25-year-old pregnant woman of Balasore district had to be carried on a charpoy to a hospital by her family members, officials said.Sonali Nath, 25, was at her parent’s house in Balabhadrapur village of Soro block of Balasore district for her childbirth scheduled on June 17. Little did she anticipate that she would go into labour moments before the cyclone hit the Balasore coast with all its ferocity.Minutes after cyclone Yaas touched down on the coast near Bahanaga, less than 10 km from her village, Sonali went into labour and delivered a baby boy, her first child. But instead of breaking into celebration, her 68-year-old father Sambhu, became worried as the placenta did not drop from the womb.The troubles were about to begin for the family.“My daughter was howling in pain and I could do nothing. So we kept on calling an ambulance to carry her to the nearest public health centre (PHC) at Anantpur, but no ambulance came. Feeling helpless, we went to the local ASHA worker but she also refused to help as her name was registered with the ASHA of her in-law’s place. As it was getting critical, I went to the local PHC for help. When I asked for some medicines, I was told that if anything happened the PHC people would not be responsible,” said Sambhu, a Nath yogi.Finding no other way, Sambhu then decided to put her daughter and her newborn on a charpoy and carry them on shoulders after wrapping in a plastic sheet. “it was raining hard and the wind made it very difficult even to go out but we had no other option,” said Sambhu.But the walk from Balabhadrapur to the PHC was anything but easy. The 3 km stretch from Balabhadrapur and the nearest concrete road at Chakapada has been mud slicked for years. What made things worse was breaches on road by locals to drain out floodwaters from the village.“While praying to Lord Jagannath, my family and I tiptoed through the muddy roads that had already become slippery due to heavy rain. On normal days, it is difficult to walk on that road, forget walking with a pregnant woman. A wrong foot in that muddy road could have resulted in a disaster. After walking for about 10 km to the pucca road, we saw an autorickshaw. I begged him to take us to the community health centre at Soro, another 2 km away,” he said.Villagers said the Balabhadrapur-Chakapada road is yet to be made concrete despite several requests to the local administration. “The road has been like that from the days of my grandfather. No ambulance can come to our village because of the kutcha road,” said Lipshita Panda, a resident of Balabhadrapur.After reaching the Community Health Centre (CHC) at Soro, the doctor there helped in getting the placenta out and severed the umbilical cord. The baby and the mother came back home on Thursday and are doing well.Odisha health department officials said more than 750 babies were born in the state before and during the landfall of cyclone Yaas on Wednesday. Several of these children were born on Tuesday night when the cyclonic storm was approaching the country’s eastern coast, while others saw the light of the world around the time when ‘Yaas’ made its landfall near Bahanaga, 50 km south of Balasore district.Many of the kids were named Yaas by their parents after the cyclone.The state government had earlier said that as many as 4,555 pregnant women had been evacuated to various hospitals ahead of the cyclone.In the worst-affected Balasore district, 165 births - 79 male and 86 females - were registered in different health institutions amid the cyclone while 60 children were born in Bhadrak district. Mayurbhanj, which also experienced high-speed wind and extremely heavy rainfall, recorded 66 births.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-cyclone-yaas-raged-pregnant-woman-in-odisha-carried-on-charpoy-to-hospital-101622176691129.html
28-05-2021||Other||Infections on a steady decline in Ludhiana but high fatality count still a worry||With 411 new cases surfacing in the last 24 hours, Ludhiana’s Covid graph continued on the downward trend on Thursday even as the high fatality count of 17 continued to be a source of worry.The recovery rate, however, crossed 90% after almost a month and settled at 90.18 %.On Wednesday, with 461 cases, the district’s daily count had dipped below the 500-mark for the first time in over a month. The number of daily cases has been steadily falling since May 16 after a fortnight of spiraling daily positive cases.The number of active cases also continued to remain below 7,000 for the second consecutive day as the count settled at 6,189 on Thursday evening.Since the outbreak in March last year, the district has logged a total of 82,835 cases and 1,945 deaths.Of the 17 who succumbed to the virus on Thursday, 10 are males while seven are females.The youngest to die is a 22-year-old woman from Ambedkar Nagar while the oldest is a 72-year-old male resident of Rajpur Road. Seven of these casualties were in their 50s while three each were in their 60s and 70s and another three were in their 40s. The district currently has 52 patients on ventilator support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/infections-on-a-steady-decline-in-ludhiana-but-high-fatality-count-still-a-worry-101622146143252.html
28-05-2021||Other||Amid pandemic, 33 Ludhiana hospitals sitting on tinder box||Already bursting at the seams with Covid patients amid the second wave of infections, 33 private hospitals in Ludhiana are sitting on a powder keg in the absence of proper fire-safety arrangements, an MC audit revealed.The municipal corporation (MC) team found glaring anomalies, including the absence of smoke and fire detection systems, lack of proper water storage capacity and installation of water pipes across the building, which may prove fatal in the event of a fire emergency.The team had carried out audits at 39 major hospitals in the city on the directions of deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma. The hospitals were checked for compliance of various safety norms, such as availability of proper ventilation, fire exit, fire-fighting equipment etc.While six hospitals --Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Christian Medical College and Hospital, Mohan Dai Oswal Hospital, SPS Hospital and Pancham hospital -- were found to be complying with the norms, the rest were found with certain shortcomings following which the fire department issued compliance notices to these.Fire station officer Jaswinder Singh said, “Many of these hospitals had put in place some fire safety arrangements but those were not in keeping with the norms listed in the national building code. After inspections, the fire department issued notices to erring hospitals. The managements of these hospitals, in their reply, have assured us that the required fire-safety arrangements will be made in a week or so.”A fire official, requesting anonymity, said the civil hospital and other government hospitals in the city also have glaring anomalies with regards to fire safety but authorities are turning a blind eye to the issue.MC joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh said that after serving notices, a reminder was also sent to the hospitals on May 22 to comply with the fire safety norms. The report regarding the fire audit has also been forwarded to the DC office. Further action will be initiated as per the directions from DC office.As per officials, the state government had ordered the audit after fire incidents were reported in Covid hospitals of Gujarat, Maharashtra and other states recently. Several patients had also lost their lives in these tragedies. Principal secretary of local bodies department AK Sinha also reviewed the ongoing process on Tuesday. Hospitals take corrective stepsAfter the civic body issued notices, the managements of different hospitals jumped into action for taking corrective steps. Shree Raghunath Hospital society secretary Rajneesh Jain said the fire officials highlighted some issues related to installation of fire-fighting pipes in the hospital. A new vendor has been appointed by the hospital management for repairs and installation of pipes and work has already started, he said.Similarly, Dr Baldeep Singh of Deep Hospital said, “Proper arrangements have been done in the hospital. During the inspection, the fire brigade officials had highlighted a few points regarding fire safety and corrective steps were taken on the same day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-pandemic-33-ludhiana-hospitals-sitting-on-tinder-box-101622145844412.html
28-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana village deters tenants from cremating bodies in village sans permission||A row erupted in Sahnewal Khurd village after the panchayat deterred tenants from cremating the bodies of their kin within the village limits without taking prior permission. A hoarding conveying the diktat has also been installed near the cremation ground here.The matter came to light when Karnail Singh, 58, a resident of Sahni village, had taken his wife’s body to the common cremation ground in Sahnewal Khurd on May 13 for her last rites. The village panchayat denied him permission to go ahead with the cremation following which the body was taken to Sahnewal in a tractor trailer.The panchayat, meanwhile, justified the diktat, stating that the decision was taken with a view to deter crime incidents. They claimed that allowing cremations without a check will encourage anti-social elements, who may try to cremate the bodies of their kin, friends or victims after murder incidents here.They also said that in some cases it was observed that proper procedure was not followed in cremation rituals carried out by tenants.Rajinder Singh, husband of Sarpanch Jasbir Kaur, said the panchayat has taken the decision as they found that some don’t follow the rituals. The tenants can cremate the bodies of their dead family members after their landlord takes the responsibility, he said.When contacted, Sahnewal station house officer sub-inspector Balwinder Singh said the panchayat has taken the decision unanimously and asked people to cremate the bodies only after informing the panchayat. “Some villagers have opposed the decision but we are trying to resolve the matter,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-village-deters-tenants-from-cremating-bodies-in-village-sans-permission-101622144822920.html
28-05-2021||Other||Punjab expands 18-45 age group vaccination priority list||Amid a shortage of Covid vaccine, the Punjab government on Thursday expanded the inoculation priority list for the 18-45 age group. It will be effective from June 1, a government statement said.The new priority list includes those from the hospitality sector, shopkeepers and their staff, industrial workers, street vendors, delivery boys, bus and cab drivers, conductors and members of local bodies.Chief minister capt Amarinder Singh, who chaired a coronavirus review meeting, said as of date, 4.3 lakh individuals in the existing vaccination priority list of construction labour, co-morbid individuals and families of healthcare workers in this age group had been vaccinated. He said besides shopkeepers and their staff members, as well as industrial workers, the expanded priority list will include staff working in hotels, restaurants, marriage palaces, caterers, including cooks, bearers etc. In addition to rehriwalas, other street vendors will also become eligible, especially those serving food items - juice, chat, fruit, as well as delivery boys, LPG distribution boys. Bus drivers, conductors, auto/ cab drivers, mayors, councilors, sarpanches and panches will also be covered in this phase of 18-45 age group vaccination. Punjab receives 1.14 lakh Covaxin doses The Punjab government on Thursday evening received fresh supply of 1.14 lakh doses of Covaxin directly from BharatBiotech for the 18-45 age group. This is the first paid supply of Covaxin to Punjab. With this, the inoculation drive for 18-plus is expected to start from Friday again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-expands-18-45-age-group-vaccination-priority-list-101622144403200.html
28-05-2021||Other||Trainer aircraft makes emergency landing on Yamuna e-way; both pilots safe||A two-seater trainer aircraft made an emergency landing on Yamuna Expressway at 12.30 noon on Thursday following a technical glitch. Both the instructor and trainee pilot were safe, police said.“The plane belonging to a private firm was moving from Narnaul in Haryana to Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh when it developed some snag and had to make an emergency landing on the expressway within limits of Naujheel police station of Mathura district,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mathura Dr Gaurav Grover. Incharge of Naujheel police station, Lokesh Bhati, said assistance teams from Aligarh and Delhi have arrived to fix the problem.He added that the aircraft was parked on one side of expressway in a way that there was no hassle for regular traffic movement.Earlier in 2015, the Indian Air Force (IAF) had successfully test landed a Mirage-2000 on the Yamuna Expressway near Mathura as part of its trials to use national highways and civil airstrips for emergency landing by its fighter jets in future.The 165-Km long expressway connects Agra with Noida and passes through districts of Mathura and Aligarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/trainer-aircraft-makes-emergency-landing-on-yamuna-e-way-both-pilots-safe-101622143381559.html
28-05-2021||Other||Maharashtra lifts ban on liquor sale in Chandrapur district||The Maharashtra government decided to lift the ban on liquor sale in Chandrapur district. The decision to lift the ban – imposed by the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in 2015 – was taken in the state cabinet meeting held on Thursday.The government said that the decision was taken after the Amarnath Jha committee’s report, submitted on March 9, found that the ban had failed owing to the illicit sale of country-made and duplicate liquor in the district, which are dangerous to health. “The committee also found that the crime rate had increased in the district to 40,381 between 2015 and 2019 from the 16,132 cases recorded between 2010 and 2014,” stated a press release issued by the chief minister office.The committee was formed after the issue of illicit sale of liquor was raised in the state Assembly in July 2018. The then excise minister had assured to constitute a committee to give recommendations to the state government on the issue. Vijay Wadettiwar, state relief and rehabilitation minister and guardian minister of Chandrapur district, said, “The cabinet has decided to lift the ban considering its [the ban’s] adverse effects. The decision was taken after talking to all the stakeholders and following the recommendations of the committee.”Former finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar and BJP legislator from Ballarpur Assembly constituency in Chandrapur, said that the state government has accepted its failure to curb illegal activities. “The government has cited the rise in the crime rate as its reason. If the state cannot stop the sale of illicit liquor and the related crimes, then how come they stop illegal dance bars, sand mafia, Maoists and terror activities,” said Mungantiwar.The demand for banning liquor in Chandrapur was made in late 2010. Of the 847 gram panchayats in Chandrapur, 588 had demanded prohibition. Around 5,000 working women went on a 130km-long march from Chimur to Nagpur during the winter session in 2010 demanding the ban on alcohol. Following this, a committee was set up, which recommended the ban in the interest of health of the residents of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-lifts-ban-on-liquor-sale-in-chandrapur-district-101622142901381.html
28-05-2021||Other||Maharashtra cabinet clears ₹252-crore relief package for Cyclone Tauktae-hit districts||The Maharashtra cabinet on Thursday cleared a proposal to hike the compensation for those who suffered losses owing to Cyclone Tauktae, which had hit the coastal districts of the state last week. The cabinet cleared a relief package of ₹252 crore to compensate people for their agriculture losses, damages to residential structures, loss of livestock as well as to provide ex-gratia to the families of the victims.Had the compensation been given as per the set National Disaster Response Fund, it would have amounted to ₹72 crore. “The compensation for horticultural losses has been hiked to ₹50,000 per hectare, from the existing ₹18,000 and for the partial loss of residential structure from ₹6,000 to ₹15,000- ₹50,000 (depending on the losses). The complete loss of house will be compensated with ₹1.50 lakh against the existing ₹95,100. The financial aid for loss of utensils and clothing has been hiked by double to ₹5,000. Similarly, compensation for losses of coconut and betel nut trees has been hiked to ₹250 and ₹50 per tree, respectively. The ex-gratia for the loss of lives has been increased to ₹5 lakh,” a statement issued by the chief minister’s office (CMO) said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had early this week announced compensation similar to the one given after Cyclone Nisarga last year. Cyclone Tauktae has caused losses in about 10 districts, including seven in Konkan, and claimed 20 lives. It has damaged horticulture and crops on more than 16,000 hectares, and destroyed thousands of houses and government buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-cabinet-clears-252-crore-relief-package-for-cyclone-tauktae-hit-districts-101622142841331.html
28-05-2021||Other||467K patients with Covid-19, respiratory infections screened for TB in Maharashtra||As tuberculosis (TB) and Covid-19 share similar symptoms, the state health department between October 2020 and April 2021 screened as many as 467,032 patients with novel coronavirus, influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) for TB. Of these, 5,264 patients were diagnosed with TB, and 96% of them were put on treatment.During the same period, 58,554 TB patients were tested for Covid-19, of which 571 (1%) of were diagnosed with Covid-19. As per the World Health Organization (WHO), TB and Covid-19 are both infectious diseases that primarily attack the lungs and have similar symptoms such as cough, fever and difficulty in breathing.Last October, the central health department issued guidelines on ‘Bi-directional TB-Covid-19 screening and screening of TB among ILI and SARI cases’. Following this, all hospitals were instructed to test symptomatic patients with ILI, SARI and Covid-19 for TB. “Since the beginning of the pandemic, the number of TB cases has gone down. In order to overrule any possibility of misdiagnosis or underreporting of TB cases, the Central government gave the instruction. If any patient goes unreported, they can spread the bacteria to many others,” said Dr Shilpa Jichkar, TB officer, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC).According to the guidelines issued by the Centre, Covid-19 patients are instructed to be tested for TB if they have some specific symptoms — cough and persistent fever for more than two weeks, significant weight loss and night sweats. Other than running sputum tests, hospitals can conduct X-rays and cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT).“Most of these co-infection cases have been identified in new TB patients. They approached hospitals considering they have Covid-19. But when their CT scan report showed different forms of clouding in lungs, their sputum culture confirmed that they were also carrying the bacteria of TB,” said Dr Lalit Anande, a TB specialist. Both these infections affect people with lower immunity,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/467k-patients-with-covid-19-respiratory-infections-screened-for-tb-in-maharashtra-101622142781279.html
28-05-2021||Other||41% fewer TB cases reported in April in Maharashtra amid second Covid-19 wave||The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has once again hit tuberculosis (TB) treatment in the state. Data from the state health department shows that TB cases plunged by 41% in April as compared to those recorded in January. Health activists said that amid the pandemic, many cases remain undiagnosed or are not treated or appropriately notified on diagnosis.TB is an infection caused by a bacterium called Mycobacterium Tuberculosis and spreads through air to another person when an infected person coughs, sneezes or laughs. In January, with the flattening of the pandemic curve, the number of TB notifications stood at 16,969. But with the start of the second wave in mid-February, the cases started to dive gradually. The total notification decreased to 15,610 in February, which further dropped to 15,436 in March. In April, when the state was clocking a daily surge in Covid-19 cases, individuals diagnosed with TB dropped to 10,036.“We are aware of the sizeable drop in the notification of TB cases. We have tied up with Asha (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers who are reaching out to patients in rural parts of the state. We have also engaged with private set ups to follow-up on patients. This has helped reduce the dropout rate of patients compared to last year,” said Dr Archana Patil, director, Directorate of Health Services. The decline in cases is seen at the out-patient department (OPD) of civic and government-run hospitals. “TB patients with compromised lungs are the most susceptible to Covid-19 infection. In April, as the city started recording over 8,000 cases daily, many decided to stay indoors and delayed their follow-ups. A similar trend was observed last year,” Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, dean, JJ Hospital said, adding, “In fact, many preferred going to nearby private hospitals for diagnosis or check-ups.”However, data shows that registration of TB cases at private health establishments has also declined between January and April. In January, 9,797 cases were recorded at private hospitals, which dropped to 9,110 in February, and then to 8,596 in March and 5,346 in April. “As compared to last year, we are witnessing a fall in the number of TB cases. I believe that the second wave of the pandemic has overshadowed the diagnosis this year,” said Dr Behram Pardiwala, head of medicine department and director of academics, Wockhardt Hospital, Mumbai Central.Many health activists fear that this trend would have a ripple effect on diagnosis in Maharashtra, which constitutes almost 9% of the total drug-sensitive TB patients in the country. In fact, as per data shared by the state health department, Maharashtra recorded 19% of the total MDR-TB cases in India in 2020.“TB is the biggest killer in the state, especially in Mumbai which has over 20 million population. While the situation was worst between May and July during the national lockdown last year, the numbers increased after easing of restrictions. But the second wave has slowed down the diagnosis once again,” said TB activist Ganesh Acharya. Before the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020, the state used to record around 20,000 cases on an average every month. But thereafter in April, the notification dropped from 15,759 to 8,915 in the state. In May, it increased to 9,164, and then to 10,914 in the following month. In July, it dropped to 10,583, which plunged further to 9,531 the next month. However, since September 2020, with the relaxation of the lockdown, the number of notifications of TB patients started increasing gradually. In September, 11,538 cases were recorded, which rose to 13,095 in October, 13,322 in November and 20,212 in December.Despite the gradual surge in the registration of cases, the overall registration of TB cases has fallen by 29.5% in 2020 as compared to 2019, when a total of 227,000 cases were recorded. In 2020, 160,000 cases were recorded, which is the lowest in the past four years. (See box). In 2021, till April, only 59,000 cases have been recorded. “The most major side-effect of the pandemic was that people avoided visiting hospitals even when they needed to. We are seeing several patients with advanced diseases because they refrained from the necessary diagnostic evaluation,” said Dr Harshad Limaye, senior consultant, Internal Medicine at Nanavati Hospital.However, state TB officer Dr Adkekar said that Maharashtra would soon be able to revive the anti-TB programme to pre-Covid-19 levels and achieve the goal of a TB-free Maharashtra by 2025.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/41-fewer-tb-cases-reported-in-april-in-maharashtra-amid-second-covid-19-wave-101622142661342.html
28-05-2021||Other||Barge P305 SAR op on Mumbai High was toughest in recent times, say Navy teams||On May 17, the Indian Navy received a distress call from ONGC’s (Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited) barge P305, which informed that its moorings had snapped under the intense weather conditions created by Cyclone Tauktae, and that it was adrift in the Arabian Sea with 261 crew members on board. The navy was quick to respond to the distress call and launched INS Kochi, a Kolkata-class guided missile destroyer, to conduct search and rescue (SAR) operations at Bombay High.But it was not long before the Navy received another distress call from another barge, Gal Constructor, which too saw its moorings break, leaving it adrift in the sea. The Navy moved INS Kolkata to respond to the situation.By the time INS Kochi reached the vicinity of P305, it was clear that the barge was taken by the water. The barge, which was being tossed and turned by the strong currents in the Arabian Sea, had hit a close-by rig which that punctured its hull. With the wind speed exceeding 110 kilometres per hour and the drift of the ocean moving towards the north, the barge was being carried further away from the oil fields, with INS Kochi monitoring the situation closely. By sunset, the barge was beginning to sink, and as the night had set in, the barge sank at 7pm. But INS Kochi had moved in close enough to carry out the SAR operation.“The warship’s speed is usually from 25-30 nautical miles per hour, but due to the stormy conditions, she was sailing at around 5-10 nautical miles per hour and for some distance, the speed went up to 15-18 nautical miles. We took more than five hours to reach near the site. We saw many survivors floating in the water in life jackets, but the wind was around 150km per hour and the height of the waves was around 10m. In this situation, controlling the ship at one place, sending divers, using scramble nets to pull out people from waves in zero visibility were very difficult or impossible,” said lieutenant commander Siddharth Chauhan, who was a part of the SAR team on INS Kochi.“So, the situation was assessed looking at the water current and wind direction, and teams were prepared accordingly with senior and junior officers and divers. The operation started at 8pm on May 17. We were using high-intensity searchlight, flares and LRAD speaker for announcement – which has a range of 1km – to find the survivors as they were drifting around 6 nautical miles per hour due to high waves and wind towards north, from the site where they jumped from the barge,” added lieutenant commander Chauhan.Accordingly, the ship captain, with the proper coordination with bridge crew members and saving teams on the deck, moved towards survivors and started rescuing them after maintaining the ship at a place. Within two-three hours, 36 people who were drifting around 10-12 nautical miles were first rescued. The scramble net was thrown into the sea and survivors were asked to hold the net. There was a group of 10 to 12 crew members standing on deck holding net ropes. Once one group of five to 10 people held the net, they pulled it up to the deck.Another group of 10-12 survivors were found about 30 nautical miles away from the barge at 2am on May 18. “After rescuing them, we increased our operation area and observed the wave and a third group of 40-43 people were found around 40 nautical miles away. They were picked up on the net in small groups and few were rescued by divers. We managed to rescue a total 124 people on INS Kochi till noon,” said lieutenant commander Akhilesh Sharma who was also on INS Kochi.The sea status was observed and checks and balances were made at every location where ships were operating and divers were rescuing people. “During SAR, first we have to ensure that there is no damage from our side. A team noted down the details of the survivors so that messages could be delivered to the people concerned. After rescuing them, we got a satisfaction that kept motivating us during the SAR operation, and none of us realised about the sea sickness developed due to the continuous work,” said lieutenant commander Sharma. The rescued people were in trauma, some of them suffered from moderate hypothermia and few had minor injuries. “Few also started to cry after reaching on the deck but were counselled by the other teams who were working with us with medical equipment, stretcher, clothes and food,” added lieutenant commander Chauhan. Master chief petty officer (MCPO) Mahavir Prasad, who was a seamanship instructor on INS Kolkata, said, “The waves were landing on the deck and due to high wind we could not dare to stand on it. There was zero visibility. First, our ship went to save the members of barge Gal Constructor which was carrying 137 people on board and was around about 48 nautical miles north of Colaba point. But there were an emergency towing vessel Water Lily, two support vessels and CGS Samrat in the vicinity for assistance and evacuation of the crew. So our ship was diverted for SAR P305. While we were on the way, we saw two people on a life raft. We picked them up a little before sunset and they informed us that they were on a tug boat named Varaprada. We reached late at night to the site where P305 had sunk but could not start the rescue operation due to darkness and the rough sea. The next day on May 18, we found five survivors till noon.” The survivors said that they did not have the strength even to hold a net as they were in the water for more than 12 hours. Six divers were inside the water who recovered nine dead bodies. “Sometimes, the bodies drift away with waves and we again put efforts to catch them and tie them with a rope so that another team could pull them up on deck,” said Anil Singh, a marine commando who was on INS Kolkata.There were around 60 divers working on both the ships INS Kolkata and INS Kochi. “This is the first time that we had rescued people and recovered bodies in such extreme weather conditions. It was horrific. People were lying on the sea in life jackets. We swam towards life jackets hoping that they might be alive but weren’t raising hands as they would have been tired. But after reaching there, we found them dead,” said another diver, Amit. HelicoptersSeaking 42 Bravo helicopter left from INS Shikra for the SAR operation early on May 18. Soon after, another helicopter – Seaking 42 Charlie – also flew to rescue the 137 members on board Gal Constructor. “Two pilots and two divers were in the team when we flew for Gal Constructor. The wind was more than 100km per hour. I held my helicopter at around 50 feet in air over the Gal Constructor site. It was a very dangerous and tough situation amid the high wind speed of around 150km per hour. Several wires of the crane on the barge were broken and hanging. The divers landed on the barge holding a rescue strap which used to tie crew members. Later, they were pulled up to the helicopter,” said lieutenant commander Raghvendra Kumar Dixit, who was on Seaking 42 Charlie.“We have never seen such a situation in the past. We rescued 25 people in one round and brought them to INS Shikra. Another helicopter rescued 14 more people while the rest were lifted by Coast Guard’s helicopters, lieutenant commander Dixit added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/barge-p305-sar-op-on-mumbai-high-was-toughest-in-recent-times-say-navy-teams-101622142601258.html
28-05-2021||Other||Elgar Parishad case: Bombay HC extends prof Hany Babu’s stay in private hospital till June 1||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday has directed Breach Candy hospital to seek its permission before discharging Delhi University associate professor Hany Babu, an accused in the Elgar Parishad -Bhima Koregaon violence cases. Hany was admitted following an order of the court on May 19 for treatment, after he had developed a severe infection in his left eye.The court, while restraining the hospital from discharging Babu till June 1, has also asked it to furnish a medical report on the status of the infection and the treatment administered to the professor. The vacation bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NR Borkar was hearing a petition seeking interim bail for Babu on medical grounds. Advocate Yug Choudhary, the counsel for the professor, informed the court that an urgent hearing was sought in the petition filed by Babu’s wife Jenny Rowena to ensure that Breach Candy hospital did not discharge her husband and send him back to Taloja jail on the grounds that he did not require critical care anymore. In the earlier hearing on May 19, Choudhary had submitted that Babu had contracted the eye infection, and though he had complained about it to the prison authorities from May 3- 12, it was not heeded. It was only after Babu tested positive for Covid-19 and shifted to GT Hospital did Rowena approach HC, as the hospital had said that it did not have the wherewithal to treat the professor’s eye infection. While the state had proposed to shift Babu to Sir JJ Hospital for treatment, Choudhary had submitted that due to the severity of the infection, there was an apprehension that he could lose vision in the left eye, and hence sought permission to shift him to a private hospital for treatment. The court had permitted shifting Babu to Breach Candy Hospital on an undertaking by his family that they would foot the expense for the treatment. On Wednesday when the court sought to know whether Babu’s eye infection was a case of mucormycosis, Choudhary submitted that the hospital had not informed the family about it. Observing that mucormycosis was dangerous and that there was a need to know whether Babu was getting proper treatment, the bench directed the hospital to submit a report on the treatment administered to him since his admission as well as on his current health condition. “The hospital shall submit an interim report on the medical treatment been given to Hany Babu by June 1. Till then, the hospital is requested not to discharge him. If they do then, this court should be informed and permission should be taken.” The bench also sought to know that if the private hospital had received the injections to treat mucormycosis, as they were being provided only at civic and state-run hospitalsThe petition will be heard next on June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elgar-parishad-case-bombay-hc-extends-prof-hany-babu-s-stay-in-private-hospital-till-june-1-101622142361916.html
28-05-2021||Other||Replacing BSY may change political discourse: Experts||Bengaluru As the clamour against Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa grows louder, it remains to be seen if it does actually materialise in a leadership change in the state before the 2023 assembly elections. According to analysts and experts, if the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre does manage to replace 78-year-old Yediyurappa, it will bring about a major shift in Karnataka’s political discourse, which thrives on caste equations, coalition building and other local factors that have allowed the likes of Yediyurappa, Siddaramaiah, HD Deve Gowda and HD Kumaraswamy prevail with their signature style of politics for the last two decades, if not longer. The BJP at the Centre is trying to achieve a smooth shift in power, which, analysts and experts believe, would not be easy. An expert said Yediyurappa in 2013 assembly elections had shown that he could sabotage the saffron outfit’s chances. After Yediyurappa’s departure, the BJP’s tally in the state had reduced to 40 in 2013 from 110 in 2008 assembly elections for 224-seat House, when Yediyurappa led the party. According to experts, Yediyurappa, Siddaramaiah and Kumaraswamy have effectively curbed the cropping up of any new faces as possible ‘heirs’ or ‘replacements’ in their respective parties. They firmly held the reins of their parties while creating a dearth of alternatives, experts said. Interestingly, unlike neighbouring Tamil Nadu, where the two late chief ministers and stalwarts – J Jayalalithaa and MK Karunanidhi – shared strong animosities, the top leaders in Karnataka – Yediyurappa, Siddaramaiah and Kumaraswamy – seem to get along fine irrespective of the parties they represent. CP Yogeshwara, Karnataka’s minister for tourism, ecology and environment, on Thursday said, “The day I became an MLC (member of legislative council) I also said it does not appear as a pure BJP government. It appears to be a three-party government that is taking shape.” His statement points at how the three leaders from three different parties continue to enjoy a good rapport, irrespective of who is in power – an allegation made by several other legislators and leaders within the BJP. BJP legislators, especially those who identify dearly with the party’s ideology, have made similar allegations that opposition MLAs have it much easier in the current dispensation, including getting funds released and work for their respective constituencies. “We would have been better off if we were not from the ruling party,” a first-time MLA told HT in a recent interaction. In 2013, many believed that Yediyurappa helped in fulfilling Siddaramaiah’s aspirations to become the chief minister by orchestrating the defeat of G Parameshwara of the Congress, a political analyst, who did not wish to be named, said. Unlike the current central dispensation led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Karnataka’s political culture has largely relied on local equations. “In Karnataka, it has become politics of extreme decentralisation,” said a Bengaluru-based political analyst, demonstrating how every legislator wields influence over their respective constituencies, irrespective of the party symbol they fight under. The analyst, requesting not to be named, did not rule out the possibility that the current dissent could well be an effort to deflect the attention away from the management – or the lack of it – of the Covid-19 pandemic in Karnataka. The 17 turncoats who helped Yediyurappa to power in 2019 are not known to have any strong connection with the BJP’s ideology, party insiders said, adding that there was enough room for them to return to their parent outfits with the confidence of retaining their constituencies. Karnataka over the years has shuffled between Lingayats and Vokkaligas, the two most dominant caste groups in the state, for the top post. Projecting Pralhad Joshi, a Brahmin, as a possible alternative, analysts said, was indicative that the BJP was trying to consolidate its vote bank using the Hindutva card and not pandering to any particular community. “The BJP is known to spring surprises,” said a north Karnataka-based political analyst, requesting anonymity. He referred to the high command’s apparent ignoring of Yediyurappa’s recommendations for the nominations to Rajya Sabha and the state legislative council. “When the leadership is dominant, political parties tend to forget their relationship with others,” the analyst said, referring to the central leadership of the BJP. The BJP is known to have strong ties with the Janata Dal (Secular) in Old Mysuru region where the former helps the latter to keep the Congress, which the two sides believe to be the common enemy, at bay. The JD(S), led by Gowda and former CM Kumaraswamy, has allied with both the Congress and the BJP in the past and is the only major player in the state with the ability to reign over the other despite not measuring up in terms of numbers. A Narayana, political analyst and faculty at Azim Premji University, said it all depends on who the BJP chooses next. “If they (BJP central leadership) choose a Lingayat leader, the kind of coalition that Yediyurappa has had so far, it is possible for the new leader to build as well depending on how the new person communicates with this constituency (Lingayats). It is not an impossible task, but it depends on whom they choose,” he said. Meanwhile, Yogeshwara flanked by another BJP legislator Arvind Bellad visited New Delhi on Tuesday, fuelling speculations that the two had tried to meet central leaders to complain against the chief minister’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. The two leaders might not have the stature to prompt a change in leadership but, according to analysts, their act to reach out to Delhi is being interpreted as a sign of growing dissent within the BJP in Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/replacing-bsy-may-change-political-discourse-experts-101622141881087.html
28-05-2021||Other||HC seeks govt reply on oxygen supply issues||Bengaluru: The Karnataka high court on Thursday asked the state government to file an affidavit by Monday on the difficulties in securing oxygen from outside the state. The bench of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar gave the direction while hearing the petition on the state’s preparedness to battle Covid-19. The HC also asked the government to make its stand clear on whether it is willing to pass an order restraining private hospitals from administering the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. While hearing the matter on oxygen supply, the bench asked the state how it plans to procure the 1,200 metric tonnes of oxygen allotted by the government. “Out of 1200 metric tonnes allocation, 370 metric tonnes are allocated from places outside state. From the figures given it is apparent that except for May 27, the state has not received the entire quota allotted,” said the bench. We, therefore, direct the state to file an affidavit by Monday, setting out the difficulty if any for securing the quota of oxygen from outside the state. If the state is facing any difficulty it should approach the Centre immediately,” the bench added. It added that the state should answer three pertinent questions - whether you are able to procure oxygen from other states, in the wake of the third wave has the state fixed the buffer capacity for oxygen and whether the storage capacity for oxygen has been fixed. The high court asked the state government to make its stand clear on whether it is willing to pass an order restraining private hospitals from administering the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Continuing the hearing on the vaccine supply, the bench passed an order saying 50% of vaccines will be provided by the Centre to state for free, while out of the remaining 50%, the state can place orders for 25% directly and they can be supplied free of cost. The remaining 25% is for private players to book directly from suppliers or manufacturers, said the bench. “Considering the requirement on the second dose, the quantity which state will have on June 1 will be barely sufficient to meet the requirement of the second dose,” said the bench. Hearing the matter on Wednesday, the bench had asked the advocate-general to look into the matter after the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (Phana) informed the court that they are giving the vaccine to all those who are registering on their portal. The court was also informed the central government that 16,66,000 doses have been given to private hospitals in Karnataka. The court wondered how private hospitals can be allowed to procure more vaccines than the state government, which has placed orders for 15,98,000 doses. The bench said both the state and central governments have to take a policy decision on diverting people to private hospitals for getting the first dose. Phana said the state government can regulate the situation by passing an order against administering the first dose, instead of issuing an advisory, as has been done now. The high court had said it is an obligation of governments to ensure the second dose is provided and failure to do so will be a violation of fundamental rights. The court was told that there is a huge demand for vaccines in private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-oxygen-supply-issues-101622141821079.html
28-05-2021||Other||Petrol prices cross ₹100-mark in Thane and Navi Mumbai||The price of petrol crossed the ₹100-mark in Thane and Navi Mumbai on Thursday, even as it is on the brink of touching the three-digit figure in Mumbai. At Thane, one litre of petrol was available for ₹100.06, while in Navi Mumbai, it was priced at ₹100.03. The cost of one litre of diesel was ₹91.99 and ₹92.07 in Thane and Navi Mumbai. In Mumbai, petrol price had reached an all-time high of ₹99.94, while one litre of diesel was available at ₹91.87. This was a surge by 23 paise and 30 paise, respectively, as petrol and diesel were priced at ₹99.71 and ₹91.57, respectively, in the city on Wednesday. Expressing financial constraints, citizens have urged the government to lower taxes on petroleum products. “I travel on my two-wheeler almost everyday. The fuel prices have been increasing constantly throughout this month. It looks as if the government just does not care about the citizens. Train services are also suspended for the general public. Due to lockdown people are already burdened financially. What does one do?” said Byculla resident Aadi Jain. Ghatkopar resident Aarti Singh said, “There is a risk of contracting Covid-19 if I travel by bus as local trains are suspended. So I use my car frequently to commute. The constant increase in fuel prices is stretching people to the extreme. The government should immediately decrease the taxes on petrol and diesel.” Mobile cab aggregator drivers stated that with the increase in fuel prices, it is getting difficult to operate. “Fuel is becoming very expensive and it is getting difficult to survive in the market. We receive ₹5.40 for fuel per km, which is very less as compared to the constant hike in fuel prices,” said Vijay N, who works as a driver for app-based cabs. Transporters’ body said that the hike in fuel prices will lead to unemployment in the transport industry. “We have been regularly requesting the Centre and the state government to reduce the excise duty and value-added tax (VAT) on petroleum products. However, there has been no impact. This is open loot going by the government. The constant increase will lead to unemployment in the transport industry as people are already suffering due to the pandemic,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra’s minority affairs minister Nawab Malik on Thursday criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the hike in petrol and diesel prices. “In 2015, Pradhan Sevak said that ‘It’ll be good if with my luck, the prices of petrol decrease. In 2021, petrol has crossed ₹100. whose luck is it now? Unlucky public. #PetrolDieselPriceHike (sic),” tweeted Nawab Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-prices-cross-100-mark-in-thane-and-navi-mumbai-101622141522328.html
28-05-2021||Other||Yaas effect: Pleasant weather, cool breeze in Prayagraj||: A week after witnessing moderate to heavy showers because of tropical cyclone Tauktae, Sangam city witnessed overcast conditions and slight drizzle on Thursday, this time because of tropical cyclone Yaas which originated in the Bay of Bengal. A heavy cloud cover brought down the mercury making the weather pleasant for the whole day. The maximum temperature on Thursday was 29.8 degree Celsius, over six degrees less than Wednesday, which recorded the maximum of 35.6 degree Celsius. The minimum temperature too came down but just by a degree as compared to Wednesday’s temperature which was 26.4 degrees. On Thursday it was 25.1 degrees Celsius. Prof HN Mishra, emeritus professor at AU’s department of Geography said, “The change in weather is because of the cyclone Yaas and this would continue for next 24 hours. The city would again witness clear weather from Saturday onwards”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yaas-effect-pleasant-weather-cool-breeze-in-prayagraj-101622141040801.html
28-05-2021||Other||Man arrested for killing wife, throwing 3 kids in canal||: A man was arrested on Wednesday for throwing his three children in Ganga canal after murdering his wife in village Baseri under Purkajib police station of district Muzaffarnagar, police said. After committing the gruesome crime on Tuesday, the accused, identified as Pappu, 34, had fled to neighbouring Laksar town of Uttarakhand from where police arrested him. Senior superintendent of police (SSP), Muzaffarnagar Abhishek Yadav said during interrogation Pappu said he committed the crime for he suspected his wife, Dolly, 29, of having illicit relations and for refusing to have physical relations with him. “He said he shot his wife on the head as she denied physical relations with him which led him to believe that the woman was having illicit relations,” SSP said. The divers have fished out the body of one child so far, said superintendent of police (SP) Muzaffarnagar, Vijayvargiya. “PAC divers found body of one child in the deep waters of canal and search was underway to recover two more children,” the SP said. Police said the three kids included a five-year-old, another 3 years old and an 18-month-old child. During interrogation, the accused told officials that he threw kids as he knew there was none to take care of them. “He said he was worried as to who would take care of them after he is arrested,” police said. A case of murder has been registered against Pappu in Purkaji police station on the complaint of a family member. Dolly was Pappu’s elder brother’s wife whom he had married after the death of his elder brother 10 years ago. The couple had two daughters and a son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-arrested-for-killing-wife-throwing-3-kids-in-canal-101622140921512.html
28-05-2021||Other||UP govt making all-out effort to curb Covid: Health minister||Expressing his concern over new Covid variants, UP health minister JP Singh on Thursday said the state government was making all efforts to control the pandemic. Singh expressed these views at a webinar organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry. “The state government is making an all-out effort to check the spread of the pandemic. In March last year, the Covid testing capacity of the state was only 70 cases a day. It has now increased to over 3.59 lakh a day,” the minister added.“The virus is mutating into new variants and affecting several parts of the body. The gram nigrani samitis (monitoring committees) in 97,000 villages across the state are moving from house-to-house to check spread of the virus,” Singh said. Speaking on the occasion, Dr Mayank Somani, MD and CEO, Apollomedics Super Speciality Hospital, gave suggestions on how we can prepare for the third wave of the pandemic. “We require adequate medicine and oxygen, adequate equipment and infrastructure, surplus isolation centres, pandemic support centres and a robust primary healthcare system,” he said. “We need to augment testing and diagnostic facilities beforehand, training of paramedics, robust supply chain, skilled manpower. These must be more research and development in medical field and focus of vaccination and treatment in situations like the current pandemic,” Dr Somani said. Dr Rakesh Kapoor, director, Medanta Hospital, Lucknow, said: “Imparting training to people is very crucial as it will train general people to handle emergencies like putting oxygen cylinders and operating oxygen Concentrators among other medical equipment.” Lalit Khaitan, chairman, UP chapter of PHD Chamber, suggested that primary health care system must be recognised as a vital contributor to all aspects of emergencies. Sanjay Agarwal, president, PHD Chamber, Patrick Linnenbank, Barnik Mitra and Mukesh Bahadur among others also expressed their views at the webinar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-making-all-out-effort-to-curb-covid-health-minister-101622140920831.html
28-05-2021||Other||3rd wave of Covid-19: Child rights’ body inspects homes, reviews preparations||The Uttar Pradesh State Commission for Protection of Child Rights inspected shelter homes, reviewed preparations for the anticipated Covid-19 third wave, and held a meeting to enquire about the rehabilitation of Covid-19-affected children, on Thursday.“There is a dire need to lend a helping hand to Covid-19-affected children,” said Dr Vishesh Gupta, chairperson State Commission for Protection of Child Rights while addressing a meeting with the labour department, administrative and health officials.Gupta first enquired about the arrangements being made for the anticipated-third Covid-19 wave that is expected to affect children. Answering his query, officials of the health department highlighted the arrangements being made that includes the establishment of a 100-bed ward at the King George’s Medical University, a 40-bed post-Covid-19 ward at Balrampur Hospital and other arrangements of ventilators and other facilities. The officials assured that in all, 560 beds would be available which would be manned by 18 doctors from SGPGI and 25 resident super specialised doctors.Besides, the commission also enquired about the numbers of Covid-19-affected children. Officials said that there were around 75 children in the Lucknow division affected by Covid-19. However, they are being counselled through the DM helpline. The commission also directed the nigrani samities to be on the watch.Earlier, holding the meeting, members of the commission also inspected shelter homes. A home on Pragnarayan Road was the first to be inspected. The members also interacted with the inmates and checked other facilities, which they found satisfactory. Another shelter home in Motinagar, where 32 inmates recently tested Covid-19 positive, and others, were also inspected. However, no major anomalies were found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3rd-wave-of-covid-19-child-rights-body-inspects-homes-reviews-preparations-101622140742802.html
28-05-2021||Other||Families move HC seeking CBI probe||The family members of nine the 21 people who died, allegedly of lack of oxygen at the Jaipur Golden hospital on April 23-24, have petitioned the Delhi high court demanding a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or a special investigation team.The plea, filed on Thursday through advocate Utsav Bains, challenged the findings of a Delhi government panel that the patients died of comobidities and not lack of oxygen supply. It also demanded compensation for the families of the victims, and an order to authorities to seize the CCTV footage from the hospital.The Delhi government on April 28 constituted a committee to ascertain the number of deaths due to shortage of oxygen in the hospitals across the city, following a direction by the high court on April 27.In its report, the committee said the patients at Jaipur Golden hospital in Rohini died of comorbidities, and that there was no mention of oxygen shortage in any of the case records.The committee said that many of the patients had one or multiple co-morbidities such as heart disease, diabetes, hypothyroidism and hypertension.“All these patients were receiving some form of oxygen therapy and/or ventilator support during the hospital stay,” the report said.Quoting a report in HT on May 4, the petitioners said that they got to know about the findings of the panel from the news story.The petition alleged that the report prepared by the committee was “erroneous”, and that the authorities have rendered themselves not only liable to pay compensation to the families of the victims but also for criminal prosecution.The Delhi government did not comment on the matter. The petition is likely to be listed next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jaipur-golden-hospital-deaths-families-of-deceased-patients-demand-cbi-probe-101622139540392.html
