29-05-2021||Other||Covid-19: Meerut Diocese to find, help orphans of second wave||The Meerut Diocese of the Catholic community has decided to help children orphaned in the second wave of the pandemic.Its financial administrator, Rev Fr Jesu Amirtham, said, “Like the other communities, the Catholic community also suffered a great loss of lives in the second wave of the pandemic. After mourning the deaths of our people, we must move forward and offer our services to those whose families have been devastated in the pandemic,” he said.He said that it has been decided to send a circular to all priests and nuns in the Meerut Diocese to look for children who had been orphaned in the pandemic, and extend help to them in every possible way.“It is not possible to keep such children with us because of the tedious and lengthy procedure of adoption under juvenile laws. Therefore, priests and nuns have been asked to evolve some way to help these children,” Fr Amirtham said.He said that Catholic priests had run an orphanage near Daurala town in the district for 38 years, but for some unavoidable reasons it was closed two years ago. “Our dedicated and committed priests and nuns have a long experience of doing selfless service to society, hence, they know how to find a way to help these children even without opening an orphanage for them,” said Fr Amirtham.He said that four priests and 10 sisters of the diocese have died after contracting the Coronavirus during the second wave. These religious were in Ghaziabad, Meerut, Moradabad, Dehradun and Mussoorie.The Meerut Diocese has 155 priests and 800 sisters with a total population of 32,000 Catholic believers in 14 districts which span from Ghaziabad to Rampur and Mussoorie in Uttarakhand.He said that 170 fathers and 150 sisters (data is still being compiled) have died across the country.Sharing the message of Bishop Kalist, he said that the whole Catholic community is praying for the departed souls and eradication of the virus so that peace could return.What is a diocese?A diocese is the territorial jurisdiction of a bishop where many churches exist. India has 174 dioceses and the Meerut Diocese comprises 14 districts of Western UP and Uttarakhand. The head of the Meerut Diocese is Bishop Francis Kalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-meerut-diocese-to-find-help-orphans-of-second-wave-101622312432681.html
29-05-2021||Other||Power subsidy bill, arrears cross 10% of Punjab’s total budget||Political compulsions and poll promises are set to take a huge toll on the state’s finances in the election year as the power subsidy bill has steadily risen to ₹17,796 crore, which is more than 10% of Punjab’s total budget. The budget approved for the current fiscal is ₹1,68,015 crore.The Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) has worked out a subsidy of ₹10,668 crore payable to different consumer categories. It comprises ₹6,735 crore for agriculture pump set consumers, ₹1,627 crore for scheduled caste, backward class and below poverty line domestic consumers and ₹2,266 crore for industrial consumers. The large supply consumers are to get ₹1,928 crore, medium power ones will get ₹197 crore and ₹142 crore in subsidies has been allocated to small power consumers.Free power to farmers for agriculture besides weaker sections was a poll promise made by the Congress. So was the subsidy to provide power at ₹5 per unit to the industry. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has already clarified that these subsidies will continue. ₹7,117 crore arrears There are also ₹7,117 crore arrears from the last fiscal, as the state government has been failing to pay the full subsidy for the past seven years.The total subsidy payable for the financial year 2021-22 is ₹17,796, which will be payable in 12 instalments this year. The first two instalments are ₹1,386 crore each, while the balance ₹15,024 crore will be paid in 10 equal instalments between June 2021 and February 2022, reads the PSERC order.The Punjab government has written to the commission on May 25 that it will continue to provide subsidy to industry, agriculture and domestic consumers amounting to ₹10,621 crore, and it has been provided for in the state budget. This comprises ₹7,180 crore for agriculture, ₹1,928 crore for industry and ₹1,513 crore for domestic consumers.Punjab is the only state in the country where industrial consumers, who are cross-subsidising another category of consumers, also receive subsidies. While the Punjab industry is cross-subsidising other consumers to the tune of ₹1,175 crore, it is getting a subsidy of ₹2,200 crore. At the same time, it is paying ₹2,000 crore as excise duty and other taxes.Punjab is levying 20% electricity duty across the board on payable bills of all consumers. It has reduced the power tariff for consumers having load up to 7 kW.“Punjab should reduce electricity duty to 5% on domestic loads up to 2 kW, 10% for up to 7 kW and 15% for up to 15 kW. This will further reduce the burden,” said VK Gupta, spokesman of All India Power Engineers Federation. He said the government should now introspect over its poll promises as these are bleeding Punjab’s finances. “There is a need to rationalise the subsidies,” he said, adding that poll promises are important, but these should be limited to the needy sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/power-subsidy-bill-arrears-cross-10-of-punjab-s-total-budget-101622309733292.html
29-05-2021||Other||UP CM orders quick verification of papers for timely payment of salaries to 69,000 assistant teachers||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered expediting the verification of documents of 69,000 newly appointed assistant teachers of primary and upper primary schools of the basic education department to ensure timely payment of salaries to them.He has also warned of strict action against officials responsible for a delay in the verification process. The CM issued the directive following a demand by teachers’ organisations regarding the payment of salaries to all the newly appointed teachers as only 60% of those whose documents have already been verified are being paid their salaries.The state government had recruited 69,000 teachers in the basic education department last year to overcome the shortage of teachers in the state.The chief minister has also instructed the senior officials to conduct a district-wise review of the verification work being done and ensure timely completion of the exercise. Additional chief secretary (basic education) Renuka Kumar on May 19 directed the director general (school education) Vijay Kiran Anand regarding speedy disbursement of salary.The relief was given keeping in mind the ongoing Covid-19 crisis in the state because of which administrative work in several universities was hampered, making it impossible to carry out verification of degrees.The order said that the department should take written undertaking stating that all marksheets and proof of educational qualifications submitted by the newly appointed teachers at the time of their recruitment are true.The order further warned the newly appointed teachers of legal consequences if the proof of their educational qualifications was found fake during verification later. If found guilty of fraudulent practices, the errant teachers will be required to return the salary and perks to the state treasury without initiating legal action against the department, Kumar said in her missive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-cm-orders-quick-verification-of-papers-for-timely-payment-of-salaries-to-69-000-assistant-teachers-101622307812223.html
29-05-2021||Other||CO among 4 killed in road mishaps||At least four persons, including a circle officer, died and four others were injured in separate road accidents in Samastipur and East Champaran districts on Friday, police said. Manavjit Singh Dhillon, superintendent of police (SP), Samastipur, said the circle officer Gopalganj’s Baikunthpur block, Rajesh Kumar Dubey, along with two others, was on his way to Baikunthpur from Bhagalpur when the incident took place at Gangapur under Musarigharari police station of the district late Friday evening. “Prima facie, it appears their vehicle slipped due to rainwater on NH-28. He died on the spot,” the SP said, adding that one Ashok Kumar was critically injured in the accident while the driver sustained minor injuries. In another incident, three persons died and two others sustained injuries when the driver of a car, carrying five persons, lost control over the vehicle and hit the railing of a bridge over Tilawe river on NH-28 (A) around 11.45 pm on Friday. “Prima facie, it looks like the accident occurred due to slippery roads amid heavy rain,” said Sagar Jha, subdivisional police officer of Raxaul. “The bodies have been sent for autopsy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/co-among-4-killed-in-road-mishaps-101622299651581.html
29-05-2021||Other||Panchayat polls on hold, a Council crisis in sight||PATNAThe delay in panchayat polls in the state due to the deadly second wave of coronavirus has cast its shadow on the election of new members from 24 “local authorities’’ constituencies in the state’s 75-member Legislative Council whose term is set to end on July 17.In all likelihood, the election for the 24 Council seats will have be deferred. Reason: the electoral college to elect the new MLCs would cease to exist after June 15 when term of panchayat bodies comes to an end. Sources said the state election department has already sent a report to the Election Commission of India (ECI), which will take a final decision on the matter. “At least two weeks’ time is required for preparations before the polls are announced. But chances are dim because 97% of the voters to elect MLCs from ‘local authorities’ constituencies will be non-existent from June 15. One cannot have election without voters. Hence, the election will have to be deferred,” said a senior official in the state election department. MLCs from “local authorities” constituencies are elected by ward members of all the three panchayati raj institutions, the gram panchayat, district boards and urban local bodies. The elected members of panchayati raj institutions ( PRIs) constitute 97% of the electoral college to elect MLCs from 24 “local authorities” constituencies. Given the scenario, all MLCs from this constituency would cease to be legislators from July 18 onwards, after the expiry of their six-year term. At preset, there are 19 MLCs now in the Council from “local authorities” constituency. Five seats fell vacant when two MLCs died while three were elected MLAs in the 2020 Assembly polls. The current strength of the Legislative Council is 69, with five vacancies from “local authorities” constituency and one from the Legislative Assembly quota. Once 19 more seats fall vacant on July 18, the strength would come down to 50. On panchayat polls, which were to begin in the state in mid-March, the state poll panel is yet to take a decision. There is speculation that the government would be taking over the charge of PRIs and run it through administrators after the expiry of the term of current panchayat bodies on June 15. Bihar’s chief electoral officer (CEO) H R Srinivasa said they had sent a detailed report about the term of sitting MLCs from local authorities constituency and other aspects of holding the election to ECI.The contagion effectFate uncertain for 24 seatsBihar’s Legislative Council has a total of 75 seats, of which 24 are from ‘local authorities’ constituencies. The six-year term for these 24 MLCs ends on July 17.Electoral college Elected members of panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) — the gram panchayat, district boards and urban local bodies — constitute 97% of the electoral college for these 24 seats.Problem at handTerm of current gram panchayat, district boards and urban local bodies ends on June 15 and so there won’t be any voters for the 24 seats in question, unless their term is extended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panchayat-polls-on-hold-a-council-crisis-in-sight-101622299591480.html
29-05-2021||Other||DMCH turns a ‘floating hospital’ in a day’s rain, patient Pappu takes a dig||DARBHANGAThe Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), north Bihar’s largest government hospital, remained submerged in knee-deep water while various parts of twin cities of Darbhanga and Laheriasarai were waterlogged following heavy rains that lashed the region on Friday night.As many as 19 municipal wards were worse hit in Darbhanga. “In last two days, 160 mm rains have been recorded in the town,” said an official.DMCH principal Dr K N Mishra said rain waters had inundated the premises of administrative building, pathology unit, besides medicine and paediatric ward and approach road to Covid Care Hospital situated in the newly constructed nursing college. Rain waters had entered the official chamber of DMCH principal as well, he said.A high power pump has been put to use to flush out rain waters from the DMCH campus, which has been facing waterlogging problem for years. It is a low lying area, said the principal.Meanwhile, Jan Adhikar Party president Pappu Yadav, who is currently undergoing treatment in medicine ICU at the hospital after his arrest in an old kidnapping case recently, posted a tweet along with photographs showing pictures of waterlogged medicine ward and the campus and took a swipe at the administration. “The wonder of development. The floating hospital of Bihar, Darbhanga Medical College submerged in one day’s rain. Not handful of water, there is enough water for shameless health department to drown and die. Am I right Mangal Pandey ji,” Yadav tweeted.Patients, their attendants and doctors faced much hardship in reaching different wards. The problem can be resolved only after a multistoried building with allied units will be constructed on the campus, said a doctor.Darbhanga district magistrate Thiyagrajan SM, meanwhile, has convened a meeting of officials on the waterlogging issue. He asked civic authorities to deploy teams for getting rid of rain waters from the medicine ward and around Covid ward within six hours. He also directed to flush out water from badly affected municipal wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dmch-turns-a-floating-hospital-in-a-day-s-rain-patient-pappu-takes-a-dig-101622299472355.html
29-05-2021||Other||Cyclone Yaas weakens, no heavy rain in Bihar||PATNA/MuzaffarpurResidents can expect relief from heavy rains Sunday onwards as cyclone Yaas has further weakened into low pressure area and moved to neighbouring state Uttar Pradesh, said officials of Patna Meteorological Centre on Saturday.Meteorologists said a few places in northwest parts of the state experienced extremely heavy rain for the second consecutive day on Saturday while light to moderate rain lashed most of places.As per daily bulletin issued, Triveniganj received the highest rainfall (220 mm), followed by Darbhanga (180) and Muzaffarpur (120).The capital city received 17.8 mm rainfall. Patna has received an average rainfall of 246.9 mm against the normal rainfall of 24.55 mm between May 1 and May 29. Meteorologist at Patna MeT Centre Amit Sinha, said, “Under the influence of cyclone Yaas, mercury has plummeted by 9°C to 12°C in the state.”“Remnant of cyclone Yaas has shifted to east Uttar Pradesh and adjoining areas but Bihar will continue to receive rain but intensity is likely to significantly decline,” he said.Meanwhile, officials of Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) claimed that stormwater was cleared within few hours of rain. “Our team is working in multiple shifts to drain rainwater. We have cleared waterlogging from different areas of Gandhi Maidan, Exhibition Road, Patliputra and Kankarbagh.”, said Harshita, public relation officer of PMC. In Muzaffarpur, which has seen incesant rain for the last three days, laregscale water logging exposed claims of the Muzaffarpur Municipal Morporation (MMC).“Not only the callous attitude of officials, but also their unplanned execution of construction works of roads and sewerage has made our lives hell,” said advocate Ashok Kumar, a resident of Aghoria Bazar.Residents had to wade through ankle-deep water in localities such as Gola Bandh road, Subhasnagar, railway station road, Jawahar Lal Raod, Motijheel, Kalyani Chauk and Islampur.Municipal commissioner Vivek Ranjan Maitreyay they did not have enough equipment. “I have sent a proposal to the officials concerned i Patna for purchasing new equipment,” he said, while conceding that the drainage system of the town is was indeed in a shambles.“Our focus is to fortifying the drainage system in smart city projects. Residents will see the results very soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cyclone-yaas-weakens-no-heavy-rain-in-bihar-101622299471495.html
29-05-2021||Other||IIIT-A scientists develop faster, cheaper Covid test kit||Trial of nanotech-based kit prototype begins at KGMU-Lucknow, may replace costlyRT-PCR testA team of scientists of Indian Institute of Information Technology, Allahabad, (IIIT-A) has developed a nanotechnology-based rapid testing kit for Covid-19. The kit could pave way for quicker and cheaper testing to detect Covid positive patients in the country and even prove to be a replacement for the widely being used RT-PCR tests which cost more and also require a costly lab set-up, say IIIT-A experts.“The rapid diagnostic kit for novel coronavirus is being developed as part of a Government of India’s department of biotechnology (DBT) funded one year project ‘Development of rapid detection kit for novel Coronavirus’. We have already developed a prototype of the kit and its trial for proper validation is now under way at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow,” said Amaresh Kumar Sahoo, assistant professor at department of applied sciences, IIIT-A, who is leading the efforts as the project’s principal investigator.Other IIIT-A scientists actively involved in the project include prof Pritish Varadwaj, prof Krishna Misra and Sintu K Samanta. Tayyaba Afshan is working on this mission as a junior research fellow. “Prof Amita Jain, head, microbiology department, KGMU, Lucknow is collaborating with us on this project,” he said. Sahoo said the kit being developed by them involves use of luminescent gold nanoparticle-based diagnosis of Covid that is performed within 15 minutes. “The viral RNA sample is detected by luminescent nanoparticles under UV-light illumination,” he said. Sahoo said it will be a low-cost diagnosis kit as compared to available RT-PCR-based and antibody-based tests. “Each test using our kit would cost one-fifth of the cost of a RT-PCR test. It a RT-PCR test costs around ₹1000, a test by our kit would cost mere ₹200 or so. While a RT-PCR test takes around 4 hours or more for the result, using our kit the result would come within 15 minutes. Moreover, against a set-up needing machines costing ₹25-30 lakh for RT-PCR tests, our kit requires a set-up that costs just around ₹5 lakh,” he added.Sahoo said the economical, effective and faster kit developed by the team had shown great results in the lab. “Now we are waiting for the validation results of the trial that should come in the next two months,” he said.Director, IIIT-A, prof P Nagabhushan said the validation of the test kit developed by IIIT-A team being carried out at KGMU-Lucknow was under an MoU existing between the two institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iiita-scientists-develop-faster-cheaper-covid-test-kit-101622288370408.html
29-05-2021||Other||Goa government extends Covid-19 curfew till June 7||The Goa government has yet again extended the current ‘curfew’ that has been in place since May 10 until June 7, the Goa Chief Minister’s Office announced on Saturday. “The Government of Goa has decided to extend the curfew till 7 am of 7th June 2021. The orders regarding the same shall be issued by respective District Collectors,” the Chief Minister said via a tweet. The announcement, while on expected lines - owing to Goa’s high positivity rate, which stands at over 20% despite having fallen from over 50% a few weeks ago - comes amid growing resentment among traders, especially those miffed at having to keep their businesses shut for what was intended to be a two-week curfew but will now last a total of four weeks. Under Goa’s ‘curfew’ rules only essentials and alcohol will be sold between 7 am and 1 pm while vehicle repair shops, hardware stores, etc, are allowed to remain open. Restaurants are allowed to open only for takeaways. Goa is recording more than 1,000 Covid-19 cases each day which is way off the gnarly 4,000 cases it was recording toward the peak in mid-May. Covid-19 fatalities continue to remain at over 30 each day. The active cases stand at a shade over 15,000 which is around 1% of the state’s resident population but way below the 32,000 active cases that were being reported during the peak of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-government-extends-covid-19-curfew-till-june-7-101622286691259.html
29-05-2021||Other||Hyderabad couple raises ₹16 cr for son battling rare disease||In a record of sorts, a Hyderabad-based couple mobilised ₹16 crore in three-and-a-half months from 65,000 donors through crowd-funding to buy medicine, supposed to be the world’s costliest, for treating their three-year-old son suffering from a rare disease called Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA), HT has learnt.Yogesh Gupta from Chhattisgarh, who has been working in a private firm in Hyderabad for the last 10 years, and his wife Rupal Gupta, were clueless when the doctors at Rainbow Children’s Hospital in the city told them that the only way to save their son Ayaansh was to procure Zolgensma - the only medicine that can cure SMA.“When we made enquiries, we came to know that Zolgensma, manufactured by Novartis, costs around ₹16 crore and has to be imported from the USA or the European countries. Added to this, one has to pay import duty and GST on the medicine,” Gupta told HT.The couple tried a few options to mobilise money for the medicine but realised that they won’t be able to do it because it was too huge a sum. “But my wife was confident that we could definitely raise the money. She was reading about fund-raising or crowd-funding campaigns that regularly take place in countries like the USA and the UK. So, she suggested we too could start such a campaign,” Gupta said.On February 4, the couple posted a request on social media platforms and began the campaign. “Our friends, about 150 of them, also pitched in and made the campaign viral. The response was overwhelming. Though the flow of funds slowed down a bit later, we did not give up hope. Our friends intensified the campaign and finally, by May 23, we could mobilise all the money we required for our son’s treatment. We closed the campaign on the same day,” Gupta said.He said nearly 65,000 donors responded to the fund-raising campaign and donated money in small or big amounts. The donors included celebrities like Indian cricket captain Virat Kohli actors Anushka Sharma, Emraan Hashmi, Dia Miza, Javeed Jaafri, Rajkumar Rao, Arjun Kapoor, Sara Ali Khan, among others.“We have completed all the required documentation and placed the order with the US firm for the purchase of the medicine. We are expecting it to be delivered by June 10. We are thankful to everyone, the donors and our friends who made relentless efforts to mobilise money to save my son,” Gupta said.Their son, Ayaansh, who turned three on Thursday, showed the signs of the rare disease when he was just six months old. “He had very limited movement of his muscles. He couldn’t even cough and when there was congestion in his chest, we had to use a suction pump to remove phlegm from his lungs,” Gupta said.The couple took the child to various doctors, including paediatricians and neuro-physicians. “Though they diagnosed it as Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA), they had no idea about the treatment. They told me it is a progressive disease and my son might not survive beyond four years,” he said.Luckily, Ayaansh can speak and that was the only solace for the couple. “Finally, the doctors at Rainbow Hospital in Hyderabad recommended this drug and said it was available abroad. That raised our hopes,” Gupta said.The couple is now trying for exemption of the import duty and GST on Zolgensma.On March 17, Ayaansh’s issue was raised in the Rajya Sabha by a Congress member from Madhya Pradesh Vivek K Tankha.Replying to his query, finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman said imported life-saving drugs, including those for SMA for personal use, are exempted from basic customs duty but they attract five per cent GST. She, however, assured that ad hoc exemption from GST on imported life-saving drugs could be given on a case-to-case basis during exceptional nature.“We have made the request for exemption of the GST as well and are hopeful of getting the approval by next week,” Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hyderabad-couple-mobilises-rs-16-cr-for-son-battling-rare-disease-101622279790167.html
29-05-2021||Other||Assam govt decides to increase daily wage of tea-garden workers by ₹38||Assam’s Bharatiya Janata Party-led government on Friday decided to increase the daily wage of tea garden workers in the state by ₹38. The decision was taken at a meeting of representatives of various tea bodies, including Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangha, with chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma in Guwahati. As per the move, workers in the Brahmaputra Valley region of the state who were getting ₹167 daily as wages would now get ₹205. The daily wage of workers in Barak Valley would be hiked from ₹145 to ₹183. In February this year, ahead of the assembly polls in the state, the previous BJP government had hiked daily wages of tea-garden workers by ₹50 taking it to ₹217 in Brahmaputra Valley and ₹195 in Barak Valley. The move was stayed by the Gauhati High Court in March following a petition by the Indian Tea Association, the biggest organization of tea producers in India, and 17 others. The new government committed that it would increase the wages by another ₹12, taking it to ₹217 in Brahmaputra Valley and ₹195 in Barak Valley, as done vide the earlier order, after consulting all stakeholders. The promise of the hike in the daily wages of tea-garden workers was an important poll issue in Assam this time. While the BJP proposed an additional ₹101 for daily ration taking it to ₹318 in Brahmaputra Valley, the Congress had promised to hike the daily wages to ₹365 if they came to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-govt-decides-to-increase-daily-wage-of-tea-garden-workers-by-rs-38-101622274869698.html
29-05-2021||Other||Odisha extends deadline for its global tender for Covid-19 vaccines||Odisha government on Friday extended the deadline of the global tender floated for procurement of Covid-19 vaccines by a week in view of requests from many prospective vendors, cyclone Yaas and also for greater participation, as per an official state notification.The notification by Odisha State Medical Corporation Ltd (OSMCL), which floated the tender for procurement of 3.80 crores of Covid-19 vaccine doses on May 14 to inoculate its 18-44 population, said the bid submission date has been extended till June 4. The technical bid will open at 11.30 am and the price bid by 5 pm on that day.The bids have been invited from the world’s leading vaccine manufacturers and they have been offered advance payment of 30 per cent of the value of each purchase order. The OSMCL expects 75 lakh doses in 30 days of the purchase order, 2.25 crore doses within 60 days, 3.75 crore doses by 90 days and 3.8 crore doses by 120 days.To facilitate the participation of vaccine manufacturers, the state government recently revised storage conditions up to minus 20 degree Celsius, subject to the condition that the vaccines will remain stable and maintain their potency at 2 degree Celsius to 8 degree Celsius for at least 12 hours.Though it was previously stipulated that 50 per cent of the total tender quantity would be allocated to the lowest bidder and the balance 50 per cent to be split among the second, third and fourth lowest bidders and so on at negotiated rates, the revised terms and conditions allows a potential bidder to apply for any quantity.The OSMCL has offered advance payment of 30 per cent of the value of each purchase order. It expects 75 lakh doses in 30 days of the purchase order, 2.25 crore doses within 60 days, 3.75 crore doses by 90 days and 3.8 crore doses by 120 days.Odisha’s additional chief secretary of health PK Mohapatra said it would be difficult to tell how many companies have bid for Odisha’s global tender so far as the NIC portal does not allow that.Odisha’s global tender comes in the wake of the failure of Maharashtra in getting any response from original vaccine manufacturers for its similar offers. While Maharashtra received responses from eight companies, none of them are vaccine manufacturers.Doubts are being expressed over Odisha getting any offer from vaccine manufacturers as existing ones like the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech are struggling to supply vaccines to the Centre. Meanwhile, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, which would distribute Sputnik V vaccines in India, said it has not authorised any third party to supply the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine on its behalf in India.“Dr Reddy’s Laboratories is the brand custodian of the Sputnik V vaccine in India and has the sole distribution rights of the first 250 million doses (first and second dose components included) of the vaccine in India,” the pharma major and Russian Direct Investment Fund(RDIF) said in a joint statement.Till May 28, Odisha managed to vaccinate 74,99,728 people, around 20 per cent of its total number of people who are eligible for vaccination. Odisha has now 9.66 lakh doses of vaccines left.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-extends-deadline-for-its-global-tender-for-covid-19-vaccines-101622266168936.html
29-05-2021||Other||Army repairs ventilators at Faridkot medical college||A team of army personnel from the Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers (EME) at the Western Command headquarters on Friday took over the repair work of inoperative medical equipment, including ventilators, at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH) here.The army has stepped in to mend the life-saving machines as GGSMCH was unable to get technical support to make all ventilators functional at the Covid-19 care facility. A team led by Colonel Divanshu from the Corps of EME reached Faridkot on Friday.Colonel Divanshu, nodal officer, EME medical equipment workshop at Ferozepur, said that they have started repairing the broken ventilators and are also conducting inspections of other medical equipment to check their condition. As per the officials, two ventilators have been repaired by the army engineers so far.A 450-bed isolation facility, GGSMCH is providing care to critical Covid patients from Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka and Faridkot districts. Of the total 119 ventilators, 82 were working on Friday while 37 (30%) still remained out of order.The Western Command officials have also offered technical support to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Patiala.GMCH Patiala principal Dr Rajan Singla said, “I have called for checking of all medical equipment and a report on those needing repairs.”Major General Vijay Deshmukh, MGEME, Western Command, said, “A team has reached Faridkot to resolve the issues with ventilators. We have also reached out to Patiala GMCH.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/army-repairs-ventilators-at-faridkot-medical-college-101622231545210.html
29-05-2021||Other||Two sacrilege cases reported in Moga, Bathinda||Two cases of sacrilege of sacred religious texts were reported from Moga and Bathinda districts, police said on Friday.In the first case, the Moga police arrested Ram Singh of Jhanduke village, Mansa, for allegedly committing sacrilege of Sikh holy text Sri Gutka Sahib at Sukhanand village in the district. Based on the complaint of Jaswinder Singh of Sahoke village, the cops registered a case against the accused under Section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Samalsar police station.The complainant stated that the accused, who lives at a nearby ‘dera’, late on Tuesday night tore and threw three copies of the sacred text on the ground. “We immediately informed the police, and a case was lodged against him,” he said.In the second case, police found scriptures revered by the Sikh and Hindu communities lying in a garbage dump in Bathinda on Friday.Bathinda SSP BS Virk said the holy texts, including Sri Gutka Sahib, Hanuman Chalisa and Shiv Chalisa, were not torn or damaged. He said a few idols of Hindu deities and photographs of Sikh gurus were also found near National Colony.The religious material was found in a plastic sack, he said adding that a case has been registered under Section 295-A of the IPC against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-sacrilege-cases-reported-in-moga-bathinda-101622231485041.html
29-05-2021||Other||Farmers launch 3-day stir at Patiala, say govt failed in tackling Covid crisis||Farmers under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Ugarahan here on Friday started a three-day protest against the state government for its alleged failure in tackling the Covid-19 crisis and imposing restrictions across Punjab.Over 1,500 farmers gathered at the PUDA ground near the Tripuri police station. The farmers sat in straight lines ensuring social distancing, wore face masks, carried sanitisers and water bottles.BKU general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said the main agenda of the protest was to list out failures of both central and state governments in tackling the Covid situation in Punjab.“People are dying of lack of beds and oxygen. The authorities have completely failed to provide the required medical facilities to people, who are left to make arrangements of their own,” said Singh.He added that the union has demand the state government to take control of the private hospitals during the pandemic in order to provide treatment at capped rates.“Instead of instilling fear among people with challans, police force and curfew-like restrictions, the government should initiate awareness drives in rural areas to sensitise people about the virus. Moreover, rather than labelling farmers as superspreaders, the government should arrange vaccines to be administered to the rural population on priority,” he said.BKU members demanded that the government make required arrangements for beds, ventilators and oxygen cylinders in order to tackle the situation in a streamlined manner in the near future besides carrying out a recruitment drive in the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-launch-3-day-stir-at-patiala-say-govt-failed-in-tackling-covid-crisis-101622231305837.html
29-05-2021||Other||Punjab police seize opioid pills haul from HP factory, owner held||The Punjab Police on Friday busted an illegal pharmaceutical factory and recovered 30 lakh opiod pills in Paonta Sahib town of Sirmaur district in Himachal Pradesh.The seizure of the drugs, including tramadol and alprax, was made during a raid at Unique Formulations, whose owner, Munish Mohan of Devi Nagar, Paonta Sahib, has also been arrested.Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said the raid was conducted under the supervision of Amritsar-rural senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya.He said that as part of investigations into an earlier recovery of 50,000 tramadol tablets from three persons on May 18, 2021, a police team led by Mattewal station house officer (SHO) Lovepreet Singh and sub-inspector Gurwinder Singh conducted a raid at the factory in the presence of Himachal Pradesh policemen and Sirmaur drug inspector. Two drug inspectors, Sukhdeep Singh and Amarpal Malli, from Amritsar also accompanied the police team.The DGP said the team recovered 30,16,332 intoxicant tablets, including 12.45 lakh tramadol capsules, 7.72 lakh tramadol tablets, 9.99 lakh alprax (alprazolam) tablets — approximately valued at ₹15 crore — from the illegal unit.He said that the factory has been sealed and the arrested person will be brought to Punjab after completing the legal formalities. He said Majitha ASP Abhimanyu Rana and DSP (detective) Gurinder Nagra played a vital role in the execution of this operation.Earlier in 2020, the Punjab Police had unearthed an illegal pharma trade after a big haul of 2.8 crore tablets and capsules of opioids, including tramadol and clovidol, from Neutec Pharma godown at Narela (Delhi) and arrested the owners, Krishan Arora and his son Gaurav Arora, from Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-police-seize-opioid-pills-haul-from-hp-factory-owner-held-101622231246734.html
29-05-2021||Other||Mumbai Police book Royal Palms owner for giving Triple Talaq to 67-year-old wife||Aarey Milk Colony police on Wednesday booked 71-year-old Amir Nency alias Delavar Nency, the owner of Royal Palms estate, for allegedly harassing his wife and giving her Triple Talaq. Nency was unavailable for comment. According to the statement given by Nency’s wife Rahat, 67, the accused had been harassing her since last April for the power of attorney of her 30% share at Royal Palms estate, spread over 240 acres of land in Goregaon East. Rahat in her statement to the police alleged that Nency had also assaulted her over a period of three months. The couple got married in 1971 and stay at a bungalow inside Royal Palms. Rahat said that Nency has 25% shares at the estate and a hotel owned by the family, while their two sons and grandson own the remaining shares. According to the police, in April 2020 Nency asked Rahat for the power of attorney. When she refused, he sacked their domestic help. Rahat said that Nency wanted to harass her as she suffers from high blood pressure and the staffers used to take care of her. Two months later, Nency again asked Rahat to transfer the power of attorney. But when she refused, he gave her Triple Talaq. Over the next two months, when Rahat did not budge, Nency abused her and again gave her Triple Talaq and declared that she was no longer his wife. Disturbed by the abuse, Rahat later signed the power of attorney and asked him to leave the house. On May 9, Nency arrived at the house with two women. When Rahat objected, Nency pushed her. She then told her sons about the incident and approached the police on Wednesday to file a case against Nency for harassment and torture. “We have registered the case based on Rahat’s statement. We are now investigating the case and are in the process of recording the statements of the family members,” said senior inspector Jitendra Gole of Aarey Milk Colony police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-police-book-royal-palms-owner-for-giving-triple-talaq-to-67-year-old-wife-101622230764438.html
29-05-2021||Other||17 major coal fly ash incidents in India last year: Report||A new report by the Legal Initiative for Forests and Environment (LIFE) and Health Energy Initiative (HEI), India, has found that pollution from coal fly ash was rampant across the country between April 2020 and March this year. The report “Coal Ash in India – Vol II: An environmental, social and legal compendium of coal ash mismanagement in India, 2020-21” documents 17 major incidents related to fly ash pollution which occurred in Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Maharashtra. “Ash pond collapse, air pollution from ash ponds and discharge of coal fly ash into rivers, streams and other water bodies were the most prevalent incidents, indicating the dismal state of coal fly ash management in the country. Most of these locations are regions where coal fly ash disposal is a perennial problem and leaks, and accidents are routine,” the authors stated. The newly published report builds on a similar research published last year, which documented 76 coal fly ash-related incidents that occurred in the country between 2010 and 2020. LIFE and HEI have also scrutinised media reporting around such incidents, noting the presence of detailed reportage, which took into account the impacts of such incidents on the environment and communities that live around fly ash ponds. “Media coverage of research studies and reports published by leading universities and think tanks present a multidisciplinary approach in understanding the impacts of coal fly ash. Similarly, coverage of the people’s struggles around coal-based industries, seeking remediation of contaminated sites, clean up, reduction of pollution and compensation for loss of quality of life and livelihood were also prevalent,” the authors said. More importantly, the authors pointed out that coal fly ash-based pollution remained prevalent through the Covid-induced lockdown in localities away from big cities, which celebrated “clean air and blue skies”. Regions such as Chhattisgarh’s Korba, and north Chennai’s Seppakkam and Ennore, witnessed multiple accidents related to fly ash mismanagement. For instance, the report points out that wanton dumping of fly ash took place along arterial roads and near habited villages. The authors also noted how residents from coal hotspots were reporting that many power companies used the Covid-19 lockdown to dump waste indiscriminately in water bodies. “Korba has witnessed unprecedented coal fly ash pollution in the past one year. We have been living here for decades, but have never seen a sight like this before. Power companies have used Covid-19 restrictions to dump coal fly ash wherever they could. Piles of fly ash can be found everywhere – along the entire highway and ring roads and in villages. With summer winds, we are seeing the entire city covered in fly ash and we are breathing it. Despite several complaints no action has been taken on the errant companies”, said Shri Laxmi Chauhan, an activist from Korba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/17-major-coal-fly-ash-incidents-in-india-last-year-report-101622230704477.html
29-05-2021||Other||NGT raps Maharashtra EIA authority over violations during infra works||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has expressed concerns over the functioning of the Maharashtra State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA), calling into question the manner in which the latter has allowed “continuous violation of environment norms in construction projects”. NGT has raised contention over multiple construction projects in Maharashtra that have been executed without prior environmental clearance (EC), which is granted by SEIAA. Though ECs were granted initially, multiple projects have expanded the scope of construction work in variance with the original terms of clearance, and subsequently applied for ex-post facto EC. In at least two cases, SEIAA has proceeded to grant fresh EC without levying any monetary compensation for environmental damage caused by the project proponent, the NGT’s order, dated May 24, reveal. A four-judge bench of the green court, headed by chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel, made the observation while hearing two matters filed by an appellant, Tanaji Gambhire, concerning the ex-post facto environmental clearances granted by SEIAA last March to two projects in Pune. Though NGT’s orders do not specify the total number of such violations that have come to its notice in Maharashtra, the court observed, “We are coming across the grievance of continuous violation of environment norms in construction projects being completed without prior EC and SEIAA Maharashtra is neither requiring demolition nor payment of assessed compensation.” As such, “it will be appropriate to require SEIAA, Maharashtra, to review its working in the light of violations frequently being alleged, including the present case,” NGT noted. The court also “directed the constitution of a joint committee comprising the Union environment ministry, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), SEIAA and state pollution control body to review their functioning... and also to suggest remedial action, including the quantum of compensation in the individual case.” The court also directed that “a proper standard operating procedure be laid down for grant of EC in such cases so as to address the gaps in binding law and practice being currently followed. Experts were reluctant to back NGT’s move. “It may seem like the tribunal has taken the right step, but really it is shrugging off its own responsibility. If there is a violation, the court can easily decide on either demolition or levying environmental compensation. It can also serve a notice to SEIAA for dereliction of duty. Instead, it has instated a committee, which includes members of SEIAA, to review the authority’s functioning. This is against the principle of natural justice,” said Mumbai-based independent environmental lawyer Zaman Ali. Vijay Shantilal Nahata, chairperson of Maharashtra SEIAA, did not respond to HT. However, a senior official in the environment department, currently serving as an SEIAA member, said, “We are aware of the NGT order and SOPs that will be framed by the committee established by the NGT will be observed and complied with fully.” “Post-facto clearances make a mockery of the law. It seems that statutory bodies meant to protect the environment are more interested in facilitating ease of doing business for developers, and violators are in fact encouraged to go ahead without environment clearances in such a scenario. This farce of processing applications without application of mind has been brought to light by NGT,” said Stalin D, director of non-governmental organisation Vanashakti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ngt-raps-maharashtra-eia-authority-over-violations-during-infra-works-101622230645620.html
29-05-2021||Other||Maratha quota: Outfits led by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s descendant present 3 demands||A group of Maratha outfits led by Rajya Sabha member Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati has warned of an “aggressive agitation” from June 6 if the Maharashtra government fails to take immediate steps to ensure that the community gets reservation in government jobs and admissions to educational courses. Community leaders have demanded a review petition in the top court followed by a curative petition, if the former fails, as well as a petition before the President for the inclusion of the community in the Centre’s list of ‘backward castes’. Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, a descendent of Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, in a press conference on Friday, said, “We are putting forward three demands that should immediately be met. The state government should immediately move a review petition before the five-judge bench which had struck down the reservation earlier this month. A curative petition should also be filed, if the review petition fails. Thirdly, a proposal should be sent to the President under Article 341 (A) of the Constitution for the inclusion of the community in the Central list of backward classes. These demands should be fulfilled by June 6 – the day the coronation ceremony of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj had taken place. Failing this, we will launch protests.” Before announcing the community stand, Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati had visited many parts of the state and met various political leaders across party lines, including Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray, leader of Opposition and Bharatiya Janata Party Devendra Fadnavis, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray.Various Maratha outfits have backed Sambhajiraje’s stand and have decided to fight under his leadership. “We have decided to take up this battle under his guidance. We will show our strength at Fort Raigad [that was once Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s capital] on June 6 and an aggressive protest will begin from there if the demands are not met,” said Virendra Pawar of Maratha Kranti Morcha.Sambhaji Chhatrapati also demanded the immediate appointment of 6,000 Maratha community youth whose recruitments had been stalled following the Supreme Court’s decision to scrap the Maratha quota on May 5. He has demanded for the budgetary allocation for Annasaheb Patil Financial Development Corporation, which finances the entrepreneurial ventures of the community members; strengthening of SARTHI (Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research Training and Human Development Institute), meant to help community youth for the preparations in civil services, by giving it ₹1,000 crore; construction of hostels in all districts, among other demands.Deputy chief minister and state finance minister Ajit Pawar said that the government will consider the demands positively. “We still have time of eight to 10 days to act on the demands and a way out will be found out,” he said.According to leaders of the ruling parties, the demands raised by the parliamentarian are reasonable. “We have been working on the same lines as demanded by him for the legal battle. The report of the committee under retired high court judge Dilip Bhosale is expected by May 31, and the decision over the petitioning the top court will be taken accordingly. The implementation of the other administrative demands has already started,” said a Congress leader.Contrary to the position of his party BJP, Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati has taken a stand favourable to the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government by appealing to the community members against resorting to agitations. BJP had called for protests for reservation to Marathas.“If the Maratha community fails to get on the streets and stage agitations for reservation now, it will be too late [to safeguard their rights]. Life has not stopped because of Covid-19. The state has got time till June 4 to file a review petition against the SC verdict. This deadline will not be extended due to the pandemic,” state BJP president Chandrakant Patil had said in Kolhapur on Thursday. According to insiders, the Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati is inclining towards the ruling Congress. Ruling party leaders feel that his stand will help them to pacify the Maratha community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maratha-quota-outfits-led-by-chhatrapati-shivaji-maharaj-s-descendant-present-3-demands-101622230404475.html
29-05-2021||Other||Maharashtra govt’s share of woes over court rulings on quotas||Even as the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is facing the ire of the Marathas over the Supreme Court’s (SC) decision to scrap quota in jobs and education meant for the community, there is more trouble brewing for the three-party coalition government over another reservation issue. The state’s decision to scrap the 33% reservation given to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes (ST) and other reserved categories for promotions in its administration has irked the employees from these communities, with politicians threatening to agitate over the issue. This has also led to a tussle between the ruling Congress and Nationalist Congress Party, as the latter appears to be in favour of scrapping the 33% reservation to woo the Marathas.In accordance with a Bombay high court (HC) order issued in 2017, the state has stopped the promotions of about 40,000 employees in its administration. The community is also apprehensive about losing the promotions given to them since 2004, when the decision to introduce such a reservation had been taken. The Congress has taken an aggressive stand on the issue. As far as the Maratha community is concerned, the government will have to take a call deciding the future of 6,000 candidates who were to be recruited under the quota for the community, but were not given appointment letters due to the pending court cases. Their future is now uncertain owing to the SC verdict. Maratha outfits are demanding an immediate decision on the issue.The promotion riddle On May 7, the general administration department (GAD) issued a government resolution (GR) announcing to scrap the reservation in promotion in government service for the communities which together get 33% quota in government jobs. The decision to provide quota in promotion to employees in reserved categories had been taken by the Congress-NCP government in 2004. On April 20, GAD had issued a GR allowing promotions of open category employees by keeping the 33% reserved posts vacant. While the government said the decision to scrap the quota was taken as per a 2017 HC order, unions and leaders representing SC, ST employees alleged that it had been taken as a knee-jerk reaction to appease the Maratha community after their reservations was scrapped by SC. The unions also said that the quota in promotion was safeguarded by subsequent SC orders. The May 7 order has now become a headache for the Uddhav Thackeray government as the unions and Dalit leaders are demanding its reversal. The issue has also led to friction between the Congress and NCP. Last week, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar from NCP, and energy minister Nitin Raut from the Congress, had an argument during a meeting of the cabinet sub-committee on the issue. The sub-committee is headed by Pawar, while Raut and other ministers from Scheduled Caste and ST communities are its members. Raut posed many questions in the meeting and asked how can a GR be issued without the knowledge of the committee, why was it issued when the minutes of the last meeting was not prepared and how can the decision to scrap the reservation in promotion come immediately after the Maratha quota was scrapped.“We are not against the Maratha reservation. In fact, we had supported it. But there should not be any suppression of the rights of people from other communities. The scrapping of the quota in reservation will affect the right of promotion of around 75,000 people,” said Raut, a Dalit leader, who also heads the Congress’s SC cell. A section of the council of ministers are hell-bent on the implementation of the 33% quota saying that at least 20,000 employees from these communities retired without a promotion in the past four years. A section of the Congress leaders also feel that it will have to face the consequences as backward communities form the party’s traditional voter base. “The sub-committee constituted to deliberate upon the reservation in promotions is dominated by Maratha ministers and the decision to scrap the 33% quota was taken without taking it into confidence,” said a senior Congress leader. He added that the state Congress has decided to take the issue to its logical end and may not hesitate to issue an ultimatum to its partners. Raut is requesting party president Sonia Gandhi’s intervention, said the leader. The state Congress organised a virtual meeting of over 500 people representing employees’ organisations of the affected categories on Tuesday and announced to compel the government to revoke the May 7 order.Meanwhile, minority affairs minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said that there was no infighting within MVA and the CM will find a way out. “Instead of making statements on public forums, Raut should approach CM who controls GAD. Raut has been pursuing the issue for the past one year and has been insisting to begin the process of promotions which was halted for four years. The decision was taken as per his demand, but now he is blaming others for the decision taken according to the court orders. He should resolve it amicably instead of talking publicly against the government decision. This issue, albeit, is not going to affect MVA government,” he said.However, to make matters worse for MVA, Maratha outfits have taken a strong stand against the reservation in promotions and have also threatened to boycott the Congress in the forthcoming elections. “The Congress has taken a casteist approach by supporting only some communities over reservations. Like Raut, other Congress ministers such as Vijay Wadettiwar, Varsha Gaikwad, too, had taken an anti-Maratha approach over the reservation issue. If this continues, we will have to take a firm stand to show the party its place,” said Maratha Kranti Morcha outfit in a statement.Recruiting Marathas under scrapped quota At least 6,000 youth from the Maratha community have been facing uncertainty over their recruitment in government jobs after the SC verdict. The court has safeguarded recruitments before September 9 under the Maratha quota. But none of them were given an appointment letter then.Virendra Pawar of the Maratha Kranti Morcha said, “Only a few Maratha youth were appointed under the quota before SC scrapped it. It was just because of the inefficiency of the government that the recruitment process was not completed within time. Now it’s the responsibility of the government to see that they are given the appointments on posts they would have got under the quota.” “There are 11 problems before us in recruiting these Maratha candidates and we are finding ways to ensure that they do not lose the quota benefits,” said an official from GAD.The state government has appointed a high-level committee under retired HC judge Dilip Bhosale to study the order and recommend a way forward for Maratha reservations.Political analyst Hemant Desai said that the issue of reservation in promotions may become crucial and add to the challenges for the government. “For the first time since the government formation, the Congress has taken an aggressive stand on the issue of reservation in promotions and it may lead to a serious face-off between the ruling parties. The tussle is because NCP wants to woo the Marathas, while Congress does not want to lose its traditional vote bank. Also, it is a task before the government to recruit Maratha candidates who have been selected in government jobs and then to make it stand legally. These issues will haunt the MVA government, especially when the BJP is determined to corner them,” he said.Subhash Gangurde, general secretary, Maharashtra government employees unions’ federation, said, “We do not believe in the caste system within the administration, but the reservation in promotions should be given as per Constitutional provisions. It is the responsibility of the government to protect it. It is beyond comprehension as to why the state failed to submit quantifiable data in the court in the past four years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-govt-s-share-of-woes-over-court-rulings-on-quotas-101622230164504.html
29-05-2021||Other||Yogi hits out at Mamata, says she should work for relief to people of Bengal||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday launched a Twitter attack on his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee and said she should rise above “petty politics” amid cyclone Yaas and work with the nation to provide relief to people.In a set of two tweets, he said : “Honorable PM @narendramodi ji and the entire nation stand with the people of Bengal. @MamataOfficial should rise above petty politics, shed her ego and work with the nation to provide relief to the people of Bengal.He further said: “Non-cooperation by @MamataOfficial with Centre is blatant violation of constitutional norms & against the ethos of cooperative federalism. Absence from PM’s meeting shows her insensitivity towards welfare and betterment of people of Bengal at difficult times due to Cyclone Yaas.”Earlier in the day, Banerjee skipped a review meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi where West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, BJP’s Nandigram MLA and leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, and Raiganj MP Debasree Chaudhuri were also present.She did, however, meet Modi to give a report of the damage caused by the cyclone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-hits-out-at-mamata-says-she-should-work-for-relief-to-people-of-bengal-101622229264327.html
29-05-2021||Other||Ramakrishna Mission starts Covid medical relief||LUCKNOW Ramakrishna Mission Sevashram, Vivekananda Polyclinic and Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow started Covid medical relief work on the occasion of the 2458th birth anniversary of Lord Buddha on May 26. The relief work includes oxygen supply, free tele-consultation and collection of test samples from home etc. Swami Muktinathananda, secretary, Ramakrishna Math, Lucknow said, “It has been observed that the key to check the spread of coronavirus is isolation of patients. In order that the suspected as well as confirmed corona patients may be able to remain isolated wherever they are, a number of services are being provided in and around Lucknow, either free of charge or at subsidized rates, with immediate effect.” Covid oxygen relief Swami Muktinathananda said, “It has been observed that most of the Covid patients require oxygen for which hospitalization becomes necessary. The hospital is arranging to supply oxygen to them free of charge through a set of oxygen concentrators with a capacity of 5 litres per minute or 10 litres per minute, as per requirement. However, caution money has to be given as a refundable security deposit for the use of this costly equipment till recovery.” Medical consultation relief Free medical consultation will be provided every day from 1 pm to 2 pm by a team of competent doctors comprising intensivist, anesthesiologist, pulmonologist and other medical consultants. The prescribed drugs would be communicated to the patients at their respective Whatsapp numbers, he said. “The patients may approach the consultants by calling 9453207748. The prescribed drugs may be directly procured by the patients from their local drug stores. However, if necessary, the drugs may also be delivered to them from the hospital at concessional rates,” he said. Covid investigation relief Samples of Covid tests as well as other pathological investigations may be collected from the patients wherever they are, on calling mobile number 6387002969. The results will be communicated to them over Whatsapp/email directly from NABL accredited medical laboratory within 24 hours, Muktinathananda said. Covid AYUSH relief The alternate therapy wing of Vivekananda Polyclinic and Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow is extending free consultation and advice to Covid as well as general patients by competent AYUSH doctors over internet daily from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. for which the mobile no. is 9450714457.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ramakrishna-mission-starts-covid-medical-relief-101622229024764.html
29-05-2021||Other||Black fungus on the rise in Meerut division, drugs scarce||MEERUT Cases of black fungus are on the rise in different districts of Meerut division, even as efforts to ensure supply of injections for treatment of this disease appear inadequate. Meerut division comprises Noida, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Bulandshahr, Hapur and Baghpat districts and so far 312 patients of black fungus have been admitted in Meerut, Noida and Ghaziabad districts. Saharanpur division (Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar and Shamli) has also been pooled with Meerut division for treatment of black fungus. Therefore patients from these three districts are also referred to LLRM Medical College in Meerut where a special ward has been set up. So far, 103 patients have been discharged after treatment while 22 died in the division. As many as 191 patients are undergoing treatment in hospitals of Noida, Meerut and Ghaziabad. Out of these 312 cases, 166 were diagnosed and treated in LLRM Medical College and 13 in other private hospitals of Meerut. Of these, 52 patients were discharged while 14 succumbed during treatment and 100 patients are still under treatment out of which 76 are in Medical College and remaining 24 in other private hospitals. Experts say that black fungus is a rare disease and it can be most effectively treated with Amphotericin-B injection. This injection is also not easily available and so there was an acute shortage after cases of black fungus exponentially increased. The state government formulated a mechanism and made additional director of health nodal officer at divisional level for ensuring distribution of available injections as per demand from hospitals. But insufficient supply of these injections has turned the situation worrisome. Dr Rajkumar, additional director, health, Meerut division, shared that his office received 280 vials of life saving Amphotericin- B injections. He made no bones in admitting shortage of injections and said“We are trying to handle the situation with available vials”. Amid shortage of the injections, hospitals need to send their requirement for injections to AD ( health) office, which distributes them Amphotericin- B injection as per availability. Many patients of black fungus were treated in Anand Hospital here and a few are still under treatment. Director of the hospital Dr Subhash Yadav shared,“We are facing acute shortage of the injection and now alternate medicines are being used to treat the patients”. Dr Pradeep Kumar of Meerut kidney hospital has treated many patients of black fungus and three are still undergoing treatment. He reiterated that injection Amphotericin-B injection was the most effective, so it was prescribed for treatment of black fungus but was scarce now. He said that some patients even required 4 to 5 doses of the injection everyday, depending upon their condition. Dr Kumar said that medicine Posacinazole was being used as an alternative but it was also in short supply. He said that the hospital requested the attendants of a patient on Wednesday to shift him to some other hospital where the medicines were available. “ We sometime feel helpless,” he said and added that attendants of patients were also passing through a difficult time. A farmer of Baghat area, Karanpal, is undergoing treatment for black fungus since May 14. His son Shailesh Kumar said that he received only two injections from the office of AD ( health) and were trying hard for more injections even from the open market but without luck. Shailesh, whose father has undergone surgery, explained, “ Surgery cures 40 per cent and medicines are required for cure of the remaining 60 per cent disease”. He said presently his father was being treated through alternate medicine, which they luckily purchased in good number in the middle of the month. Now these medicines are also not available in the market. Shailesh said that attendants of almost every patient were facing difficulties in arranging injections and medicines to keep their family members alive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/black-fungus-on-the-rise-in-meerut-division-drugs-scarce-101622228666427.html
29-05-2021||Other||Civic bodies testing potable water in Lko, all samples found safe till now||Lucknow The Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) and Jal Sansthan are conducting tests of potable water at three levels to ensure 100 per cent safe supply in the state capital. More than 100 samples from various localities of the city have been tested recently and all of them have been found safe. To note, recently there were reports of a study confirming presence of Covid contamination in sewer water near Khadra. Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “The LMC came to know about Covid contamination in sewage through several reports. There is no official confirmation on the matter, but as a protective measure we’ve tested samples of drinking water from more 100 places. All samples have been found safe and no bacterial or virus contamination has been detected till now .Testing will continue in the days to come. The effort is to ensure safe water supply to the residents of the city.” Acting GM Jal Sansthan Ram Kailash said, “The teams of LMC and Jal Sansthan are going to target Alambagh, Aliganj , Indira Nagar and Gomti Nagar for testing of water samples. These areas have reported maximum Covid cases in the past. Till now, over 100 samples of potable water have been found safe for drinking.” “Keeping the safety of residents in mind, we are conducting tests of water at three levels. At the first level, our junior engineer tests the water supply along with the supervisor. Next comes testing with the team of CMO in the presence of our executive engineers. At the third level the samples are sent to the state lab in Aliganj,” he said. The Jal Sansthan has also identified more than 150 spots where leakages are reported, as there is a possibility of water getting contaminated if the leakages are not repaired. Corporator Girish Mishra said, “There has been talk of ashes of Covid positive bodies being immersed in Gomti and virus traces have reportedly been found in a sewer near Khadra. So testing of water samples is very important. The repairs of leakages, especially near sewer lines, must be carried out on war footing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-bodies-testing-potable-water-in-lko-all-samples-found-safe-till-now-101622228424253.html
29-05-2021||Other||Panel indicts two Panchkula hospitals in five cases of overcharging Covid patients||The committee looking into complaints of overcharging has indicted two private hospitals in Panchkula and recommended action against them in the report submitted to the district’s chief medical officer. The eight-member committee, which comprised additional deputy commissioner Mohd Imran Raza among others, submitted its report after examining five complaints submitted by Covid-19 patients against Paras Hospital and Alchemist Hospital. The committee, which was set up by the deputy commissioner on May 25, found that the hospitals had not raise the bills according to rates fixed by the state government. In the case of Panchkula resident Man Singh, who got a bill of ₹4.99 lakh after being admitted to Paras Hospital on April 21 and being discharged on April 25, the committee said: “The hospital failed to comply with the instructions of Haryana government. The hospital charged 50% excess as compared to the market rate...” In another case of Chandigarh resident Vijay Kumar Goel, the committee held the patient was charged 199.6% in excess “of the legitimate bill amount”. The committee also pointed out “marked difference in charges of lab tests” while the oxygen supply had been charged extra in the case of Panchkula’s Suresh Kumar Sud. Meanwhile, Alchemist Hospital was found guilty of overcharging two patients. Milan Singh of Panchkula was admitted to the hospital on April 27 and had expired on May 12. The hospital had raised a bill of ₹3,62,864. The committee pointed out that the billing was not strictly as per government instructions and was 34% higher that the legitimate amount. The committee also examined the case of Rakesh Kumar Saini, a resident of Delhi, who had insurance cover and was allegedly charged 97.5% extra. The two hospitals were not immediately available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panel-indicts-two-panchkula-hospitals-in-five-cases-of-overcharging-covid-patients-101622227405539.html
29-05-2021||Other||Alumni of Fergusson College’s psychology department offer free counselling||PUNE A group of alumni from Fergusson College’s psychology department has banded together for a cause. The collective goal is to offer free counselling to those in need. Helmed by arts-based therapist Gauri Kaulgud, and actor Parna Pethe, both former Fergusson College students, and post graduates in clinical psychology, this stint involves the participation of 20-odd highly qualified, practising and experienced counsellors. Speaking about what prompted her to spearhead this activity, Pethe explains, “The second wave of the pandemic hit the city, and wreaked tremendous havoc. There has been constant news about a lot of people being hospitalised, some losing their loved ones, quite a few going through unemployment, and the others trying to come to terms with the anxiety and uncertainty around. I felt in these harsh times, there is an immense need for people to find a place to express, grieve, vent, and seek help, without worrying about money.”To put her ideas into action, and to launch a free emotional support intervention, Pethe joined hands with Kaulgud, a counsellor at the city-based Avasara academy, a school. Kaulgud’s work spans a range of demographics, and includes young adults, children with special needs, primary caregivers, and children from lower socio-economic and vulnerable backgrounds. Speaking about how the initiative works, Kaulgud said that they have been circulating flyers on social media, so the ones who need to connect with them, are able to find them. Throwing light on the modus operandi, she said, “When we get a call, either Parna or I take it; we are the first points of contact. Then, based on the nature of the caller’s concerns, we direct them to the most relevant counsellor from our group. That counsellor takes it forward from there.”Pethe added that all counsellors who are a part of this initiative have dedicated a fixed set of time slots for taking calls. This helps keep the process organised. “We also arrange follow-up sessions, if need be. And after a counselling session, we take feedback from the callers about their experiences,” said Pethe.So far, their group has counselled at least 100 people. These people can broadly be put into two categories; first, those in a quandary either because they’re Covid positive, or someone from their families has succumbed to the infection. The second category is people who are unsettled due to prevailing circumstances. Their issues are typically about feeling fretful due to constantly being confined at home with family members, or they’re anxious about getting infected, and losing jobs, among other concerns. Pethe said, “The concerns surrounding the pandemic are not just about physical or mental health; they’re also largely social, political, and administrative. Unemployment is a pressing concern. Another big segment of disturbed callers is students, who think that if the situation doesn’t improve, their future is bleak.”For this group of counsellors, the way forward is still taking shape. “This group came to life rather spontaneously, but we’re functioning in a very organised manner. The response has been overwhelming, and only reaffirms the need for such an intervention in the long run. We are planning to conduct group sessions for frontline workers. We are also open to collaborations, or any new ideas that will help us better doing our bit,” concluded the duo.Counselling service hotlinePlease call: 7414948259; timing: 10am to 5pm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/alumni-of-fergusson-college-s-psychology-department-offer-free-counselling-101622215702894.html
29-05-2021||Other||Welfare schemes, tussle with rivals mark 2 years of Jagan tenure||It was a year of consolidation of power and controversies for Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP) president and Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who will complete two years in office on Sunday.The Navaratnalu (nine jewels) welfare schemes and a slew of other populist schemes that began during the first year of the YSRCP coming to power picked up pace during the second year of Reddy’s rule, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic notwithstanding, consolidating his vote bank and fetching him tremendous mileage in the local body elections.Apart from direct benefit transfer (DBT) schemes like Amma Vodi (cash incentive to women who send their children to schools), enhanced pensions, fee reimbursement scheme, YSR Zero Interest Scheme, etc .that were introduced in the first year, Reddy came up with a calendar of various other welfare schemes for farmers, weavers, lawyers, autorickshaw drivers, hawkers, fishermen etc., covering every section of the population, to increase the YSRCP’s votebank.The distribution of 2,500,000 housing sites for economically weaker sections of the population on December 25 last year brought Reddy massive goodwill.“It was a sort of social engineering by Reddy, who ensured that not a single section of people is left out in the implementation of welfare schemes. He even covered upper castes like Brahmins, Kapus and Reddys, besides minorities,” said political analyst Sangem Ramakrishna.The establishment of village and ward secretariats to bring the administration to the villages and towns firmly entrenched the YSRCP at the grassroots level. Over 300,000 village and ward volunteers, who were appointed to deliver the benefits of various government schemes, be it pensions or ration, directly to the beneficiaries at their doorsteps, proved a masterstroke for him.But in his eagerness to implement his welfare agenda, Reddy has not focussed much on industrial and infrastructure development. Though his government came up with an industrial policy seeking to provide a lot of incentives to the sector, no major industries have been grounded in the state. No new infrastructure projects have come up in the last two years.“We had several grandiose plans for the development of Vizag-Chennai industrial corridor and Kakinada special economic zone. But the pandemic has virtually stalled everything,” a YSRCP leader, who asked not to be named, said.The indiscriminate borrowing by the Reddy government to implement its welfare schemes has also left the state exchequer virtually bankrupt. “The state is totally dependent on loans. As of today [Friday], the total outstanding debt of the state stands at ₹4.47 lakh crore and in the last two years, the Reddy government borrowed ₹1.60 lakh crore,” former finance minister and TDP lawmaker Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said.State finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, however, said during the recent budget presentation that the state had to borrow enormous amounts of money because of the crippling of state finances because of the Covid-19 pandemic.What marred the otherwise welfare-oriented rule of Reddy were his acts of vengeance against his political rivals and confrontation with constitutional institutions, including judiciary. Many of his decisions taken in a hurry – such as creating three capitals for the state in place of existing capital Amaravati, introducing English medium in all government schools, removing the state election commissioner by promulgating an ordinance, acquiring land for house site schemes and painting of government buildings with YSRCP colours have come under the scanner of the judiciary.This led to Reddy launching a tirade against the judiciary, going to the extent of lodging a complaint with former Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, accusing second-most senior Supreme Court NV Ramana of colluding with TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu and a few judges of the state high court to dislodge his government. He even attributed the land scam in Amaravati to justice Ramana, but the CJI dismissed his petition after due inquiry.“It appears Reddy has crossed all limits in acting with vengeance against his political rivals, aimed at finishing them politically and financially. The closure of Amara Raja firms owned by TDP MP Galla Jayadev and seizure of Sangam Dairy from ex-MLA Dhulipalla Narendra are classic examples of his vengeance politics. This has never been heard of in any other state,” said senior journalist and political analyst Suresh Dharur. His prolonged legal battle over the sudden postponement of local body elections in March 2020 due to the outbreak of Covid-19 with previous state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, which Reddy lost, also showed his aggressive approach to whoever had opposed his decisions. Reddy was displeased with the announcement postponing the elections.In the last one year, many TDP leaders, including state unit president K Atchannaidu, Kollu Ravindra, Dhulipalla Narendra, Chintamaneni Prabhakar, JC Prabhakar Reddy, JC Asmith Reddy and BC Janardhan Reddy were arrested in various cases. Even TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu was booked by the CID for his alleged role in the acquisition of assigned lands in Amaravati.Reddy ordered several inquiries, alleging insider trading on part of rival political leaders during the land acquisition process for Amaravati, but the cases are still being heard in court. The filing of a sedition case against his own party MP from Narasapuram K Raghurama Krishnam Raju for questioning his government policies clearly displayed his intolerant attitude.Dharur said Reddy appeared to be of the view that he was above any criticism after receiving a huge mandate with 151 of his party MLAs in the 175-member assembly. “The way he fixed even two Telugu television channels [the TV channels regularly telecast Raju’s press conferences] in the sedition case along with Raju shows he cannot tolerate any negative talk about him,” he said. In the last one year, the chief minster made several attempts to shift the administrative capital from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam, but it did not work out due to court litigations and the pandemic.“The two-year rule of Reddy is marked by corruption, political victimisation and hatred for his rivals. There is no job creation and dreams of the youth are shattered. The economy in shambles,” TDP chief Naidu said.The Reddy government, however, claimed that it could fulfil over 90% promises he had made in the party manifesto.“It [the government] has implemented several revolutionary programmes which were never heard of in the past, covering all sections of people,” an official note from the government, listing its achievements in various sectors, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ap-cm-reddy-s-2-yr-rule-marked-by-welfare-schemes-fights-with-political-rivals-101622211803220.html
