30-05-2021||Other||Hooch tragedy: Liquor mafioso, 10 others arrested||Agra Eleven people, liquor mafioso Anil Chaudhary, named in the cases registered at five police stations of Aligarh district in connection with the recent hooch tragedy were arrested on Sunday. However, two people carrying a reward of Rs. 50,000 each are still at large. Chaudhary has political connections and is said to be the kingpin of the spurious liquor trade in the area. To note, dozens of people died, and many were hospitalised after allegedly consuming spurious liquor purchased from a government-run liquor shop in Karsua, Andla, Chairath and Jawan villages of Aligarh on Friday. “Cases have been registered at five police stations of Aligarh district and of those named, 11 have been arrested. Police are in hot pursuit of two absconders, Rishi Pal Sharma and Bipin Yadav, on whom reward of Rs. 50,000 each has been declared,” said DIG Aligarh range Deepak Kumar. Confusion prevailed over the number of deaths as the district administration claimed that there were 25 confirmed deaths. Chief medical officer of Aligarh Dr BPS Kalyani said that postmortem examination reports of 25 victims indicated death due to alcohol poisoning while viscera of 26 others had been preserved for further testing. Postmortem examination had been conducted on 51 bodies from the affected area, he added. Aligarh district magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh has ordered a magisterial probe by ADM (execution) and the report is to be submitted within 15 days. On Saturday, the district magistrate had said that a probe into the matter was initiated, and National Security Act (NSA) would be invoked against those found guilty in the inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hooch-tragedy-liquor-mafioso-10-others-arrested-101622399203236.html
30-05-2021||Other||Corona curfew curbs, rain help improve air quality of UP cities||Lucknow: The cyclone –induced rain and the curbs during the period of corona curfew in Uttar Pradesh helped better the Air Quality Index (AQI) of many cities in May as per data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The average AQI of Uttar Pradesh in May was recorded below 150 , similar to that recorded last year and one of the lowest since 2000.The average AQI recorded in Lucknow between May 1 to May 30 this year, was around 150. In 2020, when country-wide lockdown was imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19, the city had recorded a similar AQI. However, in 2019 the average AQI in Lucknow was recorded at around 300 in the month of May. According to CPCB classification, AQI between 101 to 200 is categorised as moderate with very little impact on human health and AQI between 201 and 300 as poor. AQI between 301 and 400 is categorised as very poor and that above 400 as severe. According to experts, beside corona curfew curbs, the above average rainfall across the state also led to improvement of air quality. The state recorded more than 60 mm of rainfall in May, almost double than the normal rainfall “The state recorded around 12 days of rainfall caused by western disturbances or conditions caused first by Tauktae and Yaas cyclones. There were rain, thunderstorms and strong winds in most parts of the state,” said state MeT department director JP Gupta. These weather conditions helped AQI of major UP cities to improve considerably. Cities like Lucknow, Agra, Noida, Moradabad, Kanpur and Baghpat which record the worst AQI in the country showed considerable improvement in their AQI this month. Meanwhile, experts warn that the improvement is temporary which will subside as the curbs are relaxed in the state. “The improvement in AQI of UP cities in May is a positive sign but these changes are temporary that will subside quickly with relaxation of corona curfew norms. The citizens and decision-makers must try to make arrangements so that we can have cleaner air all around the year,” said senior environmentalist Devesh Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/corona-curfew-curbs-rain-help-improve-air-quality-of-up-cities-101622398962764.html
30-05-2021||Other||2,187 positive cases reported on Sunday with 26 deaths||PUNE Pune district, on Sunday, reported 2,187 fresh Covid-19 cases and 26 deaths in 24 hours, as reported by the state health department.Pune district has reported 10,16,109 progressive cases, of which 9,64,169 have recovered. The death toll stands at 12,474 and 39,466 is the active number of cases.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 1,276 new cases taking the total to 2,88,358. With 18 deaths on Sunday, the rural death toll went up to 3,982.Pune city reported 526 new Covid-19 cases, which takes its total count to 4,84,313. Eight deaths were reported on Sunday, which puts the city death toll at 6,727. PCMC reported 385 new Covid-19 cases. With no deaths reported on Sunday, the PCMC toll stands at 1,704.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2187-positive-cases-reported-on-sunday-with-26-deaths-101622390742199.html
30-05-2021||Other||PMC meeting on June 1 to ensure contact tracing reumes and is effective||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is gearing up to revive its contract tracing system. The process had gone bust due to various reasons, including unprofessional conduct of PMC staffers and also non co-operation of citizens in giving correct names, addresses and phone numbers.“The health department has come to know that names, incomplete and wrong addresses and a lack of noting down of the nearest relatives’ contact numbers by staffers had emerged to be major impediments to the contact tracing.It was becoming difficult to track down Covid-19 patients and trace contacts. A meeting of private labs, policy makers and private hospitals has been organised on June 1 to chalk out a detailed strategy,” said Dr Kalpana Baliwant, assistant head of the PMC health department.“We have been taking series measures aimed at streamlining our work and making contact tracing effective for prevention of spread of Covid-19. A number of changes are being make to tackle the third wave,” Dr Baliwant added. “Contact tracing is a tool for slowing down the transmission of infectious. By tracing the interactions the civic body can quickly identify infected persons in case of an outbreak in the workplace. With the right information on hand, one can take the necessary preventive measures, like asking infected persons to self-isolate and not come to work. This meeting will ensure all shortcomings are addressed,” said Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol.The PMC has deployed 300 teams to contact trace. At least 21 teams are on the ground in every ward. The PMC has stated that many cases with mild symptoms have been found during the contact tracing exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-meeting-on-june-1-to-ensure-contact-tracing-reumes-and-is-effective-101622387320931.html
30-05-2021||Other||Living by the rules, PCMC slum with population of 6K Covid free in second wave||PUNE Following the strict Covid norms laid down by the authorities, anecdotal evidence suggests that the Rajiv Gandhi slum in Pimple Gurav has had no Covid-19 cases since March. In the first Covid wave in 2020, the slum had 300 confirmed cases. While the district authorities are yet to sift through the numbers to confirm this, corporators from the area and social workers believe the slum has been Covid-free in the second wave.Ambarnath Kamble, corporator, from ward 31, Pimple Gurav, the area under which the slum exists, said, “There are zero cases in the Rajiv Gandhi slum.”Dr Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) said, “The cases in slum areas reported have been fewer than the first wave, but we are yet to compare the data.”Dr Viajya Ambedkar, medical health officer, PCMC, said, “The cases in Pimple Gurav have been lower, but we are yet to segregate the data area wise.”The slum has a population of 6,000, and residents decided not to break the rules and only ventured out in an emergency.“The people responded to all the rules and regulations. No major steps were taken, but we made sure those going out sanitised themselves completely before entering their homes,” said corporator Kamble.As per data provided by the PCMC’s Covid-19 war room, active cases in the ‘D’ zone currently stand at 669. This includes Punawale, Pimple Gurav, Pimple Saudagar, Pimple Nilakh, Tathawade and Wakad . “Overall, if you look at Pimple Gurav, the cases were fewer as compared to the first wave,” said Kamble.Ashok Dendhe, a resident of Shankar Apartment in the Rajiv Gandhi slum, said, “All essential shops in the area are very prompt about timings and make people maintain a social distance while standing in queue. The mask rule was followed, even by children.”“Public toilets were sanitised twice a day, along with garbage collection on a daily basis. Our focus was to keep the surroundings garbage free and for all residents to maintain respiratory hygiene,” said Uddhav Dawri, health inspector.Social activist Ashwin Khude said, “Lots of awareness campaigns were conducted in the locality during March, which got a positive response. People still maintain Covid rules while coming out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/living-by-the-rules-pcmc-slum-with-population-of-6k-covid-free-in-second-wave-101622384740688.html
30-05-2021||Other||World No-Tobacco Day: Study infers those directly exposed to tobacco at higher risk of Covid-19 complications||PUNE A Pune-based medical firm, to mark World No-Tobacco Day on May 31, has released results of a sample study of males and females directly exposed to tobacco, either through active use or through passive smoking. Based on its study, Indus Health Plus, infers that persons with tobacco exposure are more likely to suffer Covid19 complications.The study was conducted between April 2018 and January 2021. Of the 29,548 people tested in Maharashtra, 4,124 are from Pune. Across the state, 38% of males and 42% females studied displayed lung abnormalities, while in Pune, 48% of males and 53% of females showed abnormalities. The report suggests that the increase in the female population is due to a trend of smoking or consumption of tobacco amongst women. Besides that, exposure to passive smoking is also a significant reason.Amol Naikawadi, joint managing director, Indus Health Plus, said, “Smoking along with pre-existing lung ailments can exacerbate the conditions significantly. Moreover, in the current Covid-19 scenario, the situation becomes critical as it can have an adverse outcome, especially in terms of the time taken to recover from the disease. When we say passive smokers, all of us constitute that group, however, our study found that those who are directly exposed to smokers either at home or in offices for a prolonged period are more likely to show such abnormalities.” He added, “Consumption of tobacco in any form increases the risk of developing severe Covid-19 outcomes. In addition, it also increases the risk of diseases like COPD, brain stroke, heart attack, asthma, lung cancer, interstitial lung disease (respiratory disease), and diabetes. The younger generation consumes smoke and smokeless tobacco due to peer pressure, to make a style statement and due to stress. A strong will power, medical counselling and oral medication help overcome smoking.”“People consuming tobacco or smoking have a higher risk of being infected with the virus through the mouth. If smokers contract Covid-19, they face a greater risk of a severe infection as their lung health is already compromised. Apart from that, the psychological and economic effects of smoking are also very adverse. Therefore, quitting tobacco consumption in any form will reduce the risk of various ailments and will lead to wellness and a healthy lifestyle,” said Naikawadi.The World Health Organisation (WHO), based on multiple studies, concluded that available evidence suggests that smoking is associated with an increased severity of disease and death in hospitalised Covid-19 patients. Although related to severity, there is no evidence to quantify the risk to smokers of hospitalisation with Covid-19, or of infection by Sars-CoV-2, as per peer-reviewed literature. Indus Health Plus provides preventive healthcare services and is headquartered in Pune. Indus has also partnered with hospitals and diagnostic labs in 78 Indian cities, across more than 122 centres. The company was set up in 2000 and is ISO certified. It mainly deals with diseases caused by environmental changes and sedentary lifestyles, which have resulted in a rising number of non-communicable diseases, affecting all age groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/world-no-tobacco-day-study-infers-those-directly-exposed-to-tobacco-at-higher-risk-of-covid-19-complications-101622383600660.html
30-05-2021||Other||“Overcharged” during first wave, 4 Covid patients still await refund: Panchkula CMO||Four complaints regarding overcharging by private Covid-care hospitals filed last year remain unsettled, confirmed the civil surgeon of Panchkula.This despite the fact that directions were issued by a specially constituted committee to refund the amount overcharged.Last year, when the city was grappling with the first wave of the pandemic, four patients had filed a complaint against two private hospitals, alleging overcharging. One of the patients was “overcharged” ₹2 lakh.A special committee was constituted and it found out that the hospitals had indeed charged more fees from these patients, when compared to the rates fixed by the state government.As per the committee report, in one case, Paras Hospital, Panchkula, had charged ₹8,09,447 from a patient, ₹2,50,962 over the fixed rate. In other two cases, Paras Hospital was found to have charged ₹26,135 and ₹18,100 in excess.The fourth complaint was against Alchemist Hospital, which had charged ₹1,85,600, ₹3,200 was in excess.Hospitals were directed to reimburse excess amountsDr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula, said: “To ensure that patients are not fleeced by private hospitals during the pandemic, the state government had fixed rates for Covid treatment. Last year, we got four complaints of overcharging, following which a committee was constituted, which had directed the hospitals to refund the excess amount.”She added: “They have not reimbursed the amount yet.”A spokesperson from Paras Hospital said: “We have refunded all bills and none is pending. One of the patients was Chanderkanta, who was charged over ₹8 lakh, and we have refunded around ₹2 lakh.”Spokesperson of the Alchemist Hospital said: “The excess amount was ambulance charges and it has been refunded.”Dr Jasjeet Kaur said: “I have checked with Sanjay Chanderkanta and three other patients. They have not received any reimbursement yet.”Kaur said that this year, they have received at least five complaints of overcharging by various private hospitals including Alchemist, Paras, Wings and others. One patient was charged as high as ₹14 lakh for Covid treatment.Most of the complaints were received by Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta, who also wrote to the chief minister of Haryana. On May 28, a committee headed by additional deputy commissioner Mohd Imran Raza indicted the two private hospitals in five complaints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/overcharged-during-first-wave-4-covid-patients-still-await-refund-panchkula-cmo-101622370640015.html
30-05-2021||Other||Two cadets of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Armed Forces Preparatory Institute commissioned as officers||Two cadets of the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Armed Forces Preparatory Institute (AFPI) earned their commission as officers in the Armed Forces on Saturday. The total number of AFPI cadets commissioned as officers is now 71; the number is expected to further increase on June 12 when the passing out parade at the Indian Military Academy will be held.Gentleman cadet Barjot Singh Dhillon passed out from the Officers Training Academy, Chennai, on completion of his training of the 111 SSC course. Barjot had joined AFPI in 2011 as part of the institute’s first course. He hails from Patiala. His father, Kuldeep Singh, is a technician and mother, Gurpreet Kaur, is a teacher in a government school. He has two sisters. The passing out parade was reviewed by Lt Gen YK Joshi, army commander, Northern Command.Cadet Vishvajit Singh joined AFPI as part of the institute’s fifth course in 2015. On completion, he joined the National Defence Academy as part of the 138 NDA course. Thereafter, he went on to join the Indian Naval Academy, Ezhimala, for one-year final training. His father, Vikram Singh, is a hotelier and mother, Man Mohinder, is a house wife. His grandfather, late Lt Gen Gurinder Singh, was a former army commander of the Northern Command. The parade was reviewed by Vice Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, flag officer commanding-in-chief, Eastern Naval Command.Passing out parade of the 140 NDA course was held at Khadakwasla, Maharashtra, and was reviewed by the Chief of Naval Staff, Admiral Karambir Singh. As many as 16 cadets from AFPI passed out from NDA. They will do one more year of training at respective service academies before being commissioned as officers.So far, 162 AFPI cadets have joined NDA and other service academies from the first eight courses. Of these, 71 have become officers. Currently there are three courses underway at AFPI. Cadets of the ninth AFPI course are in Class 12 and are waiting to take final board exams, for which dates are expected to be finalised soon. Cadets of the tenth AFPI course are studying in Class 12 and are now busy preparing for the NDA entrance exam scheduled to be held in September this year. Forty-two boys have been selected as part of the 11th AFPI course which commenced training on May 24. Due to Covid restrictions, however, all training is being carried out online.Notwithstanding the interruption to normal training routine in the period between January 2020 and May 2021, as many as 28 cadets of the Maharaja Ranjit Singh AFPI have joined NDA and other service academies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-cadets-of-maharaja-ranjit-singh-armed-forces-preparatory-institute-commissioned-as-officers-101622322395128.html
30-05-2021||Other||Drive-through jabbing for 18+ group during weekends in Karnal||Starting this Sunday, Karnal administration will be holding drive-through vaccinations on national highway 44 during the weekends. Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the drive-through vaccination will be launched at Ballari bypass on NH 44 in Karnal at 8am on Sunday.He said the vaccination will be done on every Saturday and Sunday to help people get the jab while sitting in their vehicles and avoiding gatherings at vaccination centres. There will be facility of on- the-spot registration. He said people will have to sit in their vehicles for 30 minutes after taking the jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drivethrough-jabbing-for-18-group-during-weekends-in-karnal-101622318553908.html
30-05-2021||Other||Rahejas buy 3 duplex flats for ₹427 crore from its development firm in Mumbai||In one of the largest real estate transactions of recent time, the family members of real estate developer Raheja have purchased three duplex apartments spanning across 66,811 square feet at a high-end Worli area for ₹427 crore. The project is being developed by the group’s development firm K Raheja Corp. The 45-storeyed skyscraper Astesia is located near Worli coast and offers a breath-taking view of the Arabian Sea. Owing to the reduction in the stamp duty introduced by the state government to boost the sales, the Rahejas saved a staggering ₹12.75 crore. The group paid ₹8.55 crore (2%) as stamp duty. The Rahejas had purchased the apartments last year on December 31 and registered documents on April 22. In the transaction, the promoters of K Raheja Corp – Ravi, Neel and Jyoti Raheja – have purchased the 41st, 43rd and 44th floors as well as some apartments on the 42nd and 45th floors. Despite repeated attempts, K Raheja Corp refused to respond to the development. The other high-profile buyers in Astesia include Smita D Parekh, the wife of banker Deepak Parekh, who has shelled out ₹50 crore to buy a sea-view flat. HDFC Bank’s vice-chairman and chief executive officer Keki Mistry has also purchased an apartment for ₹41.23 crore. The real estate sector has been facing a downturn for several years owing to economic slowdown, with the pandemic making the situation worse. Last August, the government had announced to reduce stamp duty levied on the sales of apartments to 2% from September 1 to December 31 and then further reduced it to 3% from January 1 to March 31 this year. The move had played a huge role in boosting sales of both primary and secondary markets. The state, however, refused to extend the stamp duty cut further despite several requests from the industry. According to Sandeep Reddy, co-founder of real estate data analytics research firm Zapkey.com, “The stamp duty cuts really had a profound effect on the luxury segment as we witnessed several high-value transactions in south and south-central Mumbai during that time [till March 31],” said Reddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rahejas-buy-3-duplex-flats-for-427-crore-from-its-development-firm-in-mumbai-101622318313263.html
30-05-2021||Other||Maratha quota: Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati meets Dalit leader Prakash Ambedkar to’ reduce divide’||Member of Parliament from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati – who has taken an initiative to bring back Maratha reservation after the Apex court scrapped it – met Dalit leader Prakash Ambedkar, who is the great grandson of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, on Saturday to discuss the issue. Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, who has been meeting several leaders from the state, said that the idea behind meeting Ambedkar was to reduce the “divide” among the two communities. “Our outlook [for the meeting] was to look at reducing the divide between the communities. I belong to the lineage of Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj, while he is from the lineage of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar... If Shahu Maharaj and Dr Ambedkar could come together, why can’t Prakash Ambedkar and Sambhaji Chhatrapati,” Sambhajiraje said in a joint press conference with Ambedkar after the meeting. Sambhajiraje is a descendant of Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Outlining the connect between the two leaders, he further said, “Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj was the first to give reservation to the Bahujan Samaj. Later, Dr Ambedkar brought it in the Constitution. It was Dr Ambedkar’s wish to provide quota for the Maratha community. Till 1967, Marathas got reservation in the Central list under the OBC (Other Backward Classes) quota. Later, several commissions were set, and Marathas were excluded as forward or dominating class and the quota was removed.” Having deviated from the party line on the issue, Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati has put forth a three-point demand before the Maharashtra government. He has called for the filing of a review petition in the Supreme Court on it earlier decision to scrap the quota as well as a curative petition, and approaching the President through the Maharashtra Governor. The BJP MP added that the state government will now have to make a “fool-proof” plan again to secure the quota for the community through Article 342 (A) of the Constitution, wherein the President may recommend the reservation for the community. Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati expressed confidence that the Raj Bhavan, despite its frosty relations with the state government, will forward the proposal. “He [Governor] will have to do it. According to [Article] 342(A), the Governor will write to the President and, if the latter is inclined, will send the report to the backward class commission, following which it will be kept before the Parliament. For that, a fool-proof planning will be needed again. The shortcoming in the Gaikwad Commission [which recommended the quota earlier] will have to be scrutinised, which will take five-six months. Overall, the situation is quite conducive. Otherwise, there is an alternative of a review petition,” he said. Considering review petitions are usually rejected, there is also an option of a curative petition, said Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati. In an indirect reference to BJP-backed agitations for the quota, Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati added that people should not be held hostage by staging protests. and that elected representatives should find a way. “There is no point in holding people hostage on this matter now. Whatever the members of the community wanted to say, they have done it through 58 agitations. Now the matter is legal, and the elected representatives, including myself, will have to find a way out,” Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati said when asked about protests planned by BJP legislator Vinayak Mete. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said that Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati should meet Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi over the issue as the Centre can decide on the reservation. Raut said that Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati is a well-respected leader in Maharashtra, and the government has heard him on the issue. “He is meeting prominent leaders including [Nationalist Congress Party chief] Sharad Pawar, [Maharashtra chief minister] Uddhav Thackeray, [state minister from Congress] Ashok Chavan and [leader of Opposition from BJP] Devendra Fadnavis. But he should meet PM Modi because this issue is no longer in the hands of the state, but rests with the Centre. All political parties and its leaders are in sync with the sentiments of Chhatrapati Sambhaji Raje. We should all go to the PM and Modi must take a decision. PM holds the cards for it,” Raut said. When asked why the PM has not chosen to meet him over the issue, Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati said, “It could be due to Covid-related reasons or maybe his predicament over the issue. We are MPs and I will attempt to express my sentiments over the issue.” Meanwhile, after the meeting with Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, Ambedkar sought to corner Pawar on the issue. He said the Maratha strongman has not taken a clear stance on the quota issue for the community. “I have seen Pawar’s political journey for the past 40 years. His stand is always narova, kunjarova [a phrase from Mahabharat that loosely translates as non-committal]. On the Maratha reservation, too, he has followed the same. He meets CM without having a stand, but demands the implementation of the quota. On some issues, narova kunjarova is fine. But on issues such as the Maratha reservation, there needs to be a clear stand. We expect that he will take a stand soon either for or against the quota.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maratha-quota-sambhajiraje-chhatrapati-meets-dalit-leader-prakash-ambedkar-to-reduce-divide-101622318193300.html
30-05-2021||Other||Beyond the line of duty: Maharashtra cops pitch in to help kin of deceased colleagues||Twenty-nine-year-old Kavita Mahale was on the brink of slipping into depression. She was not just worried about the futures of her two children, but was also facing difficulties in meeting daily their needs. On March 25, Mahale lost her husband Sanjay – a constable posted with Nardana police station in Dhule – and her father-in-law to Covid-19. Her mother-in-law, too, had died from the virus last year and Mahale thus had no means of finding help. However, to her respite, four policemen arrived at her home one day and gave her a cheque of ₹1.5 lakh for Mahale to meet the household expenses and other daily requirements till the time the family got the solatium from the government. Mahale was overwhelmed by the act of generosity by her husband’s colleagues and batchmatees when she discovered that over a hundred of them had formed a WhatsApp group and collected the amount for the family through crowdfunding. “After losing three members [of the family] within six months, I was completely broken. I was traumatised and worried about the futures of my two children. I lived under tremendous mental stress. But after my husband’s colleagues extended help and arranged some money, I felt that I am not alone. I was moved by their heart-warming gesture, and it certainly boosted the much-needed confidence in me. I got a feeling that there will always be a second family standing beside me,” she said. Like Mahale, many grieving families of personnel who had died of the virus, received help from police groups that came forward during the crisis and are selflessly helping Covid-affected families of cops. The constables from the 2008 batch raised funds for the families of two of their batchmates who had died of the virus. One of them was constable Murad Ali from Mahim police station, who was admitted to SevenHills Hospital on April 26, and succumbed to the virus on May 9. Ali was the sole breadwinner for the family. The other constable for whose family the batch collected money was Satyajeet Pol from Worli local arms division. Soon after news of the Ali and Pol’s deaths spread across the police department, some constables from the batch jumped into action to help the families of the two Covid-19 victims. “On learning about their deaths, a bunch of my batchmates and I decided to help the grieving families. We drafted a message and circulated it in eight WhatsApp groups of our batch, posted across various units in Maharashtra and sought help. There are 1,334 police personnel from our batch, of which hundreds of them transferred around ₹3.4 lakh in a span of 15 days. We will be handing over the cheques of ₹1.7 lakh each to the families on June 1” said constable Bhaghirath Andhale, a member of the batch, who works at the police hospital. “By the time the family gets compensation from the government, this money would help them live with dignity and cut their dependability on others. And most importantly, the grieving families would feel that the friends of their late kin will always be there to look after them,” he added. According to Andhale, the police personnel from their batch were inducted into the force on June 1, 2009, and thus, the group celebrates the day by organising a get-together. “But as there is a health emergency, we all decided to do something to help the needy. We organised a blood donation camp [last year] and 276 constables from our batch donated blood that day,” said Andhale. Another constable from the same group, Sharad Ilag, said, “Our batch members have been very helpful and generous amid the crisis. For a cause like blood donation, our batchmates travelled to Mumbai from towns such as Jalgaon, Sangli, Nashik, Kolhapur and Pune. These days, no one takes the pain to travel for over 500km for donating 300 grams of blood.” Ilag has roped in his wife, a nursing staff from King Edward Memorial Hospital, into the various initiatives of his batch. Cops from this batch also helped fellow batchmates and their families when hit Kolhapur was hit by flood in 2019. At Naigaon’s local arms division, constable Rehana Shaikh, apart from doing her duties as a police personnel, endeavoured to successfully arrange plasma for 54 Covid-19 patients, of which 32 were either cops or their families. “Last year, while helping some colleagues in arranging an injection, I had shared my number with the Covid-19 helpline desk of the police department. Later, the helpdesk staff asked me to arrange injections or plasma for some more Covid-infected cops and I helped them. Later, whenever they would need urgent help, they used to call me. I always responded and used my contacts within and out of the department and ensured timely arrangement of donors and injections. This process worked so well that the helpline desk started calling me regularly, whenever they would exhaust their resources. I, too, felt good to help those in need,” said Shaikh. She said that during this second wave of Covid-19, Twitter was flooded with SOS alerts, with requests for ICU (intensive care unit) beds, oxygen cylinders, Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, and other drugs for patients. “Many celebrities or public figures who have vast reach on social media were using their followers’ network to avail help for the needy. But a lower-ranked cop in the police department hardly has any presence on Twitter. But as I developed a network of healthcare activists and NGOs (non-governmental organisations), they made me a common platform and sent SOS alerts for urgent help. I tried helping as many as people as possible,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/beyond-the-line-of-duty-maharashtra-cops-pitch-in-to-help-kin-of-deceased-colleagues-101622318133256.html
30-05-2021||Other||Ludhiana man arrested for firing in air, thrashing two men||The Sadar police arrested a man for allegedly opening fire in the air and snatching the mobile phone of a Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar resident on Friday before fleeing in his car. Police have recovered the phone and the car used in the crime from the accused.The accused has been identified as Subhash Sharma of Labour Colony of Dugri. His accomplices, including Rajan of Nirmal Nagar of Dugri and two unidentified persons, are yet to be arrested.Complainant Gurdeep Singh said the accused had thrashed one of his friends, Pawan Kumar of Nirmal Nagar, for no reason. On Thursday, he along with Pawan Kumar had gone to meet the accused to resolve the matter. When the duo reached the spot, the accused started thrashing them and opened fire in the air. While fleeing from the spot, the accused also snatched his mobile phone. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Ranjeet Singh, Basant Avenue Police Post in-charge, said the case has been registered against Rajan, Shubham and their unidentified accomplice under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 379-B (snatching using force), 506 (criminal intimidation) 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, Sections 25/54/59 of the Arms Act.A hunt is on for the arrest of the rest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-man-arrested-for-firing-in-air-thrashing-two-men-101622317655102.html
30-05-2021||Other||Karnal, nearby districts report dip in medical O2 demand||In a positive development, Karnal and its nearby districts are reporting a nearly 30% decline in the demand for liquid medical oxygen (LMO), indicating a fall in the number of critical Covid patients. As per officials, there was an unprecedented spike in the demand for medical oxygen during the peak of the second wave in the beginning of May; but now, the number of patients requiring oxygen support has been consistently dipping. Karnal deputy commissioner (DC) Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “Yes, we are seeing a fall in the demand for medical oxygen as the number of critical patients is coming down. As of now, the per day consumption of LMO in Karnal district is 12 MT as compared to 16 MT in the first week of May.”A senior official of the district administration, who is monitoring the distribution of oxygen cylinders, said the demand of LMO for home isolated patients also dipped from 100 cylinders a day to 50. He said that during the peak of the second wave, demand for home delivery of LMO used to go up to 683.The officials said there was an unprecedented rush for medical oxygen in the last week of April and first week of May as out of 186 ICU beds in government and private hospitals in the district, 181 were occupied and of 443 beds with oxygen support, 406 were taken. But now, out of 479 beds with oxygen support, 244 are unoccupied. Also, 90 out of the total 267 ICU beds in different private and government hospitals in the district are vacant.The demand for LMO has also declined in nearby districts. Kurukshetra DC Sharandeep Kaur Barar said the demand of medical oxygen in the district was around 10MT a day between April 28 and May 3 but now it has declined to 6MT a day. She said 237 cylinders have been delivered to patients for home use.Similarly, officials from Panipat health department said the per-day requirement of LMO has come down to 50 cylinders from 440 cylinders during the peak season. So far, 1, 270 cylinders have been distributed to patients in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnal-nearby-districts-report-dip-in-medical-o2-demand-101622317653950.html
30-05-2021||Other||UP govt departments asked to seek approvals for lump sum allocations||The Uttar Pradesh government has asked administrative departments to seek approval from the appropriate levels if they were proposing any amendment to the work plan submitted for a lump sum allocation for 2021-22. The departments have also been asked to explain the propriety of such changes.A lump sum provision is made with regard to certain administrative departments for anticipated expenditures without a specific mention of further details.“Lump sum provisions are made for construction of roads or school buildings etc without giving further details,” said those aware of government budgeting. “I have been directed to say that the administrative departments should seek approval from the appropriate level while explaining propriety if any amendment is felt necessary in the interest of work,” said additional chief secretary (finance) S Radha Chauhan in an order dated May 28, 2021.Chauhan, in her order sent to all the additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries and the secretaries, had quoted directives of state finance department dated March 10, 2021 for finalisation of annual work plan.“Lump sum is an amount that the executive gets from legislature in anticipation of some expenditure which cannot be explained at the time of making provisions in the state budget,” said former finance secretary Arvind Narain Mishra.The state finance department’s order dated March 10, 2021 had asked departments to finalise their annual work plans for lump sum by April 15, 2021. It said proposals for lump sum with estimated expenditure up to ₹10 crore needed to be approved by the department’s minister. For proposal of ₹10 to ₹25 crore, the approval of the finance minister will be required while proposal for ₹25 crore and above approval of the finance minister and the chief minister will be needed. The state finance department will not consider any proposal without necessary approvals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-departments-asked-to-seek-approvals-for-lump-sum-allocations-101622316033060.html
30-05-2021||Other||UP’s first 6-lane extradosed bridge at Prayagraj to be ready by 2024||Ministry of road transport and highways is constructing Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) first six-lane extradosed bridge over the Ganga in Prayagaraj.An extradosed bridge employs a structure that combines the main elements of both a box girder bridge and a cable-stayed bridge, officials said. The bridge, from Malak Harhar to Stanley road (near Beli Hospital), is expected to be ready by February 2024, said officials.“The state’s first six-lane extradosed bridge will have an overall length of 9.9 kilometers, of which 3.84 km would be the main bridge and the rest of the distance would be approach section of the bridge,” said project director Raj Kishor Singh, an Indian Engineering Services (IES) officer. “The stretch of 3.84 km would have 67 pillars and foundation work of 17 pillars is now in process. Also, of this 3.84 km, the span of 860 meters would be extradosed bridge and the rest would be precast segmental bridge, having span of 50 meters,” he said.“Of this, 860 meters, there would be three spans of 200 meters while two of 130 meters would be balancing spans on either side of the bridge. Besides, two spans of 50 meters would also be there on either side of the stretch,” said Singh.“The bridge would start from the Pratapgrah road (around 500 meters from Malak Harhar trisection), gain height to over cross the existing Y-junction (going towards Lucknow) and would then cross the Ganga from Kacchar area spanning over Beli village before ending at Stanley road,” he said. “For the commuters, wishing to move towards Lucknow, there would be a slip road using which one can turn towards Lucknow, while those going towards Pratapgrah or Faizabad would stay on the bridge and land on the existing Prayagraj-Pratapgrah highway,” said Singh who has earlier executed work on Varanasi airport link road. To speed up the construction work, a temporary road has been constructed which would expedite the transport of men and material. “We have the challenge of expediting the construction work amid Covid-19 pandemic. The total cost of the bridge is 1948.25 crore and would be completed by February 2024,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ups-first-6-lane-extradosed-bridge-at-prayagraj-to-be-ready-by-2024-101622315733521.html
30-05-2021||Other||UP CM announces scheme for children who lost parents to Covid-19||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday announced a welfare scheme for children who have either lost both of their parents or the earning parent to Covid-19.Under the scheme, known as the Uttar Pradesh Mukhyamantri Bal Sewa Yojana, every such child of 18 years and below in the state will get financial assistance of ₹4,000 per month till they become adults or turn self-reliant. The assistance will go to the caretaker of the children to ensure they are looked after. Elaborating about the scheme, Yogi Adityanath said, “Children who have lost both of their parents to Covid-19, a surviving parent, legal guardian in case the parents have already died earlier, will be included in this scheme. Children, who have lost the earning parent of their family will also be included in the scheme. The state government is committed to better health, better education and for the bright future of the children.” The state government will also provide tablets or laptops to all such children studying in schools, colleges or pursuing vocational education. The government will provide financial assistance of ₹1,01,000 for the marriage of girls under the scheme. Orphans aged between two and 10 years, who do not have any guardian or extended family to take care of them, will be rehabilitated in five Rajkiya Bal Grah (children’s shelter homes) across the state. There are five such children’s shelter homes in Mathura, Lucknow, Prayagraj, Agra and Rampur. “The state cabinet will pass the scheme on Monday in which further details will be clear,” said an official of the women and child development department. The state government has also made a separate provision for taking care of minor girls. All such orphaned girls will be rehabilitated in Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (residential) run by the Centre. In addition, the government will also try to rehabilitate them in 13 girls’ shelter homes run by the state government. If required, the state government could also rehabilitate girls in any of the 18 Atal Awasiya Vidyalayas (Atal Residential Schools) which are being set up across the state. After getting reports of a large number of children being orphaned due to the pandemic, the state government decided to frame a rehabilitation policy for them. The women and child development department of the state government has been tasked with identifying such children. The department has asked district magistrates to take the help of village child protection committees headed by gram pradhans in preparing this list. Child Line (1098), special juvenile police units, district child protection units and nigrani samitis (monitoring committees) in the rural and urban areas are also assisting the district magistrates in the task. The department of women and child development has also asked officials to take adequate steps to prevent child marriages, child trafficking and act if any such incident is reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-cm-announces-scheme-for-covid-orphaned-children-101622315553007.html
30-05-2021||Other||Professor C.N.R. Rao gets Eni Award for his research on renewables||Bharat Ratna Professor C.N.R. Rao has received International Eni Award 2020 for research into renewable energy sources and energy storage, also called the Energy Frontier award, said Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advances Scientific Research (JNCASR) in a statement. Eni Award is considered to be the Nobel Prize in Energy Research. It will be presented to him in October 2021 in Rome.Professor Rao has been working on hydrogen energy as the only energy source for the benefit of mankind. Hydrogen storage, photochemical and electrochemical production of hydrogen, solar production of hydrogen, and non-metallic catalysis were the highlights of his work.“Rao has been conferred with prestigious Energy Frontiers Award in recognition of his research in renewable energy sources and energy storage,” the statement read.According to the statement, the award has been conferred for his work on metal oxides, carbon nanotubes, and other materials and two-dimensional systems, including graphene, boron-nitrogen-carbon hybrid materials, and molybdenum sulfide (Molybdenite - MoS2) for energy applications and green hydrogen production.The award, which has become internationally recognised over the years in energy and environmental research, aims to promote better use of energy sources and encourage new generations of researchers in their work. It bears witness to the importance that Eni places on scientific research and innovation. It includes a cash prize and a specially minted gold medal, according to the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/professor-c-n-r-rao-gets-eni-award-for-his-research-on-renewables-101622313692807.html
30-05-2021||Other||Hyderabad couple mobilises ₹16cr through crowd-funding for son’s treatment||In a record of sorts, a Hyderabad-based couple mobilised ₹16 crore in a span of three-and-a-half months from 65,000 donors through crowd-funding to buy a medicine, supposed to be the world’s costliest medicine – for treating their three-year-old son suffering from a rare disease – Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA). Yogesh Gupta from Chhattisgarh, who has been working in a private firm in Hyderabad for the last 10 years, and his wife Rupal Gupta, were clueless when the doctors at Rainbow Children’s Hospital in the city told them that the only way to save their son Ayaansh was to procure – Zolgensma, which is the only medicine that can cure SMA. “When we made enquiries, we came to know that Zolgensma, made by Novartis, costs around ₹16 crore and it has to be imported from the USA or the European countries. Added to this, one has to pay import duty and GST on the medicine,” Gupta told HT. The couple tried a few options to mobilise money for the medicine, but they realised that they won’t be able to do it because it was too huge. “But my wife was confident that we could definitely raise the money. She was reading about fund-raising or crowd-funding campaigns that regularly take place in the countries like the USA and the UK. So, she suggested we, too, could start such a campaign,” Gupta said. On February 4, the couple posted a request on the social media platforms and began the campaign. “Our friends, about 150 of them, also pitched in and made the campaign viral. The response was overwhelming. Though the flow of funds slowed down a bit later, we did not give up hope. Our friends intensified the campaign and finally, by May 23, we could mobilise all the money we required for Ayaansh’s treatment. We closed the campaign on the same day,” Gupta said. He said nearly 65,000 donors have responded to the fund-raising campaign and donated money in small or big amounts. The donors included celebrities like Indian cricket captain Virat Kohli and his actress-wife Anushka Sharma, Emraan Hashmi, Dia Miza, Javeed Jaafri, Rajkumar Rao, Arjun Kapoor, Sara Ali Khan and others. “We have completed all the required documentation and placed the order with the US firm for the purchase medicine and we are expecting it to be delivered by June 10. We are thankful to every one of the donors and also to my friends, who made relentless efforts to mobilise money to save my son,” Gupta said. Ayaansh, who turned three years on Thursday, showed the signs of the rare disease, when he was just six months old. “He had very limited movement of his muscles. He couldn’t even cough and when there was a congestion in chest, we had to use a suction pump to remove phlegm from the lungs,” Gupta said. The couple took the child to various doctors, including paediatricians and neuro-physicians. “Though they diagnosed it as Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA), they had no idea about the treatment. They told me it is a progressive disease and my son might not survive beyond four years,” he said. Luckily for the couple, Ayaansh can speak and that was the only solace for them. “Finally, the doctors at the Rainbow Hospital in Hyderabad recommended this drug available abroad and said it would make him normal. That raised our hopes,” Gupta said. The couple is now trying for exemption of the import duty and GST on Zolgensma. Interestingly, on March 17, Ayaansh’s issue was raised in Rajya Sabha by a Congress member from Madhya Pradesh Vivek K Tankha. Replying to his query, finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman said imported life-saving drugs including those for spinal muscular atrophy disease for personal use are exempted from basic customs duty but they attract five per cent GST. She, however, assured that ad hoc exemption from GST on imported life-saving drugs could be given on a case-to-case basis during exceptional nature. “We have made the request for exemption of the GST as well and are hopeful of getting the approval by next week,” Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hyderabad-couple-mobilises-16cr-through-crowd-funding-for-son-s-treatment-101622313632869.html
30-05-2021||Other||No decision on extending lockdown: Yediyurappa||Bengaluru: Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Saturday said that no decision has been taken on extending the state-wide lockdown. He added that if people follow the regulations, there will be no need to extend the lockdown. All districts of Karnataka are currently under a lockdown till 6 am on June 7. While lockdown announced initially was supposed to end on May 10, experts insisted to impose lockdown from May 10 to 24, which was later extended till June 7. Speaking to reporters in Bengaluru, Yediyurappa said: “The lockdown will be in effect till June 7 and we will assess the situation and decide what happens next. The strict restrictions will be in place till then and depending on Covid-19 cases reducing, we will take the next decision. If people cooperate, the question of extending the lockdown may not arise but people have to cooperate, that is all.” Yediyurappa on Saturday also announced the CM Baalaseva scheme for children who lost their parents due to Covid-19. Under this scheme, the government will provide ₹3,500 to guardians of the children who lost both their parents in the pandemic. Similarly, for children who have passed standard 10, they will be given laptops and girl students above the age of 21, will be provided ₹1 lakh for marriage, higher education, or entrepreneurship, the government said. “Children who don’t have any guardians will be taken care of in the childcare institutions and to provide then quality education children will be admitted to (government-run) residential schools,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-decision-on-extending-lockdownyediyurappa-101622313512782.html
30-05-2021||Other||Don’t lower guard: Experts warn against Covid 3rd wave in K’taka||Bengaluru: The daily Covid-19 numbers reported in the past few days in Karnataka point at the downward trend of the second wave of the pandemic, with experts saying the spike in cases would stabilise by mid-June. They, however, warned against lowering the guard, and added that the third wave was inevitable by the end of October. Looking at the experiences of the European countries, experts said, the third wave could be deadlier than the first two. “It is a clear indication that by the third wave, we have to strengthen the medical infrastructure in order to treat higher number of patients than the second wave. The next few months should be used for that,” said Giridhar Babu, a professor of epidemiology and member of the state’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Covid-19. However, the preparation for the third wave has to go beyond just medical infrastructure and oxygen supply, experts said, adding that the younger population might be the most vulnerable group in the third wave. Babu said with most senior citizens getting vaccinated by then, those below 18 years, if not vaccinated by then, would be the most vulnerable. He also said that infections among children would be a bigger concern. In Karnataka, during the first wave between March and September 2020, as many as 19,378 children under the age of 10 were infected. From then until May this year, 49,257 in the age group have tested positive for Covid-19. As many as 68,635 children under the age of 10 have been infected till May 20 this year, according to state health department data. The case was similar in the 10-19 age group as 41,895 tested positive for the virus between March and September 2020, while another 131,391 got infected since then, taking the total to 173,286 so far, the state data suggests. State health director Om Prakash Patil, who held consultations with 17 experts and members of the state unit of the Indian Academy of Paediatricians (IAP) on Friday, said Karnataka will come out with guidelines on handling paediatric Covid-19 infections. “We discussed what can be done to prevent spread among children and how we can ramp up our infrastructure and train manpower to handle paediatric cases if at all the projections come true,” Patil said. Shivananda, former director of the state-run Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health, who attended the meeting, said the state needs more manpower trained in handling child cases as the existing number of paediatricians may not be adequate. “Only a fraction of the infected child cases may require ventilators. Most of the new ventilators come with settings that can be adjusted for paediatric use. What the state may require is more paediatric BIPAP (Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure) machines and paediatric ICU beds,” he said. “Also, as home isolation of infected children is very difficult without parents’ supervision, we have asserted that vaccination of parents should be given priority. If they are immunised, the risk of them getting infected while handling Covid positive children will be minimal,” Shivananda added. Another point of concern has been the deaths among the 30-45 age group, experts said. Compared to the first wave, more deaths were reported in this age category in the second wave. Babu said in many cases undetected comorbidities could have been the reason for deaths. “As we are expected to witness the third wave, it was important that people get themselves tested to understand the various comorbidities they have. In India, people get these comorbidities at least 10 years before other countries,” he said. Babu added that the pace of vaccination will be a key factor in preparing for the third wave. “We are vaccinating elderly, and it is showing results, but it important that we vaccinate the younger population as well. We can’t emphasise this enough,” Babu said. The Karnataka government has formally announced a 13-member committee of medical experts, headed by noted cardiac surgeon Devi Prasad Shetty, to prepare a roadmap to tackle the possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa had announced Shetty’s name on May 14, after the Karnataka high court asked the government to submit its plans to tackle the pandemic. Experts also said it was important to increase the number of beds in hospitals and other infrastructure, referring to the countless reports of patients dying without getting a hospital bed. In the second wave of Covid-19, the proportion of people who died without getting a hospital bed increased exponentially. While 3.8% of all deaths in the first wave were reported outside of hospitals, in the second wave, it jumped up to 9.3%, or one in every 10 Covid fatalities in Karnataka, shows the analysis of health bulletins released by the Karnataka state health department on so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dont-lower-guard-experts-warn-against-covid-3rd-wave-in-ktaka-101622313452824.html
30-05-2021||Other||Aligarh hooch tragedy: Death toll rises to 22||The death toll in the Aligarh hooch tragedy rose to 22 on Saturday while 12 more people were being treated at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital, AMU, and the Malkhan Singh District Hospital after they drank spurious liquor bought from two government-authorised alcohol shops in at least three villages, district magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh said on Saturday.Six people, including two licensees, have been arrested, the officials said, adding that a reward of ₹50,000 was declared on two absconders.In a late evening development, the Lodha police station SHO was also placed under suspension. SSP Aligarh Kalanidhi Nathani has ordered a probe to be conducted by SP (crime). “In order to rule out any impact on the probe ordered, the in-charge of Lodha police station, Abhay Kumar Sharma, has been suspended with immediate effect,” Nathani said.Meanwhile, police launched a search for absconding accused who are among a dozen named in cases registered at police stations in Lodha, Khair and Jawan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aligarh-hooch-tragedy-death-toll-mounts-to-25-lodha-sho-suspended-101622312552663.html
