31-05-2021||Other||41% of all Covid deaths in J&K reported in May||May was a devastating month for J&K with highest cases and deaths caused by Covid-19.On Monday, the UT recorded the lowest of 1,525 cases in 42 days (owing to 20% less tests than average) which nevertheless took the month’s case tally to 1,14,382 – amounting to 39% of the overall 2,90,465 people infected in the UT.Similarly, 37 more people lost their lives on Monday taking the month’s fatalities to 1,625 (41.6% of overall 3,907 people who succumbed to the virus).“Deaths were more in the second wave as there were more cases. Now the cases have started declining but the daily deaths may take some time to come down,” said Kashmir Doctors’ Association president MY Tak.In terms of fatalities, the virus was more deadly in Jammu recording 1,020 deaths while Kashmir saw 605 fatalities. However, in terms of cases, the virus was more virulent in Kashmir recording 72,179 cases as against 42,203 cases in Jammu.However, 92.7% or 1,06,022 people of all infected patients during the month have recovered from the virus. The overall number of people who recovered have reached 2,51,463, thus improving the recovery rate to 86.57%.Active cases have come down to 35,095 from the highest of 52,848 on May 13.“We became complacent in the first wave which resulted in the second wave. But to prevent a third wave, we must ensure that there is strict adhere to the SOPs and no lowering of guards,” Tak said.In terms of vaccination, 32.90 lakh doses have been administered in the UT, inoculating around 70% of all people above 45 years of age.On Monday, with 278 cases, Jammu had the highest number of new cases, followed by 253 in Jammu, and 181 in Kupwara.Srinagar and Jammu have together contributed for about 1.15 lakh cases and 1,838 deaths of the total tally. Jammu reached the highest number of 1,067 fatalities, followed by Srinagar with 771 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/41-of-all-covid-deaths-in-j-k-reported-in-may-101622483210746.html
31-05-2021||Other||Delivery boy arrested for stealing seven iPhones||Police arrested a delivery associate, 30, of an e-commerce company on Sunday for allegedly stealing seven iPhones and replacing putting dummy phones in the boxes. The consignment had Apple’s iPhone 12 Pro Max model, which was said to be undelivered and was deposited to the warehouse on the same day, said the police.Police had received a complaint from Dharmender Kumar, area manager of Ashish Transport Company in Manesar, who was responsible for delivering goods for the e-commerce company last week. Kumar said that they had received an order on April 30 for seven iPhone 12 Pro Max from a woman in IMT Manesar Sector 1. The order was dispatched through a delivery associate, Sarvan Kumar, who is a native of Bihar’s Khagaria.“Sarvan, who had left with the consignment on May 5 morning, returned around 3 pm, and said that the customer was travelling and had asked him to get it the next week. He then deposited the consignment at the sortation centre of the e-commerce company. On May 5, we received an email from the company saying that all the iPhones returned were dummy phones, that were replaced with the original ones,” he said.Dharmender said it seems that the iPhones were stolen but as they were not confident, they launched an internal investigation. Last week, the company filed a complaint with the police, following which a team was formed, and the suspect’s movements were closely watched.Yashwant Yadav, station house officer (SHO) of IMT Manesar police station, said that they kept a close watch on the movement of Sarvan. “We tracked the location of the place he had visited on the day of the delivery and found out that he went only to his rented room that day. We arrested him on Sunday, and during the interrogation, he confessed his crime. He took us to his room where he had kept the stolen cellphones... He had been working at the company for the last two years, and wanted to make some quick money, following which he stole the iPhones,” Yadav said, adding that the cellphones were worth ₹8 lakh, and the role of an insider is not yet ruled out.A case was registered under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 408 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) at the IMT Manesar police station. Sarvan was produced before a district court on Monday and was later released from the police custody on a bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delivery-boy-arrested-for-stealing-seven-iphones-101622483150571.html
31-05-2021||Other||‘Check malpractice of referring patients to GMC Jammu’||Former health minister Choudhary Lal Singh on Monday squarely blamed the UT administration for spiralling Covid deaths in Jammu region, especially Jammu district.Jammu as of date has logged 1,067 Covid deaths — highest among all 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir.During his tenure as the health minister from 2002 to 2004 in the Congress-PDP alliance, the “fiery leader” had brought the entire health department back on rails making its bureaucrats, superintendents, doctors, paramedics and other health staff accountable to work.The erstwhile state had six health ministers in the past 20-25 years and they all hailed from Jammu. They were Pandit Mangat Ram Sharma, Suman Bhagat, Choudhary Lal Singh, Sham Lal Sharma, Bali Bhagat and Dr DK Manyal. It was Choudhary Lal Singh, who “disciplined” the entire health department.Lal Singh said, “If you want to check deaths then bring transparency. Put up CCTV cameras in all Covid care centres, and government and private hospitals. This is my suggestion to the administration.”“Hospitals from other districts in Jammu, which are referring Covid patients to GMC Jammu, should immediately stop this malpractice. There is no shortage of staff and beds in these hospitals,” he said.“There could be some shortage of oxygen and equipment in district and sub-district hospitals, primary health centres and community health centres but we have posted qualified doctors there, who are experienced and better than the medical students at GMC Jammu,” he added.“We have experienced and medically trained doctors in DHs, SDHs, PHCs and CHCs. Why are they referring patients to GMC Jammu?” he asked and called it an administrative lapse.Singh also called government helpline numbers a hoax claiming that not even a single person got oxygen or medical help from them.He questioned the administration what purpose the GMCs in Kathua, Doda and Rajouri are serving during the pandemic.“Kashmir is a bit better than Jammu and they are more aware than us when it comes to Covid appropriate behaviour but major deaths that took place were due to unavailability of oxygen and ventilators,” he said.GMC, Jammu is the only major referral hospital for all 10 districts of the region unlike Kashmir, which has four major referral hospitals.GMC and associated hospitals Jammu (GMC&AH Jammu) has a total bed capacity of 967 beds and bed occupancy as of Monday was 386.GMC principal and dean Dr Shashi Sudan said, “Going by bed occupancy, there is a marginal relief to medics and paramedics but we cannot lower our guard.”Official data for last eight days (May 24 to 31) revealed that the UT recorded 19,844 Covid cases, 31,843 recoveries, 343 deaths of which 205 took place in Jammu and 138 in Kashmir.The UT, till date, has logged 3,907 Covid deaths.From May 8 to 18, Jammu recorded 435 Covid deaths as compared to 246 in Kashmir.Between May 8 and 18, at least 681 people have lost their lives to Covid in J&K, of which 435 deaths took place in the Jammu division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/check-malpractice-of-referring-patients-to-gmc-jammu-101622483090143.html
31-05-2021||Other||J&K asks administrative secretaries to vaccinate staff of civil secretariat||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Monday asked all administrative secretaries to vaccinate the entire staff of the civil secretariat, who are above the age of 18 against Covid-19.In a circular issued by commissioner secretary to the government MK Diwvedi, administrative secretaries were asked to ensure vaccination of the entire staff of the civil secretariat above the age of 18.“Attention of all administrative secretaries is invited towards circular no. 12-JK(GAD) of 2021 dated 6.4.2021, wherein instructions were issued for ensuring vaccination of employees above the age of 45. Since vaccination against Covid is now available for the age groups of 18 years and above, it is imperative that the entire staff working in civil secretariat, Jammu/Srinagar gets vaccinated immediately,” read the circular.“It is impressed upon all administrative secretaries to ensure vaccination of all employees working in the administrative departments by June 10, 2021 and submit a report in this regard on June 11, 2021 to the general administration department,” it concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-asks-administrative-secretaries-to-vaccinate-staff-of-civil-secretariat-101622482851930.html
31-05-2021||Other||J&K reopens after month of curfew, people heave sigh of relief||Many shops and markets reopened and public transport resumed, gradually, in parts of Kashmir including Srinagar, on Monday after the month-long lockdown imposed to contain the surging Covid-19 infections last month was partially lifted.From early Monday morning, shopkeepers started to open shutters hesitantly and people trickled into the streets. There was initial reluctance to resume business among traders and transporters as the news of unlock took time to trickle down.At Dalgate market, a cloth merchant said, “I am opening the shop exactly after a month. Past three years have been difficult, particularly for traders.”Jammu and Kashmir has witnessed lockdowns continuously for the last three years – first with abrogation of Article 370 in 2019 and then following two Covid waves in 2020 and 2021.May has been a devastating month with 1,12,857 Covid cases and 1,588 deaths in J&K. The authorities had imposed a Covid curfew on April 29 and decided to lift it from Monday.In the 15 districts of the UT, including Srinagar and Jammu, which have been placed under orange category, outdoor bazaars and shopping areas will open on alternate days while in five districts of Kashmir in red category — Pulwama, Anantnag, Baramulla, Budgam and Kupwara — public transport and malls will remain shut. However, auto-rickshaws will follow an odd-even system.Weekend curfew will continue in all the 20 districts from Friday 8pm to Monday 7am and the daily curfew will remain in force from 8pm to 7am.State executive committee has kept all educational institutions, including the private coaching centres, closed till June 15. It also opted to keep all cinema halls, multiplexes, clubs, gyms, spas and paid parks closed until further orders.In a major relief marginal labourers including construction workers and daily wage earners were also seen returning back to their work.“It’s a major relief to daily wagers like us. We were having a tough time as construction works had come to a standstill,” said Rajesh, a marble worker from Chhattisgarh.In the meantime, private cars filled the streets of the city while one could witness autos and three-wheelers lining up their area stands.Occasional public transport buses, including those run by State Road Transport Corporation, were seen ferrying people.At the Boulevard Road lining the Dal Lake, empty shikaras were seen waiting for customers on the ghat. “I rarely ferried any visitor during the lockdown. I hope things will improve now. It is summer and we hope tourists will visit,” said a middle-aged shikara-rower Mohammad Sultan.A fruit-seller in the old city was agitated when asked about the effect of the lockdown. “Covid has not just devastated our health and economy but also our peace of mind,” he said.Authorities say that Covid wave has now started affecting the rural areas as well. The administration has been establishing five-bedded Covid care centres in every panchayat of the UT.Akhtar Rashid, a farmer from a remote village of Shopian, was waiting on the roadside in Srinagar so that somebody can hire him for daily labour work. “I came to the city a few days ago as I anticipated that the lockdown will be lifted. I finished farming at my hometown and now have some spare time. I want to earn some days of labour,” he said.In old city and posh Gandhi Nagar area policemen were seen at rotaries and markets. They also made announcements on loudspeakers asking the people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour strictly.“Gradual opening of businesses may not lead to rise in Covid cases irrespective of our concern. Cars on roads don’t spread the virus, but assembling in closed spaces like offices and marriage halls can,” said Dr Tariq Tramboo, an interventional pain specialist.Meanwhile, the private transporters has gone on an indefinite strike on April 21 after government came out with Covid guidelines which among other things, allowed operations of public transport at 50% authorised seating capacity in J&K.All J&K Transport Welfare Association chairman TS Wazir said, “We have been demanding hike in passenger fare to facilitate smooth operations by the transporters but government is not listening to us at all. The transporters are meeting again on Tuesday to take a decision. Plying our vehicles at 50% capacity with no hike in fare is impossible for us. I met the transport commissioner today but the stalemate continues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-reopens-after-month-of-curfew-people-heave-sigh-of-relief-101622482791812.html
31-05-2021||Other||Unlocks begins in Himachal with opening of markets||As the Covid-19 cases significantly dip in most part of the state, Himachal Pradesh on Monday went into partial unlock with all shops opening for five hours.The opening of economic activities also led to increased movement of people in bazaars.The Himachal government had extended the Covid curbs till June 7 but announced relaxations, including increase in the opening hours of shop last Friday.However, rural people faced difficulties in reaching markets as public transport has not been resumed yet. The state cabinet will decide on restarting public transport in its meeting slated for June 5.Suresh Kumar, of Gharoh near Dharamshala, said, due to no public transport, he is facing difficulties in reaching the town where he had to purchase some household things and cloths.Shopkeepers are happy about reopening of markets and hope to make up the losses they suffered in last one month due to the curbs.Jeet Singh, who runs a carpentry shop in Dharamshala, said government should have allowed opening of shops in a staggered manner on alternative days.“Daily earners like me have suffered huge losses during the lockdown,” he said.Meanwhile, Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said all markets in district can open from Monday to Friday during curfew relaxation hours.However, bars will remain shut and only takeaway services are being allowed in the restaurants.Guidelines of weekend lockdown will remain intact and continue accordingly,” said Prajapati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unlocks-begins-in-himachal-with-opening-of-markets-101622482551486.html
31-05-2021||Other||Jai Ram inaugurates makeshift Covid hospital in Solan||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur virtually inaugurated a makeshift Covid hospital built at Radha Soami Satsang Beas Centre at Rabon in Solan on Monday. The hospital has been built at the cost of ₹3.90 crore.Thakur said the hospital will have 200 beds with piped oxygen support which will help strengthen the health infrastructure to battle Covid.He said that 100 doctors, staff nurses and other paramedical staff have been deployed at the new facility besides setting up a laboratory for rapid testing.The CM said CCTV cameras have been installed in the hospital for monitoring and a centralised TV screen for entertainment of patients. He said the hospital was set up in a record time of 14 days.Jai Ram said the state government has laid special emphasis on capacity building in health infrastructure to facilitate the patients.“We are focusing on early detection of Covid patients so that they can be provided timely treatment,” he said.He added that during the last few days, the recovery rate in state has climbed to 89% which is a good sign. “Government is ensuring regular monitoring of patients in home isolation so they can be shifted to hospitals early if the situation requires so,” he said.The state government is also providing home isolation kits to Covid patients for speedy recovery.He said the elected representatives should ensure that these kits are made available to Covid patients at the earliest.State health minister Rajiv Saizal said the role of many religious organisations and NGOs is commendable in tackling the Covid situation in state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jai-ram-inaugurates-makeshift-covid-hospital-in-solan-101622482491758.html
31-05-2021||Other||Nadda, Jai Ram, Anurag lay foundation stones of oxygen plants in 2 medical colleges||BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Singh Thakur on Monday virtually laid foundation stones of 140 LPM pressure swing adsorption oxygen plant each at Dr Radhakrishanan Government Medical College, Hamirpur and CHC Ghumarwin in Bilaspur.Each plant will provide uninterrupted oxygen supply to 30 beds each.Nadda said, “When most national political parties have gone under virtual quarantine, BJP, through its ‘Sewa Hi Sangathan’ has come forward to help people in state in fighting the pandemic and mitigating the sufferings of a common man.”He said the Union government, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, provided free ration to 80 crore people during the first and second wave of the pandemic.Nadda said there was only one virology lab to test Covid last year and the number has now gone up to 2,500. He appreciated Anurag for helping the state fight the pandemic.In his address, Jai Ram said the state had only around 200 active cases of Covid as on February 23 which shot up to over 40,000 during the second wave. The recovery rate in state has reached 89% in the last few days.He said there was no testing lab when the first cases were reported last year and now there are 35 labs.The number of dedicated Covid treatment facilities has been increased to 57 from 11 last year while the number of beds has been increased from 440 to over 3,900 now.Anurag said it is due to the initiative of the national BJP president that each party functionary contributed generously towards helping Covid patients and their families.Thakur said an oxygen bank will be set up in Himachal to provide uninterrupted oxygen supply to 700 beds. He said Nadda will flag off the first consignment of 108 oxygen concentrators and 160 oxygen cylinders for this oxygen bank soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nadda-jai-ram-anurag-lay-foundation-stones-of-oxygen-plants-in-2-medical-colleges-101622482370209.html
31-05-2021||Other||Bed occupancy in Himachal dips to 38%||With a dip in daily Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh, the situation has now started to ease out in terms of health facilities across state with the bed occupancy declining to 38%.The bed occupancy had reached a critical 70% when the Covid cases were at peak in early to mid-May with more than 40,000 active cases. In last few days, the recovery rate has gone up to 89% and active cases declined below 15,000.Two premier health institutes, Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla and Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC) had run out of ICU beds.As per data on the state government portal, there are a total of 3,924 beds for Covid-19 patients in the state of which 1,496 are occupied while 2,428 are vacant.The strength of beds with oxygen support is 2,691 of which 1,086 are occupied and 1,535 are available. Similarly, of 290 ICU beds, 101 are vacant. As many as 729 standard beds are also available across state.In Kangra, the most populous district, of 759 beds only 346 are occupied. There are 600 oxygenated beds of which 264 are occupied and 336 vacant.However, there are only four ICU beds available of 70 such beds.In Shimla, of total 808 beds, 468 are unoccupied. Seven ICU beds and 264 oxygenated beds are available in district. In Mandi, another big district, 368 of 552 beds are available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bed-occupancy-in-himachal-dips-to-38-101622482249881.html
31-05-2021||Other||Month on, fatalities in Himachal come down to 19||Himachal Pradesh on Monday recorded the lowest number of fatalities due to Covid-19 in over a month with 19 people succumbing to the contagion; and the death toll mounted to 3,127.Eight fatalities were reported in Kangra, four in Shimla, three in Solan, and one each in Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Mandi and Una. Before this, the lowest deaths were reported on April 18 when 18 people died due to the virus.Highest fatalities since the virus outbreak were recorded on May 18 when 78 people had died in a single day.Meanwhile, Covid cases in state rose to 1,90,330 after 865 people were tested positive for the virus. Recoveries reached 1,73,560 after 2,167 people recuperated.Of the new cases, 218 were reported in Kangra, 113 in Mandi, 99 in Una, 87 in Sirmaur, 75 in Hamirpur, 64 in Shimla, 52 in Bilaspur, 49 in Chamba, 41 each in Kinnaur and Kullu, 20 in Solan, and six in Lahaul-Spiti.The active cases have come down to 13,621. Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 43,413 cases, followed by Mandi with 25,392 cases, Shimla 23,820, Solan 21,507, Sirmaur 14,660, Hamirpur 13,491, Una 12,423, Bilaspur 11,989, Chamba 9,797, Kullu 8,303, Kinnaur 2,967, and Lahaul-Spiti 2,568.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/month-on-fatalities-in-himachal-come-down-to-19-101622482190298.html
31-05-2021||Other||China building infrastructure along border areas in a big way: Jai Ram||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday said that China is increasing its infrastructure along the borders of Himachal Pradesh.“China is trying to find convenient locations above the Indian posts in Tibet region to gain strategic superiority,” he said in a statement issued here.The CM said that he recently visited the forwards areas along the Chinese borders in Himachal’s Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti districts.“The forces are doing their job and working hard in difficult conditions in state along the LAC. It is my duty to encourage and boost their moral. I had visited there, nothing serious has been noticed but in Tibet region they are building infrastructure in a big way,” said Thakur.“Though, they are doing it in their territory but we will definitely send a report to the Union government in this regard,” he added.The CM along with director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu had visited the forward areas of Lepcha in Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti districts on May 29 and interacted with officers of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Dogra Scouts and 15th Bihar Regiment at the army helipad of Samdo in Lahaul-Spiti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/china-building-infrastructure-along-border-areas-in-a-big-way-jai-ram-101622482072299.html
31-05-2021||Other||RBI cancels banking licence of Shivajirao Bhosale Sahakari bank||PUNE The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), on Monday, cancelled the banking licence of the Shivajirao Bhosale Sahakari Bank, claiming that the bank does not have adequate capital and earning prospects. The RBI has, vide order dated May 28, 2021, stated: “Consequently, the bank ceases to carry on banking business, with effect from the close of business on May 31, 2021. The Registrar of Cooperative Societies, Maharashtra has also been requested to issue an order for winding up the bank and to appoint a liquidator for the bank.”“Consequent to the cancellation of its licence, the Shivajirao Bhosale Sahakari Bank is prohibited from conducting any banking business, which includes acceptance of deposits and repayment of deposits, as defined in Section 5(b), read with Section 56 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, with immediate effect,” the RBI stated.RBI chief general manager Yogesh Dayal said, “With cancellation of licence and commencement of liquidation proceedings, the process of paying the depositors of the Shivajirao Bhosale Sahakari Bank as per the DICGC Act, 1961 will be set in motion. As per the data submitted by the bank, 98% of the depositors will receive full amounts of their deposits from the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC). On liquidation, every depositor would be entitled to receive deposit insurance claim amount of his/her deposits up to a monetary ceiling of ₹5,00,000/- (rupees five lakh only), from the DICGC, subject to the provisions of the DICGC Act, 1961.” As many as 71,000 investors have invested a fixed deposit of ₹5 lakh, while 8,000 investors invested more than ₹5 lakh in the form of various deposits. In January 2020, the Pune Police registered a case against Maharashtra State Legislative Council (MLC) member and bank chairman Anil Bhosale, bank director Suryaji Jadhav, chief accountant Shailesh Bhosale and chief executive officer, Tanaji Padwal. A case has also been registered against Bhosale’s wife Reshma Bhosale, who is also an accused in the case. The case was registered under sections 406, 408, 468, 471 and 34 of IPC and relevant sections of Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rbi-cancels-banking-licence-of-shivajirao-bhosale-sahakari-bank-101622481709333.html
31-05-2021||Other||5 trapped in Meghalaya mine after explosion, supervisor threatened survivors||At least five labourers, suspected to be from Cachar district of Assam, are feared trapped in yet another accident in the infamous coal mines of Meghalaya’s East Jaiñtia Hills district, officials said. “Personnel from police, fire and emergency services, NDRF, district disaster management authority and locals are engaged in the rescue operations. I am constantly monitoring the progress,” East Jaiñtia Hills deputy commissioner E Kharmalki told HT over the phone.He told HT that upon receiving information from the SP, an alert was sounded and emergency measures were activated. The miners are trapped about 500 feet below the surface. Water from recent rains would probably have percolated into the mine identified to be located at Sutnga interior under Umpleng Anti-Dacoity camp, subsequently flooding it. Sutnga is a little less than 100 kilometres from the state capital Shillong.A press communiqué released Monday evening by the East Jaiñtia Hills Superintendent of Police Jagpal Singh Dhanoa stated that according to eyewitnesses, five people got trapped in the sudden rush of water into the mine due to the sudden explosion of dynamite.“Within no time the mine was inundated. The main culprit as per the eyewitnesses is Sordar by name of Shri Nizam Ali who did nothing to rescue the trapped labourers. Rather Ali threatened the survivors with dire consequences and chased them away from the mining site,” Dhanoa said.He added that an FIR has been registered at Khliehriat Police Station under the MMDR Act, the Disaster Management Act and sections of the Indian Penal Code.“The survivors are being looked after by police to ensure their security. Further, an investigation is on and no stone is being left unturned to arrest the Sordar of the mine,” the district police chief assured.The missing persons have been identified as Shyamcharan Debbarma from Tripura, Abdul Karim from Boko, Abdul Kalam from Barpeta and two unidentified persons from Silchar. The matter came to the fore after one Karimul Bari claimed in a tweet that a neighbour of his was amongst the labourers working in a coal mine in Meghalaya who got trapped. Bari accused the administration of “not taking any proper action” to recover the bodies for 2 days. Speaking to HT, IGP (Eastern Range) MK Dkhar said that rescue efforts at the accident site have begun and that his colleague is in Khliehriat the district headquarters to monitor operations.“The district administration has already requisitioned the resources and manpower from the line departments and activity has already commenced on the ground… let’s hope for the best,” Dkhar said.IGP (Law and Order) Mukesh Kumar Singh said he was camping near the place of occurrence and monitoring the situation. “Work is going on in full swing and we hope to get some results soon but we cannot say for certain how long these operations will last, we will continue to do our duty,” Singh HT.Earlier, Superintendent of Cachar district in Assam, Nimbalkar Vaibhav Chandrakant, said, “We have shared the information with our neighbouring state’s Superintendent of Police from East Jaintia Hills. “We have requested the East Jaintia Hills SP to update us on the matter. If any labourers from Assam are trapped, we will be informed immediately, this was assured from our neighbouring state SP.”Kharmalki has ordered a magisterial inquiry by MS Sangma, executive magistrate of the district. He has been given 15 days from the day of receiving the order “to ascertain the facts and circumstances of the case leading to the mining incident, identify the owner of the miners responsible for illegal mining”, and also submit his findings and recommendations.A top official at the state secretariat told HT that the alleged owner has been picked up but he tested positive for Covid-19 and hence kept in an isolation centre under watch. The alleged Sordar (manager of the mine) is absconding and police have issued a BOLO (Be on the lookout) for his arrest.Such tragic mishaps, mostly man-made, are not new to this part of Meghalaya. On January 21, six labourers lost their lives when they plummeted 170 feet to their death at a coal mine in Sorkari Dienshanlalu village.Apparently, the crane they were using to extract coal malfunctioned, sending the six men hurtling into a tunnel dug up for coal extraction, but there has been no closure to the case as yet. It is also not known yet if the coal mine in question was abandoned or legal. The owner has also not been officially identified.On December 13 2018, 15 miners died when a “rat-hole” mine at Ksan village in the same district got flooded by water from the Lyteiñ river. In the wake of the accident, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) fined the state government ₹100 crore for allowing illegal coal mining.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-trapped-in-meghalaya-mine-after-explosion-supervisor-threatened-survivors-101622476070095.html
31-05-2021||Other||J’khand registers 65% drop in covid cases in 2nd fortnight of May, active cases dips below 10K-mark after two months||Bedanti Saranbedanti.saran@hindustantimes.comRanchi: Jharkhand registered a significant drop of 65% in growth of Covid-19 cases in the second fortnight of this month even as the active cases in the state dipped below 10,000-mark after a haitus of almost two months.While the state reported 76,613 cases in the first fortnight of this month in between May 1-14, it discovered only 26,919 cases during May 15-30 registering a drop of 65%.The disease’s growth trajectory, which had taken a northward trend in early April when the pandemic’s second wave hit the state, attained the peak between mid April to mid May. It is now showing a fast declining trend.Jharkhand, in its last two months of turbulent phase, had discovered over 2 lakh cases and 3800 deaths.In the first fortnight of April, the state reported 23,591 cases after testing 373,638 samples with positivity rate (number of positive cases per 100 samples tested) stood at 6.31%. It registered 179 deaths during this period.However, testing was ramped up in the second fortnight (April 15-30) and 85,691 cases were discovered after testing 665,227 samples. As many as 1378 deaths were also reported during this period. The spread of the disease was maximum during this fortnight as positivity rate stood at 12.88%.The pandemic attained its peak during this period as daily detection of new cases and deaths was more than 5000 and 100 respectively. The entire health machinery became overstressed forcing the government to take recourse of lockdown to contain the disease’s spread.Even after imposition of lockdown on April 22, cases kept coming in large numbers till further stricter measures were taken.The first fortnight of May, however, saw an almost plateaued growth trajectory with slight decline in positivity rate. As many as 76,613 cases were discovered after testing 718,592 samples during this period with positivity rate stood at 10.66%. The real impact of the lockdown could be witnessed in May’s second fortnight when cases started receding and growth trajectory bending steep southward. Recovery rate too increased during this period and on May 30, the state’s active cases came down to 9906 from its peak of 61,195 cases on May 8.The state heaved a sigh of relief during this period as the disease’s positivity rate dipped to as low as 3.38% as only 26,919 new cases were discovered after testing 794,629 samples, the highest ever testing in a fortnight.Considering the improved scenario, the government is now mulling to go for unlock as chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday sought public opinion in this regard.According to health experts, the government can go for unlock but in phased manner.Dr. Dewesh Kumar, assistant professor of department of preventive and social medicine, RIMS, said, “This is now the end of pandemic’s second wave. But, we should not sit relaxed as the next couple of months (June-July) will provide a cushion for robust preparation for the third wave, if it comes. Besides, looking into the seasonality factor of the virus, we can presume that the next surge would come in August-September. We had seen this during the same period last year.”He further said, “Lockdown should be lifted in a phased manner and not all of a sudden.”According to health department’s covid-19 bulletin of May 30, the state has so far reported 336,943 cases including 322,060 recoveries, 9,906 active cases and 4,977 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jkhand-registers-65-drop-in-covid-cases-in-2nd-fortnight-of-may-active-cases-dips-below-10k-mark-after-two-months-101622473968903.html
31-05-2021||Other||4 kids, one of them Covid infected, die at DMCH||DarbhangaFour children have died in Bihar’s Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) over the last few days, including an infant who had tested positive for Covid-19, hospital authorities said on Monday.According to DMCH principal K N Sharma, all four children were experiencing breathlessness and had pneumonia-like symptoms. “They were in serious medical condition. They were experiencing breathlessness and had symptoms like pneumonia. The infant had tested positive for Covid. Others tested negative,” Sharma told ANI. The baby boy was admitted to the hospital around 6 am on Sunday. He was shifted to the DMCH, the largest hospital in north Bihar, from a private nursing home in Patna after testing positive for Covid-19.As his condition continued to deteriorate, he was shifted to an ICU ventilator bed in the hospital’s paediatric department and succumbed to the infection around 4:30 pm on Sunday. The body was handed over to the family while following Covid-19 protocol. In the second case, three siblings, Chandan, Pooja and Aarti, died after experiencing fever, breathlessness and body swelling. They were admitted to the hospital’s paediatric ward on May 28. Chandan and Pooja died on May 29, while Aarti passed away on May 30. All three had tested negative for Covid-19, but were anaemic and suffered from pneumonia.DMCH superintendent Dr Mani Bhushan Sharma told ANI over phone: “They were brought here in serious condition and had severe anaemia. For about 15 days, they were getting treatment here and there in the village. We tested them for Covid infection, but tests were negative.”The deaths come amid rising concerns that Covid-19 may affect children more seriously in the anticipated third wave. There are currently 18,378 active cases in Bihar, as per data from the union health ministry. As many as 6,82,166 recoveries and 5,104 deaths have been reported in the state so far. ANI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-kids-one-of-them-covid-infected-die-at-dmch-101622473670393.html
31-05-2021||Other||Patna DM’s report exposes PMC claims in rain preparedness||PATNAThe Patna district administration has submitted a comprehensive report on the failure of the city’s drainage network to the urban development department (UDD) and sought its intervention to correct the flaws and prevent waterlogging, which threw the cit out of gear during the rain last week.The report, prepared by a team of officials led by an additional district magistrate rank officer and those of the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC), contradicts the claims made by municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma that the city’s drainage network was capable to keeping the city clean even it rained more than 100 mm in a day. Patna district magistrate Chandra Shekhar Singh, who has incidentally served as managing director of Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation (Buidco), said the report was sent to the PMC and Buidco —the two agencies responsible for maintaining and operating the city’s drainage system, as also the UDD on Sunday. “The circle wise team of officials was constituted for comprehensive study of the drainage system and apprise the authorities about issues to be resolved before the monsoon,” the DM said. The report points out that many important drains like Bakarganj Nala, Mandiri Nala and Serpentine Nala required fresh drive to clear filth and other solid wastes, as they were not removed properly during the routine cleaning operations. Regarding the recurring waterlogging near south-western end of Gandhi Maidan, the report stated that an old drain connecting Maurya Hotel to Ram Ghulam chowk was dead. “A high-powered committee set up to probe the 2019 waterlogging in Patna had recommended raising cemented wall along Saidpur Nala to prevent its frequent clogging due to dumping of solid wastes. The direction remains to be complied with. Mithapur sump could not be made functional as yet. The Buidco had launched construction of 7.50-km-long drain from Beur to Mithapur to carry drain water. Its completion target was 2020, but it’s not complete,” says the report. Acknowledging the issues in drainage system, deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad, who holds the urban development portfolio, said he had been regularly reviewing the drive to clean drains by holding virtual meetings with the department officials. “I got to know about the district administration’s report. Another review meeting has been proposed in the next couple of days. Suitable instructions will be issued to the officers concerned,” said Prasad. The deputy CM said it was because of regular monitoring of work that the PMC managed to clear the city of storm water during the recent cyclonic rains quite fast. “Still, there are some problem areas like NMCH, Kankarbagh, Kadam Kuan, Rajiv Nagar, etc, which required more attention,” said Prasad. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma and Buidco MD Raman Kumar could not be contacted despite several attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patna-dm-s-report-exposes-pmc-claims-in-rain-preparedness-101622473669711.html
31-05-2021||Other||Muzaffarpur DM orders probe into data fudging on Covid tests||MuzaffarpurOn Thursday (May 27), Kundan Kumar (36), a resident of Khabra in Muzaffarpur, got a message on his mobile from the health department that he had tested negative for Covid-19 in the RT-PCR test. “I never went for testing. I am hale and hearty and didn’t develop any symptoms of Covid,” a bemused Kumar said.Kumar is not alone. At least 14 persons in Muzaffarpur have similarly received such messages without being tested.On Monday, district magistrate Pranav Kumar ordered a probe by a three-member committee into irregularities reported in Covid testing and vaccination programme in the district. The committee will be headed by additional district magistrate Rajesh Kumar. The other two members are civil surgeon and chief medical officer Dr S K Chaudhury and senior deputy collector Sarang Kumar Pandey.The probe follows after it was found that 62 mobile numbers mentioned during testing were not valid numbers while all 10 digits were shown as 0 in at least 14 cases. The irregularities surfaced when calls were made to some of the people whose cellphone numbers were mentioned in the data. It was found that most of the phone numbers were either wrong or not valid. Some were found switched off. According to health department officials, irregularities were found in 90,346 cases out of over 8.42 lakh samples collected.Similar fudging of data was reported at Jamui a few months back.DM Pranav Kumar said, “They have been asked to verify the data after randomly calling cellphone numbers of the beneficiaries. The employees found guilty of lapses will face action as per law.” Civil surgeon Dr Chaudhury has asked in-charges of all health centres to submit full details regarding collection of samples for tests, the reports and messages sent to the beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/muzaffarpur-dm-orders-probe-into-data-fudging-on-covid-tests-101622473668864.html
31-05-2021||Other||Cycle girl Jyoti’s father dies of cardiac arrest||PATNAMohan Paswan, father of Jyoti Kumari, the 15-year-old girl who shot into national spotlight after she carried him on a bicycle for about 1,200 kilometres from Gurugram to Darbhanga during the Covid-19 nationwide lockdown last year, died of cardiac arrest at their village in Darbhanga district on Monday.Darbhanga district magistrate SM Tyagarajan confirmed Paswan died at his native Sirhulli village in Singhbara block of the district and said the block development officer had been sent to the village to visit the family. Paswan was an e-rickshaw driver in Gurugram. After the announcement of nationwide lockdown last year, both he and his daughter were stranded in the city and ran out of money. The father, whose one of the legs had suffered injuries, also needed treatment. Since no transport facility was available amid lockdown in May 2020, Kumari bought a bicycle and pedalled her way, carrying her father as pillion, from Gurugram to her native village Sirhulli, a distance they covered in 12 days.Jyoti Kumari’s feat drew worldwide admiration, including a tweet from Ivanka Trump, daughter of the then US president Donald Trump. Later, the Cycling Federation of India offered a training opportunity to Kumari but she turned down the offer, citing her priority for studies.In January this year, she was also selected as the brand ambassador for an anti-drug abuse programme in the state.She also received the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar for showing sheer determination and courage, and had a virtual interaction with Prime minister Narendra Modi on January 25.She has also signed a film titled, Aatmanribhar, in which she will play herself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cycle-girl-jyoti-s-father-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-101622473610395.html
31-05-2021||Other||Covid has DQ parked in Mumbai yard for 92nd birthday||PUNE The Deccan Queen express train completes 92 years of its existence on Tuesday, June 1. The DQ as it is colloquially referred to is not operational currently due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Currently the DQ “rack”, official parlance for the train, is standing at the Mazgaon railway yard in Mumbai.DQ has been a major means of commuting between Pune and Mumbai for the last 92 years. Due to poor occupancy this year, operations have been temporarily halted by the Central Railway division.“Every year we celebrate the DC yearly anniversary and I have been celebrating it for the last 67 years, even when I was 5-years-old. Due to Covid we are not able to celebrate its anniversary, but on June 1 a small cake-cutting ceremony will be done held at the Pune railway station for regular passengers of the DQ,” said Harsha Shah, president, Railway Pravasi Group.The DQ dining car has a capacity for 32 passengers and the train houses modern pantry and kitchen facilities, offering both vegetarian and non-vegetarian menus. Down the decades have been continuous changes to facilities and the increasing of coaches given the increasing demand from passengers. Currently, this train has a total seating capacity of 1,417. Another daily passenger on the DQ, Harish Jagtap said, “There are lots of memories connected to DQ as it is our daily mode of transport. We have a family in the train while travelling and now it feels like a tragedy that we cannot go to work in Mumbai by our beloved DQ.”Meanwhile, on Monday, Suresh Jain was appointed as station director, Pune railway station.Train facts Deccan Queen first ran from Pune to Mumbai on June 1, 1931Initially, it was a weekend train, but later, due to demand it was converted to a daily serviceFrom day one, it has been running on electricity, with diesel engines as the back-up||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-has-dq-parked-in-mumbai-yard-for-92nd-birthday-101622473308920.html
31-05-2021||Other||After month-long Covid-19 lockdown, Kashmir witnesses gradual unlocking||Many shops and markets opened and public transport resumed, though gradually, in parts of Kashmir including in summer capital Srinagar on Monday after the month-long lockdown imposed to contain the surging Covid-19 infections last month was partially lifted.From early morning, shopkeepers started opening the shutters hesitantly and people trickled into the streets in ones and twos. There was initial reluctance to open among the traders and transporters as the news of unlocking took time to trickle down.At the Dalgate market, a cloth merchant was dusting the stacks of fabric piled in his ‘Lizee Dizee’ outlet.“I am opening exactly after a month. The past three years have been very difficult for the people, particularly traders,” the owner, properly masked, said.Jammu and Kashmir has witnessed lockdowns continuously for the past three years - first with the abrogation of Article 370 in 2019 and then following two Covid waves in 2020 and 2021.Some shopkeepers selling vegetables and meat were sprinkling water outside their shops to give their outlets a fresh feel. “There is still confusion about whether we should open or not,” another shop owner said.Not far away were a group of fisherwomen with their baskets filled with common carp. Nearby autos were neatly lined waiting for their first customers.“We pray to God to end our miseries now,” said an auto driver, properly masked, who initially thought the reporter was a customer.The month of May has been a devastating one with 112,857 Covid-19 infections and 1,588 deaths in J&K. The authorities imposed a Corona Curfew on April 29 and decided to lift it from Monday.In the 15 districts of the UT, including the twin capitals of Srinagar and Jammu, which have been placed under the orange category, outdoor bazaars and shopping areas will open on alternate days. In Kashmir’s five districts that have been put in the red category, Pulwama, Anantnag, Baramulla, Budgam and Kupwara, public transport and malls will remain shut. However, auto-rickshaws will follow an odd-even system.Meanwhile, private cars filled the streets of the city while one could also witness autos and three-wheelers lining their areas’ stands.Occasional public transport buses, including those run by the State Road Transport Corporation, were seen ferrying people – some fully masked and others with masks on their chin.At the Boulevard Road lining the Dal Lake, empty Shikaras or pleasure boats were waiting for customers on the ghats.“I rarely ferried any visitors during the lockdown. I hope that things will improve now. It is summer and we hope that tourists will come,” said a middle-aged Shikara rower Mohammad Sultan.A fruit seller in the old city was very agitated when asked about the impact of the lockdown.“Corona has not just devastated our health or economy but even our peace of mind,” he said as he installed his fruit card on the road.Authorities say that the Covid-19 wave has now started affecting the rural areas also. That is why the administration has been establishing five bedded Covid care centres in every Panchayat of the UT.Akhtar Rashid, a farmer from a remote village of the south district of Shopian was waiting on the roadside in the Srinagar city so that somebody would hire him for daily labour work.“I came to the city a few days ago as I anticipated that the lockdown would be lifted. I finished farming at my home place and now have some spare time. I want to earn some days of labour,” he said.With the gradual unlocking, the experts have urged people to take precautions.“Gradual opening of businesses may not lead to the rise in Covid cases irrespective of our concern. Cars on the road don’t spread viruses. Assembling in closed spaces like offices and marriage parties will surely do. Eating together in closed spaces is indeed a super spreader event. Ban parties,” said Dr Tariq Tramboo, an interventional pain specialist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-month-long-covid-19-lockdown-kashmir-witnesses-gradual-unlocking-101622466173507.html
31-05-2021||Other||Goa to begin vaccinating taxi drivers, seafarers as frontline workers||Amid an increasingly slow pace of its vaccination drive, the Goa government has decided to expand the definition of frontline workers to make taxi drivers, motorcycle pilots as well as seafarers eligible for the Covid-19 vaccine. The decision, announced by chief minister Pramod Sawant, stands to benefit as many as 30,000 registered taxi drivers in Goa as well as the thousands of seafarers who will not be able to board their ship when called for duty unless they can show proof of vaccination. Earlier the Goa government had made the lifeguards manning Goa’s beaches eligible for vaccination in addition to government field staff, journalists and other frontline workers. Also Read | India’s vaccine policy requires transparency“Priority vaccination will be made available for 18-45-year-old persons, people with comorbidities, lactating mothers, motorcycle pilots, rickshaw drivers, taxi drivers, seafarers, and the disabled,” Sawant announced. Goa has more than 250,530 doses “surplus” among those allocated for people aged 45 years and above, but the response among those in that age group has been lukewarm with the state being able to vaccinate only around 4,000-5,000 people a day despite launching Tika Utsav 2.0. Sawant had earlier said that the state would seek permission to “loan” vaccines that were allocated to the 45+ age group to other age groups where the demand is higher but was yet to be given the go-ahead by the Centre.“We have sought permission from the government of India to loan some of the vaccines that are allocated for the above 45 age group. In the next eight to ten days, we will start the vaccination for the priority groups in the 18-44 age group,” Sawant had said.The decision to include seafarers comes on the back of a directive of the Union Ministry for Shipping, Port and Waterways on May 7, 2021, asking all major ports to commence vaccination for seafarers.The seafarers, many of whom had received calls to rejoin duty aboard ships, but were unable to do so sans vaccination, had been urging the Goa government to start vaccination on priority for them.The taxi operators, a large and politically active constituency in the state, have also welcomed the move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-to-begin-vaccinating-taxi-drivers-seafarers-as-frontline-workers-101622459868797.html
31-05-2021||Other||Kaithal Covid-19 victim’s family booked for cremating body without informing health dept||The Kaithal police have booked family members of a Covid victim for allegedly cremating the body without informing the health department.As per the police, the FIR was registered on the complaint of senior medical officer Dr Pragati. The patient, who was a resident of Pinjupura village, had died on May 11 and family members cremated his body without following Covid protocol. They told the villagers that he died of diabetes. Later, officials of the health department came to know about it and started investigation. It was found that he was a Covid patient and was taking treatment at a private hospital and was later referred to PGIMS, Rohtak. He died on the way to the hospital.Police said the FIR has been registered under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 51 and 54 of the Disaster Management Act against the family members of the deceased at Kalayat police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kaithal-covid-19-victim-s-family-booked-for-cremating-body-without-informing-health-dept-101622402983223.html
31-05-2021||Other||1,150 beneficiaries jabbed in 3 hrs at Karnal’s drive-through facility||The district administration’s drive-through vaccination scheme for the 18-plus category got an overwhelming response on Sunday with over 1,150 people getting the jab within three hours. The administration had launched the drive-through vaccination facility on Balri bypass near NDRI in Karnal to cater to those who were unable to get the jabs due to vaccine shortage. Soon after the drive began at 8am, a long queue of vehicles could be seen on the road which was closed for the general public. Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the drive-through vaccination got a good response on the first day as 1,157 people got the jab from the comfort of their vehicles. He said that after taking the jab, people were kept under observation for 30 minutes. Those who turned up to receive the jabs were also largely impressed with the ease of the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1150-beneficiaries-jabbed-in-3-hrs-at-karnal-s-drive-through-facility-101622402083466.html
31-05-2021||Other||Yogi Adityanath announces ₹10 lakh assistance for kin of journalists who died due to Covid-19||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday announced ₹10 lakh aid for the family members of journalists who died due to Covid-19, said a statement from the state government. He made the announcement on the occasion of Hindi Journalism Day.“From the freedom movement to the present times, Hindi journalism has had an unprecedented contribution in social awakening and nation-building. My greetings to all journalists on Hindi Journalism Day,” he said.He also said that the government was committed to providing all support and will continue to encourage journalists.“During such challenging and testing times, all the journalists and media workers have risked their lives to bring to us all the relevant and authentic information. They have worked 24x7 which is commendable,” he said.During the second wave of the pandemic, many journalists across the country got infected while on duty and lost their lives, leaving their families helpless, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-adityanath-announces-rs-10-lakh-assistance-for-kin-of-journalists-who-died-due-to-covid19-101622401842559.html
31-05-2021||Other||After Varanasi, Ganga water turns green in Prayagraj||Scientists cite bloom of microcystis algae as a possible cause behind colour change of river water  After Varanasi, now water of Ganga in Prayagraj has turned green. Most residents of Sangam city residing in localities close to the banks of Ganga have noticed this change in colour in the past two days. But on Sunday, the Ganga right from Rasoolabad to Sangam has donned a green hue. The water at Rasulabad Ghat is noticeably green and muddy. However, the water of the national river at Phaphamau is bearing the green tinge and this hue can be spotted even at Shivkuti, Salori and Daraganj areas. This change in colour has also been noticed by the scientists who cite algal bloom as a possible cause behind it. Prof Grijesh Kumar, coordinator of Allahabad University’s Centre of Environmental Studies said that the greenish appearance of the river could be due to microcystis algae.“Speaking on the basis of just visual observation, the change of colour appears to be because of the algae named microcystis, which is found in stagnant water. The fact that water of Ganga is almost still these days could have resulted in the algal bloom,” he said. Another possible explanation could be that the algae might have come from some drains or stagnant source during the recent rains that have lashed the area, said Prof Kumar. Noted botanist Prof DK Chauhan of AU said the algae in Ganga could be due to increased nutrients in the water as phosphate, sulphur and nitrate are known nutrients that help it grow and these nutrients could come from sewage during the rains sparking the process of photosynthesis with the help of sunlight.He however said that it was a natural process seen between March and May if conditions permit and the algae would disappear as the flow of the river water gains pace. However, he did warn that if condition persists for long duration, it can prove harmful for fishes and drinking this water could prove harmful for both man and animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-varanasi-ganga-water-turns-green-in-prayagraj-101622401003141.html
31-05-2021||Other||UP govt to go for rigorous enforcement of Covid-19 curbs in 20 districts||The Uttar Pradesh government is considering rigorous enforcement of the existing Covid-19 restrictions in 20 districts that have more than 600 active Covid cases.The move is meant to ensure that that the active cases fall below the 600-level and pave the way for the easing of the partial corona curfew in these districts too.Among the 20 districts, Meerut had the highest number of active cases at 2806 and Deoria the least number at 612 on Sunday. Lucknow had 2450 active cases.The other districts with more than 600 active cases are Saharanpur, Varanasi, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarnagar, Bareilly, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Bulandshahr, Jhansi, Prayagraj, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sonbhadra, Jaunpur, Bagpat, Moradabad, Ghazipur and Bijnor.“The state government is considering rigorous enforcement of existing restrictions in 20 districts so that cases fall there soon,” said a state government official.Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said: “Now, the districts have a kind of competition to work harder to bring down active cases below 600. Two district magistrates have said that will possibly bring down the number of active cases in their districts within a day.”While ordering the easing of the partial corona curfew, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the state saw a decline by 87% in active Covid cases in a month’s time.WHAT’S ALLOWED, WHAT’S NOTThe daily night curfew and weekend closure will continue across the state.Any district where the number of active Covid cases falls below 600 will automatically have relaxations. Whenever the cases in a district go up to 600, the restrictions will automatically be reimposed.Shopping malls, cinema halls, gyms, coaching institutes, swimming pools and clubs will stay closed all over the state.Weddings (in closed or open spaces) cannot have more than 25 guests. Funeral procession cannot have more than 20 persons. Schools, colleges, education institutions will continue to stay closed statewide for academic activities. Online education/teaching will continue as per the department’s orders.Teaching and non-teaching staff will be allowed to go to these education institutions for administrative work.Banks, insurance companies, and similar financial institutions will function statewide.State transport corporation buses allowed to operate within the state with the rider that passengers would not exceed the prescribed seating capacity. No standing travel allowed.Religious places outside containment zones cannot have more than five persons at a time statewide.Full staff attendance in all government offices that have Covid frontline functioning. 50% attendance at a time (in shifts) in other government offices. All offices will have Covid helpdesk.Private companies’ offices too will open but they should continue to promote and encourage work from home culture. All of them must have helpdesks.All industrial institutions will function, and staff movement will be allowed with valid identity cards.Vegetable mandis (wholesale markets) will open, but those in heavily populated areas will operate from such places that are less congested.Railway stations, airports, roadways bus stations will open with Covid protocols, Covid screening and antigen testing facilities.Restaurants allowed to open for home deliveries. Roadside (highway and expressway) dhabas, vendors and kiosks will be allowed to function.Transport and logistics companies allowed to open.People allowed to commute on two-wheelers according to the prescribed seating capacity and helmets. Masks are a must; three-wheelers can have only two passengers.Four-wheelers cannot have more than four persons.Eggs, meat, fish shops allowed to function with the desired cleanliness and sanitization.All agriculture related work and establishments will open.All construction activities allowed, be it government or private.What’s eased for districts with less than 600 active Covid casesRelaxation on weekdays will mean that all markets and shops can open from 7am to 7pm from Monday to Friday. Both the shopkeepers and customers will have to follow Covid safety protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-to-go-for-rigorous-enforcement-of-covid-19-curbs-in-20-districts-101622400707005.html
31-05-2021||Other||Hallmarking gold: Bombay HC relief to jewellers till June 29||The Bombay high court (HC) recently refrained the Central government from acting against jewellers who have not complied with the January 15 order that mandates the compulsory hallmarking of jewellery and prohibits the sale and stamping of higher purity gold ornaments. The rule will come into effect from Tuesday, June 1 and the jewellers have been given the relief from coercive steps or penalty till June 29. While HC said that it was not inclined to stay the effect and operation of the January 15 order, it has asked the authorities to give jewellers more time owing to the pandemic. The bench also directed the Centre to set up more hallmarking centres across 22 out of the 26 districts in Maharashtra, which currently do not have such centres. On May 21, a jewellers’ organisation, Pune Saraf Association, filed a petition through senior advocate Anil Anturkar and advocate Shubham H Misar, sought the quashing of the January 15 notification that mandated jewellers to register with the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) and sell only hallmarked jewellery and artefacts made of 14, 18 and 22-carat gold from June. The notification had further warned of penalty and imprisonment of one year on violators. While the hearing the petition, the bench was informed that the Centre had rejected the April representation by the jewellers’ body and hence, urgent reliefs were sought seeking a stay on the order owing to “complete lack of infrastructure” to implement the rule. Advocate Arsh Mishra, representing BIS, informed the court that the Nagpur bench of HC had on May 9 directed the Centre to not take coercive action under the BIS Act against jewellers till June 14 for not hallmarking jewellery. Mishra added that new hallmark centres would come up as the pandemic situation normalised, and urged the court not to stay the Centre’s decision. After hearing the arguments, the vacation bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice SP Tavade reserved its order, which was pronounced on May 27. In its order, the bench noted, “Whilst we appreciate that hallmarking is essential for consumer protection and to prevent unfair trade practices, adequate and necessary infrastructure needs to first be put in place prior to impose such strict consequences on the petitioners… Considering the purpose for which the impugned order has been issued, we are not inclined to stay its effect and operation.” The bench also noted that it would not be possible for certain jewellers to travel outside their district, as no hallmarking centre was established in their respective districts. “Owing to the ongoing pandemic, coupled with the admitted lack of infrastructure of hallmark centres, we deem it fit to restrain the respondents [authorities] from taking coercive action against the petitioners,” said the bench. The court then directed the jewellers to try ensuring maximum hallmarking at the currently operational centres, and posted further hearing to June 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hallmarking-gold-bombay-hc-relief-to-jewellers-till-june-29-101622399922248.html
31-05-2021||Other||Air India loses 5th pilot to Covid-19 in a month||Air India co-pilot Captain Harsh Tiwary, 37, passed away from Covid-19 in Delhi on Sunday. He is survived by his wife, a five-year-old daughter, parents and sister. The Delhi-based first officer is the airline’s fifth pilot to succumb to Covid-19 within a month. Captain Tiwary used to operate the Boeing 777 fleet since 2019 after joining Air India as first officer on Airbus 320 in 2016. The Boeing pilots’ union of Air India Indian Pilots’ Guild (IPG) said that Captain Tiwary was actively involved in operating flights under the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM). “He last flew on April 21 and was tested positive on May 9. On May 12, he was admitted to a Noida hospital,” said a senior pilot. Captain Prasad Karmakar, who operated flights to the USA under VBM, was the fourth Air India pilot to die from the virus this month. He had joined the airline in 1990 as an avionics engineer and started flying in 1997. Captain Karmakar, a Mumbai resident, passed away on Thursday and is survived by his wife and two daughters. On May 9, the airline lost Captain Amitesh Prasad, 54, who had last landed in Bangalore on April 15. He complained of symptoms after reaching Mumbai and had tested positive for the virus five days later. Two more pilots – Captain Sandeep Rana and Captain GPS Gill, too succumbed to the virus earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/air-india-loses-5th-pilot-to-covid-19-in-a-month-101622399862205.html
31-05-2021||Other||Mumbai mayor finds vaccines in fridge at hotel||Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar, during a surprise inspection at an Andheri hotel on Sunday morning, found that the establishment had administered Covaxin to hundreds of people. The mayor also found vaccines, vial trays and vaccine-related information documents from the hotel’s fridge. Pednekar has called for an inquiry and stated that the guilty will be charged under the Epidemic Diseases Act.“I received images of the hotel offering the vaccine. So I immediately rushed to the hotel for inspection at 8am. There were vaccine bottles and vial trays stored inside a normal fridge and not in the specified cold storage facility. Coronavirus vaccines have to be stored in cold storages and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) ensures that all vaccines are stored properly. A proper standard operating procedure (SOP) needs to be followed, otherwise it could endanger the lives of beneficiaries,” said the mayor.The mayor said that the vaccines were procured from a hospital, with which the hotel had a tie-up. The hospital had procured Covaxin from the Centre. She said people were vaccinated in batches of 100 each in the past few days. “The hotel management stated that the vaccines were being administered from May 23 but have been stopped currently. However, I asked BMC officials to check how the vaccines were stored earlier and if at all they were stored in proper cold storage,” added Pednekar.The mayor said that the hotel is not to be blamed entirely as it was administering vaccines to people without families and were keeping them under observation of doctors to check for reaction.She said that BMC has been asked to check the details with the hospital too. According to the mayor, the hotel had tied-up with another hospital which too was providing it vaccines.“As per the Centre’s direction, private hospitals administering vaccines in partnership with hotels is in violation of the guidelines,” the mayor added. The Central government on Saturday asked the state governments to initiate legal or administrative action against institutions offering coronavirus vaccine packages. The Central government in a letter stated that it had come to the notice of the Union health ministry that some private hospitals were providing packages for vaccination in collaboration with some hotels, which was against the guidelines issued for the National Covid-19 vaccination programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-mayor-finds-vaccines-in-fridge-at-hotel-101622399802261.html
31-05-2021||Other||Mumbai society members scuffle over Covid-19 norms||A 56-year-old Bollywood make-up artist, Subhash Singh, suffered injuries after he was allegedly assaulted by his society’s committee member, Prashant Kevde, at Goregaon during a fight that broke out over the alleged violation of Covid-19 norms, on Friday. The police have registered a case against Kevde and based on his complaint have also booked Singh.According to Singh, around 6pm, he saw his neighbour trying to enter the premises along with an estate agent to show three flats which the latter intended to sell. Kevde, reached the spot and denied the neighbour access to the building. Singh said that visitors were allowed only from 7.00am to 11.00am owing to Covid-19. When Singh tried to intervene, Kevde allegedly began abusing Singh, after which a fight broke out between the two and Singh sustained injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-society-members-scuffle-over-covid-19-norms-101622399682116.html
31-05-2021||Other||‘What have you achieved in 7 years?’ Maharashtra’s ruling allies slam Modi govt||The ruling parties in Maharashtra on Sunday staged protests against the Central government led by Narendra Modi over various issues as the Prime Minister completed seven years in office. The Modi-led government took power for its second tenure on May 30, 2019. The Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) questioned about the achievements of the Central government, even as their ally Shiv Sena said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government needs to introspect.The Congress party’s key leaders led protests in their respective districts across the state and observed ‘Black Day’ on Sunday. At Nashik, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat led the protest, while at Aurangabad, workers agitated under the leadership of public works department minister Ashok Chavan. In Pune, former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan led the stir. Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said that the Modi government has failed on all the fronts and his leadership had been “exposed” amid the second wave of the pandemic. “Apart from the rise in the prices of petrol, diesel, domestic gas and edible oil, the unemployment is at its peak. The economy has been stumbling through the [Covid-19] crisis, even as the Modi government acted irresponsibly during the devastation caused by the second wave in the country,” said Patole.“Hundreds of thousands of people died owing to shortage of drugs and oxygen. Lack of planning for the procurement of vaccines has compelled citizens to stand in queues for hours, even as the rich are getting the shots without any hassle. The Modi government’s decision of exporting vaccines to countries like Pakistan has escalated the shortage of doses, leaving our own people struggling for it,” he added. In Mumbai, city Congress chief Bhai Jagtap, former ministers Arif Naseem Khan and Chandrakant Handore participated in the protest under Patole’s leadership. Jagtap said that Modi cannot even count seven achievements in seven years and smaller countries such as Kenya have been extending help to India. “This indicates the downward trend of our progress,” he said. Meanwhile, NCP’s state unit chief Jayant Patil appealed to party workers as also to citizens to take to the social media to expose the failures of the Modi-led Central government. “The general public of this country got nothing except tall assurances, failed promises, divisive politics and unemployment. The Modi government has now started taking steps to tame social media platforms such as Twitter and Facebook after it realised that people have started talking against them using these mediums. Now it’s time for the people to effectively use these media to expose the Centre,” said Patil.He also claimed that the Centre has been using the Central agencies for political gains. “The Modi government has failed to generate 20 million jobs a year as was promised or unearth the scams they spoke about before the 2014 Lok Sabha elections,” said Patil. Shiv Sena’s Member of Parliament (MP) Sanjay Raut said that the Modi government needs to introspect. “It has widely failed in fulfilling the basic expectations of the people in the past seven years,” Raut said. Responding to Raut’s statement, BJP’s state unit chief Chandrakant Patil said that the party does not take the Sena MP very seriously. “As directed by our Central leadership, we are not celebrating Modi government’s anniversary, but are instead felicitating Covid-19 warriors. The Opposition has the right to criticise, but the Central government has performed well in the past seven years,” he said at Kolhapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/what-have-you-achieved-in-7-years-maharashtra-s-ruling-allies-slam-modi-govt-101622399622790.html
31-05-2021||Other||‘Follow-up on recovered Covid-19 patients with diabetes, kept on oxygen for over a week’||With the growing cases of mucormycosis in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has instructed hospitals to follow-up with Covid-recovered, diabetic patients for symptoms of the black fungal infection. These also include patients who have been on oxygen therapy or in intensive care units (ICU) for more than seven days. Mucormycosis is a serious but rare fungal infection caused by a group of moulds called mucormycetes. According to doctors, it causes blindness, organ dysfunction, loss of body tissue and can be fatal if not treated on time. “We have been instructed to screen a sizeable number of Covid-19 patients with high sugar or diabetes before they get discharged from the hospital. Additionally, we are also following-up with such patients after their discharge if they have developed symptoms such as headache, black discharge from nose, among others,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital. As per doctors, oxygen therapy for a long duration causes exposure to humidified air. If the water in the humidification is not sterilised, it exposes sinuses to the infection. “This makes patients on oxygen therapy for a long time vulnerable to acquiring the infection. Also, patients with cardio-pulmonary complications in ICUs develop lower immunity to contract the fungal infection later,” said Dr Bharmal. Compared to last year, the number of mucormycosis cases has increased in the second wave. Since the beginning of the second pandemic in February, over 170 Covid-recovered patients have contracted mucormycosis in the city. Out of these, 24 of them lost their lives to the infection. “The directive has been given for the early detection of the cases. It has been observed that patients often ignore their symptoms as post-Covid issues, which often delays the diagnosis. Due to this, the fungi become more aggressive and kill tissues inside the nose, throat, palate, sinus and even brain which causes death,” said Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital (Sion hospital). According to a guideline issued on May 17 by the state’s commissioner of health services and mission director, National Health Mission, if required, patients with high sugar need to be examined by an ENT (ears, nose, throat) specialist for symptoms of mucormycosis. Patients can also be examined by an ophthalmologist, if needed. “The immunity in a Covid-19 patient gets compromised due to some medicines such as Tocilizumab and steroids. So, when they get exposed to mucor mold – commonly found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables – it becomes life-threatening. It affects the sinuses, the brain and the lungs,” said Dr Girija Suresh, senior ophthalmic consultant, Fortis Hospital, Mulund. Steroids reduce inflammation in the lungs of Covid-19 patients. But it also reduces immunity and increases the blood sugar levels in Covid-19 patients. Dr Ajay Doiphode, president, Association of Otolaryngologists, attributed unregulated usage of steroids, which lowers the immunity in the body, as one of the primary reasons for the surge in cases of mucormycosis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/followup-on-recovered-covid-19-patients-with-diabetes-kept-on-oxygen-for-over-a-week-101622399622260.html
31-05-2021||Other||Prioritise vax for parents to be ready for third wave: district task force chief, Dr Kadam||PUNE During an online meeting organised by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Pune chapter on Sunday, the district task force head Dr Dileep Kadam suggested that the Covid-19 vaccination of parents whose children are aged 10 years and below, should be prioritised. He said that since the isolation of younger children might require parents to stay with them, the parents also have to be vaccinated. He also stated that in addition to Covid-19 care facilities for children, post infection facilities also need to be set up. Addressing the IMA meet, Dr Kadam, who heads Pune’s Covid-19 task force said, “The challenges in the third wave would be isolation of the infected children who are dependent on their parents, especially those children aged below 6-7 years. In view of this vaccination of parents must be prioritised. Multiple hospitals are being set up by PMC and other agencies, but more have to be set up. The necessary approved medicines have to be stocked, as the use of Remdesivir in children is still under trial. Most importantly, routine immunisation programmes have to be continued, especially the influenza vaccine, because the symptoms of both influenza and Covid are very similar.”He added, “In the third wave, the presentation of symptoms among the age group of 18-45 years is likely to remain the same, which is in the lungs and respiratory system. While in the age group of 18-12 years, we would see most patients show both, Covid-19 and post Covid-19 symptoms. The most number of post Covid symptoms would be among the age group of 0-12 years, wherein the most important symptom would be swelling of the heart. So we have to be prepared for Covid as well as post-Covid symptoms. Multiple system inflammatory syndrome (MSIS) which is now reported commonly in children would be more impactful in the third wave and for that we have to keep the intravenous immunoglobulin treatment ready.”He said, “The third wave is likely to come mid-August to October. There are multiple contributing factors, one of which is the weather. During this period the minimum temperature is 10 degree Celsius, while maximum is more than double the minimum. Also, the reason why Pune is being most affected could be because of its location and overall climate. Pune is also surrounded by mountains and so winds entering the district do not leave easily. Pune is also an education hub and the movement of people from city to rural areas is very rampant, more than any other city. Even during swine flu we saw that Pune was most affected.” In addition to Dr Kadam, other speakers included Dr Bharat Purandare, infectious disease specialist, Dr Kailas Sant, ENT specialist, and Dr Sanjay Patil, past president, IMA Pune. Murlidhar Mohol, mayor of Pune city was the chief guest and Ravindra Shisve, joint police commissioner, was the guest of honour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prioritise-vax-for-children-to-circumvent-third-wave-district-task-force-chief-dr-kadam-101622388101060.html
