01-07-2021||India||'Court verdict hope for others jailed under fake charges': Akhil Gogoi||Hours after his release, Raijor Dal president and MLA from Assam’s Sibsagar Akhil Gogoi spoke to Hindustan Times on the court’s verdict and his determination to resume the agitation against the Citizenship Amendment Act.What is your reaction to the court verdict? This is a historic verdict not just for me but for the Indian judiciary. For the past few years, it appeared that the executive was trying to influence the judiciary and control it. Today’s verdict shows that the judiciary is still independent and can take decisions judiciously without getting influenced by the government in power. The verdict also showed that agencies like the NIA and laws like UAPA are used by government to target those who are against the policies of those in power. The verdict, I hope, will pave the way for release of other activists who have been jailed under trumped up charges.Also Read: Akhil Gogoi released from detention in connection with anti-CAA protestsIt’s been one-and-half years since your arrest, were you expecting the verdict or to get released soon? There is a big conspiracy against me. Even today, the government tried to connect me to a 2013 case but the court rejected it as the verdict was already decided. Since I’ve been able to walk out of detention after so many months, I feel encouraged and happy. During this period of my detention, the government dismantled the anti-CAA protests, won the assembly elections this year and also implemented projects like toll gates on highways, which I was opposing. My detention also broke everyone in my family, including my son, my wife and my ailing mother.You got infected with Covid-19 during your detention and also had several other health issues. Did you feel disheartened or scared during the period under arrest? I spent several months in jail and the rest of the time in Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) where I was under treatment. Getting infected with Covid-19 in jail was a very painful episode in my life as I lost touch with others. While in hospital, I found that there were several cracks in my bones and I suffered from terrible chest pain. I was kept inside one room all the time and not allowed to come out. It was an unbearable mental torture for me. I am happy to have overcome those difficult days and be released.Will the anti-CAA protests in Assam resume after your release? The protests will definitely start and this time, the agitation will not just be on the streets, it will also reverberate inside the state assembly.Your victory from Sibsagar during the assembly polls while still being under detention is the first such instance in Assam. Did you expect to win? My win was a historic event in Assam’s political landscape. I never expected that voters would support a person who is behind bars and make him victorious. I am overwhelmed at the confidence expressed by the people on me from my constituency. Therefore, to express my gratitude, I will visit them on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-verdict-hope-for-others-jailed-under-fake-charges-akhil-gogoi-101625162799484.html
01-07-2021||India||SC rejects Centre’s plea to review backward class list ruling||The Supreme Court has dismissed the Union government’s petition for a reconsideration of its May 5 judgment, ruling that state governments have no power to draw up their own lists of backward classes after a constitutional amendment in 2018.A five-judge bench, headed by justice Ashok Bhushan, held that there were not sufficient grounds to entertain the review petition filed by the Centre in May.“The grounds taken in the review petition do not fall within the limited ground on which review petition can be considered. The various grounds taken in the review petition have already been dealt with in the main judgment,” said the bench while also rejecting a plea to stay the judgment and an application for an open court hearing.The other members of the bench included justices L Nageswara Rao, SA Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat. The review petition was considered by the judges in chambers on June 28. The order of dismissal was released on Thursday evening.The only option left before the union government is a curative plea, which is entertained by the top court in extremely rare cases.In its review petition, the government contended that the judgment required a re-look because there were errors apparent on the face of the record. It questioned the interpretation given to the 102nd constitutional amendment by the majority of the judges on the bench.By a 3-2 majority, the May 5 verdict of the apex court-- which also unanimously struck down a state law granting reservation to the Maratha community in government jobs and education in Maharashtra -- held that state governments must rely on the Union government to include or exclude any community for granting reservation to socially and educationally backward classes (SEBCs).The five-judge bench interpreted the 102nd constitutional amendment, whereby provisions were inserted to give constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes (Article 338B) and for empowering the President to notify the list of socially and educationally backward classes of state or Union territory (Article 342A).While justices Ashok Bhushan and SA Nazeer maintained that the amendment was confined to the list to be issued for central government jobs, justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat said that the scheme of the amendments took away the power of the state to identify backward classes.The majority view dismissed the Centre’s understanding of the amendments even as attorney general (A-G) KK Venugopal insisted that the 102nd amendment was not meant to deprive state legislatures from enacting laws determining the SEBCs and conferring benefits on them, something that has become a hot political issue.According to the top law officer, Articles 15(4) and 16(4) of the Constitution were untouched by the insertion of Article 342 , which meant that the states continued to exercise their power to identify SEBCs and provide for reservation.Several states, including Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, also asserted their right under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) to make special provisions for SEBCs and give them benefits of quota.Both the Centre and states further urged the court to lend credence to the parliamentary select committee report of 2017 and a statement of Union minister Thawarchand Gehlot on the floor of Parliament in August 2017 that the amendments did not affect the rights of the state governments to notify backward classes for reservation.But the majority judgment rejected this plea, holding: “There is no reason to depart from the text which is in clear terms and rely upon the legislative history to construe Article 342 A contrary to the language...”Stating that the states could only make suggestions to the President who had the exclusive authority to notify the list of SEBCs, justice Bhat added that once the list was notified, states could only exercise their power under Article 15(4) and 16(4) to decide on extent of reservations, the kind of benefits, the quantum of scholarships, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-centre-s-plea-to-review-backward-class-list-ruling-101625162798258.html
01-07-2021||India||Tussle threatens to cast shadow on the constitutional norms||New Delhi: The tussle between West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress and governor Jagdeep Dhankhar is threatening another showdown in the upcoming assembly session that starts from Friday . In a press meet on June 28, the governor hinted that he is not bound to read the text of the speech approved by the state cabinet — an age-old norm practised in India. Article 175 of the Indian Constitution says, “The Governor may address the Legislative Assembly or, in the case of a State having a Legislative Council, either House of the Legislature of the State, or both Houses assembled together, and may for that purpose require the attendance of members.” The subsequent Article, 176 (1), says, “At the commencement of the first session after each general election to the Legislative Assembly and at the commencement of the first session of each year, the Governor shall address the Legislative Assembly or, in the case of a State having a Legislative Council, both Houses assembled together and inform the Legislature of the causes of its summons.” Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi, a constitutional expert, maintained that there is no doubt that the governor is bound by the text approved by the state cabinet. “Sad to see such a deliberate escalation. This is a far cry from Ambedkar’s conception avoiding two swords in one scabbard or two CMs in one state. There is isn’t an iota of doubt in my mind that a governor is bound by the text of the speech furnished to him by the state cabinet,” he said. To be sure, in the past, governors have expressed reluctance to read out the cabinet-approved speech that usually hails the government and showcases its various initiatives. In Kerala, governor Arif Mohammad Khan initially refused to read two paragraphs of his speech in 2020 that related to the Citizenship (Amendment) Aact. Finally he read the paragraphs but told the assembly that he has “reservations” but he will read the CM wants him to read it. A tussle between the governor and the state government hampered usual proceedings in Bengal earlier as well. In 2019, a session of the Bengal assembly ran for almost a year and Dhankhar alleged it was done to deny him the chance to address the assembly. “Never earlier in parliamentary history of this country an assembly has been in session for over a year without being prorogued. In the process wholesome practices including governor address in first session could not take place thereby depriving vital discussion,” he tweeted. For this session, too, the government informed the governor’s office that live media coverage of his speech would not be possible due to Covid restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tussle-threatens-to-cast-shadow-on-the-constitutional-norms-101625162797642.html
01-07-2021||India||‘Early’ monsoon may now be ‘most delayed’||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday announced, in its latest forecast, that the monsoon is unlikely to advance in the remaining parts of north-west India, including Delhi, till at least July 7, which will make the 2021 monsoon’s arrival in the national capital as delayed as in 2012 and the most delayed since 2006, according to the weather office’s records.If the prediction holds, that is.What make the circumstances particularly odd is that the monsoon was racing through the country in early June, and the Met predicted last month it may hit Delhi by June 15, the earliest in the period for which data is available, before it suddenly slowed down and appeared to hit a “break” phase.Also Read | Monsoon in Delhi to be delayed by 7-10 days: IMDIn 2012, the southwest monsoon arrived in the Capital on July 7, a full 10 days after its usual arrival date of June 27. The latest it has arrived in the past 17 years for which IMD has data is on July 9 in 2006. In 2019, 2010, 2005 and 2004, it made an official entry into Delhi on July 5.Meanwhile, Delhi, which has broken a weather record every month starting last August, broke one on the very first day of July, with the Safdarjung observatory recording a maximum temperature of 43.1 degrees Celsius, the highest July temperature since 2012 (July 2 that year recorded a maximum temperature of 43.5°C).Both 2006 and 2012 saw the same kind of heatwaves the Capital is currently experiencing.On Thursday, the maximum temperature was 43.1°C, six degrees above normal, marking the third straight heatwave day. In 2006, there were nine such days and in 2012, seven. By IMD’s definition, it is a heatwave in the plains when the maximum temperature crosses 40°C, and when the day temperature exceeds the region’s normal maximum temperature by 4.5°C. A severe heatwave is declared when there is a departure of 6.5°C or above from normal temperatures.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (climate change and meteorology), at Skymet Weather, a private forecaster, said that what Delhi is experiencing now is a phenomenon called “break monsoon”, which often causes monsoons to be delayed in a region by a week to 10 days.“Since June 18, strong westerly winds blowing from central Pakistan are blocking the humid, easterly monsoon winds, which bring moisture from the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea. On the surface, high-velocity winds are blowing, causing the ground temperature to rise and creating unfavourable conditions for monsoon winds to proceed,” Palawat explained.Aditya Kumar, an independent weather forecaster, said that the westerly winds that are also passing through the Thar Desert in Rajasthan are carrying dust along with them to Delhi, creating a layer over the city. This layer of dust led to heat getting trapped close to the surface on Wednesday night. This did not allow the ground to cool off and resulted in high minimum temperatures.“As of June 30, the rainfall deficiency in Delhi stands at 52%, which makes it the third-highest deficient state after Ladakh and Manipur. We can expect a good rain spell between July 8 and July 15. Till then, temperatures are expected to remain high, with the possibility of some patchy rain on Friday,” Kumar added.Meanwhile, IMD said that even though Delhi has recorded a rainfall deficiency in excess of 50% this season, this can easily be covered by a few heavy spells. That’s been another characteristic of the monsoon in recent years -- a few heavy-rain days accounts for much of the overall rainfall.“Delhi will get normal rainfall this monsoon. There is no chance of a deficit. A few spells of rain after July 7 will cover the deficit,” said a senior Met official who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/early-monsoon-may-now-be-most-delayed-101625162514392.html
01-07-2021||India||Drones a clear, present threat, says army chief||Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Thursday said that the easy availability of drones allowed both state and non-state actors to use them, increasing the complexity of challenges faced by the security forces, days after an unprecedented unmanned attack on an Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu. Highlighting the easy availability of devices such as the ones used in Jammu on June 27 -- and several other drones seen and repelled in the region’s Kaluchak area over the past week -- he said that building drones was akin to a “DIY project that could be tackled at home”. The attack was the first-ever offensive use of drones to target an Indian military facility. “Drones will increasingly be used in all sorts of combat in future by state and non-state actors. We will have to factor it in our future planning,” the army chief said at a seminar organised by the Global Counter Terrorism Council, a think tank. Steps are being taken to counter the drone threat, he added. “We are developing the capability to deal with this threat in both kinetic and non-kinetic realms. Troops have also been sensitised to the evolving threat...we are focusing on offensive use of drones as well as adopting counter-drone technology to prevent any attacks on our critical facilities either by state or non-state actors,” he said. The technology used in the aerial attack in Jammu indicated “state support and the possible involvement of Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Taiba terror groups,” Lieutenant General DP Pandey, who heads the Srinagar-based 15 Corps, said on Wednesday. The army and IAF have tightened security and activated countermeasures at their forward bases to pre-empt such aerial attacks. Pandey said there appeared to be an “element of guidance from state actors” to modify the drones for aerial attacks. The Jammu attack is a wake-up call, but it must be appreciated that the threat has been long in existence, and the antidote to terror drones is a whole-of-government approach since it’s not only military installations that are threatened but civilian infrastructure of importance too, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), former additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “Thus, the IB, RAW and other intelligence agencies have to work hand-in-hand to pre-empt attacks and terminal anti-drone defences have to be provided to key installations. In these Covid crunch times, finances would have to be provisioned from somewhere by the government,” Bahadur said on Wednesday. The drone attack is a watershed in asymmetric warfare and underlines the need for the armed forces to build capabilities to deter, detect and neutralise such aerial threats. He said, “The seesaw battle between drone warfare and counter-drone technologies will keep evolving. We will have to keep adapting,” he said. The army chief also talked about achieving self-reliance in niche areas to tackle new threats. “In order to harness niche technologies like artificial intelligence (AI), exploit our depth in IT and realise the vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat, we need to shed old mindsets and make our procedures more flexible and adaptive,” Naravane said. The imaginative and offensive use of drones, riding on AI algorithms, first in Idlib and then in the Armenia-Azerbaijan conflict, have challenged the traditional military hardware such as tanks, artillery and infantry, Naravane said. In Syria’s Idlib, Turkish forces successfully used drones to carry out attacks against Syrian tanks, air defence systems and other assets. Also, Azerbaijan made extensive use of Kamikaze drones to target and inflict losses on Armenian forces in a conflict last year. “More recently, the Israel Defence Forces have hailed the just-concluded 11-day conflict with Hamas, as the first Artificial Intelligence War. Whether it was the famed Iron Dome neutralising incoming rockets to great effect or the air targeting of Hamas locations in the Gaza strip, Israel has credited its success to the accomplishments in the field of AI,” he said. Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat on Monday said that India has to start preparing for future generation warfare. He said the three services, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), academia and other stakeholders were working together to develop technology to counter the threat from drones at the earliest. The drone threat has surfaced at a time the armed forces are undergoing a major restructuring drive. Theaterisation plans are being refined to integrate the capabilities of the three services and optimally utilise their resources for future wars and operations. The plans cover the setting up of an Air Defence Command to protect key assets and installation from airborne attacks by standalone weapons such as armed drones, rockets and missiles. DRDO chief G Satheesh Reddy said that the counter-drone technology developed by his organisation could provide the armed forces with the capability to swiftly detect, intercept and destroy small drones that pose a security threat. He said DRDO’s anti-drone system would give the military both “soft kill” and “hard kill” options to tackle the aerial threat. The first refers to jamming the hostile drone, while the second involves a laser-based kill system. The DRDO’s counter-drone technology uses a variety of methods to neutralise the danger from such aerial attacks. DRDO officials previously explained how the system works. The solution consists of a radar system that offers 360-degree coverage with detection of micro drones when they are 4km away, electro-optical/infrared (EO/IR) sensors for detection of micro drones up to 2 km and a radio frequency (RF) detector to detect RF communication up to 3 km. “The radar detects micro drones and hands over the track for soft kill and hard kill after due verification by a sensor. Once confirmed by RF detection and verified by EO/IR sensor, the system is ready to jam RF/GNSS signals or use laser weapon as per standard operating procedures,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drones-a-clear-present-threat-says-army-chief-101625162737716.html
01-07-2021||India||‘Early’ monsoon maynow be ‘most delayed’||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday announced, in its latest forecast, that the monsoon is unlikely to advance in the remaining parts of north-west India, including Delhi, till at least July 7, which will make the 2021 monsoon’s arrival in the national capital as delayed as in 2012 and the most delayed since 2006, according to the weather office’s records. If the prediction holds, that is. What make the circumstances particularly odd is that the monsoon was racing through the country in early June, and the Met predicted last month it may hit Delhi by June 15, the earliest in the period for which data is available, before it suddenly slowed down and appeared to hit a “break” phase.In 2012, the southwest monsoon arrived in the Capital on July 7, a full 10 days after its usual arrival date of June 27. The latest it has arrived in the past 17 years for which IMD has data is on July 9 in 2006. In 2019, 2010, 2005 and 2004, it made an official entry into Delhi on July 5.Meanwhile, Delhi, which has broken a weather record every month starting last August, broke one on the very first day of July, with the Safdarjung observatory recording a maximum temperature of 43.1 degrees Celsius, the highest July temperature since 2012 (July 2 that year recorded a maximum temperature of 43.5 degrees). Both 2006 and 2012 saw the same kind of heatwaves the Capital is currently experiencing. On Thursday, the maximum temperature was 43.1 degrees Celsius, six degrees above normal, marking the third straight heatwave day. In 2006, there were nine such days and in 2012, seven. By IMD’s definition, it is a heatwave in the plains when the maximum temperature crosses 40 degrees Celsius, and when the day temperature exceeds the region’s normal maximum temperature by 4.5 degrees Celsius. A severe heatwave is declared when there is a departure of 6.5 degrees Celsius or above from normal temperatures. Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (climate change and meteorology), at Skymet Weather, a private forecaster, said that what Delhi is experiencing now is a phenomenon called “break monsoon”, which often causes monsoons to be delayed in a region by a week to 10 days. “Since June 18, strong westerly winds blowing from central Pakistan are blocking the humid, easterly monsoon winds, which bring moisture from the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea. On the surface, high-velocity winds are blowing, causing the ground temperature to rise and creating unfavourable conditions for monsoon winds to proceed,” Palawat explained. Aditya Kumar, an independent weather forecaster, said that the westerly winds that are also passing through the Thar Desert in Rajasthan are carrying dust along with them to Delhi, creating a layer over the city. This layer of dust led to heat getting trapped close to the surface on Wednesday night. This did not allow the ground to cool off and resulted in high minimum temperatures. “As of June 30, the rainfall deficiency in Delhi stands at 52%, which makes it the third-highest deficient state after Ladakh and Manipur. We can expect a good rain spell between July 8 and July 15. Till then, temperatures are expected to remain high, with the possibility of some patchy rain on Friday,” Kumar added.Meanwhile, IMD said that even though Delhi has recorded a rainfall deficiency in excess of 50% this season, this can easily be covered by a few heavy spells. That’s been another characteristic of the monsoon in recent years -- a few heavy-rain days accounts for much of the overall rainfall. “Delhi will get normal rainfall this monsoon. There is no chance of a deficit. A few spells of rain after July 7 will cover the deficit,” said a senior Met official who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/early-monsoon-maynow-be-most-delayed-101625162437673.html
01-07-2021||India||Next year's winter session to be held in new Parliament building: Hardeep Puri||Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri has expressed confidence that the first winter session of parliament after the country completes 75 years of Independence next year, will be held in the new building of Parliament."I am confident that when we celebrate the 75th anniversary of our independence, the winter session will be in the new Parliament," Puri said.He was speaking at the inauguration of the newly refurbished Janpath Hotel which will be a temporary home for the activities of IGNCA.The minister said the old parliament building could not meet requirements in terms of space.He said the old building, whose construction started in 1921, could meet the requirements at the time of independence and years later."Today, it is not sufficient. There are problems," he said, adding that the decision for the new building was taken after members of the two Houses made a request.The minister said work for the new building was being done "in a clockwork fashion with an entire government approach".Puri said that the Republic Day parade in 2022 will be held at refurbished Rajpath, a project under the Central Vista redevelopment plan."Another component, which we have undertaken is the expansion, upgradation and modernization of the Central Vista Avenue. The January 26 parade in 2022, will be at the new venue of Central Vista Avenue," he said.The minister noted that none of the iconic buildings of the national capital will be demolished."Whenever you undertake a project on such an ambitious scale as the Prime Minister decided there will be voices, which is perhaps because they do not know the full facts, (they) will say that this is a project which is designed to demolish our heritage or iconic buildings. I think that not a single of those cultural iconic heritage buildings will be demolished. We are proud of our culture," he said.The Central Vista Development project intends to revamp 86 acres of land in central Delhi which has structures such as Parliament House, North Block, South Block, Shastri Bhavan and Udyog Bhavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winter-session-after-75th-anniversary-of-independence-to-be-held-in-new-parliame-101625161387791.html
01-07-2021||India||BJD lawmaker stings Naveen Patnaik govt with surprise pitch on Covid deaths||Bhubaneswar: Soumya Ranjan Patnaik, a lawmaker of Naveen Patnaik’s Biju Janata Dal (BJD), on Thursday sparked a political firestorm in Odisha, with a front-page signed editorial in the state’s leading daily Sambad that accused the government of under-reporting deaths due to Covid and demanding the government issue a white paper on the Covid deaths. Patnaik, the Odia language newspaper’s founder-editor, said the attempt to hide the real figures “had ruined the image of administrative machinery”.The editor-politician said the data of Covid deaths was manipulated due to a desperate race to be on the top and an attempt to cling onto past glory, remarks that are seen to refer to a tug-of-war in the corridors of power in Bhubaneswar.“In the present scenario, what the left hand is doing is not known to the right hand of the administration. Whether chief minister Naveen Patnaik is aware of it or not, we do not know for sure,” said Soumya Ranjan Patnaik, who is also the BJD vice-president.He argued for a white paper on the deaths, adding: “People of the State will love him (Naveen Patnaik) more, if he displays courage by releasing the white paper”.The opposition promptly latched on, citing the harshly-worded article by the BJD legislator and the newspaper’s founder-editor as evidence to back up its charge that the state government under-reported death figures.BJD leader and government chief whip Pramila Mallick rubbished the charge that the government had concealed Covid-related deaths. “I want to ask those who are pointing fingers at the government to reveal how we are fudging the data,” she said, challenging the government’s critics.According to data released by Thursday, 4.063 people have lost their lives due to Covid since April last year. Soumya Ranjan Patnaik cited the Supreme Court’s verdict on Wednesday that asked all deaths of Covid-19 patients within two-three months of testing positive as Covid deaths, widening the definition of what would be considered as Covid deaths.“A PIL is pending in Orissa High Court in this regard. During this time a controversy has erupted in Odisha about the actual number of Covid deaths due to administrative mistakes. The Naveen Patnaik government is facing embarrassment due to such things,” Patnaik wrote.A response to a right to information request by activist Pradip Pradhan which said 3,480 bodies were cremated with Covid protocol at one crematorium in Bhubaneswar by the end of December last year is frequently cited by the government’s critics since official data only counts 1,873 Covid deaths across the state till end of December.Congress leader Suresh Routray said it was courageous of Soumya Ranjan Patnaik to write the piece. “While the truth of Covid deaths is too well known, no BJD leader could muster courage to question the government statistics. Naveen Patnaik should come clean with the figures,” said Routray.Odisha BJP general secretary Prithviraj Harichandan said around 250 bodies were being cremated everyday at the peak of the Covid second wave in May and June, but the state government stuck to its daily mortality count of 30 to 40.“By concealing the death numbers, the Odisha government is depriving the families of the victims of the central assistance, and also from the assistance the State had announced for them,” said Harichandan.The Orissa High Court last week told the state government to submit district wise Covid death figures by July 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjd-lawmaker-stings-naveen-patnaik-govt-with-surprise-pitch-on-covid-deaths-101625161058325.html
01-07-2021||India||'Scent of our ties...': PM Modi-Afghan envoy engage in Twitter exchange||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday lauded tweets in Hindi by Afghan ambassador Farid Mamundzay about an Indian doctor refusing to accept money from him, saying they reflected the special relations between the two countries.Mamundzay, who speaks fluent Hindi and Urdu and often tweets in Hindi, recounted his experience with the doctor he visited recently.“A few days ago, I went to a doctor for treatment. Upon learning that I am the Afghan ambassador to India, the doctor refused to accept any payment for my treatment,” the envoy tweeted in Hindi.Also read: On Doctors’ Day, PM Modi thanks Covid warriors for their service during pandemic“When I asked the reason for this, he told me that I can do very little for Afghanistan and that is why I won’t charge a brother. There were no words to express my gratitude. This is India – love, respect, values and compassion. Because of you my friend, Afghans cry a little less, smile a little more and feel great,” he added.अच्छे दोस्त सितारों की तरह होते हैं, आप उन्हें हमेशा नहीं देखते, लेकिन आप जानते हैं कि वे हमेशा मौजूद रहते हैं। भारतीयों और अफगानों के संबंधों की कहानी।समय देने के लिए माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी का धन्यवाद। @narendramodi यह इस पुरानी और गहरी दोस्ती का एक और उदाहरण है। https://t.co/rQpiJjlkKdOn seeing Mamundzay’s tweet, a resident of Haripura village in Rajasthan asked him to visit the area. Mamundzay asked whether this was Haripura village in Gujarat.Modi then quoted the Afghan ambassador’s tweet and said Mamundzay’s remarks reflected the special status of India-Afghanistan relations. While asking the envoy to visit Haripura in Rajasthan and Haripura in Gujarat, Modi added in Hindi, “What you have shared about your experience with a doctor from India gives the scent of the fragrance of India-Afghanistan relations.”Mamundzay later tweeted to the resident of Haripura that he would someday visit the village in Rajasthan. He said, “Rajasthan has a long history with Afghanistan. I will definitely go to Haripura one day and expect a Rajasthani turban from my friends.”The exchange on Twitter occurred as India was observing National Doctor’s Day on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scent-of-fragrance-of-our-ties-pm-modi-afghan-envoy-engage-in-twitter-exchange-101625160998740.html
01-07-2021||India||‘My release will pave way for other activists behind bars.. Akhil Gogoi tells HT||After being discharged by a National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Thursday in the second and final case against him in connection with the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests, Raijor Dal president and MLA from Assam’s Sibsagar, Akhil Gogoi, who was under arrest since December 2019, vowed to resume agitation against the legislation. In an interview with Hindustan Times’ Utpal Parashar, he talked about the verdict, life in detention and more. Q: What’s your reaction to the NIA court’s verdict? A: This is a historic verdict not just for me but for the Indian judiciary. For the past few years, it appeared that the executive was trying to influence the judiciary and control it. Today’s verdict shows that the judiciary is still independent and can take decisions judiciously without getting influenced by the government in power. The verdict also showed that agencies like the NIA and UA(P) Act are used by the government to target those who are against the policies of those in power. The verdict, I hope, will pave way for the release of other activists who have been jailed under trumped-up charges. Q: It’s been one-and-half years since your arrest, were you expecting the verdict or to get released soon? A: There’s a big conspiracy against me. Even today, the government tried to connect me to a 2013 case but the court rejected it as the verdict was already decided. Since I’ve been able to walk out of detention after so many months, I am very encouraged and happy. During this period of my detention, the government dismantled the anti-CAA protests, won the assembly elections this year and also implemented projects like toll gates on highways, which I was opposing. My detention also broke everyone in my family including my son, my wife and my ailing mother. Also read: ‘Blockades unaccompanied by incitement to violence won’t constitute terrorist act’ - NIA courtQ: You got infected with Covid-19 during your detention and also had several other health issues. Did you feel disheartened or scared during the period under arrest? A: I spent several months in jail and the rest of the time in Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) where I was under treatment. Getting infected with Covid-19 in jail was a very painful episode in my life as I lost touch with others. While in hospital, I found that there were several cracks in my bones and I suffered from terrible chest pain. I was kept inside one room all the time and was not allowed to come out. It was unbearable mental torture for me. I am happy to have overcome those difficult days and get released. Q: Will the anti-CAA protests in Assam resume after your release? A: The protests will definitely start and this time the agitation will not just be on the streets, it will also reverberate inside the state assembly. Q: Your victory from Sibsagar during the assembly polls while still being under detention is the first such instance in Assam. Did you expect to win? A: My win was a historic event in Assam’s political landscape. I never expected that voters would support a person who is behind bars and make him victorious. I am overwhelmed at the confidence in me expressed by the people from my constituency. Therefore, to express my gratitude I will visit them on Friday and pay respect to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-release-will-pave-way-for-other-activists-behind-bars-akhil-gogoi-tells-ht-101625160278141.html
01-07-2021||India||DCGI tells Dr Reddy’s to submit Russian efficacy data on Sputnik Light vaccine, says no need to conduct separate trial||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) told Dr Reddy’s to submit efficacy data from the Phase III clinical trial of Sputnik V in Russia to the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) for marketing authorisation, the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company said in a statement.“Dr Reddy’s should submit safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data from the phase III clinical trial of Sputnik V in Russia to the SEC for its consideration of Marketing Authorisation of Sputnik Light in India,” the statement said.Earlier the DCGI refused to grant emergency-use authorisation to single-dose Covid vaccine Sputnik Light. The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) after holding a meeting on July 30 observed that Sputnik-Light is the same as the component-1 of Sputnik V. It said that the safety, efficacy and immunogenicity data in the Indian population is already generated in a trial here.Dr Reddy's Laboratories submitted a proposal to the drugs regulator seeking market authorisation of Sputnik-Light, along with the interim safety and efficacy data generated from the phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials in Russia, according to the recommendations made by the SEC which were uploaded on the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) website on Thursday. The pharma company also presented the protocol for conducting the phase-3 clinical trial of the vaccine in India before the committee.The SEC pointed out that Sputnik-Light is the same as the component-1 of Sputnik V and said the firm has already generated the safety and immunogenicity data of component 1 in India. It said that the Phase III trials which are ongoing in Russia and efficacy data is yet to be generated.“The SEC also observed that in view of the safety and immunogenicity data already generated by Dr. Reddy’s in India on the first dose component of Sputnik V (in other words, Sputnik Light), there was no need for a separate Phase III trial of Sputnik Light in India,” the statement further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dcgi-tells-dr-reddy-s-to-submit-russian-efficacy-data-on-sputnik-light-vaccine-says-no-need-to-conduct-separate-trial-101625155551370.html
01-07-2021||India||‘No doubt kids addicted to phones but…’: Court declines plea to ban video games||The Madras high court on Thursday declined to entertain a plea that wanted a ban on all online and offline video games, observing that elected governments were the appropriate authority to take a policy decision on concerns around the addiction of children and young adults to these games.A bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said the courts would intervene if there is some illegal action or if something is detrimental to the larger public interest. But given the present situation, they didn’t want to issue a diktat but would leave a decision to the wisdom of the people’s elected representatives.The court clarified that this order will not prevent any similar complaints in the future if executive action isn’t forthcoming.“There is no doubt that children and young adults these days are addicted to their phones and their worlds appear to revolve around their mobile phones,” the court said.Also Read: Why teens should not use Internet for recreation for more than an hour“Oftentimes, a family could be together and sitting at a table but each member using the phone, even if to describe the dish that he may be having or the quality of food at the moment.”The court asked E Martin Jayakumar, who petitioned the high court, to approach the Union and state government within four weeks and told the authorities to indicate the government’s stance on the issue within eight weeks of receiving his representation.The bench said even constitutional courts should be slow in entering into such areas and dealing with such matters on the personal sense of morality of the individual complainant or of the judge or judges concerned.Also Read: Facebook helps Zara sell clothes using video games“It is only upon the failure of the executive to act and, thereupon, the court perceiving the matter to be a danger to society, that the court ought to step in. At least at the initial stage, the duty of the court is to direct the complainants to the executive for a more wholesome and studied policy decision to be taken by the executive than what may be possible before any court,” the bench led by chief justice Banerjee said.The petition wanted the court to ban all video games, online or offline, and to bring appropriate mechanisms to track computers, laptops, mobile phones and other devices used for playing games.The petitioner said children were being lured by unscrupulous business enterprises particularly during the lockdown since educational institutions are closed and described the addiction to video games as devastating and life-threatening since it destroys the career-building phase of a young adult.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/approach-the-govt-madras-high-court-to-petitioner-who-wants-video-games-banned-101625153257606.html
01-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Nirav Modi’s sister Purvi Mehta remits over ₹17 crore to govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nirav Modi’s sister Purvi Mehta remits ₹17.25 crore to Indian govtPurvi Modi, sister of Nirav Modi who is wanted in the PNB scam, remitted over ₹17 crore from a bank in the United Kingdom to the Indian government on Thursday. Read more‘We gave our best shot but it didn’t happen’: Ashwin says he was ‘numb’ after losing WTC Final to NZRavichandran Ashwin has opened up on the heartbreaking experience of losing the inaugural ICC World Test Championship final to New Zealand in Southampton. Read morePriyanka Chopra lands 27th spot on Instagram Richlist, makes ₹3 crore per post: reportWith 64 million followers on Instagram, Priyanka is reportedly getting $403,000 ( ₹3 crore) for every promotional post she makes on the app. Read moreHero MotoCorp sells 1 million units in Q1 of FY22, 4.6 lakh units in June aloneHero MotoCorp on Thursday announced it had sold 4.6 lakh units of motorcycles and scooters in the month of June, taking the figures for the first quarter of FY 2022 to past one million. Read moreTop smartphones under ₹10,000 launched in India this year; from Realme C20 to Samsung Galaxy F02s, check them out hereWe’re already in the middle of the year and we’ve witnessed a huge number of smartphone launches in India. There have been multiple smartphone launches in different price segments from budget, mid-range, premium affordable, flagship to ultra premium as well. Read more'Heads bashed...': Jinping on China's foes amid Communist Party's centenary festOn July 1, China celebrated the centenary of its ruling Communist Party, with President Xi Jinping presiding over the festivities at Beijing's Tiananmen Square. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-nirav-modi-s-sister-purvi-mehta-remits-over-rs-17-crore-from-uk-bank-account-to-govt-and-all-the-latest-news-101625152672749.html
01-07-2021||India||Nirav Modi’s sister Purvi Mehta remits ₹17.25 crore to Indian govt||Purvi Modi, sister of Nirav Modi who is wanted in the PNB scam, remitted over ₹17 crore from a bank in the United Kingdom to the Indian government on Thursday after she was pardoned from criminal proceedings in return for extending help over the ₹13,000 crore PNB loan fraud case.A Mumbai court in January granted ‘tender of pardon’ in the case to Purvi Modi alias Purvi Mehta (47) and her husband Maiank Mehta as both were made approvers on the condition that they make full and true disclosure. Both Purvi and Maiank are British citizens and they never joined the probe.“On June 24, Purvi Modi informed the Enforcement Directorate that she had received the knowledge of one bank account in London, United Kingdom in her name, which was opened at the behest of her brother Nirav Modi and that the funds did not belong to her.""As Purvi Modi was allowed tender of pardon on conditions of making full and true disclosure, she remitted an amount of $23,16,889.03 from her UK bank account to the bank account of the government of India, Directorate of Enforcement,” Enforcement Directorate (ED) said in a statement. The ED also said that it recovered about ₹17.25 crore from the proceeds of the crime with the cooperation of Purvi Modi.The ED said that Purvi assured the agency that she would help it in confiscating assets worth ₹579 crore which included flats in New York, London and deposits in bank accounts in Switzerland. The ED earlier got an arrest warrant issued by the Interpol against her in 2018 and also filed two charge sheets under the criminal provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) where Purvi and Maiank were arraigned as accused in the alleged bank loan fraud case.Purvi in her application to the court said that she was not a prime accused and was attributed a limited role by the investigating agency. She also said that she gave full cooperation to the agencies and provided all requisite information and documents.In her plea, Purvi said that on account of being Nirav Modi’s sister, she could provide “substantial and important evidence, information, proof, and documents and access to bank accounts, assets, companies and entities that are relevant to Nirav Modi and his actions/dealings” because of her unique position.The ED said that a ₹19.5 crore worth flat near Breach Candy on Bhulabhai Desai Road in Mumbai, two flats in Central Park south area of New York (in the name of a trust) wroth ₹36.52 crore and ₹182.82 crore respectively, two Swiss bank account deposits worth ₹168.08 crore and ₹108.23 crore, a ₹62.1 crore flat at Marylebone Road in London and bank deposits worth ₹1.96 crore kept in a Syndicate Bank branch at Nariman Point in Mumbai are the assets in the names of Purvi Modi which are expected to be repatriated with her assistance. The ED last month said that 40% of the money lost by the banks due to the frauds committed by fugitive businessmen Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya has been recovered so far.Nirav Modi is currently held at Wandsworth prison in South London and has been there since his arrest in London in March 2019 with connection to the PNB scam.Fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi both of whom are prime accused in the case along with others are being probed by the ED on money laundering charges. The duo have perpetrated bank fraud of more than ₹13,000 crore with assistance from bank officials and by issuing fraudulent Letters of Undertaking (LoUs) at the Brady House PNB branch in Mumbai.(with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirav-modi-s-sister-purvi-mehta-remits-rs-17-25-crore-to-indian-govt-101625151600021.html
01-07-2021||India||Gauhati high court stays order to send teenage rape survivor to live with accused’s kin||Guwahati: The Gauhati high court has put on hold a controversial order by a sessions court in Arunachal Pradesh that ordered a child care home to hand over custody of a minor rape survivor to a relative of the rape accused.On Wednesday, Chief Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia stepped in and after a virtual hearing issued orders to stay the June 4 direction of the sessions court in Tezu in Arunachal Pradesh’s Lohit district to place the rape survivor with the accused’s sister-in-law who was listed as her ‘local guardian’.Apart from Assam, the Gauhati high court also has jurisdiction over Mizoram, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh.The case relates to a girl from Nepal brought to Arunachal Pradesh many years ago. She was working as a domestic help at the residence of an Arunachal Pradesh government official for a monthly salary of ₹1,500. It turned out that he also raped her.She escaped in March this year and shared her ordeal with a family who sheltered her, who in turn, informed the district child welfare committee. The committee sent the rape survivor to a child care home, Nani Maria Children Home (NMCH).A First Information Report was also filed against the accused who was arrested on April 20. He was later released on bail.The June 4 order of the sessions court was widely criticised in the state by rights child activists. “The child is already traumatized by her ordeal and handing her over to a relative of the accused, who is out on bail, could hurt her further,” Desai Linggi, chairperson of the NMCH that declined to comply with the controversial court order, said earlier.The childcare home instead asked the court to appoint another person who isn’t related to the accused.In its order, the high court directed that the minor should continue to stay at the childcare home till the next hearing in the case. It also restrained the accused, his relatives and the father of the victim from visiting the girl at the child care home.The court also asked the director of health services in Arunachal Pradesh to ascertain the correct age of the child through a bone ossification test. A medical examination of the child done earlier had stated that she was between 12-15 years of age and had been raped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-stays-order-to-send-teenage-rape-survivor-to-live-with-accused-s-kin-101625150977924.html
01-07-2021||India||A year after Kerala gold smuggling, many feel probe lost speed and steam||The infamous gold smuggling case of Kerala which raised enough heat and dust has completed one year but many opposition parties and observers feel that the inquiry lost its initial speed and steam. The case came to light after the seizure of 30 kilograms of gold hidden in bathroom fittings in one of the consignments camouflaged as diplomatic baggage in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in the state capital last July. Though four central agencies are probing the case other than initial arrests, the investigation fails to make much headway, officials of the central agencies said. The main beneficiaries and dispatchers are still at large. Some of the politicians whose names came up in the course of the investigation also remain unaffected. The high-profile seizure even led to the CM’s office with his principal secretary M Sivasankar in jail and later made an accused. Many thought it will put a full stop to thriving gold smuggling into the country. Another case that claims enough political connotations unfolded in north Kerala last week after an accident in Kozhikode which claimed five lives. The Union government and state locked horns several times over the smuggling case and the latter even constituted a judicial commission against the Enforcement Directorate (ED), a first of its sort, alleging a bid to implicate many senior leaders including CM Pinarayi Vijayan in the case. The ED later moved the high court against the judicial commission. The smuggling case was one of the main issues of the recently-concluded assembly elections and the ruling CPI(M) flaunted the victim card well for sympathy and succeeded to an extent, agree political observers. The National Investigation Agency’s move to link smuggling with terror activities also failed to click so far. The NIA court in Kochi granted bail to 10 accused in the case last October saying there was no prima facie material evidence to show that some of the accused in smuggling had terror links. During the probe, differences between different central agencies also came to light. “It is wrong to say that the investigation is slow. We have managed to detain the main accused under COFEPOSA and brought some of the elusive accused from Gulf countries. We have served notices to the former acting consular general through UAE embassy last week,” said a senior customs officer, adding that some of the politicians whose names cropped up during the investigation, including former minister KT Jaleel and ex-Speaker Sreeramakrishnan, were not given clean chits. After gold was seized, three senior officials of the UAE consulate left the country in a hurry and the probe agency had served notice to them through the UAE embassy. As the case drags on, the opposition Congress has alleged a secret understanding between the Union and state governments. “We seriously feel there is a give and take between the two. The case was slowed down after the ED summoned the CM’s additional private secretary C M Raveendran, the CM’s right-hand man. Now all agencies are mum on the role of leaders,” said state Congress chief K Sudhakaran. But the ruling CPI(M) chided Congress saying it was coming out with new theories after its earlier charges fell flat. “The party made many grave charges against us but all fell flat with the poll. It is busy searching for new ones,” said party acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan. The BJP said the investigation in all cases is progressing well. “The central agencies are doing their work silently,” said party president K Surendran. Amid tall claims and counter-claims, many independent observers also agree with the popular feeling that the probe has lost its steam. “It seems after the election, nobody is interested in it. The initial speed and publicity are lacking now,” agreed political analyst Sunnykutty Abraham. How the case unfoldedJuly 5: The customs seized 30 kg gold from an air cargo consignment which came in the name of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Gold was concealed in bathroom fittings and door handles. A person who came to receive it PS Sarith Kumar, a former employee of the consulate, detained. He later took the names of Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair. July 7: Kerala CM’s powerful principal secretary M Sivasankar removed. Embarrassed CM says ready for any probe and sends a letter to PM for central agency probe. July 9: NIA takes over the case. Many other central agencies also roped in. July 11: Swapna Suresh and her accomplice Nair arrested from their hideout in Bengaluru. July 14: Kerala CM’s former secretary M M Sivasankar quizzed by customs. Later he was grilled by the ED and NIA on several occasions. July 16: UAE consulate in-charge leaves the country in a hurry Later, probe agencies arrest 30 persons from different parts of south India. The ED also questions minister K T Jaleel regarding the import of holy books and dray dates. Oct 14: Smuggling accused have links with D Company, NIA tell a court Oct 28: Senior IAS officer M Sivasankar arrested Feb 3: Sivasankar gets bail after 98 days in judicial custody March 21: CM knew about smuggling, says customs in an affidavit but the CPI(M) dubs it an election stunt March 26: Kerala govt announces judicial commission against ED||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-year-after-kerala-gold-smuggling-many-feel-probe-lost-speed-and-steam-101625150678723.html
01-07-2021||India||Goa govt promises to talk to BSNL day after students demand better connectivity||A day after students from remote villages in Goa marched to the BSNL office demanding improved connectivity, the state government has promised to talk to BSNL. “I have taken up the issue pertaining to mobile network connectivity with the GM of BSNL and have requested them to take prompt action on the same. We shall be having a meeting with all the panch members in this regard along with representatives of BSNL. Connectivity issues persist in different parts of Goa,” health minister Vishwajit Rane, who represents the Valpoi constituency where some of these instances have been reported, said. Rane said the Goa government had also approached private telecom service providers to install towers to help the students access their online classes. Also Read | Indian student in Dubai wins Diana AwardFor a second year in a row, the classes are being held in online mode for students of all ages, including for those in primary school. There is no clarity on when physical classes will resume or whether they will resume this academic year. Besides the Valpoi area, students from villages in Sanguem, Dharbandora and Canacona talukas have to trek many miles or climb trees to access a network that is quick enough to allow them to seamlessly buffer videos. Rane also said he would reach out to Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to help resolve the issue. “I will be reaching out to Union Minister Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad for his kind intervention in this matter. I assure the people of Surla that we will resolve this on top priority. Since the onset of the pandemic, students have rapidly adapted to online education and to ensure they continue doing so without any hardships, I will resolve this issue on a war footing,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-promises-to-talk-to-bsnl-day-after-students-demand-better-connectivity-101625150317455.html
01-07-2021||India||‘All states will be taken care of': Sitharaman as vaccination centres face acute shortage||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday assured that everybody in the country will be vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) even as states reported a shortage of the jabs. Speaking in Bengaluru, Sitharaman said, "Every state gets allocation as per the density of the population/number of the vulnerable population. Centre supplies vaccines well in advance to the states," news agency ANI quoted her as saying, while adding, "All states will be taken care of.”Her comments come as the Odisha government halted the vaccination drive in 16 districts due to a "shortage" of Covishield doses. Meanwhile, Assam on Thursday said it could vaccinate only 16.63 lakh people in the last 10 days, almost 45% less than the target set by state chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, due to a massive shortage of Covid-19 vaccines. As per state officials, the figure is way below the ambitious 30-lakh target set during Sarma's meeting with all the stakeholders of the districts on June 19.In Maharashtra, the administration suspended the vaccination drive across 281 civic-run centres and 20 government-run centres in Mumbai due to shortage of stocks.Several other states like Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, etc have also said that they are facing a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines.Meanwhile, India has administered around 33.57 crore vaccine doses so far under the ongoing nationwide vaccination drive.In a daily bulletin, the Union health ministry also said, more than 1.24 crore vaccine doses are available with the states and Union territories. It also said that over 94,66,400 doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days.It also informed that more than 32.92 crore vaccine doses were provided to states and UTs so far through the government of India (free of cost channel) and direct state procurement category. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage is 31,67,50,891 doses, the ministry also informed.In the release, the Centre also said it is committed to accelerating the pace and working to expand the scope of vaccination drive throughout the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-states-will-be-taken-care-of-sitharaman-as-vaccination-centres-face-acute-shortage-101625147865564.html
01-07-2021||India||Goa: 3 members of family found hanging after alleged police torture||Three members of a family were found hanging at their home in Goa on Tuesday after they were allegedly tortured in police custody over theft charges that one of them faced.Police said the three, including a couple aged between 35 and 28, died by suicide. The three were repeatedly called to a police station and allegedly tortured in the case of theft filed by the owner of a house where one of them worked as a help.Their post-mortem report suggested “suicidal hanging” and prompted police superintendent (South Goa) Pankaj Kumar Singh to order an inquiry.Also Read | Goan man accused of killing Irish girl Danielle denied bailThe police have, however, denied that the suicides are related to any pending investigation they were conducting and pointed to a suicide note they said they recovered from the home of the victims which has revealed some names and included names of family members.“We had recovered a note written in Kannada which we have got translated. They have named some people responsible for their suicide including some family members. Our investigation is on,” Singh said.“The family members have now collected the body and taken it for cremation,” he added.The family members had initially refused to receive the body after the postmortem and had demanded that a case be registered against the police officers whom they accused of torturing the family.National Confederation of Human Rights Organisations and Council for Social Justice and Peace, an NGO, has demanded the constitution of an independent time-bound commission of inquiry to look into the matter.In a statement, they said the in-charge of the concerned police station and other officers, who were handling the case be suspended pending the inquiry. It added Kumar’s announcement for a probe “smacks of wilful conspiracy to protect the police in uniform”.No case has been registered against the police officers accused of torturing the three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-3-members-of-family-found-hanging-after-alleged-police-torture-101625146536980.html
01-07-2021||India||Indian student in Dubai wins Diana Award||Paloma Viegas, a 17-year-old Indian student from Goa in Dubai, has been awarded the Diana Award for her work on mental health in schools. She runs a website to promote awareness about mental well-being.The award instituted in memory of the late Princess of Wales is meant for young people involved in social action or humanitarian efforts. It recognised Viegas, who aspires to become a lawyer, as an innovation leader for the support she has shown to fellow students to express their ideas.Tessy Ojo, the CEO of The Diana Award said, they congratulate all award recipients from the UK and around the globe, who are changemakers for their generation. “We know by receiving this honour they will inspire more young people to get involved in their communities and begin their own journey as active citizens. For over twenty years The Diana Award has valued and invested in young people encouraging them to continue to make positive change in their communities and lives of others.”Also Read | Goan man accused of killing Irish girl Danielle denied bailPrince Harry, Diana’s son, addressed the winners via a video. “I am truly honoured to be celebrating your work, your commitment to change-making, and the vital role that you have taken on representing a new generation of humanitarianism,” he said. “Our mum believed that young people have the power to change the world. She believed in your strength because she saw it day in and day out and in the faces of young people exactly like you, she witnessed a boundless enthusiasm and passion.”The Diana Award is given to people aged nine to 25 in honour of their social action or humanitarian work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-student-in-dubai-wins-diana-award-101625145756953.html
01-07-2021||India||‘Blockades unaccompanied by incitement to violence won’t constitute terrorist act’: NIA court||Blockades unaccompanied by incitement to violence would not constitute terrorist act, said a National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Guwahati on Thursday while discharging Akhil Gogoi, Raijor Dal president and MLA from Sibsagar, Assam, in connection with a case related to anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests. “Ordinary bandhs, blockades, shutdowns as part of some protests, unaccompanied by incitement to violence would not come under the ambit of the expression ‘threatening the economic security of India’ under section 15(1) of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act,” the court order read.“Protests in a democracy are sometimes seen to take the form of blockades also, even causing inconvenience to citizens. However, it is doubtful whether such blockades for temporary periods, if unaccompanied by any incitement to violence, would constitute a terrorist act within the meaning of section 15 of UA(P) Act,” it added. Gogoi, who was arrested in December 2019 and was admitted to Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) last year for various ailments, walked out of the hospital hours after the court order. He had been discharged in the other case filed against him by NIA last week.The present case against Gogoi and three others, Dhajya Konwar, Manas Konwar and Bitu Sonowal, was registered in December 2019 in Chandmari police station in Guwahati and was later transferred to the NIA. Apart from Gogoi, all three other accused were on bail. The NIA had filed two cases against Gogoi under several sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The cases pertained to criminal conspiracy, sedition, promoting enmity between groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc., assertions against national integrity, support to terrorist organizations, etc. It was alleged that Gogoi merged his organization, Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), a farmers’ rights body, secretly with the Revolutionary Communist Centre, which in turn was later merged with the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist). It was also alleged that Gogoi, and the other accused, conspired to incite hatred and disaffection towards the government established by law, using the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) as a pretext and also promote enmity between different groups of people. The case was at the framing of charges stage. “On the basis of materials before this court and in view of the narration and discussion in preceding paragraphs and findings thereon, all the four accused persons are hereby discharged,” the court order stated. “There are no prima facie materials to frame charges against the accused person. There is no case of framing charge and all the four accused persons are liable to be discharged,” it added.The court observed that the conduct and approach of the NIA and the prosecution in the presented case was “discouraging” to say the least. “Considering the nature of UA(P) Act, while enforcing this law on the ground, the law enforcing agencies have to take care to see that the enforcement remains within the strict parameters of the law and doesn’t get stretched beyond permissible limits imposed by the statute itself,” the order said. The court observed if precaution is not taken by the enforcement agencies, people who are not guilty of terrorism or might be guilty of other penal offences might get unnecessarily roped within the ambit of the stringent anti-terrorism law. “It was unimaginable that the court would deliver such a free and fair verdict under such pressure from the government. It shows that the judiciary is still independent and the public can have faith in it,” Gogoi said after his release. Last week, the NIA court had granted two days’ permission to Gogoi to meet his son, who was suffering from Covid19, and his 84-year-old ailing mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blockades-unaccompanied-by-incitement-to-violence-won-t-constitute-terrorist-act-nia-court-101625143298913.html
01-07-2021||India||These are the 10 hottest places in India right now||Heatwave conditions have been predicted over northwest India including Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, north Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and northwest Madhya Pradesh for the next two days under the influence of the dry westerly and southwesterly winds from Pakistan. The weather department has said that the present atmospheric features in these regions are not favourable for the advancement of the southwest monsoon. On the other side of the country, however, widespread rainfall has been predicted under the influence of strong moist southwesterly winds from the Bay of Bengal. Heavy rainfall is likely over Bihar, sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and other northeastern states during the next 5 days.Here are the 10 hottest places in India on Thursday, according to Skymet weather. And the Capital with its soaring mercury is one of them.Ganganagar (Rajasthan): 45.8Churu (Rajasthan): 45.4Pilani (Rajasthan): 44.7Bikaner (Rajasthan): 44.4Narnaul (Haryana/NCR): 44.0Hissar (Haryana): 43.5New Delhi: 43.5Gwalior (Madhya Pradesh): 43.4Rohtak (Haryana): 43.4Aligarh (Uttar Pradesh): 43.2A severe heatwave swept the national capital on Wednesday with the mercury settling at 43.5 degrees Celsius, the highest so far this year, the India Meteorological Department said. On Thursday morning, Delhi's temperature was 31.7 degree celsius, four notches normal. The relative humidity at 8.30am was recorded at 43 per cent.A heatwave, for the plains, is declared when the maximum temperature is over 40 degrees Celsius and at least 4.5 notches above normal. A severe heatwave is declared if the departure from the normal temperature is more than 6.5 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD."Usually, the capital witnesses heatwaves till June 20 and cooler temperatures thereafter. The increase in the maximum temperature this time can be attributed to the delay in the arrival of the monsoon," Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, told PTI.Monsoon has not yet set in Delhi which is not normal as generally, monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27 and covers the entire country by July 8. In 2012, the monsoon in Delhi was late and arrived on July 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-are-the-10-hottest-places-in-india-right-now-101625139665288.html
01-07-2021||India||Number of domestic passengers triples at Delhi airport between May-June||The number of domestic passengers at the Delhi international airport has increased by more than three times between mid-May and June-end, its operator DIAL said on Thursday.In June this year, most of those who flew were in 'visiting family and friends' category (48 per cent), which was followed by 'vacation' (25 per cent) and 'business travellers' (19 per cent), it said in a statement.However, in June 2019, around 44 per cent flyers were vacationers, while 41 per cent were of 'visiting family and friends' category, the DIAL added."Delhi airport has witnessed over three times rise in domestic passenger numbers from around 18,000 per day in mid of May 2021 to over 62,000 per day at the end of June 2021," said the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL). Similarly, the number of international travellers grew from around 4,500 per day in mid of May to nearly 7,500 per day in June-end, it noted.India and its aviation sector have been badly hit due to the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, which is receding currently but was in full force in April and May.Currently, the airlines are permitted to operate not more than 50 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-domestic-passengers-triples-at-delhi-airport-between-mayjune-101625136078516.html
01-07-2021||India||‘Normal’ monsoon likely in July but rains will revive only during second week||Monsoon rain in July is likely to be ‘normal’ between 94 to 106% of long period average (LPA).During July when most of monsoon rain is recorded normally, ‘below normal’ to ‘normal’ rainfall is likely over many areas of northwest India; parts of south peninsula, central, east and northeast India, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its forecast for July on Thursday.‘Normal’ to ‘above normal’ rainfall is likely over parts of central India and adjacent areas of peninsular India and Gangetic plains in July.The latest global model forecasts indicate that the prevailing neutral El Nino-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) conditions are likely to continue over the equatorial Pacific Ocean and that there is an enhanced possibility of development of negative Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) conditions over the Indian Ocean during July to September period.Also Read | HT Explainer: The monsoon is on a break. What does it mean?“While neutral ENSO conditions don’t affect the monsoon, negative IOD conditions are not favourable to Indian monsoon. There is still a high probability of normal monsoon over the country during July,” said M Mohapatra, direct general, IMD.As sea surface temperature (SST) conditions over the Pacific and the Indian Ocean are known to have strong influence on Indian monsoon, IMD is carefully monitoring the evolution of sea surface conditions over these ocean basins, it said in its statement.Mohapatra said monsoon covered most parts of the country except parts of northwest India, including Haryana, Delhi, Punjab etc by June 19 but monsoon flow started weakening from June 26 onwards. Spatially monsoon coverage reduced significantly in the past two days and monsoon is unlikely to revive in the next 7 to 10 days, he added. “There is a chance that a low-pressure area will form over Bay of Bengal around July 11 or 12. There is no chance of monsoon picking up very much before that,” added Mohapatra.IMD warned that subdued monsoon conditions will impact agricultural operations especially sowing and transplantation of crops in many parts of the country.Scientists are expecting south-westerly winds from Arabian Sea are likely to affect the northwest region including Delhi in the next couple of days which is likely to abate heat wave conditions, but humidity will increase. This may lead to very uncomfortable conditions as the impact of heat will be accentuated with high humidity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/normal-monsoon-likely-in-july-but-rains-will-revive-only-during-second-week-101625140896675.html
01-07-2021||India||National Doctors’ Day: PM Modi hails medics for their work in Covid-19 pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday addressed the medical fraternity on the occasion of the National Doctors’ Day. He delivered his address at a programme organised by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to honour and commemorate the work of healthcare workers, especially over the past one year since the Covid-19 pandemic struck the country.During the address, PM Modi hailed the work of the doctors in saving the lives of people and said, "Our doctors, their knowledge and experience is helping us battle this Covid-19 virus." He also thanked all doctors on behalf of 130 crore citizens of the country.In the virtual address, PM Modi also highlighted the government's effort towards strengthening the medical infrastructure in the country. "Our government has put maximum thrust on the health care sector, and the budget for it more than doubled to over ₹2 lakh crore this year," PM Modi said. He also announced a credit guarantee scheme of ₹50,000 crore "to strengthen the health infrastructure in such areas, where there is a lack of health facilities."Doctors' Day is observed in the honour of noted doctor and former West Bengal chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy, whose birth and death anniversaries fall on July 1.Here are the key highlights of the address:> Limitations were created due to the kind of medical infrastructure that was created in the country over several decades... medical infrastructure was neglected in earlier times.> Despite all problems, India’s condition was somewhere stable than other developed countries.> India's per lakh population rate of infection and death rate has still been manageable compared with more developed countries.> Till 2014, where there were only six AIIMS in the country, work on 15 new AIIMS has already started in the last seven years, he pointed out. The number of medical colleges has also increased by about one and a half times.> Our government is committed to safeguarding our doctors. Last year, we brought in several provisions against crimes against doctors. We are also providing free insurance cover to our Covid warriors, Modi added.> On behalf of 130 crore Indians, I want to thank all the doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-doctors-day-pm-modi-hails-medics-for-their-work-in-covid-19-pandemic-101625139493748.html
01-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Motorist dies, 19 injured as bus hits Fort William wall in Kolkata and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Motorcyclist killed, 19 injured after bus hits Fort William wall in KolkataThe accident took place around 12noon when a minibus heading towards Howrah hit the motorcycle. The rider sustained severe injuries and was rushed the state-run SSKM hospital where he was declared brought dead. Read more here.Devendra Jhajharia rewrites world record for Tokyo Paralympic berthThe 40-year-old, who has won two gold medals in the men's F-46 category at the Paralympics, sent the spear to a distance of 65.71m during the trial here on Wednesday. Read more here. Anand Mahindra reacts to Twitter user’s funny interpretation of video he postedIt all started when the business tycoon posted a video of a little bird confusing a mighty tiger over and over again. Mahindra shared the video with an engaging caption relating the clip to business. Read more here. Family Man's Priyamani on Suchi being 'one of the most hated characters' after new season of Amazon showThe Family Man actor Priyamani has expressed her disbelief at the hate messages that have been directed at her after the release of season two of the Amazon Prime Video show. Read more here. BMW M5 Competition performance sedan launched in India at ₹1.62 croreBMW M5 Competition is powered by a thunderous V8 engine with M TwinPower Turbo Technology. There's 625 hp for the taking and mammoth 750 Nm of torque at the ready. Read more here. 'If we do drone attack in England...': Imran Khan on USA, Pak, & 'war on terror'﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-motorist-dies-19-injured-as-bus-hits-fort-william-wall-in-kolkata-and-all-the-latest-news-101625137899624.html
01-07-2021||India||Delhi airport sees increase in passengers but rising fuel costs may impact fares||Rise in global oil prices have led to a hike in prices of Air Turbine Fuel (ATF), also known as jet fuel in Delhi on Thursday. Prices of jet fuel soared to ₹68,262 per kilolitre in Delhi marking a rise of 30% compared to ₹50,979 in January 2021.The Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) which is the largest supplier of ATF in the country reported a hike in prices by 3.6% in the Capital, according to a report by ANI.“Prices of ATF have been hiked in Delhi by 3.6% and stood at ₹68,262.35 per kilolitre. In Kolkata it increased by 3.27% and is currently priced at ₹72,295.24 per kilolitre. It went up by 3.77% and stood at ₹66,482.90 in Mumbai and in Chennai it is at ₹66,482.90 per kilolitre,” the IOCL said. The IOCL also said that jet fuel increased about 30% within six months.The ATF prices are crucial to the aviation industry of the country and ticket prices also depend on the ATF and other charges which are unavoidable. An aviation expert told news agency ANI that air ticket prices may rise if the ATF prices are hiked.The aviation industry across the globe as well as India were adversely affected due to the pandemic. India has suspended international flights till July 31. However, the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) on Thursday shared data which showed that the number of domestic passengers at the Delhi airport increased by more than three times between mid-May and June-end.The DIAL in a statement said that the Delhi airport started witnessing growth in the number of passengers in a slow and steady fashion following the relaxation of lockdown and travel norms across states and highlighted 19% of those travellers were travelling for business purposes and 25% were vacationing. It said that the highest category of passengers were people who were visiting family and friends. It said that it saw a drop compared to 2019, when 44% of the passengers were vacationers.The DIAL also highlighted that Delhi Airport witnessed over three times rise in domestic passenger numbers from around 18,000 per day in mid-May 2021 to over 62,000 per day at the end of June 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-airport-sees-increase-in-passengers-but-rising-fuel-costs-may-impact-fares-101625136143097.html
01-07-2021||India||'Not a long-drawn process': Bharat Biotech expecting WHO approval soon||Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech is expecting approval from the World Health Organization soon as the entire process is not likely to take much time since other vaccines of the company in the past have already been approved by the world body, Bharat Biotech co-founder Suchitra Ella has said."We are working closely with the World Health Organization for the inclusion of Covaxin in its Emergency Use Listing. Approval from WHO is not expected to be a long-drawn process as the cell line and majority of our facilities have already been audited and approved by WHO for our other vaccines in the past," Suchitra Ella tweeted.According to the WHO site, the rolling data for Covishield is slated to begin in July as the pre-submission meeting has been held in June. As WHO will go through Covaxin's data, it will publish an anticipated date when the approval is likely to come.Why WHO nod will be a landmark for CovaxinCovaxin is the first Covid-19 vaccine that has been entirely developed in India, as Covishield in Astrazeneca and Oxford University's invention. Covaxin has been given emergency use authorisation in 16 countries. Once Covaxin gets WHO approval, more countries will open for Indian travellers and most countries will be allowing people inoculated by WHO-listed vaccines.Covaxin booster doseMeanwhile, Bharat Biotech is also conducting trials of a third booster dose of Covaxin, the results of which are expected to come by November this year, news agency ANI has reported. The booster dose of the indigenously manufactured vaccine was first launched in May, after which the trials began at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi and Patna. As many as 12 centres across the country are conducting trials for Covaxin's booster shot. The results of the first trial, conducted in May, will come in August. For the second trial, final results are expected by November 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-long-drawn-process-bharat-biotech-expecting-who-approval-soon-101625136128739.html
01-07-2021||India||When VP Singh worked to make Sonia Gandhi the PM in 2004||To block the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader LK Advani’s possible rise as Prime Minister (PM), VP Singh, a former PM himself and the elder statesman of non-BJP, non-Congress political spectrum, had mobilised regional parties and lobbied with the Dravida Munnetra Kazagham (DMK)’s M Karunanidhi to support a Sonia Gandhi-led government after the 2004 elections in which the Congress emerged as the single largest party.Singh foresaw Advani pitching for the top slot as the BJP was just seven short of the Congress’s tally of 145 in the new Lok Sabha. The risk seemed real to him because in 1998, Gandhi toppled AB Vajpayee but failed to touch the magic 272 to give an alternative regime in the 545-member House.In his recent book, in Hindi, VP Singh, Chandrashekhar, Sonia Gandhi Aur Mein, former MP Santosh Bhartiya, known for his proximity to the two former PMs named in the title, gives a graphic account of how Singh played a key role in the run-up to the formation of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, where he was mobilising support for Sonia Gandhi as PM before she decided she did not want the post.Also Read | The possibilities, and limits, of a third frontThe political ground workFunctioning through the interface of Bhartiya and the Congress’s Ahmed Patel, Singh mobilised support for Gandhi from other non-BJP heavyweights, including former PMs Chandrashekhar and HD Deve Gowda, the Left Front’s towering leader Jyoti Basu, and veteran Dalit leader Ram Vilas Paswan.Singh told Bhartiya that he wouldn’t have had second thoughts if Vajpayee were to be PM again, but his assessment that this could pave the way for Advani to take over appears to have got Singh back in the political ring.“Given that the BJP’s on the road to spreading communalism, Sonia Gandhi should be supported for the PM office...”Singh first met Gandhi on May 10, 2004, a day after Patel prepared the ground for it. The Congress president’s political secretary was briefed by Bhartiya on Singh’s stand in the emerging scenario. Many such meetings and phone conversations between Gandhi and Gowda and the Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s Basu and HS Surjeet happened before the May 13 poll results.The early-mover advantage helped the non-BJP formations. Singh reached out to Chandrashekhar who met Gandhi with him after initial reluctance. Leaving for her residence from a meeting at which the Left parties conveyed their decision to back the Congress, the book quotes Chandrashekhar as saying: “Now we’ve to go meet the future PM of India....”Persuading the DMKBut Singh’s real skill and the respect he commanded was apparent in how he won Karunanidhi over. When the DMK leader told him that he was on his way to meet Vajpayee, to whom he was committed, Singh asked for a sheet of paper. He wrote on it a letter of support for Gandhi and signed it on Karunanidhi’s behalf.“I’ve written the letter. You can deny it if you want and file an FIR against me for forgery,” Bhartiya quotes Singh as telling Karunanidhi at the meeting in his presence. The former PM’s antics melted the DMK chief who leaned ahead to clasp his hands, saying: “If you’re willing to go to that extent, then go tell Sonia Gandhi that I’m with her.”The two leaders had a history. In 1996, the DMK helmsman was among the three sitting CMs, including Karnataka’s Deve Gowda and Bengal’s Jyoti Basu, who had gone knocking at Singh’s residence to persuade him to become the PM of the United Front government with the Congress’s outside support. Singh refused, but his decision earned him tremendous moral standing. Singh had then suggested Basu’s name to which the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPM) wasn’t agreeable. The gainer eventually was Gowda. DMK had been a part of the UF governments, both under Gowda and his successor, IK Gujral.And that is why ensuring Karunanidhi’s support for Gandhi was nothing short of a political coup, given the Congress’s 1998 withdrawal of support to Gujral for his refusal to break ties with the DMK. The dispute then arose over the Jain Commission’s “needle of suspicion” at the Dravidian party in the “conspiracy aspect” of Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination.While the DMK’s support for the Congress stayed, Singh’s hopes of a Sonia Gandhi prime ministership didn’t materialise. On May 17, her emissaries ML Fotedar and Natwar Singh turned up with a slip for Singh. He read it and laconically remarked: “Kya kar sakte hain jab unhone faisala le he liya hai, what can we do when she has decided?”, according to Bhartiya’s book.It was Gandhi’s way of conveying that Manmohan Singh was her PM candidate. An (unnamed) person later met Singh to explain that Sonia’s children were against her being the PM. This version is confirmed by Natwar Singh in his memoirs.The final break with Rajiv Bhartiya’s book is an anecdotal account of a tumultuous two-decade long period in Indian politics, from 1984 to 2004, and traces, among other issues, the falling out of VP Singh with the Gandhi family to his initiative to support Sonia Gandhi as PM.What decisively drew Rajiv and Singh apart was a meeting on May 22, 1987. By then, differences had already emerged between them. They were face-to-face after the PM spoke of fifth columnists such as Mir Jafar and Jaichand at a public meeting where Singh was in the audience. His mention of Jaichand with the affix “Raja” was seen as a frontal attack on Singh who, by then, had resigned as defence minister. Singh was often referred to as the Raja of Manda, in a nod to his land-owning roots in Allahabad.“Aajkal tumhari bahut jai jaikaar ho rahi hai, kya karne ka irada hai. There is a lot of applause for you these days. What do you intend to do?” the book quotes Rajiv Gandhi as asking Singh. In response, Singh said that he remained a Congressman, and if the PM so wanted, he could leave politics for a retired life in Allahabad.According to the book, this met with a sharp retort from Gandhi: “The accolades won’t last, you’d return the way Pranab Mukherjee has. You won’t be able to sustain for three months.” The reference was to Mukherjee who had left and returned to the Congress on being dropped as a minister in 1984. The taunt had Singh take the gauntlet: “I won’t stop if I sustain for three months Rajivji. I accept your challenge.”Two-and-a-half decades later, Singh returned to support Sonia Gandhi. And he brought along with him Chandrashekhar. Both men had fought each other, Chandrashekhar had rebelled against Sonia Gandhi’s mother in law, Indira, in the 1970s, and Singh had challenged her husband. Politics had come a full circle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-vp-singh-worked-to-make-sonia-gandhi-the-pm-in-2004-101625135546385.html
01-07-2021||India||The importance of Amitabh Kant||When Amitabh Kant was a student in Modern School in the heart of the national Capital, little did he imagine that his bureaucratic career will scale heights in a government office barely 3km away.Kant got a rare third extension as the CEO of Niti Aayog, the government’s prime think tank that replaced Planning Commission in August 2014, underlining a career graph that saw him in posts as diverse as the tourism secretary in Kerala to chairman and chief executive officer, Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor Corporation. It is widely believed that this rare extension has come as Kant had been able to successfully launch Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s key projects and translate his political vision into programmes. During his stint in DPIIT, Kant had been a driving force for many of Modi’s pet schemes. Make in India, Start Up India and the Ease of Doing Business initiatives have Kant’s contributions. He started removing rules and regulations to improve ease of doing business and make India an attractive investment destination. In 2018, India stood 77th, improving by 23 places. The next year, it climbed further up to 66th position.Also Read | Hopefully ‘soon’: Niti Aayog’s VK Paul on WHO emergency approval for CovaxinThe programme which sealed Kant’s reputation as a bureaucrat was the Modi government’s Aspirational Districts Programme that aims to transform 112 most backward districts into economic and socially progressive habitats. A recent UNDP report described the programme as a “catalyst for expediting development” that brought about “major changes” in sectors such as healthcare, nutrition and education. Kant also spearheads a Covid-related panel tasked with coordination with private organisations and NGOs and other social organisations. It handles the distribution of foreign aid. Niti Aayog developed a mechanism for quick dispatch of aid material to recipients and according to the latest official data, more than 99% of the 30.3 million aid items have reached the destination. Posted as tourism secretary in his cadre state of Kerala -- considered a lousy posting -- the bureaucrat saw an opportunity to showcase the potentials of God’s own country as a tourist hot spot.His work didn’t go unnoticed as years later, he would be the joint secretary of the tourism ministry of the United Progressive Alliance government or head the government’s ailing tourism arm India Tourism Development Corporation.But these jobs didn’t give Kant, who started his professional life as sub collector of Thalassery, the impetus to evolve as a key bureaucrat in the current regime. Especially, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi had started his innings in Delhi with an unwritten principle of no extension to retired bureaucrats in a bid to pump in fresh blood in the system.One of his contemporary officers added, “When Modi came to power, he started interacting a lot with bureaucrats. In some of those meetings, Kant would suggest ideas that caught the attention of the Prime Minister.It also helped that Modi’s style of management involved more dependence on bureaucrats over political representatives in key policy matters. When Covid-19 pandemic hit India, the government formed 12 empowered committees of bureaucrats to assist in Covid management. In recent times, the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, launched to help migrant workers and the poor cope with the situation, was a brainchild of a select group of bureaucrats.“In a council of ministers’ meeting, the PM once asked a secretary in a social sector to stand up and then for almost 3 minutes, praised the bureaucrat for completing the annual targets and spending the entire budget. He is now a key part of the PMO,” said another senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-importance-of-amitabh-kant-101625134286809.html
01-07-2021||India||'Can you take yoga to the world?' PM Modi to doctors amid IMA-Ramdev tussle||At a time when the Indian Medical Association is at loggerheads with yoga guru Ramdev over his comments on allopathy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday urged doctors to take yoga to the global platform through evidence-based studies. Addressing the doctors community in a virtual programme organised by the IMA, PM Modi thanked doctors for their relentless service during the Covid-19 pandemic. Touching upon the issue of medical science and yoga, PM Modi said, "It is praiseworthy that many people from the medical fraternity are coming forward to spread awareness about yoga.""What should have been done after Independence to spread awareness about yoga is being done now. In this time of the pandemic, people are now understanding how yoga and pranayama help in recovery after the Covid-19 infection. Many institutions associated with modern science are doing evidence-based studies on the positive impact of yoga in Covid-19 recovery. Many of you are devoting time to this. You are experts and specialists in medical science and as Indians, you can understand yoga easily. If you study yoga, the world will take it more seriously. Can the IMA take it forward on a mission mode? Can IMA take evidence-based studies on Yoga forward in a scientific way?" PM Modi said.Another attempt can be to get studies on yoga published in international papers, PM Modi said. PM Modi's appeal comes at a time when multiple FIRs have been filed by different units of the IMA against yoga guru Ramdev over his disparaging comments against modern science. The national association of doctors have also approached PM Modi, health minister Harsh Vardhan against Ramdev's comment which he withdrew but raised several questions over the effectiveness of allopathy. Both Ramdev and the Indian Medical Association have maintained that they have nothing against each other but while IMA said that Ramdev and Patanjali made wrong claims about Coronil, Ramdev said he is not against doctors, but against 'drug mafia'||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-you-take-yoga-to-the-world-pm-modi-to-doctors-amid-ima-ramdev-tussle-101625133545813.html
01-07-2021||India||Heatwave warning for NW India, including Delhi, for next two days||Heatwave conditions are likely to prevail over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, north Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and northwest Madhya Pradesh during the next two days, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). This is mainly due to likely dry westerly/southwesterly winds blowing from Pakistan to northwest India at lower levels. “Prevailing meteorological conditions, large scale atmospheric features and the forecast wind pattern by dynamical models suggest that no favourable conditions are likely to develop for further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Punjab during the next 5-6 days. Hence, subdued rainfall activity is very likely to continue to prevail over northwest, central and western parts of peninsular India during the next 5-6 days,” IMD said. Also Read | HT Explainer: The monsoon is on a break. What does it mean?Maximum temperatures of more than 40 degrees Celsius (°C) were recorded at most places over west Rajasthan, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi; at many places over Punjab; at a few places over east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh and at isolated places over Uttar Pradesh. On Wednesday, the highest maximum temperature of 45.8°C was reported at Ganganagar in Rajasthan. IMD’s heatwave bulletin states that heatwave conditions are likely some pockets with severe heatwave conditions very likely in isolated pockets over West Rajasthan; heatwave to severe heatwave conditions in isolated pockets over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi; heatwave conditions in some pockets over Punjab and in isolated pockets over Jammu, West Uttar Pradesh, East Rajasthan and West Madhya Pradesh on July 1. Under the influence of strong, moist southwesterly winds at lower tropospheric levels from Bay of Bengal to northeast and adjoining east India; widespread and heavy rainfall is very likely over Bihar, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim and northeastern states during the next five days. For regions where the normal maximum temperatures are 40°C or lower, a heatwave is declared when the actual maximum temperature is 5°C to 6°C higher. A heatwave is declared only when the maximum temperature of a station reaches at least 40°C for the plains and at least 30°C in the hills. heatwaves can also be declared when the actual maximum temperature remains above 45°C or more for a day irrespective of normal maximum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heatwave-warning-for-nw-india-including-delhi-for-next-two-days-101625133746206.html
01-07-2021||India||'No native versus migrant divide in Karnataka Congress': Siddaramaiah||Leader of opposition in Karnataka and senior leaders of the Congress party, Siddaramaiah on Thursday ruled out any natives versus migrants divide in the party's state unit. He also said that currently, there are no talks within the party regarding the chief ministerial candidate for the state assembly elections slated to be held in 2023. "There has been no discussion at all (on the next CM candidate), no such discussions have taken place on this in the Congress. The election is still one year-ten month away. The election has to happen, new legislators will come, based on their opinion, high command will decide, why discuss now," news agency PTI quoted Siddaramaiah as saying.Speaking on the natives and migrants divide, Siddaramaiah said, "I came to Congress from outside, didn't I become the Chief Minister, then where is the talk of natives or migrants. There is no such thing," it also reported.Former leader of JD(S), Siddaramaih joined Congress with several of his followers in 2006. He became the Karnataka chief minister in 2013.The comments by the party's senior leader come as the issue of the chief ministerial face during the 2023 assembly polls has widened inner conflicts within the party. It has also triggered a game of one-upmanship between state Congress President DK Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah, who is the legislature party leader.Recently, several MLAs openly favoured Siddaramaiah as the chief minister face, despite diktat from the party leadership, which had irked Shivakumar, who is also nursing chief ministerial ambitions.However, Siddaramaiah has denied any issues with Shivakumar.Hitting out at the state government led by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over its handling of the Covid-19 crisis, Siddaramaiah said an assembly session should be called immediately, news agency PTI also reported. "They (BJP) don't have belief in democracy...they should have called the assembly amid the crisis thrown by the second wave and taken the opposition into confidence...why is the assembly for? It looks like they don't want to face the opposition fearing their true colours will come out," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-native-versus-migrant-divide-in-karnataka-congress-siddaramaiah-101625133011498.html
01-07-2021||India||National Doctors’ Day: Political leaders thank doctors on Twitter||As India celebrates National Doctors’ Day today to honour the birth and death anniversary of Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy, renowned physician and second chief minister of West Bengal, various political leaders paid tribute to doctors for their relentless service during the pandemic.Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted, “On Doctors Day, my greetings to all doctors. India’s strides in the world of medicine are commendable and have contributed to making our planet healthier.”PM Modi also shared a part of his radio address, Mann Ki Baat saying, “We are thankful for the contribution of the doctors during Corona times. Without worrying about their own life, our doctors have taken care of us.”He also spoke of Greek physician Hippocrates who revolutionised ancient Greek medicine and said, “Wherever the art of medicine is loved, there is also a love for humanity.”Also Read | National Doctors’ Day: Delhi doctors recount the horrors of second waveCongress leader Rahul Gandhi also thanked doctors, tweeting that the nation is “indebted” to doctors “for every single moment” they spend saving lives.Union home minister Amit Shah also tweeted that he salutes the doctors for their “heroic efforts” and for leaving “no stone unturned to serve humanity irrespective of the odds.”“Time and again, we have witnessed their selfless efforts towards society,” he said.BJP leader and Union minister Smriti Irani also tweeted that doctors are “frontline of defence not only during a global pandemic but through every ailment which afflicts” Indians. She added, “… to all Doctors this #DoctorsDay, you give life, you give hope, we are grateful for your services.”Remembering Dr Roy, Mamata Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal, also extended “heartfelt gratitude to the entire medical fraternity” for “tirelessly serving in these trying times.”“Their contribution in combating #COVID19 is unparalleled,” she said on Twitter.Congress leader Shashi Tharoor shared a video on Twitter thanking doctors. Tharoor, who himself had been a Covid-19 patient, said despite turning to doctors for help in times of crisis, they are “very often treated ungratefully and even as objects of trepidation and violence” by people. He added that India needs concrete measures not just to “shower petals” on health care workers but to “protect” them from such assaults.He also pressed for giving doctors “adequate insurance” to protect their families “in event of calamities for themselves.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-doctors-day-political-leaders-thank-doctors-for-their-service-on-twitter-101625133086151.html
01-07-2021||India||Akhil Gogoi released from detention in connection with anti-CAA protests||President of Raijor Dal and MLA from Sibsagar in Assam, Akhil Gogoi, got released on Thursday after spending one and a half years in detention for his alleged role in the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests. The peasant activist, who was admitted in the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) since last year for various ailments, walked out of the premises a free man, hours after a National Investigation Agency (NIA) court here discharged him in the second case lodged against him by the agency. He had been discharged in the other case filed against him by NIA last week. “I will first go to visit the parents of Sam Stafford, the first martyr of the anti-CAA protests in Assam. From there, I will go to the office of Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti and then to Raijor Dal office. Early tomorrow morning, I will leave for my constituency,” Gogoi told journalists minutes after his release. “It was unimaginable that the court would deliver such a free and fair verdict under such pressure from the government. It shows that the judiciary is still independent and the public can have faith in it,” he added. Gogoi was under arrest since December 2019 for his alleged role in the anti-CAA protests that rocked Assam and claimed five lives in police firing. “The NIA court discharged him in the case lodged at Chandmari in Guwahati. The court had earlier discharged him in the other case lodged at Chabua in Dibrugarh district by NIA,” said Gogoi’s lawyer Shantanu Borthakur. The NIA had filed the two cases under several sections of IPC and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act (UAPAA). The cases pertained to criminal conspiracy, sedition, promoting enmity between groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc., assertions against national integrity, support to terrorist organisation etc. “The court’s ruling on Thursday is a blow to NIA and its attempts to target Gogoi. We are overwhelmed by the verdict,” said Bhasco De Saikia, working president, Raijor Dal. Gogoi was granted bail in connection with the Chabua case by the NIA court in October last year. But the investigation agency had approached the Gauhati high court challenging the bail order. In April this year, the Gauhati HC held that the NIA court was right in granting bail to Gogoi and dismissed the appeal by the investigating agency. Last week, the NIA court granted two days’ permission to Gogoi to meet his son, who was suffering from Covid19, as well as his ailing 84-year-old mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhil-gogoi-released-from-detention-in-connection-with-anti-caa-protests-101625132966256.html
01-07-2021||India||Covid-19 Heroes: Meet the youngsters who set up 200+ voluntary taskforce||In The Divine Comedy, Dante Allegri had quipped that the deepest rungs in hell were reserved for those who remained neutral in times of moral turpitude. By extension, perhaps the brightest rooms of heaven are reserved for those who put their best foot forward at the same time.Even as the second wave of COVID-19 landed a devastating blow on our healthcare services, citizen movements sprung up across the country to help those in need. Among them was a group of youngsters that came together to set up a 200+ volunteer task force called ‘Volunteers.Covihelp’. And as India clocked upward of four lakh COVID-19 cases a day during the second wave, they worked day and night to help people find resources. Instead of playing the guitar, editing Wikipedia entries, or preparing for boards or entrance exams, these youngsters – many of whom were high school or college students – spent their time helping thousands of patients find hospital beds, oxygen and other resources.How it startedA few students were helping Covid-19 patients on their own when they realised the need to scale up. Arnav Praneet and the initial set of admins created a document with medical guidelines and a form that they spread in their social media circles. They broke down the day into multiple 2-hour shifts and by 27th April 2021, they were fully operational.The original team of 'Volunteers.Covihelp' consisted of Arnav Praneet, Sudipto Ghosh, Mudit Aggarwal, Debodhwani Mishra, Debaditya Halder, Ayaan Khan, Jaiditya Jha, Aditya Agarwal, Ipsita Choudhury, Aditya Gandhi, Vishwam Srivastava, Shivam Solanki, Prakhar Bhargava, Avi Sehgal and Harbhajansingh Pujari.As the days passed, their team gradually grew to include several hundred volunteers.Social media for a causeThe initiative began on Instagram where the team reached 15,000 accounts in two days during the peak. At that time, they were handling over 20 critical cases per day. However, realising that not everyone was on Instagram or Facebook, the team branched out by setting up a WhatsApp-based helpline, a website (which was initially a volunteers-only interface) and a database of resources which they verified in real-time.The challengesRunning any initiative takes effort and it was initially a challenge to handle more than 200 individuals and set up a streamlined workflow. The team divided their pool of volunteers into triads with each shift having at least one responder, researcher and a verifier.“Responders talked to the attendants through our social media channels (Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, Twitter) and asked for important details regarding the patients. This information was filled into a form by the responders, who sent the details to our patient database, where the researchers and verifiers could access it,” the team explained.Researchers would then find leads, using reliable websites and resources, before sending the details to the resource database. The leads were then taken up by the verifiers and categorised based on availability. “It took a while to get used to the workflow, and for the first two weeks, admins would have to supervise shifts and chip in when the volunteers needed help,” they said.As with every operation, the team also had to contend with technical challenges. To coordinate and run things smoothly, they used a Discord server and a database system on Airtable. Another problem they faced was from fraudsters – people who wanted to sell fake items or take an advanced payment before disappearing. In order to deal with the latter, the team integrated a tool into their database that would scour the internet to figure out if a lead was legitimate.Dealing with griefThe team also worked on raising funds, conducting a fundraiser MUN and successfully raising ₹24,000. Of this, ₹10,000 was donated to a 5-year-old cancer patient in an expedited manner and test to the Utishtha Foundation, an organisation working on-ground in rural villages in India.The volunteers are also looking to conduct another round of funding which will include workshops and merchandise to raise funds. “We are planning to conduct another Covihelp MUN, some workshops and sell merchandise which can help us raise funds for many important causes,” they said.The case that stood outEvery endeavour has a particular challenge that defines them. For the team, it was a critical patient at Akshardham Covid Care Centre (in Delhi’s Commonwealth Games Village) who had been denied admission. When they realised that the patient wasn’t being admitted they used their ingenuity to find a lead on the go and redirect the patient’s ambulance towards GTB Hospital. These complex cases, the team noted, came in now and then and put pressure on the whole team.“A lost summer” Lenin once said that there are decades when nothing happens and weeks where decades happen. At the peak of the pandemic, with no beds available in any metropolitan city and a massive resource crunch, the young members of Volunteers.Covihelp found themselves working frantically to accommodate those in need of aid. Needless to say, the summer of 2021 will always live on in their memories.As Jaiditya Jha puts it: “On the surface of it, this felt like a lost summer. Some of us had our boards cancelled and nobody really had a fun season. Not to say that we didn't make some great friends and contribute to an important cause. Personally, I wouldn't remember this time as fun or exciting by any means, but it helped me mature and deal with compromises. The compromises we made in the last two months were nothing compared to what our country was going through and working with Covihelp was a rather fulfilling journey. Doing this gave us a sense of purpose. We were finally able to do something meaningful for India."While nobody would call this a fun experience, Jha dubs it a necessary one, given the situation. Most people in the team, he opined, would simply be glad that they were able to help out one way or the other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-heroes-meet-the-youngsters-who-set-up-200-voluntary-taskforce-101625129052636.html
01-07-2021||India||UK’s new graduate immigration route to benefit Indian students||The United Kingdom (UK) on Thursday opened a new graduate immigration route that will benefit Indian students, allowing them to stay longer in Britain after they have finished their studies to look for jobs. The graduate route, launched by UK home secretary Priti Patel, provides an opportunity to talented international students who have received their degree to stay in the UK and work, or look for work, at any skill level for at least two years. For the first time, a majority of applicants to the graduate route will be able to apply in a fully digital way, using the “UK Immigration: ID Check” smartphone app. Successful applicants will be issued an eVisa and be able to access this status whenever needed to prove their rights in the UK. The change in regulations stands to benefit tens of thousands of Indian students, the British high commission said. In the past year, more than 56,000 Indian nationals were granted a UK student visa, a 13% increase over the previous year, and Indians accounted for almost a quarter of all student visas issued by Britain. Also Read | Experts want countries to closely watch UK strategy of combating Delta variantThe graduate route builds on India-UK cooperation on migration issues. On May 4, the two countries signed a new migration partnership, including the creation of a young professionals’ scheme. The graduate route will also help the UK government achieve the target set in its international education strategy to increase the number of foreign students in Britain’s higher education sector to 600,000 by 2030. The UK high commission said the new application process is more convenient as applicants won’t have to visit a UK Visa and Citizenship Application Service or re-submit their biometrics. Those who cannot use the app can still apply online but will need to visit a UK Visa and Citizenship Application Service. Patel said: “Under the UK government’s points-based immigration system, talented students from India and across the globe now have the opportunity to kick start their careers in the UK at the highest levels of business, science, technology and the arts. “Once they’ve received their world-leading qualification from one of our fantastic education institutions, this new visa will give them the freedom to fulfil their aspirations and advance their careers.” Jan Thompson, the acting British high commissioner in New Delhi, said the number of Indian students enrolling at British universities show they are a popular destination for Indians, who “contribute immensely to the unique living bridge that exists between the UK and India”. She added, “The graduate route will further help students who wish to stay and work in the UK, strengthening this bond between our two countries even more. Cooperation in higher education is one of the crucial commitments in the UK and India’s 2030 Roadmap, and this is another positive step in that direction.” Barbara Wickham, director India for the British Council, said the UK is committed to enabling Indian students to realise their dreams through the graduate route. “The British Council is engaging with Indian students who plan to pursue a UK education this autumn by organising webinars and Facebook lives to provide all the information prospective students need,” she said. The launch of the graduate route is an important step in the UK-India 2030 Roadmap, which was launched by Prime Ministers Narendra Modi and Boris Johnson in May. The roadmap is aimed at deepening institutional relationships between the two sides, including between governments, the private sector, higher education and civil society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uks-new-graduate-immigration-route-to-benefit-indian-students-101625130865772.html
01-07-2021||India||Zydus Cadila seeks emergency approval for its three-dose vaccine. All you need to know||Indian pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila announced on Thursday that it has applied for the emergency use approval for its Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D. If approved, this will become the second indigenously developed vaccine after Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, and the fifth vaccine to be approved in India, after Moderna, Covaxin (Bharat Biotech), Covishield (Serum Institute), and the Russian Sputnik V.Here’s all you need to know about the vaccine that its maker claims can be administered to children:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-seeks-emergency-approval-for-its-three-dose-vaccine-all-you-need-to-know-101625130405798.html
01-07-2021||India||Jal Jeevan Mission’s progress in 117 poorest districts outpaces national average||There has been a four-fold increase in the rate at which functional piped water is being provided to households in India’s 117 so-called aspirational districts, home to some of the poorest Indians -- overtaking the pace at which piped water is bring provided nationally under the marquee Jal Jeevan Mission, official figures show. Nearly 8.4 million households now have assured piped water supply in these 117 districts, an increase from 7% to 31% in 22 months since the Jal Jeevan Mission was launched in 2019, the data shows. Latest official figures show 31% households in these districts have assured tap water supply. The coverage in these districts since the launch of the programme saw a 24% jump, a rate higher than the 22.7% increase in tap water connections provided countrywide under the scheme. Also Read | 2.8 million households got tap water this year under Jal Jeevan MissionUnder the Jal Jeevan Mission-Har Ghar Jal scheme, every rural household is to be provided with a functional tap water connection by 2024. Over 120 million households in India lack access to clean water near their homes, the highest in the world, according to a UN Water report of 2014. India has 189 million rural households, according to Census data. As on June 30, nearly 76.3 million households had a functioning tapped water supply source. This is 40.27% of the total rural households. In 2018, just 18.2% of rural households had piped water supply. By 2019, this figure increased by nine percentage points. The country has had several public programmes to bring clean water to rural residences, such as the National Drinking Water Mission launched in 1986, but the goal of providing piped drinking water to every household entered a ‘mission mode’ with the Har Ghar Jal programme (water for every home) under the Jal Jeevan Mission. Poor-quality water causes diseases such as diarrhoea, the third leading cause of childhood mortality in India, according to researchers Subitha Lakshminarayanan and Ramakrishnan Jayalakshmy, who work at Puducherry’s Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research and Indira Gandhi Medical College, respectively. The Gajendra Shekhawat-led Jal Shakti ministry oversees the implementation of the rural household water mission. “As per the very design of the scheme, aspirational districts have a priority when comes to laying water infrastructure. Similarly, priority is also accorded to areas with Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes population. This has led to a faster rate of implementation in priority areas,” an official with said, requesting anonymity.The scheme also prioritises 61 districts in five states which are Japanese encephalitis-endemic. The aspirational districts identified by the state-run Niti Aayog have low human-development indicators. Drought-prone and desert areas are also high-priority zones. The Union budget had allotted ₹10,001 crore in 2019-20 for the national rural drinking water mission. In 2020-21, ₹11,500 crore were provided. The Union budget 2021-22 allotted ₹50,000 crore for the mission. Experts say a key challenge is to maintain sustainability of water supply sources. In previous attempts to provide drinking water supply, villages connected with water sources fell back to “no-water” status after a few years due to non-availability of water. Maintaining sustainability will require work on different aspects altogether. These include groundwater recharge, water conservation and, critically, cutting down the overuse of water in agriculture, which hogs 90% of available supply, mainly because farming isn’t efficient. “Agriculture’s demand for water is disproportionately huge. One of the reasons is free electricity and lot of incentives for crops such as paddy. India has to bring down its farm-water use to optimal levels for greater sustainability of groundwater,” says Alok Nath, a former water specialist at the Indian Council for Agricultural Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jal-jeevan-mission-s-progress-in-117-poorest-districts-outpaces-national-average-101625130026146.html
01-07-2021||India||India to Pak: Speed up release of civilian prisoners, missing defence personnel||India on Thursday called on Pakistan to speedily release and repatriate civilian prisoners and missing defence personnel as the two countries completed the biannual formality of exchanging lists of prisoners in each other’s jails. New Delhi handed over a list of 271 Pakistani civilian prisoners and 74 fishermen who are in India’s custody. At the same time, Pakistan shared a list of 51 civilian prisoners and 558 fishermen in its custody, who are “Indians or are believed-to-be Indians”, the external affairs ministry said in a statement. The Indian side called for the “early release and repatriation of civilian prisoners, missing Indian defence personnel and fishermen along with their boats from Pakistan’s custody”. Though the statement didn’t specify the number of missing defence personnel, the Indian side has said in the past that 54 Indian prisoners of war are believed to be in Pakistani jails. Also Read | ‘State support’ behind drone strike, says top army officerPakistan was asked to expedite the release and repatriation of one civilian prisoner and 295 fishermen whose Indian nationality has been confirmed and conveyed to the Pakistani side, the statement said. Besides, Pakistan was also asked to provide immediate consular access to 194 fishermen and 17 civilian prisoners who are in Pakistan’s custody and are believed to be Indian. The Indian side requested Pakistan to expedite the grant of visas to members of a medical experts’ team and to facilitate their visit to Pakistan to assess the “mental condition of believed-to-be Indian prisoners of unsound mind” who are being held in different jails. India further proposed that an early visit of the Joint Judicial Committee should be organised to Pakistan. The Indian side said it is committed to addressing all humanitarian matters on priority, including those related to prisoners and fishermen in each other’s jails. “In this context, India has also urged Pakistan to expedite necessary action at its end to confirm the nationality status of 78 Pakistan prisoners, including fishermen, whose repatriation is pending for want of nationality confirmation by Pakistan,” the statement said. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Pakistan was requested to ensure the safety, security and welfare of all Indian and believed-to-be Indian civilian prisoners and fishermen. The lists of prisoners were exchanged through diplomatic channels simultaneously in New Delhi and Islamabad. This is in keeping with provisions of a 2008 agreement whereby such lists are exchanged on January 1 and July 1 every year. A majority of the prisoners held on both sides are fishermen who are detained for violating the maritime boundary. Though the two sides had made progress in addressing humanitarian issues related to civilian prisoners, the process was hit by the strain in bilateral ties that followed the 2008 Mumbai attacks. Visits by the Joint Judicial Committee, which helps to identify prisoners and problems being faced by them, have also been affected by the strained bilateral relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-pak-speed-up-release-of-civilian-prisoners-missing-defence-personnel-101625129785822.html
01-07-2021||India||‘DIY drones’ can be easily used by state, non-state actors: Army chief||Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Thursday said that the easy availability of drones allowed both state and non-state actors to use them, increasing the complexity of challenges faced by the security forces, days after an unprecedented unmanned attack on an Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu.Highlighting the easy availability of devices such as the ones used in Jammu on June 27 -- and several other drones seen and repelled in the region’s Kaluchak area over the past week -- he said that building drones was akin to a “DIY project that could be tackled at home”. The attack was the first-ever offensive use of drones to target an Indian military facility.Also Read | ‘State support’ behind drone strike, says top army officer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diy-drones-can-be-easily-used-by-state-non-state-actors-army-chief-101625129365933.html
01-07-2021||India||States' fault if there is vaccine supply issue now, says Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said several state politicians are making irresponsible statements regarding the vaccination against Covid-19, which is now centralised. Dismissing such criticism that despite the Centre now managing vaccination, there is a crunch, the health minister said that if there is any issue in any particular state, they need to better plan their drives. The minister also said that vaccination speed has picked up after the Centre started providing 75 per cent of vaccines free to states and in June 11.50 crore doses have been administered."If there are issues in states, it shows that they need to better plan their #vaccination drives. Intra-state planning & logistics are the responsibility of the states. I request these leaders to desist from their shameless urge to play politics even in the midst of a pandemic," the health minister tweeted.State political leaders need to focus on governance, the minister said, adding, "Will again request state leaders to spend more energies in planning and not in creating panic."I'm seeing irresponsible statements from various leaders regarding #LargestVaccineDriveStating facts below so people can judge intentions of these leaders👉After GoI provided 75% of vaccines available for free, vaccination speed picked up & 11.50 cr doses were given in JuneThe West Bengal government has complained of scarcity of Covid-19 vaccines and has now decided to utilise 50 per cent of the future supply for the second dose. Other states that have flagged vaccine shortage issues include Delhi, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. In Chennai, there have been flash protests on Wednesday over vaccine shortage. Odisha too shut vaccination centres citing depletion of the stock.The health minister said under the new centralised vaccine policy, the states were informed in advance of their future supply.A total of 12 crore doses will be made available in July excluding that of private hospitals. "This information was shared with states 15 days prior, along with details about day-wise supply," Harsh Vardhan wrote.The Centre's supply to states and UTs depend on population, Covid-19 situation and vaccine wastage. Though West Bengal's vaccine wastage is negative, it is not getting fewer shots than many smaller states, it has been alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-fault-if-there-is-vaccine-supply-issue-now-says-harsh-vardhan-101625128513606.html
01-07-2021||India||Tripura’s banned militant outfit is active in Bangladesh: Report||The National Liberation Front of Tripura (NLFT), a banned militants’ group, is operating from neighbouring Bangladesh and has been making attempts to spread their movement in Tripura again, according to a confidential report prepared by state and central security agencies, which HT has seen. The northeastern state shares a 856km-long international border with Bangladesh, of which nearly 67km are yet to be fenced. The report said that a small faction of NLFT, headed by its self-styled commander Dilip Debbarma, is making attempts to restart their operation in Khowai district of Tripura, nearly 50km from Agartala. Another self-styled advisor of NLFT, Biswa Mohan Debbarma, is likely to be in Mizoram, self-styled secretary general of NLFT Utpal Debbarma and self-styled secretary of youth affairs, culture, agriculture Sachin Debbarma are in Bangladesh, while another self-styled commander Jacob Hrangkhawl is in Myanmar. Also Read | Tripura CM asks BJP workers to strengthen, expand partyThe movement of a small group headed by Dilip Debbarma has been observed in Ganganagar, Raishyabari, Gandachera and Chawmanu in Dhalai district and possibly parts of Khowai district, the report stated. The report was made based on discussions held at the 52nd meeting of Directional Level Lead Intelligence Agency ( LIA) on June 15. According to the report, two hideouts of the outfit are active at Silchari and Ujjanchari in Bangladesh’s Rangamati district, besides two safe houses in Dhaka and Chittagong. In the meeting that was held after a brief gap due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the BSF, Tripura Special Branch of Police, Special Bureau, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Customs etc., discussed transborder crimes, seizures of contraband items, different smuggling routes in the northeast region, border security along the international border with Bangladesh, insurgency issues etc. As per the report, though the NLFT activities have become insignificant in past seven months, a camp located at Segunbagan in Bangladesh, barely five kilometres from the international border has been active since last October. The outfit, reportedly has 40 cadres at present. The NLFT was floated on March 12 in 1989 with the agenda of a sovereign Tripura. It was banned in 1997 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and then under the Prevention of Terrorism Act ( POTA). As per Union Ministry of Home Affairs, the outfit has been responsible for many violent activities that included 317 insurgency incidents in which 28 security forces and 62 civilians lost their lives between 2005-2015 .After peace talks with them in 2015, no violence has taken place, except a few abductions in last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripuras-banned-militant-outfit-is-active-in-bangladesh-report-101625128225773.html
01-07-2021||India||Get married now, or wait for eternity!||As the dreaded second wave of Covid-19 subsides, giving the country some respite, it also seems to have given a kick-start to the shaadi season, right in the middle of sultry. The news of a maximum of 50 guests being allowed in a wedding hall has made the to-be weds across the country rejoice, and rush to book the dates and venues for weddings. In fact, the couples who had their weddings planned for a later date this year are trying to get married in July itself, in anticipation of a third wave, lest they have to wait forever!Celebrity wedding designer Swati Pandya informs that she’s suddenly flooded with requests for an early date for the wedding. “Our clients are going ahead with 50 guests wedding, thereby respecting the government’s guidelines for Covid-19, as they do absolutely realise that this is the ‘best in hand’ situation, but don’t want to delay any further. The times to come are uncertain so they feel it’s better to host the weddings as early as possible, and in July itself as compared to the time when the cap had dipped to 10 or 25 guests, or choose a better weather at a later date,” shares Pandya. Mumbai-based wedding planner Chinmai Jain, says the desire to hold ceremonies on auspicious dates is also something that is driving people to finalise a date in July itself. “It’s a rush-rush affair now,” says Jain, adding, “There were a lot of auspicious dates in the last three months, but because of the lockdown nothing was possible. Now people are fearing another lockdown in Mumbai in the month of September. They are scared that they might end up waiting another year and, thus want to get married in July, even if it means holding a ceremony in a smaller capacity.” Ishaan Kapoor, owner of a Delhi-based wedding catering company, who was to get married on July 31, is planning to prepone the wedding. “I’m planning to have it earlier in the month. The third wave can come anytime looking at the way people are behaving in Delhi. We will have 40 guests at my wedding, and we have requested everyone including our house staff to get their RT-PCR tests done two days before the functions commence. The hotel we’ve booked hasn’t asked for these reports but we want to be sure we are ready with them just in case they do,” says Kapoor. The sudden increase in number of people wanting to get married soonest possible has also made the time quite a challenging one for the wedding planners. “The cost of flowers has also gone up by three times. We used to have 20-25 people in our team earlier, but now there is hardly any labour with us. We are hiring from outside right now to fulfil the demand, and they most people have increased the cost of their services by three times. There are rules and regulations as well that they have to be vaccinated, which makes it tougher to source the right people for the job,” says Sumathy Bachchan, a Delhi-based wedding planner, and Reema Singh, another wedding planner, adds that while people aren’t cutting down on the number of functions, they are, for sure, cutting down on some frills: “So like if they had planned to have singers for all their functions, they would just have for one. Even in a baraat, usually there are 11-50 people in the band with the dhol and lights and stuff, but now there very few and they are not using a baggi or even a band in some cases. Usually people used to spend a close to ₹2.5 lakh on the baraat, but this has reduced to ₹12,000 to ₹15,000.”  Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/get-married-now-or-wait-for-eternity-101625127397963.html
01-07-2021||India||India needs anti-drone systems now as border infra are targets of Pak groups||The drone attack by Pakistan based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terror group on Jammu air base last Sunday has red-flagged the need for India to acquire latest anti-drone technologies as terrorists and Maoists have started using stand-off weapons at the behest of their handlers across the borders.The attack has also brought home the stark truth to not only the national security planners but as well as the air warriors who thought that the armed drones will not be able to survive the hostile environment of the Line of Control (LoC) between India and Pakistan with both countries deploying air defence radars along the active line. The Sunday attack showed that how a mere system costing around six lakh of rupees can cause damage to the Indian Air Force's (IAF) key installations.Fact is that since 2020, the Border Security Force (BSF) has recorded no less than 99 drone sightings on the western borders - from Jammu and Kashmir to Gujarat. To add to the discomfiture is that the BSF has even sighted drones in Maoist infested areas of eastern India. The Indian intelligence agencies and the J&K police know that both Lashkar and Jaish-e-Mohammed have better capability that the drone used in the June 27 attack with majority of drones being used to drop weapons in the Jammu sector.The national security council secretariat is aware of the threat posed by terror drones to Indian security for the past few years but the Indian acquisition processes are so tedious that to date only a request for information (RFI) has been floated for acquisition of anti-drone systems. The Defence Research and Development Organization has also developed a demonstrator anti-drone system but that is still to be tested either on the LoC or the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The DRDO system was tested in NSG facility in Manesar in January 2021 but the users have to still to take a final call.While China has moved far ahead in armed and swarm drone technologies with Pakistan being a collateral beneficiary, the Indian drone and anti-drone capability is still work in progress. This is perhaps also to do with the fact that the Indian military and security forces take time to assimilate new technologies despite the fact that US has used the drones to good effect in Afghanistan and Balochistan to take out high value terror targets. There are many within the security establishment who believe that drones cannot stand a chance in a contested air space and will be detected and brought down. This was proved wrong on June 27 as the two drones not only intruded across the border without detection (which is very difficult in mountainous terrain) but also dropped the payload using GPS coordinates. Had it not been windy in the wee hours of last Sunday morning, the LeT would have embarrassed the IAF.The truth is that even if the two drones had been detected and shot down by the BSF, are the Indian security forces prepared for swarm drones attacks on Indian vital installations all along the border. An armed drone is a cheap option for targeting by anti India terror groups as the controller sits across the border and achieves the objective without crossing the LoC by tunneling under the border fence. India has no options but to rapidly acquire anti-drone systems by involving the private sector while the public sector can continue developing its own. A perfect drone strike by Pakistan based terror groups will destroy the much earned LoC ceasefire but also bring the two arch rivals to each other’s throats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-needs-anti-drone-systems-now-as-border-infra-are-targets-of-pak-groups-101625125370929.html
01-07-2021||India||'5 CMs in 5 years in UP': Om Prakash Rajbhar shares his power-sharing plan||Months before the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) president Om Prakash Rajbhar has suggested a new strange formula to govern the state. Rajbhar said if his 10-party alliance wins the state elections in UP, there will be a new chief minister every year."If we form the government in 2022, we are clear that there will be five chief ministers in five years. One will be Muslim, one Rajbhar, one Chauhan, one Kushwaha and one Patel. We will also have four deputy CMs in a year and 20 in five years. We are clear that everyone will be treated equally in the coalition," said Rajhbhar.Rajbhar's party is part of Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, a coalition of 10 parties. He said that the coalition will contest the election from all 403 seats in the state and "win more than 300 seats to form the government".Rajbhar was earlier part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in Uttar Pradesh. He said today that caste is the reality of the society and all parties contest the elections based on the caste system."Not like getting backward class votes in the names on Keshav Prasad Maurya and when it's time to appoint chief minister, bring one from Uttarakhand. People of backward castes are waiting for their turn to get the post of chief minister. If becoming CM depends on votes, I said why not form a coalition and become chief minister turn by turn," he said.Rajbhar resigned from the Yogi Adityanath government in 2019.In the last assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh in 2017, the BJP had won 312 out of 403 seats, and the SBSP four seats. Another ally of the coalition, Apna Dal (Sonelal), had won nine seats.Backward classes account for about 44 per cent of the electorate in caste-riddled Uttar Pradesh and play a crucial role in making or marring political prospects of any party. The Rajbhar community constitutes about 20 per cent of the population and are concentrated in eastern Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-cms-in-5-years-in-up-om-prakash-rajbhar-shares-his-power-sharing-plan-101625125044652.html
01-07-2021||India||Can Indians now travel to European countries? Here is all you need to know about vaccine, Green Pass||Several European countries and member-nations of the European Union are on their way to approve the Serum Institute of India's Covishield for Green Pass, though travel restrictions for Indians have not been lifted. The European Union is rolling out an EU digital covid certificate also known as Green Pass from today which includes only four vaccines — Comirnaty of Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna, Vaxzervria by AstraZeneca-Oxford and, Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen. Only those inoculated with these vaccines will get this pass and will be allowed to travel with EU nationals during the pandemic.India on Wednesday requested the member nations of the European Union to individually consider allowing Indians who have taken Covishield and Covaxin. The government also mentioned that once Covishield and Covaxin are included in the EU Digital Covid certificate and India's Co-Win vaccine certificate is recognised, India will also accept EU Digital Covid Certificate and will provide an exemption from mandatory quarantine.'No controversy': Adar Poonawalla on Covishield being excluded from EU Green PassGermany Embassy in India spokesperson Walter J Lindner clarified that Germany already considers Covishield as a valid proof of anti-Covid vaccination as Covishield is just another version of the same vaccine (Vaxzervria by AstraZeneca-Oxford) approved by the European Union.Switzerland, not an EU nation, has earlier announced that it would accept fully vaccinated third-country nationals (CHE, EU and WHO) from June 26. "The Embassy of Switzerland in New Delhi is currently accepting all visa categories for persons coming from third countries such as India...who can prove that they have been fully vaccinated," the embassy said.Can Indians now travel to Europe?This depends on country-specific guidelines as Switzerland is now allowing Indians fully vaccinated by Covishield. But several other European countries, including Germany, have not lifted the restrictions from India. And the restriction may remain there for some timeWhy is Covishield not approved in Europe?It is a misnomer to say that Covishield is not approved in Europe. In many European countries, Covishield is recognised as a valid vaccine against Covid-19. EU has not included it in its Green Pass as Covishield manufacturer Serum Institute of India did not submit an application to the European Medicines Agency. The EU also clarified that the Green Pass is for travelling withing the EU countries and not from outside. EU member nations have the provision to individually approve Covishield, as it is WHO-approved.Will Covishield be included in the EU's Green Pass?Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla has said it has now applied for EMA approval and it is only a matter of time now. Poonawalla expects that the approval will come in a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-indians-now-travel-to-european-countries-here-is-all-you-need-to-know-about-vaccine-green-pass-101625123546289.html
01-07-2021||India||HT Explainer: The monsoon is on a break. What does it mean?||The Indian monsoon is taking a break even before it has covered the entire country. With the India Meteorological Department (IMD) saying it doesn’t know when the monsoon will revive, both farmers and policymakers are apprehensive. The slowing down of monsoon could lead to a dip in agriculture production at a time when economic indicators are weak and the pandemic is yet to be controlled. This will clearly have livelihood implications.Here’s an explainer on this unusual monsoon break and its ramifications:What is the nature of the Indian monsoon?The Indian monsoon primarily affects India and its surrounding countries. It blows from the northeast during cooler months, and reverses direction to blow from the southwest during the warmest months of the year. So, in essence, strong easterly winds push the dominant westerly winds upwards, thereby taking over the dominant weather system for close to four months. The strong moisture laden winds being Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea bring large amounts of rainfall to the region between June and September. The monsoon brings 50 to 70% of the total annual rainfall to the Indian sub-continent.What are its common rainfall patterns?Monsoon rains are not constant during the period. There are two rainfall-related phenomenon associated with monsoon — monsoon burst and monsoon break. In monsoon burst, heavy rainfall takes place over a long period, may be up to a week, in a region or regions of the country, primarily causing floods. Flooding in Kerala in 2018, or in Bihar and Assam in 2020 can be termed as instances of monsoon burst. The increase in intensity of both break and burst has been attributed to warming of earth surface because of the climate crisis.What is monsoon break?Monsoon break is a period when it goes into recession of one or more weeks. When tropical disturbances advance along the monsoon trough, at times, the sea level low pressure area weakens. As the high-level low pressure area moves north, precipitation decreases in the northern plains and it creates high pressure area over North Bay of Bengal, a rich source of monsoon rains.This makes the monsoon trough along the west coast to weaken and monsoon winds from Bay of Bengal branch alone feed the monsoon trough, which runs along the foothill of Himalayas and Northeast India.This, in turn, results in less or no rainfall across west coast, Deccan plateau and Northern plains. But a low pressure trough forms over the Tamil Nadu coast increasing the rainfall. As the monsoon trough runs close to the foothills of Himalayas, monsoon winds ascend the slopes of Himalayas resulting in orthographic rainfall. This is how a normal monsoon break works.Why has monsoon receded now?This monsoon break is slightly different. According to Mahesh Palawat of Skymet Weather, the monsoon break normally takes places once the entire country has had a spell of rainfall and monsoon coverage is complete. The break is mostly noticed at the end of July or in August. Monsoon again picks when it starts receding from September.However, this monsoon break is unusual as it happening since monsoon has not covered all of India yet. Since June 18, very strong westerly winds are blocking the easterly monsoon wind, which brings moisture from Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea. On the surface level, high velocity winds are blowing, causing ground temperature to rise and creating unfavourable conditions for monsoon winds to proceed.The westerlies are strong because of the heating of equator near India and are blocking the easterlies, thereby pushing the monsoon down after it crossed Madhya Pradesh and covered half of Uttar Pradesh. So, only some parts of Konkan and Goa, the southern tip and northeast India is receiving good rainfall.Is monsoon break common?Yes, the monsoon break is common but not before the weather phenomenon covers entire country. Palawat said that it is rare for monsoon to experience a break before it covers the entire country.“The break was because of very localised factors and failure of formation of westerly disturbance which could have pushed the monsoon upwards,” he said. The monsoon work on push and pull method, in which the low pressure in Bay of Bengal or Arabian Sea pushes the monsoon into Central India and weak westerly pulls the monsoon towards the western coast and northern India. This time, there was a push till June 18 when a low pressure had formed in Bay of Bengal but there was no pull. Emergence of strong and hot westerly winds has pushed the monsoon down.When will the break end?According to IMD, it is highly unlikely that the monsoon will resume till July 7. Palawat said there was no indication for monsoon trough to resume till July 8-10. “It is wait and watch till then,” he said.Former director general of IMD KJ Ramesh, however, expressed confidence that there would be a vigorous monsoon by the second week of July and would cover the rain deficiency of the past 12 days. Till June 30, India received 13% more rainfall than normal but the showers are reducing since June 19, IMD rainfall data showed. The deficiency for last 11 days of June was 32% and for last day of June, it was 70%.How is the heat wave related to monsoon break?Dry and strong westerly winds from Pakistan and West Asia have brought heat wave across northern and central India, though late. Temperatures in several places in central and western India crossed 45 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. In normal weather conditions, this region sees heat wave conditions in late April, May or early June. Ramesh said this year, due to winds not been able to bring moisture from the seas, there is extreme dry weather creating heat wave-like conditions.Is there any possibility of below normal monsoon?Weather experts said it is too early to say. June is set to receive 106% of the Long Period Average (LPA) even though Monday and Tuesday saw 60% rain deficiency. The July prediction is 91% of LPA.Skymet’s Palawat said there will be rain deficiency in the first 8-10 days of July and after that, the monsoon is expected to re-start and the gap can be covered. IMD said it doesn’t have a model to make precise prediction of monsoon rainfall for more than a week. So, they don’t know whether monsoon will revive after July 8, the day the monsoon is expected to cover entire India, almost 38 days after it hit the coast of Kerala. However, several places in western India, especially northern Gujarat and western Rajasthan, are witnessing drought-like conditions with negligible monsoon rainfall till now.What could be the possible impact of this monsoon break?Till now, experts say, there is not much impact of the break as there was good rainfall in May and first 17 days of June. Till June 30, India received 13% more rainfall than normal but the showers, as noted above, are reducing since June 19.However, a long monsoon recession (beyond July 10) can delay sowing of crops, especially in the rain-fed areas, which is 40% of country’s agriculture land. It will also impact horticulture crops in Uttarakhand, Himachal and Jammu and Kashmir, especially apples. If it doesn’t rain in the next fortnight, the quality of the produce can be impacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-explainer-the-monsoon-is-on-a-break-what-does-it-mean-101625124205654.html
01-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Nirmala Sitharaman dubs enhanced tax collection 'new normal' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.On GST day, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman says enhanced tax collection is 'new normal'India is marking 'GST Day' on Thursday, i.e. July 1 to mark the completion of four years since the rollout of the historic tax reform. Read More'Not much data to suggest Delta Plus can cause more deaths': AIIMS directorThe Delta Plus variant of coronavirus (Covid-19), which has been tagged as a “variant of concern” by the central government, has spread fear among the citizens of the country due to its higher transmissibility and resistance to some vaccines. Read MoreA year since the TikTok ban, India set to stay the course on Chinese appsOn June 29, 2020, just over a year ago, Union minister for electronics and information technology, Ravi Shankar Prasad, launched what he termed “India’s digital strike” against China. Read MoreDropping Rishabh Pant's catch was like dropping WTC title, it was 'horrible,' reveals New Zealand's Tim SoutheeNew Zealand pacer Tim Southee revealed that he thought he had dropped the World Test Championship after slipping an easy catch of India wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant on the Reserve Day of the WTC final in Southampton. Read MoreTaapsee Pannu recalls dad's awkwardness at watching films with 'explicit scenes' with teenage daughters aroundTaapsee Pannu, Vikrant Massey, and Harshvardhan Rane's new film, Haseen Dillruba, pays homage to Hindi pulp thrillers. Read MoreTVS iQube electric scooter launched in Chetak Electric's home turf of PuneUntil now, the iQube electric scooter was only limited to select cities such as Delhi, Bengaluru, and Chennai, and now TVS Motor Company has introduced the battery-powered scooter in Pune as well, at a price tag of ₹1,10,898 (on-road). Read MoreWoman’s wedding pic prompts online game of tic-tac-toe. Know whyA picture shared by woman has turned into a source of Twitter chatter. In fact, it prompted people to start an online game of tic-tac-toe. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-nirmala-sitharaman-dubs-enhanced-tax-collection-new-normal-and-all-the-latest-news-101625122356344.html
01-07-2021||India||One nation, one ration card possible because of Digital India: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that the government’s flagship Digital India mission had enabled implementation of the one nation, one ration card scheme and helped ease access to services for millions of people during the Covid-19 pandemic. Interacting with beneficiaries on the completion of six years of the Digital India mission, the PM said direct benefit transfer had helped send money to crores of people. “Using UPI, people do transactions worth nearly ₹5 lakh every day,” he said. “The one nation, one ration card scheme which was made possible under the mission has especially helped migrant workers.” The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed all states and Union territories to implement the scheme by July 31. The top court has also issued a slew of directions, asking the Central government to distribute dry ration among migrant workers free of charge until the pandemic situation subsides.Also Read | ‘Chartered accountants have a vital role in India’s progress’: PM ModiThe PM added that the mission had helped farmers sell their produce directly, and even allowed the government to provide them money directly into their accounts. “Digital India scheme has empowered common people,” he said. “This is a great example of minimum government, maximum governance.” Modi also highlighted the success of schemes introduced under Digital India mission, such as Digilocker, the government’s app to store documents, and Aarogya Setu, the Covid-19 tracing app.“India’s digital solutions are of interest across the world, there are many countries that want to emulate the country’s vaccination platform, CoWIN,” he said. Referring to the recently released rankings in UN’s ITU global cyber security agenda, the prime minister said that India’s commitment to data privacy security had increased by leaps and bounds. “In the recently released ranking, India is now number 10 in terms of cybersecurity across the world,” he said.  “Without access to cheap data plans, what would have happened to millennials,” he said, adding, “Crores of people have benefitted from online education to medicine, and last mile delivery of medical services.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-nation-one-ration-card-possible-because-of-digital-india-pm-modi-101625123725727.html
01-07-2021||India||Nagaland MLA Toshi Wungtung dies from Covid-19-related complications||Nagaland’s MLA and advisor to the government for information and public relations Toshi Wungtung passed away on Thursday in New Delhi, where he was undergoing treatment for Covid-19-related health complications, official sources said.He was 57.Known for his outspoken advocacy on environment conservation, promotion of Naga cultural identity and traditions, and the Naga political issue, Wungtung made his debut in state electoral politics in 2018. He was elected to the 13th Nagaland Legislative Assembly from Shamator-Chessore constituency in Tuensang district on a Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) ticket. Also Read | Nagaland declared ‘disturbed area’ for 6 more months under AFSPAWungtung was appointed advisor for IPR, State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), and Village Guards, a position he held till his demise.The MLA was stated to have tested positive for Covid-19 and was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Nagaland earlier in June. However, with the development of several underlying health complications, he was airlifted to Delhi later and had been under medical treatment since then. Official sources informed that preparations are being made to fly the mortal remains of the late MLA home to Nagaland on Thursday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-mla-toshi-wungtung-dies-from-covid-19-related-complications-101625123666054.html
01-07-2021||India||‘Disappointed’ SC stays NGT order on Baghjan fire||The Supreme Court on Thursday expressed disappointment over the National Green Tribunal (NGT) including an Oil India Ltd (OIL) official in a 10-member committee to assess damage caused to the biodiversity due to the fire at Assam’s Baghjan oil well despite holding the corporation responsible for the losses.The SC stayed the NGT order constituting the committee.The panel was asked to come up with a remedial restoration plan including for Dibru-Saikhowa National Park and the Maguri-Motapung Wetland, which suffered damage due to the 172-day fire at the oil well in the Tinsukia district. The Well No-5 at Baghjan caught fire on June 9 last year, and left two of OIL’s firefighters dead.“We are surprised that NGT first holds that Oil India is responsible for the damages to the environment and for destroying the wetlands and then an officer of Oil India is made a member of the committee to go into these issues,” said a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah while hearing an appeal against the February 19 tribunal order.According to the NGT order, the committee was to be headed by Assam’s chief secretary and would include the OIL managing director. The Supreme Court said the inclusion of the OIL official was “completely surprising”.Senior advocate Siddharth Mitra, appearing for petitioner Bonani Kakkar, called it a breach of the principle of justice, where somebody with a direct conflict of interest was being asked to adjudicate a matter.Mitra pointed out that another committee led by former high court judge BP Katakey has submitted a comprehensive report on the matter. He said it was followed by a progress report, and hence constitution of a new committee will only delay the process.The bench agreed with Mitra’s submissions and stayed the NGT order. It said it will hear the matter immediately after two weeks so that the issue is not left pending any further. The SC said it will form a new panel that could go into all the issues and submit a report expeditiously.“We may monitor this ourselves. We are disappointed by the manner in which the NGT has simply pushed this off its hands. It is the National Green Tribunal. It must have some alacrity and concerns for the environment,” the court said.In June 2020, the NGT slapped an interim ₹25 crore penalty on OIL over its failure to stop the fire. It also set up the first Katakey-led panel. After this panel indicted OIL, the NGT bench headed by its chairperson justice AK Goel said in the February order that the tribunal prima facie agrees there was a failure on part of OIL.The tribunal called for a need to ensure that such incidents do not recur while constituting the 10-member panel to assess the damages and for the remedial restoration plan.“The onus of forming the committee was entirely with NGT and OIL had no role to play in it. We would not be able to comment on the SC ruling as we are yet to see it,” said OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disappointed-with-ngt-order-says-sc-as-it-stays-order-on-baghjan-oil-well-fire-101625123485650.html
01-07-2021||India||'Not much data to suggest Delta Plus can cause more deaths': AIIMS director||The Delta Plus variant of coronavirus (Covid-19), which has been tagged as a “variant of concern” by the central government, has spread fear among the citizens of the country due to its higer transmissibility and resistance to some vaccines. However, AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria said that if Covid appropriate behaviour is followed, “we’ll be safe against any of the emerging variants,” news agency ANI reported.“There isn’t much data on the Delta Plus variant to suggest it’s more infectious, causing more deaths, or has developed a significant immune escape mechanism,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Guleria further stated that more data is required on “mixing of doses” as studies show that it may be effective. However, the AIIMS director clarified that more data is needed before saying that mixing of Covid-19 vaccine doses is a policy that should be tried.His remarks come after a recent study led by the Oxford University revealed that alternating doses of the AstraZeneca and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines produce robust immune responses against the SARs-CoV-2 causing Covid-19. The researchers in the study, who are working to know the feasibility of using a different vaccine dose for the prime vaccination than the one used for the booster vaccination, discovered that mixing the doses of two different vaccines can generate stronger immunity.The Delta Plus variant, which was first identified on June 11, and is a mutated form of the Delta variant, has so far been detected in 12 countries. In India, as many as 12 states and Union territories, including Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and Odisha, among others, have reported cases of Delta Plus variant. As of now, a total of 51 cases of the variant has been found in the country from 45,000 samples that were tested. Notably, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of cases of Delta Plus of Covid-19, followed by Madhtya Pradesh and Kerala. Owing to the upward trend of cases related to the variant, Maharashtra has brought back restrictions and imposed three-level curbs instead of a five-level unlock, which was announced earlier.Recently, National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) head Dr NK Arora said that the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 has a greater affinity towards lung problems though it does not mean that it can cause major disease or has higher transmissibility, news agency PTI reported.“Delta Plus is having greater affinity to mucosal lining in the lungs, higher compared to other variants, but if it causes damage or not is not clear yet,” he told PTI.The World Health Organization (WHO) said that the more a virus circulates in a population causing infection, the chance of the virus mutating rises. The public health agency added that the more a virus spreads, the more it replicates, and has greater windows to undergo changes – also known as mutation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-much-data-to-suggest-delta-plus-can-cause-more-deaths-aiims-director-101625121742506.html
01-07-2021||India||A year since the TikTok ban, India set to stay the course on Chinese apps||On June 29, 2020, just over a year ago, Union minister for electronics and information technology, Ravi Shankar Prasad, launched what he termed “India’s digital strike” against China, as the government banned 59 mobile applications, mostly of Chinese origin, in the wake of the Galwan border clash.The decision sent ripples through the community of online users as TikTok, a fast-growing short-video streaming application, was on the list. TikTok, according to Bloomberg data, had nearly 200 million users in India last year.India would go on to ban over 200 mobile applications, including the hugely popular videogame PUBG, over concerns of national security and data privacy. India’s push against China’s presence in the telecom market has also seen an increased focus in the last year, with the government introducing criteria for trusted source vendors that can supply equipment and keeping China-based companies, Huawei and ZTE, out of the 5G trials.Also Read | Delhi Police seeks details of handles that shared porn content on TwitterThe strategic subtext behind the ban The ban on TikTok, WeChat and ShareIt was executed under Section 69(A) of the Information Technology Act, 2000, on the grounds that they “posed a threat to sovereignty and integrity of India”. The first tranche of app bans was followed by two more — 44 apps that functioned like ones banned in the first, including lite versions of the applications, followed by a decision to ban 117 mobile applications on September 2, including PUBG, for “stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data in an unauthorised manner.”But while data privacy and security were cited as the reasons, there is little doubt that the trigger for the ban was the Galwan clash of 2020. The bloodiest encounter between India and China at the border in over 40 years took the lives of 20 Indian armed forces personnel, and with the incident and Chinese intrusion across the Line of Actual Control, the framework to maintain peace at the border was severely strained.Former Indian ambassador to China, Pakistan and Bhutan, Gautam Bambawale, said that the decision to ban the apps was a message to China. “India has stated that if there is no peace on the border, then the rest of the India-China relationship will be adversely impacted,” He added that the ban on Chinese apps was a “first step” in indicating to Beijing that there are costs involved of their actions in eastern Ladakh. “The message has gone loud and clear.”Vivan Sharan, partner with research-driven advisory firm, Koan Advisory Group, said that the app ban represented “an inflection point” which signified “India’s willingness to link geopolitics with tech policy”.At the same time, he added, “There is no guarantee that blacklisting will mitigate dangers in the digital environment, where threats cannot always be geolocated. Moreover, a transparent and judiciable standard for app and content takedowns is the need of the hour, and what will differentiate digital democracies from the rest.”The impact on the companiesA year after the ban, TikTok hasn’t given up on its India plans yet.ByteDance, TikTok’s parent company, remains hopeful of a lift of the ban after it received and submitted a questionnaire sent by the IT ministry enquiring about the company, its practices and content.A company executive familiar with the matter said that the company was working with the government to have the ban lifted, but this may well be more hope than reality. Ministry officials said that no such rethink was on the cards.The executive also said that while data was a principal concern, the company had worked to create even more safeguards. “Our data centres are in Singapore and the United States (US). India remains the only country that has banned TikTok.” In the US, the ban on the company was halted after US district judge Carl Nichols said former President Donald Trump “overstepped” when it comes to exercising his power while announcing the ban. However, President Joe Biden did extend a Donald Trump-era ban on Chinese surveillance companies. The total number of blocked Chinese firms increased from 48 to 59.PUBG adopted a different route.In September, explaining its rationale for a set of additional prohibitions, the government asserted that since these applications were routing data through China or had data centres within the country, the safety of the data of the citizens was compromised. “This move will safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users. This decision is a targeted move to ensure safety, security and sovereignty of Indian cyberspace,” the ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) said.The move was viewed as targeting some of China’s technology giants such as Tencent Holdings Ltd, the country’s search engine leader Baidu Inc, Xiaomi’s ShareSave and online payments giant Ant Group Co.’s platform Alipay.After it was banned, PUBG (which is a South Korean company) pulled its franchise from China-based company Tencent, and said, “In light of recent developments, PUBG Corporation has decided to no longer authorise the PUBG MOBILE franchise to Tencent Games in India. Moving forward, PUBG Corporation will take on all publishing responsibilities within the country.”In June 2021, PUBG’s parent company, Krafton, announced a new version specially tailored for India named Battlegrounds Mobile India. This launch has created a renewed furore among those who believe that it is simply a rebranding of PUBG.Gaurav Tyagi, an assistant professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University, filed a Right To Information (RTI) report regarding this new release. Meity and the ministry of home affairs (MHA) explained that they have no role in granting permission for the launch of any mobile application but clarified that they can, however, ban the game after its release as per provisions under the IT Act. This has not happened.Independent researcher Srinivas Kodali said that the applications always have the option of challenging the ban. “They can always litigate. There is a government order banning them, they can challenge it in the court,” he said. “From a nation-State perspective, you don’t want information from India going to another country.”He added, “The decision did make some impact but the larger questions of data security remain. There have numerous data breaches since, whether it is in the case of Dominos or Big Basket or Mobikwik, all this data available on the darknet for anyone who is looking for it.”The impact on the larger ecosystem Did the “digital strike” propel the rise of an alternative ecosystem? Initial reports suggested that the move prompted Indian entrepreneurs to present a local alternative to various popular apps in the market. And, indeed, from file sharing and scanning to video streaming, indigenous apps were developed rapidly to fill the gap that came with the ban and to create a new ecosystem within the country.At the same time, experts point to a more nuanced landscape.“A majority of the banned apps were essentially fly-by-the-night operations, less than a dozen had offices in the country. And only a subset of the latter, apps such as TikTok, UC Browser and PUBG, had a significant market share in their respective segments. Therefore, an alternative ecosystem already existed for most apps. In some segments such as video content sharing, local counterparts have improved valuations but are yet to achieve monetisation at scale,” Sharan stated.Since many of the banned apps had no or limited stakes in the country, re-entry is unlikely. Sharan added, “Most (banned) apps seem disinterested in re-entry. Those that hope to return would likely need to restructure like PUBG has, or to localise in India in the widest possible sense short of forced tech transfer. This will include auditable information security assurances, and responsiveness to local enforcement concerns.”India’s cybersecurity is still a work in progressWhile the 2020 move was guided by a strategic decision to let China know that undermining peace at the border will have economic implications and business won’t carry on as usual, an equally important concern is a mounting threat to India’s data privacy and cybersecurity.A recent report by the International Institute for Strategic Studies (IISS), Cyber Capabilities and National Power: A Net Assessment, ranked India poorly in its cyber-power. “Despite the geostrategic instability of its region and a keen awareness of the cyber threat it faces, India has made only modest progress in developing its policy and doctrine for cyberspace security,” the report read. It added, “Its approach towards institutional reform of cyber governance has been slow and incremental, with the key coordinating authorities for cyber security in the civil and military domains only established in 2018 and 2019 respectively.”According to information from the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), India saw a sharp rise in cybersecurity incidents during the Covid-19 pandemic. Cybersecurity incidents increased from 3,94,499 in 2019 to 11,58,208 in 2020.In 2020, however, the International Telecommunication Union (ITU)’s Global Cybersecurity Index, which is a specialised organisation under the United Nations, ranked India at 10th position, while China was ranked 33rd. The report, released on June 29, may represent a shift in India’s cybersecurity standing globally.A year after the ban, it is this mix of geopolitics and national security concerns vis a vis China, cybersecurity and data privacy vulnerabilities, the Indian State’s own evolving regulatory frameworks, the Indian tech ecosystem’s ability to identify needs, tap markets, compete effectively and scale up, and the varied responses of those who had to exit the Indian market that have shaped the policy environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-year-since-the-tiktok-ban-india-set-to-stay-the-course-on-chinese-apps-101625121866084.html
01-07-2021||India||'Farmers' trust on e-NAM has increased': PM Modi at digital India event||On the sixth anniversary of Digital India on Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with beneficiaries of various schemes. From students to farmers, various beneficiaries shared their experiences about how adopting digital methods made their lives easier.The interaction started with Suhani Sahu, a beneficiary of DIKSHA scheme from Uttar Pradesh.Sahu, a Class 5 student, talked about how DIKSHA has made her studies more interactive and enjoyable. "We receive a link on WhatsApp where we get to learn a lot of things. There are many cartoons also on the platform," she said.DIKSHA serves as national digital infrastructure for teachers. All teachers across nation have been equipped with advanced digital technology as part of the platform.The Prime Minister then spoke to Prahlad Borghad, a farmer in Maharashtra. He told PM Modi how the e-NAM (National Agriculture Market) platform has opened the doors for small farmers like him."We have been using the platform since 2018. We are getting more value for our produce and able to sell it conveniently," said Borghad. The digital initiative has reduced the burden on transport since farmers like him didn't have to go anywhere.PM Modi said that such things should be told to other farmers also, which will help increase their trust on e-NAM.Shubham, a beneficiary of national teleconsultation service programme eSanjeevani also interacted with the Prime Minister where he talked about how easy it has become to consult the doctors due to the digital revolution, especially during Covid-19 time. Congratulating the young man for successfully using the digital platform, PM Modi also spoke to the doctor who gave medical consultation to Shubham's grandmother."With the improvement in technology, I hope more people will be able to use telemedicine," the Prime Minister said.The digital India programme was launched on July 1, 2015, by the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-trust-on-e-nam-has-increased-pm-modi-at-digital-india-event-101625121080853.html
01-07-2021||India||2.8 million households got tap water this year under Jal Jeevan Mission||Jal Jeevan Mission, the government’s flagship scheme to make piped water available to all, has provided about 2.8 million households with tap water connections in the first quarter of the year.Additional secretary and mission director of National Jal Jeevan Mission Bharat Lal said on Wednesday, “We have to build on this momentum. We have to ensure that various works planned for 2021-22 are implemented with a sense of urgency.”Jal Jeevan reports show an increase of 43.9 million in functional household tap connections since August 2019, when the mission was announced. The chief objective of the mission is to provide piped water supply (Har Ghar Jal) to all rural households by 2024.Also Read | ‘5 states, UTs to get tap water by 2022, ahead of deadline’In its periodic review published in the ninth edition of its monthly bulletin, National Jal Jeevan Mission (NJJM) lists 13 activities that the state and Union Territory governments need to expedite to achieve the mission objective. These activities include providing 100% piped water to schools, anganwadis etc, voluntary ownership of water supply by local communities, and creating awareness on various aspects and significance of potable drinking water.A Muralidharan, deputy advisor at Public Health Engineering (PHE) department in the ministry, said rainwater during monsoon could be utilised as drinking water. “Rains replenish groundwater, the major source for drinking water in most parts of the country. It fills up ponds, farm ponds, dams, reservoirs, wetlands and every depression on earth and gets stored as a surface water source, making itself available for drinking water service delivery,” he said.Water conservation becomes essential as the frequency of natural disasters increases. Depleting groundwater levels, overexploitation and deteriorating water quality, climate change, etc., are major challenges to providing potable drinking water. The Jal Jeevan Mission focuses on integrated demand and supply management of water at the local level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-million-households-got-tap-water-this-year-under-jal-jeevan-mission-101625120785197.html
01-07-2021||India||NIA court discharges Akhil Gogoi in second case related to anti-CAA protests||A National Investigation Agency (NIA) court here on Thursday discharged president of Raijor Dal and Sibsagar MLA Akhil Gogoi in the second case lodged against him in relation with anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) by the agency. He had already been discharged in the other case filed against him by NIA. Gogoi, a prominent farmer activist, has been under arrest since December 2019 for his alleged role in the anti-CAA protests in Assam. He is at present admitted to the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) as he has been unwell for a few months. “The NIA court discharged him in the case lodged at Chandmari in Guwahati. The court had earlier discharged him in the other case lodged at Chabua in Dibrugarh district by NIA,” said Gogoi’s lawyer Shantanu Borthakur. The NIA had filed two cases against Gogoi under several sections of Indian Penal Code and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment (UAPA) Act. He was discharged in the Chabua case last week. Also Read | 2-child policy only way to remove illiteracy, poverty in Muslims: Assam CMThe cases pertain to criminal conspiracy, sedition, promoting enmity between groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc., assertions against national integrity, support to terrorist organisation, etc. Gogoi had been granted bail in connection with the Chabua case by the NIA court in October last year. But the investigation agency had approached the Gauhati high court challenging the bail order. Three other accused in the same case, Dharjya Konwar, Manash Konwar and Bitu Sonowal, were also discharged by the NIA court on Thursday.. All three accused are already out on bail.In April this year, the Gauhati high court held the NIA court was right in granting bail to Gogoi and dismissed the appeal by the investigating agency. “The court’s ruling on Thursday is a blow to NIA and its attempts to target Gogoi. We are overwhelmed by the verdict and hope to see our party president out of arrest soon,” said Bhasco De Saikia, working president, Raijor Dal. Last week, the NIA court had granted two days’ permission to Gogoi to meet his son, who is suffering from Covid-19, as well as meet his 84-year-old mother who is ailing. On Tuesday, NIA had filed an additional charge sheet against Gogoi in connection with the Chandmari case. “The additional charge sheet doesn’t hold much water as there is no new section filed against Gogoi. We are hopeful of his release soon,” Borthakur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-court-discharges-akhil-gogoi-in-second-case-related-to-anti-caa-protests-101625120485118.html
01-07-2021||India||'No controversy': Adar Poonawalla on Covishield being excluded from EU Green Pass||Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla is expecting to receive approval from the European Medicines Agency for Covishield in a month, following which Indians vaccinated with the two doses of Covishield will not face any travel bar in European Union countries. There is no controversy, the CEO of the world's biggest vaccine maker said adding that the issue has been just blown out of proportion. He also said that the issue of vaccine passports is different and it should be on the basis of reciprocity between the countries.EMA and Green PassThe European Union is rolling out a Green Pass to determine who can freely travel to the member countries and Covishield and Covaxin — India's two primary vaccines — are not there.Covishield's exclusion has raised a few eyebrows as it is the same Astrazeneca-Oxford vaccine but developed in India. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) clarified that it did not receive any application from Serum Institute and Covishield does not have a marketing authorisation in the EU. However, it said that the member countries of the union are free to include Covishield in their Green Pass, as Covishield is approved by the World Health Organization.The Green Pass is being implemented from Thursday.Not really going to hinder anything: Adar PoonawallaAs reported by agencies, Adar Poonawalla said Serum has applied for EMA approval through Astrazeneca a month ago and there is no controversy. As of now, Indians are not allowed to travel to EU countries, but once the ban is lifted, they should not be barred because they have taken Covishield, Poonawalla said."The EMA is absolutely correct in asking us to apply, which we have through AstraZeneca, our partners, a month ago, and that process has to take its time. Even the UK MHRA, WHO took its time and we have applied to the EMA," SII CEO said."We are quite confident that in a month EMA will approve Covishield. There is no reason why not to because it is based on AstraZeneca data and our product is identical to AstraZeneca more or less and it has been approved by WHO, UK MHRA. So it's just a matter of time. It is not really going to hinder anything," Poonawalla added.'Vaccine passport is about two countries'Commenting on the issue of vaccine passports, Adar said it is between two countries. "The issue with vaccine passports is slightly different. What I am trying to say is that let us take a manufacturer outside of India. Let's say they have been approved by WHO and everyone in that country gets vaccinated taking that product and now when those citizens need to travel, what good is their vaccine certificate if it is not acknowledged and reciprocity is not there between the countries," Poonawalla said.Govt push for Covishield and Covaxin in EUIndia has asked the members of the European Union to individually consider allowing Indians who have taken Covishield and Covaxin vaccines, as that option is open. If these two vaccines are approved by 27 EU nations, then India too will exempt EU people holding Green Pass from mandatory quarantine in India, it said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-controversy-adar-poonawalla-on-covishield-being-excluded-from-eu-green-pass-101625117279054.html
01-07-2021||India||'On Doctors' Day, I salute members of medical fraternity': Venkaiah Naidu||Doctors have emerged as the first line of defence in the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. From diagnosing the infection to administering the vaccine, they have played a life-saving role at the time of crisis.Honoring the profession, India celebrates July 1 every year as 'National Doctors' Day'. The tradition was started by the Indian Medical Association (IMA).The Doctors' Day is observed in the honour of noted doctor and former West Bengal chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy. He was born on July 1, 1882 in Patna city, Bihar.“On this Doctors' Day, I salute all members of the medical fraternity for rendering selfless service and working round-the-clock to save others' lives by risking their own,” Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said in a post on Twitter.The Vice President further appealed to people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and ease the pressure on the medical fraternity as the pandemic has put tremendous stress on doctors and their families.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, many other ministers and politicians also wished the doctors on this day.The Covid-19 pandemic has been hard on doctors and paramedical staff, who braved the raging infection to render service to those in need. As many as 730 doctors have succumbed to the novel coronavirus infection during the second wave, according to data made available by IMA in mid-June.Bihar saw the maximum number of 115 such deaths, followed by Delhi at 109, Uttar Pradesh 79, West Bengal 62, Rajasthan 43, Jharkhand 39, and Andhra Pradesh 38, the data showed.According to the IMA, 748 doctors died in the first wave of the pandemic.This year is once again dedicated to all those doctors and healthcare professionals who are serving in these trying times by risking their lives either in primary or secondary care setups and in dedicated Covid care facilities. Doctors have to show empathy towards patients and their relatives while also detaching themselves emotionally to work in a professional manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/health/on-doctors-day-i-salute-members-of-medical-fraternity-venkaiah-naidu-101625116264052.html
01-07-2021||India||Kerala launches in-car dining to boost tourism affected by Covid-19||Ever since the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic hit India, dining out has been affected due to a majority of the country’s population preferring to not take the risk of getting exposed. Aimed to meet this challenge and also boost tourism in the state, Kerala has launched in-car dining, news agency ANI reported. Under this initiative, the restaurants operated by the Kerala Tourism Department Corporation (KTDC) across the state will offer tourists local cuisine while they are sitting inside their vehicles.The state tourism minister PA Mohammed Riyas told ANI that amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, “instead of dining inside a restaurant and mingling with the crowd, the in-car dining initiative will ensure safety to the tourists coming to Kerala".During the launch of the project, Kayamkulam MLA U Pratibha was also present alongside Riyas.Notably, the in-car dining initiative has been launched at a time when tourism in Kerala, which accounts for 11 per cent of the state domestic product (SDP), incurred loss due to Covid-19.The Kerala government announced of starting the in-car dining project earlier in June. At that time, Riyas had said that customers can place their orders at KTDC’s Aahaar restaurants, and that the in-car dining will cover all meals throughout the day – breakfast, lunch and dinner apart from snacks.Riyas stated that only KTDC restaurants will be responsible for carrying out the scheme. "We plan to reach out to the people with safe and tasty food. KTDC hotel chains will be renovated under the project 'Mission Facelift' after classifying them on a priority basis," he added.The tourism minister also suggested the idea of completely vaccinated tourism and even finding new tourism destinations in the state. According to the ANI report, he informed that Kerala government has initiated a project in which a new such tourism destination will be recognised in every panchayat. Furthermore, Riyas told ANI, several projects to develop new heritage and pilgrim tourism destinations to attract maximum domestic tourists, are also in the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-launches-in-car-dining-for-to-boost-tourism-affected-by-covid19-101625117244837.html
01-07-2021||India||Dr Reddy's Labs denied nod to conduct Phase-3 trials of Sputnik Light Covid-19 vaccine||Dr. Reddy's Laboratories has been denied permission by India's top regulatory body to conduct the Phase-3 trials for the Russian-made Sputnik Light coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine in India, reported news agency ANI on Thursday, citing people familiar with the development. According to reports, the expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) refused to allow the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company to conduct the third phase trials for the one-shot Sputnik Light vaccine because it did not find the "scientific rationale" behind the same.Also Read | High demand for Sputnik V vaccine at MedantaDr. Reddy's Laboratories had partnered with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) last year in September to conduct the Phase-3 trials of the Russian-made Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine in India, and distribute up to 100 million doses of it in India. The vaccine was approved for emergency use in the country in April this year.Sputnik Light is a single-dose Covid-19 vaccine. It is a slimmed-down, one-shot version of Sputnik V that the government was earlier looking at for a speedy launch in India, news agency PTI reported in late May. An application seeking regulatory approval for it was filed in June and Dr. Reddy's Laboratories was expecting it to be approved by the drug regulatory body. If approved, it would have been the first and only single-dose vaccine in the country.Also Read | Efficacy against Covid-19, safe for kids? All you need to know about Moderna vaccineSputnik Light demonstrated 79.4% efficacy, according to an analysis of data gathered 28 days after the shot was administered as part of Russia’s mass vaccination programme between December 2020 and April 2021, the vaccine’s developers said in a statement. Gamaleya Center also demonstrated during laboratory tests that Sputnik Light had proven effective against all new strains of the coronavirus, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-reddy-s-labs-denied-nod-to-conduct-phase-3-trials-of-sputnik-light-covid-19-vaccine-101625117145896.html
01-07-2021||India||Manipur extends Covid curfew till July 10||The Manipur government has extended the ongoing curfew which was imposed in the state’s seven districts for ten more days till July 10 even as it allowed certain relaxations.“A careful approach along with mass vaccination is required to ensure that the pandemic is controlled,” said chief secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar who is also the chairman of the state executive committee of the state disaster management authority in an order on Wednesday night.As per the order,agriculture and horticulture activities,shops and establishments dealing with fertilisers, seeds, pesticides, and mechanical tools will be allowed during the curfew.Also Read | India logs 48,786 new Covid-19 infections, active cases fall to 1.72%Government offices of agriculture and horticulture departments, NREGA activities, stationery shops and opticians outside Thangal Bazaar and Paona Bazaar can open from 10am to 2pm on the days grocery shops are closed.Vegetable vendors and grocery shops will open as per earlier arrangement on July 1,4,7 and 10 from 7am to 10am.On Wednesday, the state government said that it will be relaxing the curfew in a calibrated manner by assessing the infection scenario.A notice by special secretary H Gyan Prakash of the home department on Wednesday said institutions, organisations, factories, shops, markets, private offices etc where employees and workers are vaccinated would be allowed to reopen on priority.“Therefore, a notice is hereby given to all persons to get vaccinated at the earliest. There are several fixed vaccine centres where anyone above 18 years can walk in and be vaccinated,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-extends-covid-curfew-till-july-10-101625116705079.html
01-07-2021||India||'Chartered accountants have a vital role in India's progress': PM Modi||On the occasion of Chartered Accountants' Day on Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the community and said it has a vital role in India's progress."Greetings to all Chartered Accountants on CA Day. This community has a vital role in India’s progress. I call upon all CAs to keep the focus on excellence so that Indian firms emerge as one of the best globally," PM Modi said in a tweet.The day is observed to mark the foundation day of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), a statutory body established in 1949 under an act of Parliament.This is the only licensing and regulatory body for the financial audit and accounting profession in India and it will celebrate the 73rd Chartered Accountants day this year.In his radio address 'Mann Ki Baat' on Sunday, PM Modi mentioned that Chartered Accountants Day is celebrated on July 1 and reminded them about a gift he sought from them. “A few years back, I had asked chartered accountants of the country for a gift of Indian audit firms of global level. Today, I want to remind them of this. Chartered accountants can play a very good and positive role in bringing transparency to the economy. I extend my best wishes to all chartered accountants and their family members,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chartered-accountants-have-a-vital-role-in-india-s-progress-pm-modi-101625115237617.html
01-07-2021||India||On Doctor's Day, India salutes health workers: PM Modi, president extend wishes||India is observing National Doctor's Day on July 1 i.e. Thursday. On this occasion, politicos and dignitaries across the country saluted the doctors and frontline health workers who are working tirelessly amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, and several others hailed the heroic efforts of the doctors to serve humanity irrespective of the odds.Also Read | National Doctors' Day on July 1: History and significancePrime Minister Narendra Modi, taking to his official account on Thursday, greeted all doctors and said that India's strides in the world of medicine are commendable. He also shared a clip, recording an extract of his Mann Ki Baat radio address last weekend, where he highlighted the efforts of frontline health workers in tackling the Covid-19 wave in the country. The Prime Minister is also scheduled to address the medical fraternity on Thursday."On Doctors Day, my greetings to all doctors. India's strides in the world of medicine are commendable and have contributed to making our planet healthier. Here is what I said during #MannKiBaat a few days ago," tweeted PM Modi, sharing the clip.On Doctors Day, my greetings to all doctors. India's strides in the world of medicine are commendable and have contributed to making our planet healthier. Here is what I said during #MannKiBaat a few days ago. pic.twitter.com/KWw3WTrVAAOn National Doctor's Day, President of India Ram Nath Kovind said that the service of doctors has gone beyond the call of duty. "We are deeply indebted to these selfless angels who have risked their lives to save ours," he said.Let’s celebrate #NationalDoctorsDay as a tribute to dedication of doctors to treat the ill to the best of their ability. In Covid-19 times, their service has gone beyond the call of duty. We are deeply indebted to these selfless angels who have risked their lives to save ours.Union home minister Amit Shah also extended his greetings on Doctor's Day. "Being a doctor is a pledge to serve mankind. On National Doctor's Day, we salute the heroic efforts of our courageous doctors who left no stone unturned to serve humanity irrespective of the odds. Time and again, we have witnessed their selfless efforts towards society," he tweeted.Being a doctor is a pledge to serve mankind.On National Doctor’s Day, we salute the heroic efforts of our courageous doctors who left no stone unturned to serve humanity irrespective of the odds. Time and again, we have witnessed their selfless efforts towards society.India's vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu and Union health minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan were among the several who also greeted doctors on this day. Politicos across party lines, including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, and Maharashtra's Ajit Pawar, also wished doctors on the occasion.Also Read | Doctors’ Day: Those on the frontline recount horror of war they waged against CovidThe pandemic has put tremendous stress on our doctors and their families. Let us all follow Covid appropriate behaviour & ease the pressure on the medical fraternity. #DoctorsDay#COVID19 has only reaffirmed God-like selflessness of doctors!On #NationalDoctorsDay I join the country to pay tribute to saviours of humankind for their tireless service & express deepest condolences for those who lost their lives while answering call of duty.@MoHFW_INDIA pic.twitter.com/6wlHgr2P4wTribute to an eminent Indian physician & former CM of West Bengal Dr. Bidhan Chandra Roy on his birth anniversary,also commemorated as #NationalDoctorsDay. Gratitude to all the doctors for their selfless service to humanity, especially at the time of this global health challenge. pic.twitter.com/l5IQAMA6fzToday, on '#NationalDoctorsDay2021, express my gratitude to all the doctors, nurses, paramedical & support staff for their exceptional service in the corona pandemic since past one & a half years where they have been risking their lives to serve humanity through patient care.#ThankYouDoctors for every single moment you spend in saving lives. We are indebted. हर उस पल के लिए जो आप किसी का जीवन बचाने में लगाते हैं- #ThankYouDoctors हम आपके आभारी हैं।India celebrates the day on July 1 as 'National Doctor's Day' and it's organised by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) annually.This year is once again dedicated to all those doctors and healthcare professionals who are serving in these trying times by risking their lives either in primary as well as secondary care setups or in dedicated Covid-19 care facilities. The day commemorates the iconic and internationally renowned medical practitioner, Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy who served as a physician, a freedom fighter, an educationist and a politician.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-doctor-s-day-india-salutes-health-workers-pm-modi-president-extend-wishes-101625113133574.html
01-07-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh relaxes curfew hours in 8 districts from today||The Andhra Pradesh government has extended the curfew relaxation from Thursday for 3 more hours in eight of the 13 districts where the Covid-19 positivity rate has come down below 5 per cent. The extended curfew relaxation would be in force till July 7.The curfew relaxation will be from 6am to 9pm in the 8 districts while in the other 5 districts of East and West Godavari, Prakasam, Krishna and Chittoor districts, the curfew relaxation would be from 6am to 6pm only.Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday reported 3,797 fresh cases of Covid-19. While 5,498 patients recovered from the infection, another 35 succumbed in 24 hours, the state health bulletin said.Let's have a look at the latest guidelinesLiquor shops, restaurants, and other shops will be closed from 9pm, according to the Andhra Pradesh government's statement.In East Godavari, West Godavari, Chittoor, Krishna and Prakasam districts the Covid-19 curfew will continue to be in force from 6pm to 6am due to a higher load of cases, as per the official statement.Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister's Office (CMO) in a statement said curfew relaxation will not be in East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna, Chittoor and Prakasam districts. There Curfew relaxation will be from 6am to 6pm only.Further decision on relaxing curfew hours in these five districts would be taken after reviewing the infection positivity rate later, the Andhra Pradesh CMO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-relaxes-curfew-hours-in-8-districts-from-today-101625110348443.html
01-07-2021||India||Domestic LPG cylinder price hiked by ₹25 from July 1. Check rates in your city||The price of non-subsidised LPG cylinders has been hiked by ₹25 effective from July 1. A domestic cylinder weighing 14.2 kg will now cost ₹834.50 in Delhi. The price of a 19-kg cylinder has also been increased by ₹76 and will cost ₹1,550 in Delhi, ANI said. In Mumbai and Kolkata too, the price will be ₹834.50 per cylinder while in Chennai, one non-subsidised LPG cylinder will cost ₹850.50. LPG prices are revised at the beginning of every month and with the latest hike from July 1, LPG price now has increased by ₹140 per cylinder in the last six months. The price remained unchanged in June. The price hike comes along with the steep hike in petrol price which is inching towards a three-digit figure in several metro cities.Unlike petrol, LPG is available only at the market price across the country, though the government provides subsidies to a select group of consumers.In February, LPG prices were revised thrice — ₹25 hike per cylinder on February 4, a ₹50 per cylinder hike on February 15 and another hike of ₹25 on February 25. In March, the price was again hiked by ₹25 while in April, there was a ₹125 rise in LPG price. Then a price cut of ₹10 was announced as international oil prices saw a dip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-lpg-cylinder-price-hiked-by-rs-25-from-july-1-check-rates-in-your-city-101625113436238.html
01-07-2021||India||India reports 48,786 new Covid-19 infections, active cases fall to 1.72% of total number, tweets health ministry||India reported 48,786 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, taking the country's cumulative Covid-19 infection tally to 30,411,634, the Union ministry of health and family welfare's (MoHFW) dashboard, updated at 8am on Thursday, showed. Due to the viral disease, 1,005 people died, taking the fatalities count to 399,459.Thursday's data also showed a further 61,588 recoveries from Covid-19, taking the total number of such cases to 29,488, 918 comprising 96.97 per cent of the national caseload. Active cases also fell further declining by 1.77 per cent, taking tally to 5,23,257.India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the two million mark on August 7, three million on August 23, four million on September 5 and five million on September 16. It went past six million on September 28, seven million on October 11, crossed eight million on October 29, nine million on November 20 and surpassed the 10 million mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 20 million on May 4 and thirty million on June 23.The Union health ministry has stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.With daily Covid-19 cases gradually declining, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has directed states and Union territories to focus on a "five-fold" strategy for effective Covid-19 management.India on Monday achieved a milestone in the vaccination drive against Covid-19 as it overtook the United States in terms of the total number of vaccine doses administered to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-48-786-new-covid-19-infections-active-cases-fall-to-1-72-of-total-number-tweets-health-ministry-101625102467713.html
01-07-2021||India||J&K Police identify militants killed in Kulgam as locals||Police have identified the militants killed in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Wednesday as locals of the area.Police, Army and the Central Reserve Police Force launched a joint operation in Chimmer village after receiving specific input about militant presence in the area.Police said they tracked three militants to a house and asked them to surrender; however, the militants fired at the forces and injured two Army soldiers. In the crossfire, all three militants were killed.Also Read | ‘State support’ behind drone strike, says top Army officerThe militants were identified as Waseem Ahmad Bangroo of Redwani Kulgam, Shahnawaz of Kilbal Shopian and Zakir Bashir of Chimmer Kulgam.“All the killed terrorists were affiliated with proscribed Lashkar-e-Taiba terror outfit (self-claimed The Resistance Front),” Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said, adding that Zakir Bashir had recently joined the proscribed outfit. “They were part of a group involved in various terror crimes.”Five militants were killed in two operations in last three days including Lashkar commander Abrar Nadeem Bhat, who was arrested on the city outskirts on Monday and killed a day later in an encounter in which one Pakistani militant was also killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-police-identify-militants-killed-in-kulgam-as-locals-101625111365032.html
01-07-2021||India||Kerala Covid-19 lockdown extended from today: Here are the fresh rules||Kerala, which has been under lockdown due to Covid-19 for the past 53 days, has extended the curbs for another week. These restrictions will come into effect from Thursday, but with certain relaxations.Kerala government will now categorise local bodies on the basis of the average test positivity rate (TPR). While 165 local bodies across the state have been put under the A category (TPR less than 6 per cent), 473 have been included in the B category (6 -12 per cent TPR), 316 in the C category (12-18 per cent TPR) and 80 in the D category (TPR more than 18 per cent).Kerala on Wednesday logged 13,658 fresh Covid-19 cases and 142 deaths, pushing the tally to 29,24,165 and 13,235 respectively Among the new cases, 67 were health workers.Check out the latest guidelines here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-covid-19-lockdown-extended-from-today-here-are-the-fresh-rules-101625108739054.html
01-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: IMD says monsoon revival unlikely before July 7 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Monsoon revival unlikely before July 7, says IMDMonsoon is unlikely to progress over the rest of northwest India till July 7, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. Read MoreJolt to Serum Institute as govt panel says no to Covovax trial on childrenAn expert panel of the country's central drug authority on Wednesday recommended against granting permission to the Serum Institute of India (SII) to conduct the phase 2/3 trial of Covid-19 vaccine Covovax on children aged two to 17 years. Read MoreWest Bengal Covid-19: More relaxations in place from todayThe West Bengal government has extended the Covid-19 lockdown in the state till July 15 with effect from Thursday. Read MoreIt pains me to see a player getting tired after bowling just 4 overs': Kapil Dev on lack of all-rounders in IndiaOne of the many debates to have emerged following India's loss to New Zealand in the final of the World Test Championship final is a potential dearth of fast-bowling all-rounders in India. Read MoreGauri Khan, Maheep Kapoor, Seema Khan enjoy a 'fun night' with Manish Malhotra. See inside picsGauri Khan, along with her close friends Maheep Kapoor and Seema Khan enjoyed a "fun night" with fashion designer Manish Malhotra. Read MoreTiger Shroff on Viaan Raj Kundra’s exercise video: ‘Champ in the making’A self-confessed Tiger Shroff fan, Shilpa Shetty and Raj Kundra’s son - Viaan Raj Kundra was perhaps over the moon after his “idol” took to Instagram to praise his fitness training session for gymnastics. Read MoreImran Khan's China message for Joe Biden: What it means for IndiaGiving a clear indication of the emerging order in the Indo-Pacific region, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said that despite pressure from the West, his country would continue to foster close ties with China. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-imd-says-monsoon-revival-unlikely-before-july-7-and-all-the-latest-news-101625107907183.html
01-07-2021||India||Zydus Cadila seeks DCGI nod for emergency use of its DNA vaccine for 12+ age||Gujarat-based pharmaceutical company Zydus Cadila has applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), India's top drug regulator, seeking emergency use approval of ZyCoV-D, its DNA vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for those aged 12 years and above, news agencies reported on Thursday. The company presented interim results from Phase-III clinical trials in over 28,000 volunteers, Reuters said, adding that the study demonstrates safety and efficacy in the interim data.Also Read | Third Covid wave likely to be delayed, may hit by Dec: Govt body chiefThe Phase-III clinical trial data from Zydus Cadila shows that ZyCoV-D is safe for children in the age group of 12 to 18 years. The company has planned to manufacture 100-120 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines annually. The second indigenous vaccine after Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, ZyCoV-D is a three-dose vaccine. According to Zydus Cadila, the three doses of Zycov-D are to be administered on day 0, day 28, and day 56. However, the company is also working on a two-dose vaccine.The DCGI had granted Cadila Healthcare Limited permission to conduct human trials for ZyCoV-D back in July last year, when the company had said that its vaccine will hit the markets by June 2021. The study was carried out "during the peak of the second wave of Covid-19 (in India), reaffirming the vaccine's efficacy against the new mutant strains especially the Delta variant," Zydus said in a statement.Also Read | Covaxin 'effectively neutralises' Alpha, Delta Covid-19 variants, says US National Institute of HealthEarlier, the pharmaceutical company was in the news for being one of the several Indian firms which received licensing agreements from Gilead Sciences to produce the anti-viral drug remdesivir.An approval for Zydus' vaccine, ZyCoV-D, would make it the fifth Covid-19 vaccine authorised for use in India, after Moderna, AstraZeneca, and partner Serum Institute of India's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, and Sputnik V developed by Russia's Gamaleya Institute.Coronavirus cases in India dropped from a devastating peak in April and May, however, experts have warned of a third wave and reiterated that widespread vaccination remains one of the best defenses against the pandemic.(With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-seeks-dcgi-nod-for-emergency-use-of-its-dna-vaccine-for-12-age-101625108621407.html
01-07-2021||India||Maharashtra daily Covid tally hovers around 10k as state logs 9,771 cases||Maharashtra’s daily Covid tally continues to hover around 10,000 with the state logging 9,771 new cases on Wednesday. This trend has been seen in the past 18 days and the state’s case tally now stands at 6,061,404.Though the state has witnessed a significant decline in the number of cases in June compared to May, districts such as Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and Pune continue to record a high number of Covid cases daily, pushing the overall tally upwards.Also Read | West Bengal Covid-19: More relaxations in place from todayKolhapur recorded 1,945 new Covid cases on Wednesday, while Sangli and Satara recorded 964 and 770 cases, respectively. Pune, which includes rural as well as Pimpri-Chinchwad, recorded 1,474 new cases.Mumbai on Wednesday recorded 706 new Covid cases and 25 deaths.There are currently 116,364 active cases across the state. Pune tops with 17,407 active cases followed by Thane with 16,115.The state recorded 141 deaths on Wednesday. The overall death toll has now reached 121,945, with Pune leading with 16,693 deaths followed by Mumbai with 15,451. The number of recoveries stands at 10,353.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-daily-covid-tally-hovers-around-10k-as-state-logs-9-771-cases-101625108545847.html
01-07-2021||India||Monsoon revival unlikely before July 7, says IMD||Monsoon is unlikely to progress over the rest of northwest India till July 7, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. Monsoon rain over the country will also remain extremely subdued till then.The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar. Since June 19, there is no progress of the NLM. Monsoon is yet to cover Delhi, Haryana, parts of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Punjab In a statement on Wednesday, IMD said the monsoon had weakened due to impact mid-latitude westerly winds that didn’t allow easterly winds to progress; unfavourable Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO) and absence of formation of low pressure system over North Bay of Bengal which helps monsoon progress and brings rain in its path.The MJO currently lies in Phase 1 (equatorial eastern Africa) with amplitude more than 1. It is likely to propagate eastwards into Phase 2 (Western Equatorial Indian Ocean and adjoining Arabian Sea) with amplitude close to 1 by July 2 and further into Phase 3 (Eastern Equatorial Indian Ocean Bay of Bengal) from July 7. MJO is likely to gradually favour enhancement of convection and cross equatorial flow over the North Indian Ocean (NIO) during Week 2 after July 7. MJO location and amplitude strongly modulates the intensity of tropical convection and features like low pressure systems over the north Indian Ocean.Also Read | Weather inversion in Delhi: Hot, dry wind in time of rain“Model forecasts show that easterly winds from Bay of Bengal in lower tropospheric levels are not likely to be established over north-western plains of India before July 7. Accordingly, further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab is not likely till July 7,” the statement said.As on June 30, the country had recorded 10% excess rains with 14% excess over northwest India; 17% excess over central India; 4% excess over south Peninsula; 3% excess over east and northeast India.IMD also warned that due to likely dry westerly or southwesterly winds from Pakistan to northwest India at lower levels, heat wave conditions are likely over some parts of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Rajasthan, West Uttar Pradesh during next 2 days and over and West Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours.Meanwhile, under the influence of strong moist southwesterly winds from Bay of Bengal to northeast and adjoining east India; fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rainfall very likely over Bihar, West Bengal, Sikkim and northeastern states during next 6-7 days which can trigger flooding.“As predicted, monsoon enters into the break phase with little rains over the country and no signs of revival till July 7. Heavy rains could trigger floods over N-E and states like Bihar. Due to dry weather, temps go up over NW India including Delhi with temps >40 C,” tweeted M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-revival-unlikely-before-july-7-says-imd-101625107704376.html
01-07-2021||India||Netizens say 'Twitter down' as threads fail to load, outage reported worldwide||Twitter seemed to be facing a peculiar issue on Thursday morning as several threads and profiles failed to load up, even though timelines remained accessible, according to reports. Several netizens took to their personal handles to complain of Twitter being 'down'; however, a few key features could still be used, they said. While Twitter remained inaccessible for many on their personal computers, some users said that the social media platform was "mostly functional" on mobile devices.Taking note of the issues, Twitter said that some of the profiles might not be loading on the web as the website is working on a 'fix'. "Profiles’ Tweets may not be loading for some of you on web and we’re currently working on a fix. Thanks for sticking with us!" wrote Twitter.Profiles’ Tweets may not be loading for some of you on web and we’re currently working on a fix. Thanks for sticking with us!Most users complained that they were unable to check their timelines and could not load replies or Twitter threads when focusing on a particular post, as the website repeatedly flashed an error message saying, "Something went wrong, try reloading."The snag with Twitter on this day was reported worldwide. According to outage monitoring website Downdetector, users have been facing problems since 9:33pm Eastern Time Zone (EDT) (around 7:03am IST) on Thursday, while the number of reports regarding the platform went up dramatically in the last 24 hours.User reports indicate Twitter is having problems since 9:33 PM EDT. https://t.co/qqqwagygy9 RT if you're also having problems #TwitterdownMore than 6,000 user reports also indicated issues with Twitter since late last night, according to the website. About 93% of those are related to the Twitter website, according to Downdetector. Twitter did not immediately respond to a request for comment by news agency Reuters after business hours on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/netizens-say-twitter-down-as-threads-fail-to-load-outage-reported-worldwide-101625106386581.html
01-07-2021||India||Jolt to Serum Institute as govt panel says no to Covovax trial on children||An expert panel of the country's central drug authority on Wednesday recommended against granting permission to the Serum Institute of India (SII) to conduct the phase 2/3 trial of Covid-19 vaccine Covovax on children aged two to 17 years, News agency PTI reported.The SII had applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Monday seeking permission for conducting a trial of Covovax on 920 children, 460 each in the 12-17 and 2-11 age groups, at 10 sites.But the the Subject Expert Committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation denied the permission saying Covovax has not been approved in any country, according to PTI. The SII has been asked to submit the safety and immunogenicity data (of Covovax) from the ongoing clinical trial in adults before proceeding with the trials on children, PTI reported.Novavax had announced last month that NVX-CoV2373 demonstrated 100% protection against moderate and severe disease, and 90.4% overall efficacy, in its Phase 3 trial.If approved, Covovax would have been the third vaccine to be tested on children in the country after Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadilla’s ZyCov-D.The Pune-based company has tied up with US biotechnology company Novavax to locally manufacture NVX-CoV2373 under the brand name Covovax.The clinical trials of Covovax began in India in March and SII chief executive officer (CEO) Adar Poonawalla had earlier said the vaccine could be launched in India by September for adults.“Excited to witness the first batch of Covovax (developed by @Novavax) being manufactured this week at our facility in Pune. The vaccine has great potential to protect our future generations below the age of 18. Trials are ongoing. Well done team @seruminstindia!” he later said in a post on Twitter.So far, four vaccines - Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, the SII’s Covishield, Russia’s Sputnik V and the one manufactured by Moderna (sold unde the brand name 'Spikevax' int he US) - have been cleared by the Indian government.The SII had rolled out Covishield vaccine in the country in January. It had entered into a collaboration with the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca to manufacture the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jolt-to-serum-institute-as-govt-panel-says-no-to-covovax-trial-on-children-report-101625102683977.html
01-07-2021||India||Kochi metro back on track after 53 days, to run from 8am to 8pm||Kochi metro rail services will resume from July 1, i.e. Thursday, with a strict adherence to coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related protocols, the Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) informed on Wednesday. The metro rail services in Kochi will be resuming after an interval of 53 days due to the Covid-19 necessitated lockdown restrictions imposed earlier, the KMRL said in a tweet, adding that the metro rail services will run from 8am to 8pm."Dear Kochi people, here is the good news you have all been waiting for! Metro services will resume tomorrow with the appropriate Covid-19-related safety measures. Adhering to pandemic restrictions, the metro will run from 8am to 8 pm on an initial basis. Welcome, and safe travels!" the KMRL wrote in a tweet in Malayalam.പ്രിയപ്പെട്ട കൊച്ചിക്കാരേ, ഇതാ നിങ്ങൾ കാത്തിരുന്ന സന്തോഷ വാർത്ത! സുരക്ഷിത യാത്രകളുമായി മെട്രോ സർവീസ് നാളെ മുതൽ പുനരാരംഭിക്കുന്നു.കോവിഡ് മാനദണ്ഡങ്ങൾ പാലിച്ച്, രാവിലെ 8 മണി മുതൽ രാത്രി 8 മണി വരെയായിരിക്കുംമെട്രോയുടെ പ്രവർത്തനം. അതിവേഗ - സുരക്ഷിത യാത്രകളിലേക് സ്വാഗതം. #KMRL pic.twitter.com/XyG9ZxJIA6Kochi metro is taking all Covid-19 related sanitary measures ahead of resuming services, officials told news agency PTI. The metro premises have been cleaned and sanitised, while all passengers will have to mandatorily undergo thermal scanning and temperature check before they are allowed to enter the metro station. The KMRL is taking every other possible step to check the spread of coronavirus, officials told the news agency.The Kochi metro rail will resume from Thursday and run from 8am to 8pm initially, reports said. The interval between each train will remain 15 minutes during non-peak hours, and 10 minutes during peak hours. Gradually, the train frequency might be tweaked depending on passenger requirements and rush hours, officials said.Kerala has recorded as many as 2,924,165 Covid-19 cases till now, an updated PTI tally of coronavirus cases showed on Wednesday. On the other hand, 2,809,587 people have already recovered from Covid-19 in the state, while 13,235 patients have succumbed to the disease.In related news, Bengaluru's 'Namma Metro' services will also be resuming from Thursday, and will be available from 7am to 6pm, the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kochi-metro-back-on-track-after-53-days-to-run-from-8am-to-8pm-101625101407264.html
01-07-2021||India||Delimitation Commission to visit J&K, meet parties||The Delimitation Commission, tasked to carve out new constituencies in Jammu & Kashmir, will be on a four-day visit to the Union territory from July 6 to 9 to hold talks with political parties, district officials and other stakeholders and gather “first hand information” on the ongoing process of redrawing the boundaries there.“During this period, the commission will interact with political parties, public representatives and Union Territory administration officials, including district election officers/deputy commissioners of the 20 districts of the Union territory to gather first-hand information and inputs concerning the ongoing process of delimitation as mandated under the (Jammu &) Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019,” the commission said in a statement.The commission, which was constituted in March 2020 to redraw the Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of J&K, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, and Nagaland, is headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai.Chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra and election commissioners of J&K and the three states are ex-officio members of the commission.On June 26, HT reported that the commission was planning to hold interactions with the stakeholders in Jammu & Kashmir. The commission, which has nearly nine months left to complete the exercise, will also carve constituencies to be reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the first time in J&K.The constituencies will be created on the basis of “physical features, existing boundaries of administrative units, facilities of communication and public convenience”.“There are considerations of a geographical nature, such as access in hilly districts. The commission will have to ensure that the most basic administrative block, whether it is the tehsil or the district, is not broken down in the process. This way there can be seamless elections and effective implementation of government schemes,” a person familiar with the matter said on June 26.The issue of delimitation was discussed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with political leaders from J&K last week. Modi had stressed that the delimitation exercise was required to happen quickly so that polls can be held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delimitation-commission-to-visit-j-k-meet-parties-101625102393032.html
01-07-2021||India||'Serum Institute produces 90 million Covishield doses a month': CEO Adar Poonawalla amid reports of vaccine shortage||Serum Institute of India was able to produce 70 million doses of its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine Covishield in the month of March, while production was ramped up to 90 million doses a month in June, the company's CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Wednesday, amid reports of a nationwide vaccine shortage. The vaccine manufacturer is looking to add an additional 10% to its output by August, he informed, adding that the company is also confident of receiving European Medicines Agency (EMA)'s approval for its Covid-19 vaccine.This comes after several states and Union territories -- including Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, and Delhi -- flagged a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines earlier this week amid the inoculation drive. The reported shortage of vaccines has also led to flash protests being held across Tamil Nadu, while the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has called off its vaccine drive on Thursday over a supply shortage.Also Read | Vaccine shortage hits Covid-19 inoculation in Jharkhand; health minister blames CentreAddressing at India Global Forum 2021, Poonawalla said that the central government exported around six crore Covid-19 vaccine doses between January to February, probably the highest in the world. It was then that the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic struck and the focus of the inoculation drive shifted on the population back home, he said, adding that things have not yet gone so wrong that there would be no way forward.Serum Institute is also confident of receiving EMA approval for its Covishield vaccine within a month, Poonawalla said. "There is no reason why not to because it is based on AstraZeneca data and our product is identical to AstraZeneca more or less and it has been approved by WHO, UK MHRA. So it's just a matter of time. It is not really going to hinder anything," the SII chief added.Also Read | India's vaccination not fast enough to foil Covid-19 3rd wave: ReportThis comes after reports that travellers vaccinated with Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine manufactured in India by the SII, may not be eligible for the European Union's 'Green Pass'. Covishield is one of the three Covid-19 vaccines approved for use in India.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-shortage-serum-institute-of-india-produces-90-million-doses-a-month-says-ceo-adar-poonawalla-101625098882359.html
01-07-2021||India||Jharkhand relaxes Covid-19 lockdown curbs from today: Check fresh guidelines||The Jharkhand government has extended the overall Covid-19 restrictions till further orders, but relaxed some of the curbs which include allowing bus service within the state. The decision was taken on Wednesday and the fresh guidelines will be effective from Thursday.This is the eighth time that the Covid-19-related restrictive measures, first imposed in the state on April 22 for a week, have been extended. The ongoing curbs were scheduled to be lifted on Thursday.Jharkhand on Wednesday reported 85 new cases of Covid-19 and 120 recoveries in the last 24 hours. According to the state Covid-19 bulletin, the new cases pushed the case tally in Jharkhand to 3,45,610.Here's the latest guidelines of the Jharkhand government||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-relaxes-covid-19-lockdown-curbs-from-today-check-fresh-guidelines-101625098660236.html
01-07-2021||India||SC refrains from directing Centre to include Covid cover under insurance scheme||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refrained from issuing any directive to the Centre to include Covid-19 in the national insurance scheme.Even as it directed the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to frame a scheme to pay ex-gratia for families of those who died due to Covid-19, the top court did not opine on whether the Centre should consider including the coronavirus pandemic for risk insurance coverage against natural disasters in the country.On Wednesday, the bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah delivered its judgment on the PILs, filed by advocates Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal, while taking note of the recommendations made by the XV Finance Commission regarding a national insurance scheme for disaster-related deaths.The judgment, however, did not specify if the national insurance scheme, which can form part of the ‘minimum standards of relief’ under the NDMA, should consider including Covid-19 as well since the infection was notified as a disaster by the Centre under the disaster management law in March 2020 itself. The bench has not made any comment on inclusion of Covid-19 under the national insurance scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refrains-from-directing-centre-to-include-covid-cover-under-insurance-scheme-101625098768662.html
01-07-2021||India||10-day sale of 17th tranche of electoral bonds begins today||The sale of the 17th tranche of electoral bonds will open on July 1. The issuance of the bonds for the sale was approved by the government earlier this week. The sale will go on till July 10."State Bank of India (SBI), in the XVII phase of sale, has been authorised to issue and encash electoral bonds through its 29 authorised branches with effect from July 1 to July 10, 2021," the finance ministry said in a statement on Tuesday.It also listed the 29 branches of India's largest public lender: Kolkata, Guwahati, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Patna, New Delhi, Chandigarh, Shimla, Srinagar, Dehradun, Gandhinagar, Bhopal, Raipur, Mumbai and Lucknow.The government has only authorised SBI to issue electoral bonds.What are electoral bonds?Electoral bonds have been pitched as an alternative to cash donations made to political parties as part of efforts to bring transparency in political funding.The electoral bonds can be purchased by a person who is a citizen of India or incorporated or established in India, according to the finance ministry.According to government rules, only the political parties registered under Section 29A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951) and which secured not less than one per cent of the votes polled in the last general election to the House of the People or the Legislative Assembly of a state, will be eligible to receive the electoral bonds.The previous sales of electoral bondsThe sale of the first batch of electoral bonds took place from March 1-10, 2018. The 16th tranche of bond sale took place from April 1-10, 2021.These bonds can be encashed by an eligible political party only through a bank account with the authorised bank.Supreme Court nodIn March this year, the Supreme Court had cleared the sale of the electoral bonds ahead of elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry.The court told petitioner, NGO Association for Democratic Reforms, that the sale of these bonds have continued “without any impediment” in 2018, 2019 and 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10day-sale-of-17th-tranche-of-electoral-bonds-begins-today-101625098580295.html
01-07-2021||India||These states have extended Covid-19 lockdown from today: Check list here||With emerging cases of the delta and delta plus variants of the coronavirus, many state governments have extended the ongoing lockdown, though with some relaxations.India on Wednesday reported 45,951 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, taking the country's cumulative Covid-19 infection tally to 30,362,848, the Union ministry of health and family welfare's (MoHFW) dashboard showed.Here’s a list of states that have extended the Covid-19 lockdown1. West Bengal: The West Bengal government has extended the Covid-induced restrictions all across the state till July 15. However, additional relaxations have been given.2. Punjab: The Punjab government has further eased Covid-19 restrictions, allowing reopening of bars, pubs and taverns with 50 per cent capacity from July 1.3. Kerala: The Kerala government has decided to extend the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown restrictions for one more week. The new restrictions would come into effect from Thursday.4. Odisha: The Odisha government has extended the partial lockdown in the state for 15 more days till 5am on July 16. The existing restrictions will end at 5am on Thursday.5. Andhra Pradesh: The Andhra Pradesh government has extended the curfew relaxation from July 1 for 3 more hours in eight of the 13 districts where the Covid-19 positivity rate has come down below 5 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-states-have-extended-covid-19-lockdown-from-today-check-list-here-101625098346482.html
01-07-2021||India||Doctors' Day: PM Modi to address medical fraternity today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the medical fraternity on the occasion of the National Doctors' Day on Thursday. The event is being organised by the Indian Medical Association (IMA).The Doctors' Day is observed in the honour of noted doctor and former West Bengal chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy, whose birth and death anniversaries fall on July 1.In a tweet, PM Modi had earlier said, "India is proud of the efforts of all doctors in fighting COVID-19. 1st July is marked as National Doctors Day. At 3 PM tomorrow, will address the doctors community at a programme organised by @IMAIndiaOrg."With the medical community playing a lead role in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, the prime minister has been in praise for doctors and other medical professionals.PM Modi in his Mann Ki Baat on Sunday, remembered Dr BC Roy. Speaking about doctors in the backdrop of Doctors' Day, PM Modi said, "On July 1, we will celebrate National Doctors' Day. We must pay tribute to our doctors who ensured that India did not succumb to the challenges posed by Covid-19."The Government of India had established Doctors' Day in 1991 to recognize the contributions of BC Roy. He played an important role in the establishment of Medical Council of India and Indian Medical Association. This day is celebrated to acknowledge the role of doctors in the progress of this nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctors-day-pm-modi-to-address-medical-fraternity-today-101625097607274.html
01-07-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with digital India beneficiaries today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday interact with the beneficiaries of Digital India programme. The interaction will happen as the government's flagship initiative completes six years.Union IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad will also be present. He will make opening remarks at the programme."The program will then see a presentation of a video on key achievements of the Digital India, which will lead to an interactive session of Prime Minister with the beneficiaries of various schemes of Digital India," the Ministry of Electronics and IT said in the statement on Wednesday.PM Modi is expected to highlight various achievements of the digital India initiative and share success stories during the interactive session. The programme will be moderated by Ajay Sawhney, secretary at the ministry of electronics and IT (MeitY).The digital India initiativeThe programme was launched on July 1, 2015, by PM Modi. It works towards ensuring that the services of the government are made available electronically to all citizens.Under the initiative, the government has started many plans, including the one to connect rural areas with high-speed internet networks and improve digital literacy.The vision of the digital IndiaAccording to MeiTY, the vision of digital India programme is to transform India into a digitally empowered society and knowledge economy.The ministry has announced three key focus areas to help the programme achieve this vision. These are: Digital infrastructure as a core utility, governance and service on demand and digital empowerment of citizens.Under the first vision area, the government is ensuring high-speed internet speed internet as a core utility for delivery of services, including banking transactions, and safe and secure cyber-space. The second focus area seeks to seamlessly integrate services across departments or jurisdictions and the third one is working towards providing universal digital literacy.Key investments under digital IndiaTech giants like Google and Microsoft have announced high-value investments in India as part of the programme to increase digital penetration and make the people digitally aware.In January, Microsoft launched a new India Development Centre (IDC) facility in Noida. The new facility will serve as a premier hub for driving cutting-edge engineering and innovation, according to Microsoft.In July last year, Google CEO Sundar Pichai announced that the company would be investing nearly $10 billion into developing infrastructure and funding digital innovation in India over the next five to seven years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-digital-india-beneficiaries-today-101625097521217.html
01-07-2021||NA||Breaking news: Delhi police questions Red Fort violence accused Lakha Sidhana||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Delhi police questions Red Fort violence accused Lakha SidhanaRed Fort violence accused Lakha Sidhana today questioned by Delhi Police Crime Branch in connection with Samaipur Badli case. Two FIRs were registered against Sidhana in connection with violence cases. He was granted interim protection from arrest in both of the cases till July 3 and July 19.NIA arrests key conspirator of 2020 Bengaluru riotsThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday arrested an alleged key conspirator of the 2020 Bengaluru riots that left four persons dead. Read MoreDCGI tells Dr Reddy’s to submit Russian safety data on Sputnik Light vaccineDCGI tells Dr Reddy’s to submit Russian efficacy data on Sputnik Light vaccine, says no need to conduct separate trialAfter lockdown, Delhi govt’s employment portal sees surge in job-seekersThe Delhi government’s online job portal established a record 75,000 connections between job seekers and employers in June, signifying a surge in people looking for employment as the national Capital opened economic activities after a strict seven-week long lockdown meant to curb the brutal second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Read MoreUS weekly jobless claims fall; layoffs hit 21-year low in JuneThe number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits fell more than expected last week, while layoffs plunged to a 21-year low in June as companies held on to their workers amid labor shortages.Double Covid jab seems to protect against Delta variant: ReportDouble Covid jab seems to protect against Delta variant, news agency AFP reported European Medicines Agency (EMA).Delhi's Covid-19 tally rises by 93; death toll reaches 24,981Delhi on Thursday reported 93 new Covid-19 cases, 111 recoveries and 4 deaths in the last 24 hours. The total number of recoveries now stands at 14,07,943, while the overall tally has climbed to 14,34,281. The death toll is at 24,981.Zydus Cadila Covid-19 vaccine shows efficacy of 66.6%: MDZydus Cadila’s make in India Covid-19 vaccine shows primary efficacy of 66.6% in the interim analysis, says managing director of Zydus group, Sharvil Patel.Zoo worker dies of king cobra biteIn Kerla, a zoo worker died after he was bitten by king cobra. The man identified as P Harshad, was reportedly cleaning the enclosure when the cobra bit him, zoo officials said. Air Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari took charge as Vice Chief of Air StaffDelhi | Air Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari, took charge as Vice Chief of the Air Staff today pic.twitter.com/PXOsSvBvp5PM Modi announces Credit Guarantee SchemeThe Prime Minister announced a Credit Guarantee Scheme of ₹50,000 crores to strengthen the health infrastructure in such areas, where there is a lack of health facilities on National Doctor's day.‘Doctors tackled every obstacle Covid-19 placed before them’: PM Modi Prime Minister Narendra Modi thanked doctors for tackling the Covid-19 pandemic on behalf of all citizens of this country on National Doctor's day.BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari arrives at Amit Shah's residenceDelhi: West Bengal BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari arrives at the residence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. pic.twitter.com/d3xi61A2YuTax base has doubled from 66.25 lakhs to 1.28 crores in 4 yrsFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Thursday that in the last 4 years tax base has almost doubled from 66.25 lakhs to 1.28 crores. Adding that for 8 months in a row, GST revenues crossed ₹1 lakh crore-mark.Dr Reddy’s denied permission to conduct Sputnik Phase-3 trialsIndian drug regulatory body has denied permission to Dr Reddy’s to conduct phase 3 trials for Sputnik light in India: Sources#COVID19 pic.twitter.com/7O5vgiHL8DBombay HC to pronounce verdict today in Gulshan Kumar murder caseBombay high court will be pronouncing the verdict in Gulshan Kumar's murder case today. Kumar, the founder of T-Series, who was killed in Mumbai on August 12, 1997.India reports 48,786 new Covid-19 infections, active cases fall to 1.72% of total numberIndia reported 48,786 cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the country's cumulative Covid-19 infection tally to 30,411,634, the Union ministry of health and family welfare's dashboard showed at 8am.Earthquake of magnitude 3.6 on Richter scale hits PalgharAn earthquake of magnitude 3.6 on the Richter scale hit Palghar, Maharashtra at 7.07 am today: National Centre for SeismologyZydus Cadila applies for DCGI's Emergency Use AuthorisationZydus Cadila has applied for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for the launch of their DNA vaccine for those aged12 years and above. The vaccine has completed its third phase trial, reported news agency ANI.Capt Amarinder Singh to meet Congress leaders from urban areas of Punjab todayAmid the ongoing crisis in Punjab Congress, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh will meet party leaders from urban areas of the state, followed by lunch in Chandigarh on Thursday.Bhubaneswar-based Care hospital starts administering Sputnik V dosesWe are first in Odisha to procure it. As per our MoU, we've to first vaccinate employees of Dr Reddy's. We opened 20 slots for people on June 29&June 30&response is good," a hospital official said.Indonesia "emergency" Covid-19 curbs to be effective from July 2-20Indonesia will launch on Friday emergency measures aimed at controlling its worst coronavirus epidemic since the start of the pandemic, with the curbs due to run until July 20, a minister said.China celebrates centenary of Communist Party at Tiananmen SquareCelebrations in Beijing to mark the 100th anniversary of the founding of China's ruling Communist Party kicked off on Thursday morning with a flyby of fighter jets and helicopters at Tiananmen Square in the centre of the capital.Members of European Parliament write to EU leaders, highlight growing 'repression' in Hong KongOn the occasion of the first anniversary of Hong Kong's national security law, members of the European Parliament wrote a joint letter to top EU leaders, demanding action against the Chinese authorities for the imposition of a legislation law that "destroyed" the 'One country, two systems'.US science agency expected to open probe of Florida building collapseThe US National Institute of Standards and Technology is expected to announce soon that it will open an investigation into the collapse last week of a building in Surfside, Florida, a source familiar with the situation said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-1-2021-101625097187163.html
01-07-2021||India||BJP workers, farmers clash near Ghazipur||Workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the farmers protesting against the three farm laws at UP Gate, near Ghazipur, clashed on Wednesday afternoon, triggering a blame game between the two sides.Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (City 2), said police received counter complaints and were investigating the matter.While the BJP workers alleged that the farmers attacked them, farmer leaders said the partymen was trying to malign them and their ongoing protest.“There were about 300-400 workers including 20-25 women...We were on the other side of the expressway (Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway), near the starting point of the Hindon elevated road. The farmers were on the other side in their camps. Suddenly, hundreds of them attacked us,” said Sanjeev Sharma, president of the BJP’s Ghaziabad unit.Jagtar Singh Bajwa, UP-Gate site spokesperson of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, said the BJP was conspiring to malign them.“It is a new conspiracy by the BJP to malign the farmers’ movement. They came on the pretext of welcoming their leader and damaged their own cars. We have given our complaint to the police,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-workers-farmers-clash-near-ghazipur-101625091139273.html
01-07-2021||India||Former Kerala home minister gets death threat||Former home minister of Kerala Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan, a legislator from Kottayam, on Monday received an anonymous letter threatening to eliminate him and his family members if they failed to leave the country in 10 days. Talking to newsmen in the state capital the senior leader said the letter came in his MLA hostel address was written in Malayalam. He said the letter seems to be sent from north Kerala going by the language and he later handed it over to the police. “It said I will be targeted for including more names in criminal list. It seems it could be a move from some of the accused in T P Chandrasekharan murder case,” he said. He was the home minister when Chandrasekharan, a rebel Communist leader, was hacked to death by a group of party workers owing allegiance to the CPI(M) in 2012. Many accused in the case were later convicted and undergoing jail term now. “I have no other enemies. I heard some of the accused in TP murder case are on parole now. Let the police investigate it,” he said. Opposition leader V D Satheesan, state Congress chief K Sudhakaran and former CM Oommen Chandy sought detailed investigation into the threat. The government is yet to comment about this. T P Chandrasekharan’s widow K K Rema is a legislator in the new assembly elected with the support of the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-kerala-home-minister-gets-death-threat-101625081122240.html
01-07-2021||India||Kerala tries to placate Kitex Group as it looks to back out of project||: Hectic efforts are on to placate Kitex Group of companies, one of the largest apparel-making units of the country, after it announced its decision to back out from the ₹35000 crore project in Kerala, alleging witch-hunt by agencies of the state government.State industry minister P Rajeev, who also hails from Kochi, said the government would look into the complaints and requested its chairman Sabu M Jacob not to take any hasty decision, which, he said, will tarnish the state’s image.Ranked eighth in the country in ease of doing business, the announcement has rattled the government, which is having an uneasy relationship with the firm after it ventured into politics in 2015 by floating a political party called ‘Twenty20.’“The government is ready to talk about the problems faced by the firm. Nobody from the industry department raided the firm. Its chairman should have taken up these issues with the government rather than airing them on social media,” said the minister. He said soon after assuming power last month, he called a meeting of all businessmen and industrialists, and Kitex officials also participated. “I am sure all issues will be ironed out. I have asked the industry secretary to look into issues raised by the firm,” he said.Initially, Sabu M Jacob took to social media to vent his anger and later talked to media in the port city. “Almost every day, officials of the government department descend on the premises of the company and makes inquiries as if we committed a big fraud. I am fed up with continuous harassment. The government treats us like bourgeoises, exploiter capitalists and land encroachers. Enough is enough,” he said. Besides calling off the project, which was signed in the 2020 investment meet, Jacob said he would also be shifting some of the existing units to other states if the situation continued like this. He said the plan was to open three apparel parks in Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad, as part of the industrial corridor intended to give jobs to at least 35,000 people.“If the situation continues like this, the state will turn a graveyard of industries. While neighbouring states roll out red carpets for industries, we are hounding them out. No doubt, the existing climate will drive entrepreneurs to suicide,” he said, adding that the latest to inspect his premises were officials from the pollution control board. He said his firm was established three decades ago and employed 15,000 people now.Asked whether the latest harassment was anything to do with the party he floated, he said it multiplied after Twenty20 came into existence.Twenty20 is a party floated by the Kitex Group that swept power in a tiny village Kizakambalam for the first time in the 2015 local body poll.For a politically vibrant state, the party’s winning streak was hard to digest, and many dubbed it as a major irritant. Though villagers were happy, politicians were not amused. There were many attempts to split the party, but it withstood pulls and pressures, and in recent assembly elections its candidates gave a strong fight in three assembly seats in Ernakulam district. Now, the party is ruling three local bodies in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-tries-to-placate-kitex-group-as-it-looks-to-back-out-of-project-101625081002199.html
01-07-2021||India||Gold smuggling case: CPI(M) in damage control mode after arrests of former leaders||Thiruvananthapuram: In the early hours of June 21, five men were killed near Kozhikode international airport after their vehicle rammed into a cement-laden truck. Police initially dismissed it as another road mishap, but that notion changed after the recovery of weapons and liquor bottles from the crammed vehicle. Soon, another sensational gold smuggling case unfolded, inviting embarrassment for the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) in the state. The arrest of a former CPI(M) office-bearer from Kannur (north Kerala) Arjun Ayanki, who was the face of the Communist movement on social media with 40,000 followers, in connection with 2.23 kg gold smuggled from Dubai, and summons to two other leaders have left the party red-faced. The smuggling incident surfaced after five men from Palakkad, allegedly hired by a smugglers’ gang, died in the accident after an aborted bid to loot smuggled gold on June 21. Police said there was a hot chase by rival gangs just before the accident. They clashed outside the airport and chased each other unaware of the fact that the carrier who was hiding the yellow metal in a coffee vending machine was arrested by customs authorities, police said. Later, Ayanki, who reportedly came to the airport to collect smuggled gold, was summoned by the customs department and arrested on Tuesday. The car he drove to the airport to collect smuggled gold was allegedly owned by another CPI(M) youth wing leader C Sajesh, who was expelled from the party after the incident came to light. A senior customs official said Ayanki was the kingpin of one of the gangs and involved in at least 20 smuggling cases in both Kannur and Kozhikode airports. After the aborted looting bid, shocking audio tapes and phone conversations surfaced in social and electronic media, which purportedly showed that some of the youth leaders were allegedly involved in smuggling and counter-smuggling (looting of smuggled goods) activities in party citadel Kannur and they thrived using the party platform. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of leaked audio tapes and phone conversations. One of the audio tapes even claimed that “one-third profit from the looted gold goes to the party as protection money”. Later, the CPI(M) admitted that some of its cadre deviated from the Communist path and a vigorous drive was on to weed them out. Now, party leaders are in hurry to disown these elements, a party functionary told HT on condition of anonymity. “It is a fact some criminal gangs thrived using the party influence and clamour. We have started a campaign to weed out such elements and purge the party. We will not leave anyone who maintains links with such anti-social elements,” said party’s Kannur district secretary MV Jayarajan. Most of these expelled party workers were close to P Jayarajan, another CPI(M) leader from the district. Later, Jayarajan, also disowned them but many leaders blamed him discreetly for cultivating them, a senior functionary cited above said. Party leaders from the district admitted that some of these workers became rich overnight and started leading ostentatious life, the functionary said, adding that normally, the party keeps a strict tab on such workers, but it failed to control their activities, as these incidents show. Due to their connections some of them enjoyed a Robinhood status in their areas and nobody dared to touch them, police officials said. A Vijayaraghavan, state acting secretary of the ruling party, said though the party took strong action against the erring workers, a section of the media started portraying the party in bad light. “No other party takes such swift actions like CPI(M). We never need the certificates of the Left-bashing media,” he said, adding some of them were churning out juicy and spicy stories to portray the party in a bad light. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan also said such elements will be dealt with sternly. Despite action and strict warning, the party is finding it difficult to face opposition salvos. For CPI(M), Kannur is what Nagpur is to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). Kannur has had a history of bloody clashes between the two for political supremacy. The district is home to many prominent Communist leaders, including former Opposition leader in Parliament AK Gopalan, former CM EK Naynar and CM Vijayan. “Many self-made warriors are appearing frequently on social media. The party is nothing to do with them. They are doing more damage to the ideology than helping it. We will weed out such forces,” said party MLA AN Shamseer. Ground reports suggest that some of the activists were experts in looting the smuggled good and some of the convicted workers coordinated such activities from the jail. Since both (smuggling and counter-smuggling) are illegal, nobody used to file cases in such incidents and party leaders admit that many gangs thrived misusing their party connections. “The party always protects criminal gangs and nurtures them. Besides smuggling, they are into many other anti-social activities as well. The party realised the danger when these gangs outgrew the party,” said Revolutionary Marxist Party MLA KK Rema, widow of renegade communist leader TP Chandrasekharan, who was murdered by a gang supported by the CPI(M). There are allegations that some of those convicted in the TP murder case, like Kodi Suni, were controlling such gangs. His name was repeated quite often in one of the audio tapes mentioned above. But opposition parties say the CPI(M) was aware of their activities and disowned them only when they became a big liability. “It is nothing new. It is only tip of the iceberg. For many of these wayward cadres, their heroes are CM Vijayan and senior leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. It is almost like cult worship in north Kerala and the party finds much heroism in violence. It is natural workers turn to such activities,” said state Congress president K Sudhakaran. A senior police officer of the district said, “In Kannur political parties usually hire criminal gangs for violent political activities and groom them. Since peace is prevailing in the district, these gangs turn into liability to parties. Now many are into contract criminal activities and smuggling.” After workers’ alleged liaison with the gold smuggling gangs came to light, the ruling CPI(M) has tightened its grip on cadres. The party youth wing, Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), will start a weeklong march in the district from July 5 to uphold Communist values and check a possible deviation from ideology, said DYFI Kannur district president Manu Thomas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gold-smuggling-case-cpi-m-in-damage-control-mode-after-arrests-of-former-leaders-101625080942207.html
01-07-2021||India||Andhra complains to Centre against T’gana irrigation projects||Hyderabad The Andhra Pradesh government on Wednesday decided to lodge a complaint with the Centre against the proposed construction of lift irrigation schemes on Krishna river and generation of hydel power in violation of the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal (KWDT) award. A resolution to this effect was adopted at the state cabinet meeting held at the secretariat under the leadership of chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy in the afternoon. “We shall write letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Jal Sakthi minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat against the high handed attitude of the Telangana government,” state irrigation minister P Anil Kumar said at a press conference after the cabinet meeting. Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have been at loggerheads for the last few days over the construction of projects on the backwaters of Srisailam reservoir on Krishna river. Telangana had even complained to Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) against construction of Rayalaseema lift irrigation project in Kurnool district. State ministers, particularly roads and buildings minister Vemula Prashant Reddy and V Srinivas Goud, accused Jagan of looting the Telangana waters on the lines of his father – former chief minister of combined Andhra Pradesh Y S Rajasekhar Reddy, who expanded Pothireddypadu regulator on Krishna river to draw more water. Goud even described Reddy as a “demon” for the people of Telangana. On the other hand, the Andhra government also lodged a counter-complaint last week against the proposed construction of several projects like Jogulamba Barrage at Alampur, Pulichintala Left Canal, another reservoir at Sunkesula, a flood flow canal at Kusumarthi village in Narayanpet district etc. The Andhra cabinet, which discussed at length the ongoing dispute with Telangana over Krishna projects, adopted a resolution to fight for the legitimate riparian rights of the state. “The cabinet felt that Andhra Pradesh will not be utilising even a single drop extra other than what has been allocated to us by the tribunal and the courts. The Rayalaseema lift scheme is well within the rights of the state,” Anil Kumar said. The cabinet also described as ‘atrocious’ the move of the Telangana government to go ahead with hydel power generation at Srisailam Left Bank Power Station and Pulichintala, despite objections from the KRMB. “Despite knowing that the hydel power generation will deplete water level at Srisailam thereby affecting the irrigation interests of Andhra Pradesh, the Telangana government is adamant. We are lodging a complaint with the Centre in this regard,” the irrigation minister said. He said the state government would strongly retaliate against the aggressive statements of the Telangana ministers. “We are maintaining restraint because water issue is very sensitive. We want to resolve the issue amicably and through apex council of the Union Jal Sakthi ministry,” he said. Interestingly, Jagan’s sister Y S Sharmila, who is all set to launch a regional party in Telangana on July 8, also took up the issue. She said she would strongly oppose the construction of projects by Andhra Pradesh on Krishna river that affects the interests of Telangana. “There is no question of losing a single drop what is Telangana’s rightful share. As the daughter of YSR who is known to give a word and stick to it come what may, I will oppose any project that does damage to Telangana and its interests especially to the farmers. I shall go to any extent to fight for Telangana,” she said in a statement on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-complains-to-centre-against-t-gana-irrigation-projects-101625080882198.html
01-07-2021||India||Judiciary can’t be compromised, or else rule of law will become illusory: CJI||Judiciary cannot be controlled, directly or indirectly, by the legislature or the executive, or else the ‘rule of law’ would become illusory, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana said on Wednesday.Ramana, who was delivering the 17th Justice PD Desai Memorial Lecture on the title ‘Rule of Law’, said the concept of law is defined by four principles, mainly strong and independent judiciary, clear and accessible law, equality before law, and people’s right to participate in the creation and refinement of laws.“For the judiciary to apply checks on governmental power and action, it has to have complete freedom. The judiciary cannot be controlled, directly or indirectly, by the legislature or the executive, or else the rule of law would become illusory,” he said.“At the same time, judges should not be swayed by the emotional pitch of public opinion either, which is getting amplified through social media platforms,” the CJI added.Taking note of recent trends wherein social media platforms raise an emotional pitch to influence judges, he said: “The new media tools that have enormous amplifying ability are incapable of distinguishing between the right and wrong, good and bad and the real and fake. Therefore, media trials cannot be a guiding factor in deciding cases.”“It is therefore extremely vital to function independently and withstand all external aids and pressures,” the CJI said.“While there is a lot of discussion about the pressure from the executive, it is also imperative to start a discourse as to how social media trends can affect the institutions,” he added.However, he added, judges should not dissociate completely from what is going around them. “Judges cannot stay in ‘ivory castles’ and decide questions which pertain to social issues,” he added.He also stressed on the equal role of other organs of the state – executive and judiciary – and urged lawyers to play a constructive role in removing economy, caste, class, or gender barriers in ensuring justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judiciary-can-t-be-compromised-or-else-rule-of-law-will-become-illusory-cji-101625080822205.html
01-07-2021||India||CJI yet to approve new rules: Bar Council of India to Kerala HC||The Bar Council of India (BCI) on Wednesday told the Kerala high court that Chief Justice of India NV Ramana is yet to approve the latest amendments introduced to the BCI rules relating to the conduct of advocates. The BCI on Wednesday also constituted a committee to review its recently amended rules.The BCI said the committee is constituted to address concerns expressed by some members of the Bar. In a press statement, the BCI stated, “The Committee shall consist of some senior Advocates, representatives of State Bar Councils and High Court and other Bar Associations, besides five Members of Bar Council of India.”The amendments whipped up a major controversy within the legal fraternity. According to one of the amendments, if an advocate makes a statement that is indecent or derogatory or mischievous against any court or judge, state bar council or the BCI, it can be a ground for suspension or cancellation of their licence to practice law.A member of the Kerala Bar Council moved the HC, challenging the amendments. In his plea, petitioner Rajesh Vijayan said these amendments infringe upon freedom of speech and expression. The petitioner contended that the new rules are unconstitutional since they violated Articles 14, 19 (1A) and 19 of the Constitution. They are also against the decision laid down by the apex court related to the freedom of speech and expression.Replying to these contentions, the counsel for the BCI said these rules are still pending for the approval of the Chief Justice of India.Meanwhile, the BCI said that the review committee will take into consideration the representations received from some of the associations and it will frame the rules after noticing the issues raised by all concerned.“...Till the report of the Review Committee is received, considered and acted upon by the Council, the operation/implementation of the amended rules published in Gazette Notification dated 26.06.2021 in Extraordinary Part-III-Section-4 with respect to Amendment in Part-VI, Chapter-II of Bar Council of India Rules relating to the conduct of Advocates shall be kept in abeyance...,” stated BCI’s press statementThe BCI has on June 26 amended its rules making ‘derogatory’, ‘defamatory’ criticism of judges, courts or Bar Council by practising advocates in media ground for disqualification or suspension.In a notification, the BCI said that practising advocates “shall not make any statement in the print, electronic or social media, which is indecent or derogatory, defamatory or motivated, malicious or mischievous against any court or judge or any member of judiciary or against State Bar Council or Bar Council of India, nor shall any advocate engage in any willful violation, disregard or defiance of any resolution or order of the State Bar Council or Bar Council of India and any such act/conduct shall amount to misconduct and result in suspension or removal of membership of such member from the Bar Council.”“An advocate shall conduct himself/herself as a gentleman gentle lady in his/her day to day life and he/she shall not do any unlawful act,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cjiyet-to-approve-new-rules-bci-to-kerala-hc-101625080582690.html
01-07-2021||India||Gyanvapi mosque case: Waqf board challenges court’s survey decision||The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) on Wednesday challenged a Varanasi court’s decision to conduct an archaeological survey of the centuries-old Gyanvapi Masjid abutting the famous Kashi Vishwanath temple.On April 8, Varanasi civil judge (senior division) Ashutosh Tiwari had ordered an archaeological survey of the Gyanvapi complex, saying the exercise was required to decide on pleas that allege the mosque was built by Mughal emperors after partially demolishing a Hindu shrine.The decision had come on a clutch of petitions that claimed that Mughal emperor Aurangzeb demolished a portion of the Kashi Vishwanath temple to build the Gyanvapi Masjid in the 17th century, and demanded that the land on which the mosque stands be restored to Hindu partiesBut on Wednesday, the UPSCWB filed a revision petition in the court of Varanasi district judge Omprakash Tripathi. The court fixed July 9 as the next date of hearing on the point of admission. “On July 9, we will argue and appeal to the court to admit the revision petition,” said Abhay Yadav, who represented the board.The religious dispute – similar to the one in Ayodhya – is decades old and first reached the courts in 1991, when local Hindu priests sought permission to worship in the mosque area. The hearing was later suspended by the Allahabad high court.But the case gained steam in December 2019 when Vijay Shankar Rastogi filed an application in the civil court as the next friend of the presiding deity of the temple, Swayambhu Jyotirling Bhagwan Vishweshwar. Rastogi demanded that the mosque area be surveyed to prove that the Muslims had occupied parts of the temple complex and built a mosque there.On April 8, the civil court ordered the constitution of a five-member committee, comprising two Hindu and two Muslim members and an archaeological expert, to oversee the “comprehensive physical survey”. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) will conduct the exercise at its expense without any media briefings, the judge had ordered.The Anjuman Intezamia Masjid Committee, which runs the Gyanvapi Masjid, opposed the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gyanvapi-mosque-case-waqf-board-challenges-court-s-survey-decision-101625080582184.html
01-07-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh: 7 held as bodies of 5 missing since May 13 recovered||The bodies of five persons, who went missing on May 13, were exhumed from an agricultural field in Madhya Pradesh’s Dewas on Tuesday, police said.At least seven persons have been arrested and all of them have confessed to the murder, they added.The deceased were identified as Rupali Kaste (21), her mother Mamta Kaste (45), Rupali’s sister Divya (14) and cousins, Pooja Oswal (15)and Pawan Oswal (14).According to additional superintendent of police Suryakant Sharma, the main accused, Surendra Singh Chauhan (25), who is a resident of Nemawar, was reportedly in a relationship with Rupali.“A few weeks ago, Chauhan’s marriage was fixed with another woman. They (Chauhan and Rupali) had a fight over this issue. Rupali then made some objectionable posts against Chauhan and his fiancee on Instagram. Upset over this, Surendra decided to kill her,” Sharma said.“On May 13, Surendra called Rupali to his agricultural field for marriage and killed her. Rupali’s mother Mamta later called Surendra to ask about the marriage. To hide his crime, Surendra asked his younger brother Virendra to call all her family members to the field. Mamta, Divya, Pooja and Pawan reached the village at night where all the seven accused beat them up with rods and strangulated them,” he added.During the course of the probe, police found that the accused dug a 10-12 feet deep pit with the help of JCB and buried the bodies with urea and salt for quick decomposition.While Surendra’s friend Vivek Tiwari used Rupali’s phone to upload photographs from her social media account to mislead police, Pooja and Pawan’s mother filed a complaint against Rupali for abducting her kids on May 27, Sharma said.Five police teams were sent to search for the missing persons and based on a tip-off, the two (Surendra and Virendra) were arrested from a village on Tuesday.The remaining accused were identified as Vivek Tiwari, Rajkumar Korku, Manoj Korku, Karan Korku and Rakesh Nimor.Police said the bodies have been sent for forensic examination and the reports are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-held-as-bodies-of-5-missing-since-may-13-recovered-101625080463583.html
01-07-2021||India||HC allows Mamata Banerjee to file affidavit in Narada case||The Calcutta high court on Wednesday allowed the West Bengal government, chief minister Mamata Banerjee and law minister Moloy Ghatak to file affidavits in the Narada sting operation case but fined the applicants ₹5,000 each for not filing the applications for affidavits on time.A five-judge HC bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal is hearing a petition by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) seeking transfer of the case out of the state, citing law and order problems. The CBI was given 10 days to reply to the affidavits.On June 25, the Supreme Court had set aside the high court’s June 9 order refusing to accept the affidavits , filed over the role of the politicians on May 17, when four prominent leaders were arrested by the CBI in teh case.The CBI approached the high court on May 24 to transfer the case out of the state, claiming that on May 17. violent protests orchestrated by the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) hampered its probe and intimidated lower courts.Also Read| Mamata, Ghatak file new request in Calcutta high court ahead of Narada hearingBanerjee and Ghatak missed their deadlines to respond to the CBI plea. On June 9, the high court declined to take the affidavits on record. Banerjee and Ghatak approached the Supreme Court on this point.The CBI alleged that Banerjee, Ghatak and other TMC leaders played a key role in stopping CBI officials from performing their duty after the four leaders were arrested. It claimed that Banerjee sat on a six-hour-long agitation at the CBI office after the arrests while Ghatak went to the court premises during the virtual hearing of the case. The agency accused Ghatak of trying to influence the judge who heard the bail petition of the accused leaders.The judge granted bail to the four politicians on May 17 but the high court stayed the bail order the same night. The four leaders have since been released on bail.During the argument on Tuesday, advocate general Kishore Dutta, who represented the Bengal government, told the bench that the state is responsible for maintaining law and order.“The state should be given the opportunity to present the actual state of affairs (on May 17) and what action it took. Time will not be lost if the affidavits are taken on record,” Dutta told the bench.Also Read| 50 tumultuous days of Mamata Banerjee’s government 3.0Advocate Rakesh Dwivedi, who represented Banerjee and Ghatak, on Tuesday said, delay in filing of affidavits cannot be the ground for rejecting arguments and evidence. He argued that the case was not only about the CBI’s petition for transfer but involved important issues matters relating to the state.Dwivedi said, “The CBI can provide CCTV footage from May 17 so that the facts can be placed before the court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hcallows-mamata-to-file-affidavit-in-narada-case-101625080402172.html
01-07-2021||India||NHRC panel submits report in HC on Bengal post-poll violence||The panel set up by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to look into allegations of post-poll violence in West Bengal submitted its preliminary report to the Calcutta high court on Wednesday, which talks about the numerous complaints of murder, rape and arson received during visits to north and south Bengal districts, people aware of the development said.The document has cited the panel’s interaction with more than 100 families and referred to complaints about 41 murders and rape of 13 women, an official familiar with the contents of the initial report said on condition of anonymity.A second official said a comprehensive report will be submitted to the high court by July 2.NHRC officials refused to speak on the contents of the interim report.The panel, led by NHRC member and former intelligence bureau chief Rajiv Jain, was set up by a five-judge bench of the high court on petitions alleging the state’s involvement in violence targeting Bharatiya Janata Party workers after Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress returned to power in the state election results declared on May 2.Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee hasn’t reacted to news about the NHRC’s interim report. On Tuesday, however, she again dismissed the BJP charge. “One or two cases may be genuine but the rest are made up by the BJP. These are all fake allegations,” she told reporters.At a hearing in the Supreme Court earlier this month, the state government said only 22 people had died in post-poll violence; 16 of them when the administration was still under the control of the Election Commission.Bengal BJP vice-president Ritesh Tiwari said he was confident that the truth about the violence would soon be out. “The NHRC will find out the truth. A special investigation team must be formed to probe each and every case and role of the police and bureaucrats. They have to be held accountable,” Tiwari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrcpanel-submits-report-in-hc-on-bengal-post-poll-violence-101625080222160.html
01-07-2021||India||60,000 pieces of content blocked, says Google report||Google removed almost 60,000 pieces of content in April, the company said its first monthly transparency report, required by India’s new guidelines for social media companies and intermediaries. The guidelines mandate significant social media intermediaries (SSMIs) with over 5 million users such as YouTube (owned by Google) to disclose the number of complaints they have received and what action has been taken.According to the report covering the period from April 1 to April 30, Google said it received 27,762 complaints. “The number reflects the total number of complaints received from individual users located in India via designated mechanisms during the one-month reporting period,” Google said in the report. “These complaints relate to third-party content that is believed to violate local laws or personal rights on Google’s SSMI platforms. This data also includes individual user complaints accompanied by a court order.”A Google spokesperson told PTI that the company would “continue to publish more details as we refine our reporting process for India”.Google has been maintaining a transparency report, listing requests for take downs, complaints, and pieces of content removed, since 2010.Of the complaints, 92% or 26,707, related to copyright infringement and the rest to the trademark (357 or 1.3%), defamation (275 or 1.0%), etc. Nearly 98.4% of the action taken was regarding copyright infringement (58,391 pieces of content were taken down as a result).Google has sought two months to submit a more granular report with data on how the removal took place. “In future reports, data on removals as a result of automated detection, as well as data relating to impersonation and graphic sexual content complaints received post May 25, 2021, will be included,” the report said.Facebook has said it will submit its interim report on July 2 with details of content removed between May 15 and June 15. A more detailed report will follow on July 15, which will also include details of complaints received by WhatsApp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60000-pieces-of-content-blocked-says-google-report-101625078156808.html
01-07-2021||India||Crimes against SC, ST see sharp spike in Karnataka||Between April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021, there have been 2,327 cases of murder, exploitation and other cases on members of the Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) community in Karnataka, according to data from the state government. This shows an increase of over 54% from the previous year in which there were a total of 1,504 cases registered, which includes murder, exploitation, burns and other crimes against the members of the community, according to data from National Crime Records Bureau. The sharp spike comes at a time when Karnataka has reported at least two cases of “honour” killings in the last 10 days and several others that involve name calling, denial of services and even skirmishes that often go unreported. One of such cases reported by HT on June 24 was related to a hate-crime committed against two teenagers, wherein a boy belonging to the Dalit community and a Muslim girl were allegedly killed in Saladahalli village in Devara Hipparagi taluk in Vijayapura district, about 525 kms from Bengaluru, by the girl’s family and a few others who smashed their heads with rocks. In another case reported from Baragur village in Koppal district, 351 kms from Bengaluru, a boy who belonged to the Madiga community was allegedly murdered by the family of the girl, on June 22 who was from the dominant Kuruba community, for being romantically involved. “There are atrocities that take place and the ones that are reported (to authorities),” Clifton Rozario, lawyer and Bengaluru-based activist said on Wednesday. “When we look at these figures, we have to keep in mind that for every recorded atrocity there are other atrocities that are normalised and routinized,” Rozario added. While Karnataka is well known for its prowess in technology, startups, aerospace and other sectors, the dark underbelly of the state’s rural landscape often goes unnoticed. While the number of cases registered are low, the conviction rates are lower, data shows. In total, there have been 87 murders, 216 cases of exploitation, 2,024 other instances and 3 incidents of fire, according to government data. The government has so far allocated ₹284 crore as compensation for these crimes. Out of the 2,775 arrested persons and 2,945 chargesheeted for crimes and atrocities against SC/ST communities in 2019, only 50 were convicted and 1,513 were acquitted, data shows. On June 6, two brothers from the Dalit community were assaulted, abused and humiliated when they approached two barbers for a haircut in Yelaburga taluk in Koppal, one of the most backward villages in the state and country. But law enforcement authorities, whose duty it is to stop such practices and book those responsible, have also been accused of fueling and participating in such atrocities. On May 10, a youngster was arrested after villagers alleged that he was responsible for marital discord between a couple. After being beaten up, he asked the police for water when the latter asked another person in lockup to urinate on the youngster and even forced to lick it. The police sub-inspector, Arjun Gowda, has been denied anticipatory bail by a local court in Karnataka’s Chikmagalur district, calling the crime “heinous” and one that destroys the dignity of a person. Sanna Hanumantha, a Dalit activist in Koppal district said that there are regular instances of members of the Dalit community refused entry into hotels, temples and even inside villages. He said that members of the so-called upper classes waylaid and picked up a fight with two boys last week because they entered a hotel to drink tea. “They pulled up our boy and his friend (from a different community) because they had a sticker of Dr BR Ambedkar on their motorbike,” he added. A Narayanaswamy, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member of Parliament from Karnataka’s Chitradurga district, was denied entry into Gollarhatti village in Paavgada taluka in Tumkuru district in May 2019, indicating that the caste-based discrimination and prejudices that continue to dictate almost every aspect of life in rural Karnataka and other parts of the country. Hanumantha said that the members of the Dalit community will undertake a march to the district headquarters on July 19 to highlight the growing instances of discrimination in Koppal, which falls in the Kalayana-Karantaka region of the state. The social welfare minister, additional chief secretary and commissioner of Karnataka could not be reached for comment. “It is not that people are not aware of the atrocities. We cannot keep glorifying that more people are coming to the police station nowadays,” Priyank Kharge, Congress legislator from Chittapur constituency and former minister for social welfare told HT on Wednesday.He added that the increase in all forms of social unrest was also due to the pandemic and that the pandemic has forced migration to and from villages, which has left a larger number of people without enough work to do and has led to friction. Kharge said that those that migrate are people who are economically backward and this largely comprises members of SC/ST, minorities and other communities and that there are several instances where members of marginalised communities get caught in the crossfire between other so-called upper class caste-group fights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crimes-against-sc-st-see-sharp-spike-in-karnataka-101625078902100.html
01-07-2021||India||K’taka HC pulls up labour dept for charging ‘commission’ for compensation||Bengaluru A division bench of Chief Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj directed the state labour department to appear before the court on Thursday after a report submitted before the Karnataka high court said a commission was charged for providing compensation for domestic workers. A report submitted by the Karnataka State Legal Service Authority (KSLSA) to the Karnataka high court said that domestic workers were being charged a commission at Seva Sindhu Kendras, to register them on the Seva Sindhu portal for availing ₹2,000 one-time compensation announced by the government as relief in view of the lockdown. “Let him come with a solution and action they are going to take against these people…Tell the labour secretary, don’t give us figures of those persons who have received the sum of ₹2,000 as those who have received the amount have had to face the ordeal of paying this ₹200 at the centres,” said the bench. The direction was given during the hearing of a petition filed by the Domestic Worker Rights Union. The bench took serious note of the commission being charged since the government had said that the process of providing compensation would be free of cost. The KSLSA report said that despite the state government announcing a relief package of Rs.2,000 to the unorganized sector workers, there is a lack of awareness created. The government has made provision for online application in Seva Sindhu Portal but due to illiteracy and lack of awareness, the workers of unorganized sectors are not able to upload the application online. “Instead of helping unorganized sector workers to make an application, concerned labour department is only driving the labourers to approach Seva Sindhu Centres wherein they charge commission fee ranging between Rs.100 and Rs. 250…. the fee amounts to almost 10% of the package announced by the state government,” read the report by the KSLSA. The state government and the labour department should have developed a mechanism to assist unorganized sector workers to make an application, the report said. “In fact, this defect is leading to a situation wherein genuine workers are not approaching Seva Sindhu Centres, rather those workers or their group, who are politically or otherwise influential have been successful in accessing the government packages,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-hc-pulls-up-labour-dept-for-charging-commission-for-compensation-101625078782079.html
01-07-2021||India||Karnataka Congress’ top leaders lock horns over youth president’s post||Bengaluru Almost four months after the contentious Youth Congress elections in Karnataka, the issue continues to create frictions in the party’s top leadership in the state, people aware of the developments said, weakening the opposition party’s fight against the ruling BJP. State Congress president DK Shivakumar and legislature party leader Siddaramaiah have locked horns over the issue that the people say has threatened to fuel differences between the two top leaders of the party, accentuating factionalism that has been on a rise in the party. Mohammed Harris Nalapad, the son of Congress legislator NA Harris and backed by Shivakumar, was disqualified even though he won 64,203 out of the over 150,000 valid votes polled, as per the results published in February this year. Raksha Ramaiah, who polled 57,271 votes and has the backing of Siddaramaiah, was declared as the Youth Congress president. People familiar with the developments said Ramaiah and Nalapad have come to a compromise -- the former will remain the state Youth Congress president till the end of the year and then hand over the reins to the latter. “Both of them have mutually come to an understanding that Raksha will remain (as Youth Congress chief) till December 31 and then the post will be given to Nalapad,” Srinivas BV, national president of the Indian Youth Congress, said on Wednesday. But the conflicting stand on the Youth Congress has reignited feud between Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar, party leaders said, after the two locked horns over the chief ministerial pick if the party wins the next polls. Despite warnings from the state and central party leadership, legislators close to Siddaramaiah had projected him as the next chief minister, souring relations with Shivakumar and a few other leaders who also nurse ambitions for the top job. “Now, the election officer has said that he will broker a compromise (between Raksha and Mohammed). Make both of them sit together and get whatever compromise is all I have said,” Siddaramaiah said on Wednesday. Shivakumar refused to comment. People aware of the developments said the supporters of Raksha are not happy with the decision taken by the incumbent Youth Congress president without consultations with those who helped him get the post. Congress leaders, wishing not to be named, said that amid the fight between the two top leaders, the party misses an opportunity to take advantage of the leadership crisis in the BS Yediyurappa-led government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-congress-top-leaders-lock-horns-over-youth-president-s-post-101625078722055.html
01-07-2021||India||SII applies for EU ‘green pass’ nod through UK partner||Serum Institute of India (SII) has applied to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for marketing authorisation of its Covishield vaccine through its partner company, United Kingdom-based AstraZeneca, for it to be eligible for the European Union’s Green Pass, said people familiar with the matter.The Green Pass is an immunity document meant to ease travel within and to the European Union from July 1.“The EMA certification has been applied for by SII via its partner AstraZeneca,” said an industry insider familiar with the matter, on condition of anonymity.A day earlier, EU had said in a statement that EMA has not received any authorisation request for Covishield. But on the same day, European Union’s ambassador to India and Bhutan, Ugo Astuto, had clarified to news agency ANI that reports of Covishield being banned in Europe were not true.Also Read| India asks EU members to accept Covishield, Covaxin“It is to clarify there is no banning on Covishield, we have set up in place a new system of Digital Covid Certificate which is meant to facilitate travel within the European Union. Basically, this certificate is proof that a person is vaccinated against Covid or received a negative test or recovered from Covid-19. So this is meant as a facilitator but it is not a precondition for travel,” Astuto said.Travellers vaccinated with Covishield are currently not eligible for the EU Green Pass, as EMA recognises only four Covid-19 vaccines that have received EU-wide marketing authorisation so far.While the list includes Vaxzervria, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine shot produced and marketed in the United Kingdom and other sites around Europe, it does not include Covishield, which is the same vaccine manufactured locally in India by SII. The other three vaccines that EMA has approved for use are Comirnaty (Pfizer/BioNTech), Moderna, and Janssen (Johnson & Johnson).Also Read| Covid in India: 100 million doses of J&J vaccine likely to be procured from EU“I realise that a lot of Indians who have taken Covishield are facing issues with travel to the EU. I assure everyone, I have taken this up at the highest levels and hope to resolve this matter soon, both with regulators and at a diplomatic level with countries,” tweeted Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer, SII, on Monday.Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin are the two vaccines that are currently being administered under the national Covid-19 immunisation programme, with 289.6 million doses of Covishield having been already administered under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive that began on January 16, according to the central government’s CoWIN dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-applies-for-eu-green-pass-nod-through-uk-partner-101625078663823.html
01-07-2021||India||K’taka administered over 8mn vaccine doses in June: Data||Bengaluru Karnataka has administered over 8 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the month of June, registering almost double the growth compared to May in which the state administered just over 4.2 million doses , according to state government data. But a significant number of these doses were administered after June 21, on the day of the nation-wide Maha Vaccine Abhiyaan, initiated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in which a record of nearly 9 million vaccines were administered across the country in a single day. At least half of the 8 million doses administered in June in Karnataka has come in the last 10 days since the June 21, data shows. Despite the decline in new Covid-19 infections, the state is trying to administer at least one dose to all eligible citizens by the end of the year. Karnataka and its counterparts are trying to increase its respective vaccination drives to insulate as many of its citizens as possible from the imminent third wave of infections, expected to hit around the end of the year. In one day (June 21), the state recorded nearly 1.16 million doses, from just around 70,000 doses the previous day, indicating the possibility of the BS Yediyurappa government stockpiling vaccines to make the event a success, Hindustan Times had reported on June 22. But there have been several instances where people, waiting for hours in vaccination centres, were sent back due to the non-availability of doses that shows a rising momentum that has been held back due to supply issues. “This month we got 6. million doses which the Centre has provided us. We have a lot of demand but (the Centre) has to distribute it to all parts of the country. The 6 million doses that we got, we have administered,” Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, the deputy chief minister of Karnataka and head of the state task force on Covid-19 told reporters on Wednesday. He added that private organisations and other corporates have also contributed to around 2.2 million vaccines. Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said that he would visit Delhi on Monday or Tuesday to request the union government for allocation of more vaccines to the state. “I will be visiting Delhi on Monday or Tuesday and will be discussing with the union health minister to allocate more vaccines to the state. But I have never said we are short of vaccines in the state and we have never stopped vaccinating people. Everyday over 200,000 to 300,000 people are being vaccinated. The moment we get vaccines from the union government, we will distribute them,” Sudhakar said on Tuesday. According to data on Cowin, Karnataka has so far administered 2,27,00,527 doses of which the first and second dose account for 1,89,63,478 and 37,37,049 respectively. The estimated population of Karnataka is around 70 million, according to the expert committee on the third wave of Covid-19 infections, which takes the vaccine coverage (both doses) to just over 5.3%. A senior government official said that Karnataka can administer as many as 600,000 to 700,000 doses per day if doses were available. “With a little bit of effort, we can go up to 600,000 to 700,000 every day. We are talking about 6 days a week. If you give me 30 million vaccines, we will finish it in two months,” the official cited above said, requesting not to be named. There are over 13,000 vaccination centres in the state, of which a little less than half or around 6,000 are operational. However, an official from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) said that there were delays and issues of availability of vaccines. “As per the government orders, we are giving it to a few categories. But according to availability we are distributing it. A few times, the vaccines that we are supposed to get from the government do not come on time or we do not get the right quantity. All this we have to discuss at the government level and explain our situation to them,” Gaurav Gupta, the chief minister of the BBMP said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-administered-over-8mn-vaccine-doses-in-june-data-101625078605350.html
01-07-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu meets Gandhis amid Cong infighting||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra met the party’s Punjab MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu in meetings that seemed to suggest that the lawmaker, a trenchant critic of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, has the ear of the Gandhis, although one party insider sought to explain the meeting as a “balancing act”.It was not clear whether Sidhu, who wants to become the Congress state president, received any assurance from the Gandhis. But the back-to-back meetings indicated that the Congress top leadership was still sympathetic to Sidhu despite his rebellion against Singh.Sidhu, a former cricketer and television personality, has been particularly critical of the CM in recent weeks, calling him a “liar” in a June 21 interview with Hindustan Times. That came amid growing dissent in the ranks with some Punjab lawmakers not happy at the free rein the chief minister gave his bureaucrats, the progress on implementing promises made ahead of the last assembly election in 2017, and the seeming lack of action against the Badals for their involvement in the sacrilege and police firing case dating back to 2015. Between June and October that year, three incidents of sacrilege of the Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy book, were reported in Faridkot district, leading to protests. On October 14, 2015, two protesters were killed in police firing in Behbal Kalan. On the same day, police also opened fire on protesters in Kotkpaura.Elections in Punjab are scheduled for early 2022.The Congress refused to spell out what transpired at the meeting but Sindhu tweeted that “it as a “long meeting” with Priyanka Gandhi.” He also put out a photograph.In the evening, Sidhu met Rahul Gandhi, in the presence of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. The meeting took place a day after Rahul Gandhi said no meeting was scheduled with the cricketer turned politician.Sidhu did not respond to calls and messages.The meeting is especially significant because Singh, 79, tried to meet the Gandhis on his visit to Delhi from June 21 to 23, but could not do so. The chief minister’s office declined to comment on Sidhu’s meeting with the Gandhis.That meeting was the second that Singh undertook to meet with a three-member committee set up by the Congress’ central leadership to resolve the crisis in the party in Punjab. The committee, headed by Mallikarjun Kharge came up with a list of recommendations, and a sort of to-do list for the chief minister. One of the members of the panel , Harish Rawat, also said separately that the party would have words with Sidhu on his criticism of the chief minister. It isn’t clear whether this has happened.Sidhu wants to be made Punjab Congress chief, a post that will give him significant power ahead of the elections. Singh is averse to giving him such an important role. The former cricketer resigned from the state cabinet in July 2019 due to differences with the CM. There has been buzz that he could be considering joining the Aam Aadmi Party, but a senior leader of that party said on condition of anonymity that the party would not be interested -- not after Sidhu almost joined it after leaving the BJP in 2016, only to jump on to the Congress bandwagon in early 2017. Sidhu is believed to be close to both Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi, a proximity he has not been reluctant to showcase.The Congress insider cited above said that the meeting was a balancing act. “The optics of general secretary in charge of UP meeting Sidhu underlines that the Gandhi family and the Congress values him but at the same time, the party also can’t afford to ignore the CM ahead of the polls,” added this person who asked not to be named.“Sidhu appeals to young people, can bring a freshness in the organisation whereas the CM’s style of functioning has led to some anti-incumbency,” said a second Congress leader who too asked not to be named.Last week, Rahul Gandhi met one-on-one with at least 20 leaders, including ministers, MPs and MLAs to get their version of the Punjab story. The three-member committee constituted by Sonia Gandhi said in its June 10 report that Sidhu be suitably accommodated in the state unit.Sidhu also fended off criticism by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, who told reporters that the former cricket was a misguided missile without control. “Today, Punjab doesn’t need a person who does acting but one who thinks about the development of the state,” Badal said.Hours later, Sidhu hit back and accused Badal of corruption. “Until your Sukh Vilas built on Punjab’s ruins is not turned into a public school & public hospital to serve Punjab’s poor, I won’t relent!” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-meets-gandhis-amid-cong-infighting-101625078483337.html
01-07-2021||India||Now, pvt hospitals can buy jabs only via CoWIN||Private hospitals will no longer be able to directly procure Covid vaccine supplies from manufacturers, and will have to place their orders through the government’s CoWIN platform which is the backbone of national Covid-19 immunisation delivery management system, people familiar with the matter said .“Yes, they will need to procure through Co-WIN; it is being made a simple and transparent process,” said a senior Union health ministry official aware of the matter who asked not to be named.The new procurement process will be operational from July 1. The move comes even as questions are being raised about the reach of private hospitals when it comes to vaccinations, and their ability to use the entire 25% of vaccine production allocated to them. By some estimates private vaccination centres account for only 4 % of the total vaccination centres in the country. And according to an affidavit submitted by the government in the Supreme Court on June 26, between January and May,2021, private hospitals administered 1,56,30,130 doses of both vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin.Once the private centres place an order on CoWIN, the approval will be granted on the platform itself, and the payment for vaccine doses will have to be made electronically through the National Health Authority Portal (NHA).The union government is procuring 75% of vaccines produced in a given month to be distributed under its free supply scheme, and the remaining 25% is left to be bought by private hospitals .Private hospitals said the move will allow the government to keep tab on how many doses are being procured by each private hospital across the country.“We consider this a positive policy decision taken by the government as this will lead to increase in the vaccination rate as the government will have a clear idea of how many vaccines have been procured by an individual hospital. This will also prevent hoarding of vaccines and ultimately lead to improved transparency in terms of inoculation,” said Dr Prashant Kulshrestha, deputy medical superintendent, PSRI Hospital.The Union government recently advised states to aggregate Covid-19 vaccine distribution in private hospitals on a monthly basis, and either to do the procurement themselves or allow the central government to facilitate procurements, so as to equitably distribute vaccine doses among private hospitals.The step was taken after it emerged that large chains were buying most of the vaccines.Private hospitals have also launched “ door step vaccination, drive throughs, vaccination in malls, offices, residences,” pointed out Dr Kousar Shah, COO, Aakash Healthcare Super Speciality Hospital., and they should be allowed to continue doing this, “in the larger public interest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-pvt-hospitals-can-buy-jabs-only-via-cowin-101625078482741.html
01-07-2021||India||‘State support’ behind drone strike, says top Army officer||The technology used in the aerial attack on an India Air Force (IAF) facility in Jammu on June 27 indicated “State support and the possible involvement of Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Taiba terror groups”, a top Indian Army officer aware of the matter said on Wednesday.The army has tightened security at its key forward installations in the Kashmir Valley following the attack, he added.“We have identified some key military installations and activated countermeasures to pre-empt drone attacks. Steps have been taken in coordination with intelligence agencies,” said Lieutenant General DP Pandey, who heads the Srinagar-based HQs 15 Corps.He said the drones and explosives used for aerial attacks cannot be assembled on the roadside and are likely to be state-supported systems. He said there appeared to be an “element of guidance from State actors” to modify the drones for aerial attacks. “It’s a new and emerging threat that we have to stay prepared for,” Pandey said.The June 27 attack was the first-ever offensive use of drones to target an Indian military facility. IAF has also beefed up defence at its forward airbases in the western sector to pre-empt fresh drone attacks, as reported by HT on June 29. Snipers, jammers and other countermeasures have been activated at forward IAF bases.The drone attack is a watershed in asymmetric warfare and underlines the need for the armed forces to build capabilities to deter, detect and neutralise such aerial threats.Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat on Monday said that India has to start preparing for future generation warfare. He said the three services, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), academia and other stakeholders were working together to develop technology to counter the threat from drones at the earliest.DRDO chief G Satheesh Reddy said that the counter-drone technology developed by his organisation could provide the armed forces with the capability to swiftly detect, intercept and destroy small drones that pose a security threat. He said DRDO’s anti-drone system would give the military both “soft kill” and “hard kill” options to tackle the aerial threat. The first refers to jamming the hostile drone, while the second involves a laser-based kill system.After the aerial attack at the air force station in Jammu on June 27, another attack was thwarted in the early hours of Monday. Drones were also sighted near military installations in Jammu between 1 am and 4.30 am on Tuesday, indicating terrorist groups could be trying to replicate Sunday’s strike. Drones were again seen hovering over Kaluchak and Kunjwani military stations on Wednesday.The National Investigation Agency has taken over the probe into the June 27 attack and registered a case under the Explosive Substances Act, UAPA, and IPC sections on criminal conspiracy and attempt to murder.Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd) said: “Jammu is a wake up call but it must be appreciated that the threat has been long in existence, and the anti-dote to terror drones is a whole-of-government approach since it’s not only military installations that are threatened but civilian infrastructure of importance too.”“Thus, the IB, RAW and other intelligence agencies have to work hand-in-hand to preempt attacks and terminal anti-drone defences have to be provided to key installations. In these Covid crunch times, finances would have to be provisioned from somewhere by the government,” the former additional director general at Centre for Air Power Studies said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-support-behind-drone-strike-says-top-army-officer-101625078424968.html
01-07-2021||India||If a film is given a certificate, it does not mean that it is forever: Benegal||A proposed change in the Cinematograph Act on the certification board can recall a film and review its certification may have caused consternation in the film industry, but director Shyam Benegal believes there is nothing wrong in this. “If a film is given a certificate, it does it mean that it is forever,” he said in an interview. The changes also give the government will also have the power to restrict cinematic content -- with influencing and constraining factors being the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the state, friendly relations with foreign states, public order, decency or morality or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement to commit any offence. The proposed changes led to 1400 filmmakers and artists including Anurag Kashyap, Shabana Azmi, and Farhan Akhtar writing an open letter to the ministry objecting to this kind of censorship. Benegal , who in 2016 headed a committee that looked at the process of film certification and recommended a limited purview for the certification board has a different view. Edited excerpts:You have just gone through the new provisions of the Cinematograph Act. What are your first impressions?I think it’s fine, there are no major problems. There were two reports (on this) , one was the Mudgal committee report from 2013 and the other one was a committee of experts report that we made in 2016…. and I think there is not much of a difference. In fact, we will cooperate…Some say that they find it disturbing that a film that has already been certified can be recalled. What do you feel about that?Well, I think, these things can happen. If a film is given a certificate, it does not mean that it is forever. It’s a certificate given by the board and when you are talking of the things changing, you are talking of a world that is changing. So, there are some things that have been valid at one time (in the past) and they may not be valid today.So, recalling films (for another review) is not a big deal. There is a possibility that 20 years from now, something (which is right today) cannot be right for that time. It is possible.What happens once something goes out after being certified by the Censor Board and then there is a kind of outrage among the public?If you have that kind of an outrage and if it is popular -- I mean if it is a popular outrage and not some engineered outreach -- these things can also happen.But then who decides when the outrage is significant enough to merit a recall?The fact is, you have to accept that there is some thing called common sense. There is a certain kind of convention followed in life which we consider to be very much within the purview of our standards. Now (if) you go beyond that, naturally, it is going to be questioned.For instance, you have these streaming channels and television, you have programs where you see people using four- letter words as if they use them every day. It doesn’t happen like that. People don’t always talk like that. Sometimes I get very shocked. But then you accept it because it is in the privacy of your home.The same cannot happen in a public place.OTT platforms of which streaming channels form a part are not publicly (broadcast) .There can be very little clarity on this. The fact is that it depends on how you are going about and what you are going to do about sensibilities. Are you going to censor sensibilities? People have different kinds of sensibilities.As long as that particular sensibility does not become offensive in public discourse, it’s not offensive.Then, in private discourse, are you working to censor anything? Why would you do that? In the privacy of your home or within the privacy in which you and your friends and acquaintances operate, are you going to have censorship (in what you watch)? Clearly not. That’s common sense.So, 1400 filmmakers wrote an open letter saying that this (amendment) makes them helpless. You don’t agree with them?No, it’s not that. It’s just that film makers deal with their audiences. In public discourse, when you are dealing with people, there are certain things that you must make a distinction about, like between private and public discourse. What happens in the privacy of your home is not something that the whole world needs to know about ; you have to distinguish between what is public and what is private. Even that is not so clearly defined. You know if you are telling a story, a family story, there are certain things even in a family story that are public and private. There are so many such factors. It is like they fade in and fade out..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-a-film-is-given-a-certificate-it-does-not-mean-that-it-is-forever-benegal-101625078423115.html
01-07-2021||India||75-yr-old, moved by story of family of missing patient, rides 300 km to help||Bhubaneswar: When Madhusudan Patra last week read a news item in a local Odia daily about the story of a woman looking for her husband, the family’s sole bread earner missing for a month, the 75-year-old farmer knew he had to do something. It took him some time to figure out how.By Friday, Madhusudan Patra mobilised ₹10,000 from his savings, loaded a trunk on his rickety moped and set out from Biranchipur village in the coastal district of Ganjam.His destination was 300 km away, a village in Jagatsinghpur district where Gandharba Jena’s family lived.Gandharba Jena, 65, had gone missing sometime around May 21 when the Covid patient was shifted from a local hospital to the government-run SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack. His family knocked on all the doors that they could for the past month, but there was no trace of Jena, who made a living by weaving bamboo baskets that were sold at the village market. The family had been struggling to make ends meet. It took Madhusudan Patra 10 hours to reach the village. Jena’s wife Shanti was surprised at her benefactor.“He said God willing my husband would come back. He also told me not to cry and then gave ₹10,000,” she said.Jena’s daughter Jhili, in her early thirties, said Patra’s help at the time of their distress was something they can never forget.“We have been seeking help from the local police station as well as the block office about my father, but no one helped us in tracing my father. But an old person living hundreds of kilometres away came to help us,” Jhili said.Madhusudan Patra spent the night with Jena’s family and left for home in Ganjam on his two-wheeler on Saturday. He did become a bit of a local celebrity when word of his gesture was reported in the local media.Patra is modest, saying that he just wanted to help a poor family. “Travelling 300 km was no big deal,” he said.“I have some land in my village, but no children. So I have been helping people during the lockdown.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75yrold-moved-by-story-of-family-of-missing-patient-rides-300-km-to-help-101625078125073.html
01-07-2021||India||Death within 3 mths of testing +ve to count as Covid fatality, says SC||People who died within two to three months after testing Covid-19 positive should be counted as death due to Covid-19, the Supreme Court ruled on Wednesday as it directed the Centre to incorporate this benchmark in its guidelines for death certificates in case of Covid-19 deaths.The procedure followed by states and union territories in registering deaths came under the judicial scanner in two public interest litigations filed by advocates Reepak Kansal and Gaurav Kumar Bansal.The bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah has repeatedly observed through the proceedings that persons affected by Covid-19 can die due to other complications. Unfortunately, the judges noted in their verdict on Wednesday, the guidelines issued by the Centre and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) haven’t specifically dealt with this aspect.The top court’s direction on counting deaths within two or three months after testing Covid-19 will lead to an increase in the number of people entitled to ex-gratia payment for the death of family members due to Covid. This direction formed part of the same order where the top court gave six weeks to the Centre to frame guidelines under DMA for providing ex-gratia relief to persons who died due to Covid-19.According to Union health ministry data, 3,98,454 people have died due to Covid since the first death was reported in Karnataka in March last year. But existing government guidelines only count persons who are positive at the time of death to be a Covid death.The court directed the appropriate authority to frame a “simplified procedure or guidelines” for issuing an official document or death certificate to the family of those who died due to Covid-19. This document should state the exact cause of death as “Death due to Covid-19”, added the bench.“If a person has died after he was found Covid positive and he has died within two to three months, either in the hospital or outside the hospital or at home, the death certificate or official document must be issued to the family members of the deceased who died due to Covid-19 stating the cause of death as ‘Died due to Covid-19’,” the bench said.Presently, death certificates do not mention cause of death. This is due to the bar placed under Section 17 of the Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969. This provision states that “no extract relating to any death, issued to any person, shall disclose the particulars regarding the cause of death as entered in the register.”For families who have already received death certificates and intend to apply for correction with regard to cause of death, the court directed the authority concerned to provide the remedy available to such families under the guidelines.The court while considering the petitions had recognised the plight of many families who lost their dear ones due to after-effects of Covid-19 but the cause of death was not certified as due to Covid.The bench said, “It is the duty of every authority to issue accurate/correct death certificates stating the correct and accurate cause of death, so that the family members of the deceased who died due to Covid-19 may not face any difficulty in getting the benefits of the schemes that may be declared by the Government for the death of the deceased, who died due to Covid-19.”During the arguments in the case, the central government pointed out that it is mandatory for states to register all deaths due to Covid-19. It referred to an October 2020 communication issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Affairs to all states/UTs. It said, “All deaths with a diagnosis of Covid-19, irrespective of comorbidities, are to be classified as deaths due to Covid-19. It is submitted that the only exception could be where there is a clear alternative cause of death, that cannot be attributed to Covid-19 (e.g., accidental trauma, poisoning, acute myocardial infarction, etc), where Covid-19 is an incidental finding.”Broad guidelines for recording of Covid-19 related deaths in India were prepared by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and issued in May 2020 to all states.These guidelines said that positive deaths would imply deaths related to Covid-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/death-within-3-mths-of-testing-ve-to-count-as-covid-fatality-says-sc-101625077822009.html
01-07-2021||India||PM Modi meets ministers, reviews preparedness for 3rd Covid wave, jab drive||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday chaired a meeting of the Union council of ministers to review the functioning of the ministries, the preparation for the anticipated third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, and the ongoing vaccination drive against the infectious disease, people aware of the matter said.The meeting, which was conducted virtually, began at 4.30pm and concluded at 8.30pm, the people quoted above said.According to two people aware of the details, PM Modi told his ministers to work hard to ensure that the guard against Covid-19 was not relaxed. He said the government will have to make sure that people remain alert and adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour. He also underlined that the government will have to work hard to counter the disappointment on the ground over its Covid-19 response during the second wave, the people added.The PM also told the ministers that while the focus remained on Covid-19 management, the ministers should not take their eyes off issues related to governance.According to a person aware of the developments, NITI Aayog member VK Paul made a presentation at the beginning of the meeting on the vaccination drive, saying it had been accelerated to prevent the spread of the virus and to prepare for a likely third wave of infections. Presentations on the work accomplished by the ministries of telecom, civil aviation, and road transport were also made, the person added.“Road transport and civil aviation ministries’ presentations were to show what we have been able to achieve so far and what challenges lie ahead in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said a senior official present at the meeting, asking not to be named.The PM instructed the ministers to oversee all aspects of the vaccination drive and to acquaint themselves with the problems being faced by the people in getting the vaccines, the first person said. He urged the ministers to conduct visits on the ground to oversee the mass vaccination and to address vaccine hesitancy among people.“He said that Indians have a tendency to take it easy as soon as things seem to improve and so, extra caution has to be observed,” the person quoted above said.On Sunday, the Prime Minister, in his radio broadcast Mann Ki Baat, made a reference to vaccine hesitancy and urged people to believe what doctors and scientists advised. While asking people not to believe rumours, the Prime Minister cited his own example and that of his mother to drive home the point about the need for vaccines.A third person who was aware of the developments said the ministries were asked to give specifics about the completion of work allocated to them; the spending from budget allowance and accomplishments of the past two years, with focus on the work that was done during the Covid-19 period.Modi also discussed the preparations for the 75th anniversary of India’s freedom struggle, which is being celebrated as Amrit Mahotsav, said the second person.Wednesday’s meeting came close on the heels of a series of review meetings conducted by the Prime Minister over the past month. Several minister, in batches, met the Prime Minister and gave a detailed presentation on the work accomplished by their respective ministries. The meeting took place at a time when there is speculation that a possible cabinet reshuffle could take place soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-meets-ministers-reviews-preparedness-for-3rd-wave-jab-drive-101625077762059.html
01-07-2021||India||Can Covid-19 shot be refused in public health crisis: Madras HC||Chennai: The Madras high court on Wednesday expressed doubt if anyone can have the right to refuse vaccination, given the larger interest of public health during the Covid-19 pandemic as vaccine hesitancy continues in some quarters.A bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made this observation during the hearing of a public interest litigation regarding vaccination of people with disabilities.The state made its submission on the measures taken and informed the court that there is an “element of reluctance in some quarters” to take the vaccine. The court asked the state to persuade people through awareness campaigns as well as scientific data to indicate the efficacy of the vaccines and their indispensable nature in dealing with the present pandemic.“Indeed, vaccinating oneself may not only be to protect oneself but also in the larger interest of public health,” the court said in its order. “When such a larger interest of public health comes into play and it is possible that a person who has not taken the vaccine may not reveal any symptoms but still be a silent carrier, it is doubtful whether the right to refuse to take the vaccine can be exercised in such circumstances.”This came a day after Supreme Court lawyer Prashant Bhushan’s tweet expressing scepticism about vaccination was flagged as ‘misleading’ by Twitter.Tamil Nadu’s health department had submitted a report on June 29 on its measures to vaccinate people with disabilities in rehabilitation homes and mental healthcare centres which the court said was adequate. But the judges raised a concern that the state didn’t indicate a plan for people with disabilities who are homebound and do not have the ability and resources to travel, particularly in the semi-urban and rural areas. “It is hoped that all persons with disabilities, irrespective of status and resources, are taken care of by the State in due course,” the court said. The matter has been posted to July 28.The court had earlier, while passing orders on a different case, directed the state to prioritise vaccination for the differently-abled. Greater Chennai Corporation has been vaccinating those with severe disabilities in their homes if their movements are restricted. A day ago, the court directed the Tamil Nadu government to vaccinate people with mental illnesses, who are either destitute or are homebound, on priority by adopting methods used for vaccinating people with disabilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-shot-be-refused-in-public-health-crisis-hc-101625077703308.html
01-07-2021||India||India asks EU members to accept Covishield, Covaxin||New Delhi: India has asked European Union (EU) member states to accept Covid-19 vaccines authorised by the World Health Organization (WHO) or national authorities, such as Covishield and Covaxin, for Indian nationals travelling to Europe, warning that it will follow a policy of reciprocity and exempt EU nationals possessing the “green pass” from mandatory quarantine only if the bloc does this, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity on Wednesday.The EU clarified on Tuesday that the green pass is not a precondition to travel and individual member states have the option to accept vaccines approved by WHO such as Covishield. The clarification came against the backdrop of speculation about the possible impact of the green pass on Indian nationals as the regime doesn’t include any of the vaccines currently being administered in India.The green pass framework is set to be in place from July 1 to facilitate free movement within the 27-member bloc during the Covid pandemic. Under this framework, persons vaccinated with four vaccines currently approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) will be exempted from travel restrictions within the EU.Also Read| SII applies for EU ‘green pass’ nod through UK partnerQuestions have arisen about Indian travellers to Europe facing problems as EMA has cleared Pfizer/BioNTech’s Comirnaty, Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen , Spikevax or the Moderna vaccine, and Vaxzevria or the European version of the AstraZeneca vaccine. Serum Institute of India (SII), which makes Covishield or the Indian version of the AstraZeneca shot, is approaching EMA for its approval.“We have requested EU member states to individually consider extending exemption to travellers who have taken Covid-19 vaccines in India, such as Covishield and Covaxin, and to accept the vaccination certificate issued through the CoWIN portal,” said one of the people cited above.The genuineness of Indian vaccination certification can be authenticated on the CoWIN portal, the people said.India has also conveyed to EU member states that New Delhi will institute a reciprocal policy for recognising the EU Digital Covid Certificate.“Upon notification of Covishield and Covaxin for inclusion in the EU Digital Covid Certificate framework and recognition of Indian CoWIN vaccination certificates, Indian health authorities will reciprocally exempt travellers from the concerned EU member state carrying the green pass from mandatory quarantine,” the person said.External affairs minister S Jaishankar took up the issue of approving the Covishield vaccine for travel to Europe during a meeting on Tuesday with Josep Borell, the EU’s high representative for foreign affairs and security policy. The two leaders met on the margins of a meeting of the G20 foreign ministers in Italy.“A comprehensive review of our relationship with EUHR VP @JosepBorrellF. Taking forward the agenda of the Leaders’ Summit. Discussed vaccine production and access. Took up ‘Covishield’ authorisation for travel to Europe. Will be following up,” Jaishankar tweeted after the meeting.Also Read| Covid in India: 100 million doses of J&J vaccine likely to be procured from EUOn Tuesday, German ambassador Walter Lindner tweeted that his country recognises a double shot of Covishield as “valid proof of anti-Covid vaccination”. He added that this “does nevertheless not modify existing travel or visa restrictions for travellers from areas of concern/virus variants areas”.Covishield and Covaxin are the two main vaccines being used for India’s immunisation programme.The EU Digital COVID Certificate will serve as proof that a person was vaccinated, received a negative test result or recovered from Covid-19. Temporary restrictions on non-essential travel to the EU are currently in place from many countries, including India, due to the pandemic.EU member states are expected to gradually lift these restrictions at external borders as the pandemic fades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-asks-eu-members-to-accept-covishield-covaxin-101625077644412.html
