03-07-2021||India||No antibodies against Delta variant in 58% after first dose of Covishield, 16% after second: Research||NEW DELHI Neutralising antibodies against the delta variant (B1.617.2) were not observed in 58.1% of serum samples from those given one shot of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine produced in India as Covishield, according to a yet-to-be peer reviewed study by researchers from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). After two doses, the neutralising antibodies could not be detected in 16.1% of the samples, the study found. Additionally, the researchers found that a prior infection along with vaccination produced much higher titres of neutralising antibodies. “Not observed is not equivalent to not present. The levels of neutralising antibodies could be significantly low that it did not get detected, but it may still be there and protect the person against infection and severe disease. Also, there would be some cell mediated protective immunity as well that can again protect against infection and severe disease. And, we have seen that even delta is not fatal after two doses of the vaccine,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of microbiology at Christian Medical College-Vellore. The titres of the neutralising antibodies – that specifically target the Sars-CoV-2 virus and kill it or prevent it from entering human cells – were also lower against the delta variant as compared to the B1 variant that led to the first wave of infections in India. As compared to B1, the neutralising antibody titres against the delta variant were 78% less in those who received one shot, 69% in those who received two shots, 66% in those who had the infection and received one shot, and 38% in those who had the infection and received both shots. “This reduction in NAb titres in the sera of participants lends support to increased susceptibility of the population that has been immunised with even both doses of the vaccine with the delta variant,” the study said. The researchers also stated that neutralising antibody titres were significantly higher in those who had the infection prior to vaccination. “(This) highlights the fact that even one dose of vaccine in convalescent (or recovered) patients is enough to provide effective protection against reinfection of SARS-CoV-2 or protection against newly emerging variants,” the study said. What the study means for India’s vaccination drive is that some might require an additional booster shot of Covishield while those who have had the infection may require just one. “Assuming that the serum used for the study was from healthy individuals, the proportion of individuals with unobserved levels of neutralising antibodies will be higher among those who are old, comorbid, have chronic diseases as their immune response is lower. What this means is that men (women produce higher levels of antibodies) over the age of 65 years, those with diabetes, hypertension, chronic heart, lung, kidney diseases, those who have had organ transplant, or are undergoing treatment for cancer should be given a third dose,” said Dr Jacob John. He added, “On the other hand, one dose is more than enough for an immune response in those who have had the infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-antibodies-against-delta-variant-in-58-after-first-dose-of-covishield-16-after-second-research-101625336937991.html
03-07-2021||India||Dhami to take oath as new Uttarakhand CM today||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday chose the next chief minister of Uttarakhand, two-time legislator Pushkar Singh Dhami, for the state’s top post, after days of frenetic meetings and discussions that culminated in the resignation of CM Tirath Singh Rawat late on Friday night.Dhami, the legislator from Khatima constituency of US Nagar district, will be the third chief minister to lead the state in less than four months, triggering criticism from the Opposition and concerns among BJP leaders about political instability months before Uttarakhand goes to the polls. Assembly elections in the state are to be held in early 2022.The state unit of the BJP elected Dhami as the legislative party leader, paving the way for his official appointment as chief minister at the swearing-in ceremony in Dehradun on Sunday at 6pm.“My party has appointed a common worker, the son of an ex-serviceman, who was born in the border district of Pithoragarh to serve the people,” Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who attended the meeting in the town as a central observer, told reporters.Tomar added that former CM Tirath Singh Rawat and state BJP chief Madan Kaushik proposed the name of Dhami, and other senior leaders — including ex-chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat — backed the move.“We’ll work on people’s issues with the cooperation of all. I will carry forward the work done by my predecessors,” Dhami told reporters shortly after the meeting at the party headquarters. The CM-designate later visited governor Baby Rani Maurya’s residence to stake claim to the government.The 45-year-old, set to be the state’s 10th chief minister, is also the youngest leader to be appointed to the position in Uttarakhand. It wasn’t known until now that Dhami — who has never held a ministerial position before this, but has links with the RSS and the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad — was being considered for the role.Outgoing chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat, whose short termwas marred by controversies that included allowing the Mahakumbh to convene with mammoth gatherings despite a raging pandemic, and a Covid-19 testing scam, congratulated Dhami and appeared to present a unified front . “All the 56 members of legislature party elected him unanimously. We are sure that Uttarakhand will attain new heights of development in the coming period under his leadership,” he said.Tirath Singh Rawat resigned as the CM on Friday night, days after the BJP leadership summoned him to Delhi, where he met Union home minister Amit Shah and party chief JP Nadda.He suggested he resigned on Friday because the Election Commission (EC) was unlikely to hold by-elections — which were necessary for him to continue in the post — due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Rawat was a member of Parliament when he was named the chief minister. He needed to be elected to the state assembly within six months of assuming the post to continue as the CM.Although it is atypical for EC to hold bypolls to an assembly whose remaining tenure is less year, an official of the body indicated to HT on Friday that no request was made by the party.The BJP has 56 lawmakers in the 70-member house. In March this year, Tirath Singh Rawat was appointed as the ninth chief minister of the state after his predecessor Trivendra Singh Rawat resigned due to infighting in the state unit.Political analysts say the change of guard this year and the controversies over the state government’s handling of the pandemic during the second wave of infections is likely to hit the BJP’s chances of returning to power in the state next year. “By stirring this political episode just a few months before the election, BJP has made the road to victory difficult for itself. The people of Uttarakhand will now think that the BJP is taking them as its laboratory for its political experiments. Secondly, the morale of its workers would also take a dent after this,” said MM Semwal, professor of political science at Garhwal Central University.On Saturday, the Opposition Congress also hit out at the BJP for what it termed was “political instability” and “lust for power”. “Instead of serving the people of Uttarakhand, they tried to distribute power, and PM (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi and JP Nadda are responsible for this,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged.Dhami, however, adopted a defiant tone on concerns over the BJP’s electoral performance, and said that he was ready to take the “challenge” and turn it into an “opportunity”.State leaders said on Saturday that several factors worked in favour of Dhami, who was a relatively lesser known figure than some of the other BJP legislators. State tourism minister Satpal Maharaj and education minister Dhan Singh Rawat were tipped to be elevated to the key position.“Dhami ticked several boxes. He is a member of the Thakur community, which helped as state party president Madan Kaushik is a Brahmin, the BJP couldn’t appoint two members of the same community,” an Uttarakhand minister said on the condition of anonymity.It also helped that Dhami has his roots in Kumaon, and will be seen as a representative of the people from the region as Kaushik is from Garhwal, the minister added.Another party MLA said Dhami is believed to be close to Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and former Uttarakhand chief minister Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who is currently the Maharashtra governor. However, state Congress spokesperson Garima Dasauni believes that the BJP has only chosen Dhami instead of a big name to keep a “scapegoat” ready as the ruling party knows it is “going to lose”. BJP leaders disagree. “Dhami is a young leader with a significant support base among the youth,” said Ajay Bhatt, a BJP MP from Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dhami-to-take-oath-as-new-uttarakhand-cm-today-101625336398571.html
03-07-2021||India||Who are 'highly protected' against Delta variant of Covid? ICMR study reveals||Those who have recovered from Covid and have got either one or two doses of Covid-19 vaccine have the maximum protection against the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 Vitus, an Indian study conducted by the scientists from the Indian Council of Medical Research, National Institute of Virology, Department of Neurosurgery, Command Hospital (Southern Command), Armed Forces Medical College, Pune, has revealed. The study was only on the impact of Covishield.In the study, the immune response of 5 categories of people was evaluated-1. One dose vaccinated2. Two-dose vaccinated3. Covid recovered plus one dose vaccinated4. Covid recovered plus two doses vaccinated.5. Breakthrough cases, which mean infection after one or two doses of vaccination.The findings suggest that breakthrough cases and the cases where Covid-19 recovered individuals received one of two doses of vaccine have relatively higher protection against Delta variant in comparison with those who have never been infected but got either one or two doses of the vaccine."Prior vaccination results in less severe disease against subsequent infection provide evidence that both humoral and cellular immune response play an important role in protection," the study said. The study also mentions Delta Plus (AY.1), the new variant of Delta, which has been reported from India and many other countries.Explaining how variants might impact the efficacy of vaccines, the study said, "The worldwide endeavour of scientists to create a safe and effective COVID19 vaccine has resulted in the availability of 18 vaccines, which have received Emergency Use Authorization. The vaccines available against SARS-CoV-2, have shown efficacy ranging from 51 % to 94% against the original strain D614G in phase 3 clinical trials. Immune response to SARS-CoV-2 infection involves innate immune activation and antigen-specific responses of B and T cells. Particularly, the questions about the immune escape of, newly emerging VOCs in vaccinated individuals are still being explored. For example, the efficacy of AZD1222, which was reported to be 70% in the UK and Brazil, only reached 22% in South Africa."Those who have once been infected are supposed to develop natural antibodies, for which the government has suggested that they should delay their vaccination. But the study reveals that the natural protection can be augmented by even one dose of vaccine against the Delta variant."Long-term follow-up of participants could help understand the impact of natural infection and vaccination on long-term protection from SARS-CoV-2 offered by Covishield. It is important to track the breakthrough infections to look for unexpected changes. Monitoring of breakthrough infection would make us understand the impact of new variant or VOC on the escape of vaccine-induced immunity. Data has shown again and again that if the individuals get infected post-vaccination, had been protected from severe disease," the study said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-are-highly-protected-against-delta-variant-icmr-study-reveals-101625331724894.html
03-07-2021||India||Getting Covid-19 vaccine at a private centre? All you need to know||As India's vaccination drive against Covid is going on at full throttle, private hospitals too are now vaccinating people. The government has imposed a price cap as well as a dose cap for private hospitals, which has come into effect from July 1. Private hospitals have a quota of 25 per cent vaccine of the total vaccines produced by the manufacturers after the Centre procures the 75% of it.Several cases of fake vaccination have been reported in the recent past from Mumbai and Kolkata. Here is a checklist if you are getting vaccinated at a private hospital.1. Prior registration on Co-Win is not mandatory for private hospitals as the government has allowed private hospitals to accept on-spot registration.2. But registration on Co-Win is mandatory before the administration of the vaccine.3. For vaccination availability in any nearby private hospital, one can check the Co-Win site as private hospitals have to register on Co-Win.4. Beneficiaries will receive a message soon after the administration of the 1st dose. The fake vaccine cases were detected as the beneficiaries did not receive any SMS.5. Private hospitals can't charge more than ₹780 for one dose of Covishield, ₹1,145 for one dose of Sputnik V and ₹1,410 for one dose of Covaxin.6. If you are getting vaccinated at housing societies where the vaccine is to be supplied from a private hospital, check if the private hospital is registered on Co-Win.7. To verify the vaccine certificate, go to verify.cowin.gov.in and scan the QR code of the vaccination certificate on this site. If the certificate is not genuine, a 'certificate invalid' message will be displayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/getting-vaccinated-against-covid-19-at-a-private-hospital-all-you-need-to-know-101625330836373.html
03-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Trinamool lawmaker faces flak after administering vaccine and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.TMC leader allegedly administers Covid-19 vaccine, draws flak“I never pushed the injection. I just posed with the syringe to take a picture so that it could encourage others,” the lawmaker said. Read more here.Taapsee Pannu defends reposting tweet with abusive language, slams 'personal digs' in Haseen Dillruba reviewActor Taapsee Pannu has tweeted about the reviews for her film Haseen Dillruba and said that a critic was a 'troller' for taking 'personal digs' at her. Read more here. 'It's nice to get that confidence': Moeen Ali explains how MS Dhoni 'backed' him during IPL 2021Moeen was a big success for CSK as he scored 206 runs in 6 matches at an average of 34.33. Moeen’s strike rate of more than 157 was also impressive. Read more here. Are you a Reliance Jio user? Now, get data without paying; know how to get this prepaid recharge plan benefitThis new Reliance Jio prepaid recharge plan is exactly what the users need when they are in trouble. Read more here. ‘Congress stands vindicated’: Surjewala on Rafale deal probe, BJP responds||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-trinamool-lawmaker-faces-flak-after-administering-vaccine-and-all-the-latest-news-101625325476786.html
03-07-2021||India||Covid 3rd wave might be a ‘ripple’: IIT scientists project 3 scenarios||As India and 96 other countries are currently dealing with the Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus (Covid-19), and a possible advent of a third wave, a recent study by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur has projected that the wave will be a “ripple” only if there is no significantly rapidly spreading mutant, news agency ANI reported.According to the ‘Sutra’ model for Covid-19, put together by a team of scientists from the IIT-Kanpur, if a faster-spreading mutant of the SARs-CoV-2 is present, then the magnitude of the probable third wave will be “comparable to the first one.”Maninder Agarwal, professor of IIT Kanpur, who is part of the ‘Sutra’ team, said that they have put forward three scenarios pertaining to the third wave of Covid-19, according to the ANI report.Agarwal told ANI that the team has projected an “optimistic” scenario where people’s lives presumably go “back to normal by August,” without the presence of any further mutant of the virus. The second scenario is the intermediate one where it is assumed that Covid-19 vaccination is “20 per cent less effective in addition to optimistic scenarios.” The third scenario is the pessimistic one, he told ANI, where a new 25 per cent more infectious mutant spreads in August.The ‘Sutra’ analysis put forth that if there is a presence of an immunity escape mutant, all the three scenarios will be nullified.“First, loss of immunity in the recovered population, second vaccination-induced immunity. Each of these two needs to be estimated for the future. And third, how to incorporate the two in the model,” ANI quoted Agarwal as saying while explaining the immunity escape mutant.The study projections come amid the World Health Organisation (WHO) warning on Friday that the world is witnessing a very “dangerous period” owing to the rapidly-spreading Delta variant of coronavirus. Talking to the media at a press briefing, WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that the Delta variant – first identified in India, is now present in at least 98 nations and is fast becoming the dominant strain in many of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-3rd-wave-might-be-a-ripple-iit-scientists-project-3-scenarios-101625322822664.html
03-07-2021||India||Covaxin’s efficacy result will help in getting WHO’s approval, says govt expert body chief||Covaxin’s recently published efficacy results will help the vaccine in getting the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) emergency approval, the chairperson of National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation in India (NTAGI), Dr NK Arora said on Saturday.“This will help to get the vaccine WHO emergency use listing,” Arora told news agency ANI.India’s first indigenously developed vaccine, Covaxin, has demonstrated an efficacy of 77.8% against symptomatic Covid-19 and 93.4% against severe disease. Bharat Biotech, its manufacturer, has announced its phase 3 clinical trials, which is yet to be peer-reviewed.“Efficacy analysis demonstrates Covaxin to be 77.8% effective against symptomatic Covid-19, through evaluation of 130 confirmed cases, with 24 observed in the vaccine group versus 106 in the placebo group. Efficacy analysis demonstrates Covaxin to be 93.4% effective against severe symptomatic Covid-19,” the manufacturer said in a paper published in open access journal medRxiv.The Phase 3 trials were carried out in 130 symptomatic Covid-19 cases, in 25 sites across the country. Based on the results collected at least two weeks after the administration of the second dose, Bharat Biotech concluded that its jab is offering 63.6% protection against asymptomatic disease, and 65.2% protection against the Sars-Cov-2, B.1.617.2 Delta variant.The NTAGI chairman also said Covaxin’s approval from WHO will bring visibility to India since it is indigenously developed. Covaxin was developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), from an isolated viral strain provided by the National Institute of Virology (NIV).Suchitra Ella, joint managing director of Bharat Biotech, tweeted on June 30 that the company is working closely with WHO for emergency listing."We are working closely with the World Health Organisation for inclusion of Covaxin in its Emergency Use Listing. Approval from WHO is not expected to be a long drawn process as the cell line and majority of our facilities have already been audited and approved by WHO for our other vaccines in the past," Ella tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxins-efficacy-result-will-help-in-getting-who-s-approval-says-govt-expert-body-chief-101625319210458.html
03-07-2021||India||BMC to demolish part of Amitabh Bachchan's bungalow Prateeksha: Report||A few years ago, Amitabh Bachchan and seven others, including Rajkumar Hirani, Oberoi Realty, Pankaj Balaji, Sanjay Vyas, Haresh Khandelwal and Haresh Jagtani, were served notice by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation for "illegal construction". The issue has now been raked up by Congress councillor advocate Tulip Brian Miranda who has accused the civic body of dragging its feet in taking action against the Bachchan property. The councillor said no appeal is required after service notice for a road-widening project. But the BMC did not take any action.Now, the civic body has started following up on its 2017 notice and will soon demolish a part of Prateeksha, the first bungalow of the Bachchans in Mumbai, news agency ANI reported. The Bachchans have another bungalow in the city named 'Jalsa'.Mumbai’s drinking water stock can last for 65 days: BMC"BMC gave notice to Amitabh Bachchan in 2017 under road widening policy but no action was taken. When the notice is issued, why was that land not taken by BMC? No appeal required for road widening project after notice served," the councillor told news agency ANI.According to reports, Bachchan and others were issued Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices in 2016-2017 as they apparently made changes in the main map."Had it belonged to a common person, the BMC would have taken it immediately. Then why was the land not taken under Section 299 of the Municipal Act notice that says you don't have to wait for a second notice of appeal?" Tulip said.The report said that the civic body has instructed Mumbai suburban collector city survey official to demarcate the exact portion of the bungalow required for the widening of the Sant Dnyaneshwar Marg road, which connects the Chandan Cinema area to Link Roar towards Iskcon temple.The road widening project is crucial to ease traffic congestion in the area, but the work is stuck because of Prateeksha, the councillor alleged. "I wrote to the BMC in Feb 2021. I did not receive a reply so I had a telephonic conversation with the ward officer and wrote to the commissioner but still did not receive a reply. This is a very necessary project because there are two schools, a hospital, an ISKCON temple, and monuments in Mumbai are around. The road winding project has been suddenly stopped just because of Amitabh Bachchan's Bungalow," she added.The councillor mentioned that other plots required for the project were acquired by the civic body. The wall of the plot adjoining Bachchan's bungalow was taken and drainage was created, she said.In 2020 September, the civic body demolished part of actor Kangana Ranaut's office against which the Bombay high court later termed as 'wrongful'.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-to-demolish-part-of-amitabh-bachchan-s-juhu-bungalow-pratiksha-report-101625316026148.html
03-07-2021||India||Ravi Shankar Prasad praises Google, Facebook and Instagram. Here's why||Social media giant Facebook claimed to have taken action against 30 million content pieces between May 15 and June 15. Google said it has removed 59,350 pieces of content and Instagram is believed to have taken action against about two million content pieces during the same period of time. This is a big step towards transparency, information and technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Twitter, while the microblogging platform has fallen out of favour with the government."Nice to see significant social media platforms like Google, Facebook and Instagram following the new IT Rules. First compliance report on voluntary removal of offensive posts published by them as per IT Rules is a big step towards transparency," the minister tweeted.Nice to see significant social media platforms like Google, Facebook and Instagram following the new IT Rules. First compliance report on voluntary removal of offensive posts published by them as per IT Rules is a big step towards transparency. pic.twitter.com/FhzUv4pHUpThis removal of content is not prodded by the government or any other constitutional authority. This falls under voluntary removal of offensive posts and the social media intermediaries with over 5 million users, under the new IT rules, are required to publish periodic compliance reports every month.Koo, the home-grown competition of San Francisco-headquartered Twitter, also submitted its report stating it has proactively moderated 54,235 content pieces, while 5,502 posts were reported by its users during June.The new IT rules have become a flashpoint in the ongoing tussle between the government and Twitter as Twitter is still working to comply with the rules beyond the deadline. On Saturday, it informed the Delhi high court that it is finalising the appointment of a new resident grievance office in India. Early in June, Twitter appointed Dharmedra Chatur in the post but he resigned later in the month following which the company appointed Jeremy Kessel. Since Jeremy is a US national, it violates the new IT rules.Apart from the issue of the IT rules, Twitter has recently come under fire for showing an incorrect map of India on the site and for blocking IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad's Twitter account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ravi-shankar-prasad-praises-google-facebook-and-instagram-here-s-why-101625313070069.html
03-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rahul Gandhi's 'witty' take over Rafale deal probe and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rahul Gandhi has a witty take on Rafale deal probe. It's a dig at PM ModiCongress leader Rahul Gandhi is ready with his witty jibe at the government after a French judge on Friday was tasked to lead a "highly sensitive" judicial investigation into Rafale fighter jet deal with India. Read MoreNGT seeks inventory of Goa’s coastal structures to identify illegal constructionThe National Green Tribunal has asked the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority to get an inventory of all structures falling within the Coastal Regulation Zone prepared based on an independent annual survey. Read MoreWorld in ‘dangerous period’ as Delta variant continues to mutate, warns WHOThe world is witnessing a very “dangerous period” compounded by the rapid transmission of the Delta variant of coronavirus, World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has warned. Read MoreTamannaah Bhatia is sexy beyond words in shimmery bodycon gown for MasterChef shootActor Tamannaah Bhatia is cooking up a storm with a glamorous photoshoot from the sets of her new show MasterChef Telugu, and the internet cannot keep calm. Read More'Priyanka Chopra has gone from nationalist to secular puppy', says Kangana RanautActor Priyanka Chopra has been targeted by Kangana Ranaut once again. Read MoreDaughter puts stickers on mom’s face, asks ‘do you wuv it’. Watch cute videoIf you’re looking for a happy video, then this clip of a baby hanging out with her mom may just do the trick. Read MoreCheck out all the new games coming with the Xbox Game Pass in JulyXbox has new games available as a part of the Xbox Game Pass for the first half of July. Nine new games have been added the service. Read MoreBMW Motorrad to unveil its new electric scooter on July 7BMW Motorrad has announced that it will unveil its new electric vehicle on July 7. Read MoreWhy Indian economy needs Central Vista project | HT InsightIn the recent episode of HT Insight, Hindustan Times' Editor-in-chief, Sukumar Ranganathan explains why the Indian economy needs the Central Vista project and a rebuttal to its detractors. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rahul-gandhi-s-witty-take-over-rafale-deal-probe-and-all-the-latest-news-101625309666328.html
03-07-2021||India||Heat wave has abated from plains in northwest India, says IMD; projects fall in maximum temperature||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday that heat wave conditions have abated from the plains in northwest India, adding that no heat wave conditions are likely in the region over the next five days.Also Read: Respite for Delhi as 4th day of heatwave ends with showers“As predicted, heat wave conditions have abated from the plains of northwest India with the occurrence of only isolated heat waves over Haryana and Delhi yesterday. Yesterday, fairly widespread rainfall has occurred over Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and adjoining parts of west Uttar Pradesh due to a western disturbance bringing respite from the prevailing heatwave conditions,” the IMD tweeted, referring to heavy rains that lashed Delhi and its adjoining areas on Friday.♦As predicted, Heat Wave conditions has abated from the plains of Northwest India with occurrence of only isolated heat wave over Haryana yesterday. Yesterday, Fairly widespread rainfall has occurred over Punjab, Haryana, DelhiThe weather department further said that on Saturday, the maximum temperatures over the plains of northwest India are likely to fall by 3-4 degrees Celsius. “No significant change is likely thereafter. Subsequently, no heat wave conditions are likely over the region during the next five days,” it said.♦Maximum Temperatures over the plains of Northwest India are likely to fall by 3-4°C today and no significant change is likely thereafter. Subsequently, no heat wave conditions are likely over the region during next 5 days.The IMD had earlier issued a heatwave alert for July 1 and 2.On Friday evening, residents of the national capital and nearby areas got some much-needed relief after a week of scorching heat as rain led to a 12-degree drop in temperature in the city, IMD officials said. However, as the daytime temperature remained high, it meant that Delhi saw a heatwave for the fourth straight day. At the Safdarjung weather station, considered as the marker for the city, maximum temperature was recorded at 41 degrees Celsius.Also Read: Central Delhi India's second-most rain-deficient district, IMD data showsIn the plains, IMD declares a heatwave when the maximum temperature crosses 40 degrees Celsius. A “severe” heat wave occurs when the maximum temperature is 6.5 degrees Celsius or above from the normal temperature.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heat-wave-has-abated-from-plains-in-northwest-india-says-imd-projects-fall-in-maximum-temperature-101625310211600.html
03-07-2021||India||NGT seeks inventory of Goa’s coastal structures to identify illegal construction||The National Green Tribunal has asked the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority to get an inventory of all structures falling within the Coastal Regulation Zone prepared based on an independent annual survey.Pulling up the GCZMA for “working only on the basis of complaints against illegal structures” the NGT has sought that the Goa authority set up “an effective monitoring mechanism to advance the rule of law”.“We may add that GCZMA appears to be working only on the basis of complaints against illegal structures and a large number of illegal structures continue to exist in spite of the directions of the High Court… It may be desirable to have an inventory prepared in respect of such structures based on an independent annual survey, to be updated periodically to avoid selective action against the violations of the CRZ,” the NGT bench led by chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel, said. “An effective monitoring mechanism needs to be set up by GCZMA to advance the rule of law,” the NGT bench added.Back in 2007, the Bombay high court at Goa took suo motu cognizance of the existence of a large number of structures within the CRZ zone that were said to be illegal and asked each village panchayat to submit action taken reports.However, several structures remain standing with no comprehensive list of violators and no action being taken and cases reaching the doors of the NGT only periodically.The GCZMA admitted that absence of a comprehensive list of illegal structures was making it difficult for the authority to act. Authority member secretary Dasharath Redkar said that the NGT’s directions will be placed before the full body and a decision will be taken.Environmental campaigner Judith Almeida said the NGT’s directions were a welcome move but it remained to be seen what action the GCZMA takes concerning the structures.“My experience has been that instead of trying to regulate the coast of illegal structures and protect the environment, the GCZMA has been trying to protect the encroaches instead. The body has been dragging its feet on acting against illegalities. Perhaps the NGT is aware of this, which has prompted these directions,” Almeida said.“We have to pursue this matter, else nothing will happen,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-seeks-inventory-of-goa-s-coastal-structures-to-identify-illegal-construction-101625310477229.html
03-07-2021||India||‘Vindicated,’ says Congress over probe into Rafale deal in France||The Congress on Saturday claimed it has been vindicated after French online journal Mediapart reported that a judge in France will probe into suspected “corruption and favouritism” in the ₹59,000 crore Rafale deal with India for 36 fighter jets.Randeep Surjewala, the Congress’s chief spokesperson, cited the latest development and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi must “submit” its government to a probe by a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC). Congress has made this demand earlier as well.Surjewala described the development as “a scandalous expose of Rafale scam” that has led to “loss to public exchequer”. “The French have ordered an investigation into the Rafale deal for corruption and influence peddling. The sweetheart deal is now exposed. It calls for a thorough JPC probe. Will the PM (Prime Minister) answer to the nation and when will the government submit to a JPC probe?” he asked.Surjewala maintained that it is not a Congress versus Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) issue, but a matter related to national security. Mediapart reported the “highly sensitive probe into the inter-governmental deal signed in 2016 was formally opened on June 14”. It said the development was confirmed by the Financial Crimes Branch of the French Public Prosecution Services on Friday.The French website carried a series of reports on alleged irregularities in the Rafale deal in April.In one of the reports, Mediapart claimed that the former head of the Financial Crimes Branch, Éliane Houlette, shelved an investigation into alleged evidence of corruption in the Rafale jet deal despite the objection of colleagues. It said Houlette justified her decision saying it was made to preserve “the interests of France, the workings of institutions.”“Now, her successor as head of the PNF, Jean-François Bohnert, has decided to support the opening of a probe, after the complaint was updated with details from Mediapart’s recent series of investigations,” Mediapart’s latest report said.The criminal investigation, Mediapart said, will “examine questions surrounding the actions” of former French president François Hollande, who was in office when the Rafale deal was inked, his successor, Emmanuel Macron, the then economy and finance minister, and foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian, who held the defence portfolio then.India ordered Rafale jets in September 2016 as an emergency purchase through a government-to-government deal. The deal became controversial. The Opposition, led by the Congress, has claimed the price at which India was buying Rafale aircraft now is ₹1,670 crore for each, three times the initial bid of ₹526 crore by the company when the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government was trying to buy the aircraft. It has also claimed the previous deal included a technology transfer agreement with Hindustan Aeronautics Limited.The government has not disclosed details of the price. It has said the deal struck by the UPA in 2012 was not a viable one, implying that it would have never been closed and that, therefore, any comparison is moot. The UPA was unable to close the deal till 2014, largely over discussions related to the pricing of items not included in the initial bid.There was no immediate response from the government or the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vindicated-says-congress-over-probe-into-rafale-deal-in-france-101625310177080.html
03-07-2021||India||Pushkar Singh Dhami elected as new Uttarakhand chief minister||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) announced on Saturday that Pushkar Singh Dhami will be the new chief minister of Uttarakhand, succeeding Tirath Singh Rawat, who stepped down from the post on Friday. Dhami, who is an MLA from the Khatima assembly constituency in the hill state's Udham Singh Nagar district, was elected after a BJP legislature party meeting in Dehradun, which was chaired by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Also Read: Who is Pushkar Singh Dhami, Uttarakhand's 3rd chief minister in 4 months?"My party has appointed a common worker, the son of an ex-serviceman, who was born in Pithoragarh, to serve the state. We'll work together for people's welfare. We accept the challenge of serving people with the help of others, in a short time span," the new chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI, after being elected to the post. He will take oath later today.My party has appointed a common worker, son of an ex-serviceman, who was born in Pithoragarh to serve the state. We'll work together for people's welfare. We accept the challenge of serving people with the help of others, in a short time span: Pushkar Singh Dhami#Uttarakhand pic.twitter.com/czeQOR6Ob3Dhami is Uttarakhand's third chief minister in nearly four months. Tirath Singh Rawat, who was sworn-in on March 10 as the successor to Trivendra Singh Rawat, resigned amid uncertainty over by-polls which he required to win to continue in office. Tirath Singh Rawat, who is a Lok Sabha MP from Garhwal, had time till September 10 to be elected as a member of the state assembly. However, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has the option to not conduct by-polls if the remaining term of the assembly is less than a year. Under this scenario, he would not have been able to continue as the chief minidter.Uttarakhand is likely to go to polls early next year. In the 2017 assembly elections, the BJP won 57 out of the state's 70 assembly constituencies after which Trivendra Singh Rawat was appointed as the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pushkar-singh-dhami-elected-as-new-uttarakhand-chief-minister-101625307540556.html
03-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi has a witty take on Rafale deal probe. It's a dig at PM Modi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is ready with his witty jibe at the government after a French judge on Friday was tasked to lead a "highly sensitive" judicial investigation into Rafale fighter jet deal with India. A French investigative website Mediapart said the probe has been ordered to check the alleged "corruption and favouritism" in the ₹59,000 crore deal between France and India.Taking to Twitter, Gandhi shared the Hindi idiom "Chor ki daadhi mein tinka" which translates to a guilty conscience needs no accuser.चोर की दाढ़ी…#RafaleScamIn his previous digs, Gandhi used the term 'thief' to corner the prime minister. After he was pulled up the Supreme Court, the Congress leader said he will stand by his “Chowkidar Chor Hai” jibe as it is a reality and continue using the slogan against PM Modi. However, he apologised to the Supreme Court as he felt he had made a mistake.“There is a process is going on in the Supreme Court and I made a comment attributed to SC so I apologised. I did not apologise to the BJP or Modi ji. ‘Chowkidar Chor Hai’ will remain our slogan,” he said.The Wayanad MP's campaign theme in 2019 Lok Sabha elections focused on the alleged irregularities in the Rafale deal and he coined the “Chowkidar chor hai” slogan directed at PM Modi.The controversy around the acquisition of Rafale fighter jets by India is set to be sparked again with the probe ordered in France as Congress has termed the development a vindication to the charges levelled by Rahul Gandhi.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala urged the Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come forward and order a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) probe into the Rafale deal."Corruption in the Rafale deal has come out clearly now. The stand of the Congress party and Rahul Gandhi has been vindicated today after the French government has ordered a probe," he said addressing the reporters.The Congress has demanded a Joint Parliamentary Committee probe into the Rafale deal, saying it is the only way forward to find the truth about "corruption" in the purchase of the fighter jets.The Congress' demand came after French investigative website Mediapart reported that a French judge has been appointed to lead a "highly sensitive" judicial investigation into alleged "corruption and favouritism" in the ₹59,000 crore Rafale fighter jet deal with India.The French publication has said that the probe into the inter-governmental deal signed in 2016 was formally opened on June 14."A judicial probe into suspected corruption has been opened in France over the 7.8-billion-euro sale to India in 2016 of 36 Dassault-built Rafale fighter aircraft," the Mediapart reported.Mediapart journalist Yann Philippin, who filed a series of reports on the deal, said a first complaint was "buried" in 2019 by a former PNF chief.The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government had inked a ₹59,000-crore deal on September 23, 2016, to procure 36 Rafale jets from French aerospace major Dassault Aviation after a nearly seven-year exercise to procure 126 Medium Multi-Role Combat Aircraft (MMRCA) for the Indian Air Force did not fructify during the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-has-a-witty-take-on-rafale-deal-probe-it-s-a-dig-at-pm-modi-101625305522739.html
03-07-2021||India||Who is Pushkar Singh Dhami, Uttarakhand's 3rd chief minister in 4 months?||Pushkar Singh Dhami on Saturday has been chosen as the next chief minister of Uttarakhand by the state BJP legislative party a day after Tirath Singh Rawat resigned from the post. About 57 BJP MLAs of the state met at the party headquarters in Dehradun today to choose the next CM of the state, which is scheduled to go to the elections next year.Born in Pithoragarh in 1975, Dhami's association with the BJP has been long as he started with the RSS and found his way in the RSS, ABVP etc. Though he is the youngest CM of the state, his association with RSS and its organisations is almost of 33 years. According to reports, the 45-year-old MLA from the Khatima constituency of the Udham Singh Nagar district has never held a ministerial position in the state cabinet. The two-time MLA has a strong sway among the youth as he remained the president of the BJP youth wing in the state twice from 2002 to 2008. Pushkar Dhami is also believed to be close to Bhagat Singh Koshyari, the present governor of Maharashtra, who also served as the chief minister of Uttarakhand for a very short stint. Pushkar Singh Dhami served as the officer on special duty when Koshyari was the CM. Dhami is also reportedly close to defence minister Rajnath Singh.खटीमा, उधम सिंह नगर से माननीय विधायक,श्री @pushkardhami जी को उत्तराखंड के विधानमंडल का नेता निर्वाचित होने पर हार्दिक बधाई एवं शुभकामनाएं। pic.twitter.com/ycyOX1F8BmFormer chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat remained the CM with the shortest stint as he did not even get the chance to speak in the Uttarakhand Assembly.Uttarakhand's 3rd CM in 4 monthsTrivendra Singh Rawat resigned in March making way for Tirath Singh Rawat, the Lok Sabha MP from Pauri Garhwal, who resigned on Friday, thus making Pushkar Singh Dhami the 3rd CM in 4 months. While there were complaints against Trivendra Singh Rawat's style of functioning, the resignation of Tirath Singh Rawat came amid uncertainty over by-polls that he was supposed to win to continue in office.Uttarakhand CMs with short stintsThe BJP has the tradition of changing the face of the chief minister in the state every time in the election year.At the time of the formation of the state (2000), Nityanand Swami was made the Chief Minister, but as soon as just before the assembly elections in 2001, Bhagat Singh Koshyari was made the CM and the party lost the election.In 2007, Major General Bhuvan Chandra Khanduri was made the CM but after 2009's Lok Sabha election results, he was replaced by Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank. Before elections, Pokhriyal was again replaced by Khanduri and the BJP lost the election.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-pushkar-singh-dhami-uttarakhand-s-3rd-chief-minister-in-4-months-101625307497342.html
03-07-2021||India||Tripura extends Corona Curfew in 9 areas witnessing rise in Covid cases||With pockets of Tripura including capital Agartala continuing to show a rise in Covid-19 cases, the government has extended the Corona Curfew for a week’s time in those nine places till July 9 beginning Saturday. Ranirbazar Municipal Council, Jirania Nagar Panchayat and Agartala Municipal Corporation in West District, Udaipur Municipal Council in Gomati District, Kailashahar Municipal Council in Unakoti district, Panisagar Nagar Panchayat and Dharmanagar Municipal Council in North District, Khowai Municipal Council in Khowai District and Belonia Municipal Council in South District are the areas were the curfew has been extended again after it was imposed first on May 16 this year in view of the surge in cases seen at the beginning of the second phase of infections. The announcement comes close on the heels of Central teams of two members each being sent to six states including Tripura that together account for, on average, 36% of the daily Covid-19 cases seen across the country in the last week ending Friday. Kerala, Arunachal Pradesh, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Manipur are the other five states. The teams will take stock of availability of hospital beds, and of logistics such as ambulances, ventilators, and medical oxygen and assess the penetration of Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Union health ministry said on Friday. These 6 states have also been asked to identify locations where the test positivity rate is above 10% or hospital occupancy is higher than 60%, and clamp them with strict restrictions for at least two weeks.409 fresh Covid-19 cases were detected in Tripura on Friday with two deaths taking the tally to 682, as per official data. The positivity rate was 5.39% on Friday. 103 of the new cases are from West district; 56 from Unakoti district; 48 in South district; 47 in Dhalai district; 45 in Gomati district; 41 in North district; 36 in Khowai district; and 33 in Sepahijala district. As on 7 am on Saturday more than 1.987 million people in Tripura have received the first dose of a Covid vaccine, while 608,325 beneficiaries have received both the doses, taking the total number of delivered doses to over 2.596 m. Over 1.8 million of these are in the 18yrs-45yrs age bracket, which is nearly 80% of the total eligible population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-extends-corona-curfew-in-9-areas-witnessing-rise-in-covid-cases-101625306697215.html
03-07-2021||India||Twitter in ‘final stages’ of appointing resident grievance officer: Report||Twitter, which was issued a notice by the Delhi high court over its alleged non-compliance with the new information technology rules, on Saturday informed the high court it is in "final stages" of appointing a new resident grievance officer, according to news agency ANI.Also Read: Delhi HC issues notice to Twitter for 'non-compliance' with new IT rulesWe are in the final stages of appointing a Resident Grievance Officer. The interim Resident Grievance Officer withdrew his candidature on June 21: Twitter Inc informs Delhi HC pic.twitter.com/SWSExrRVpPAppointing a resident grievance officer is one of several norms which Twitter and other social media platforms operating in India have to follow under the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. On June 27, Twitter's interim resident grievance officer Dharrmendra Chatur resigned from his post amid differences with the Union government over the IT Rules. The San Francisco-headquartered company then appointed US national Jeremy Kessel as its new resident grievance officer in India, which put it in violation of the new rules.Also Read: Twitter appoints American Jeremy Kessel as new grievance officer for IndiaEarlier, the complaint against Twitter was filed in the Delhi high court on May 28 by Amit Acharya, a practicing advocate at the high court and the Supreme Court. On May 31, a bench of Justice Rekha Palli issued a notice to the social media giant, giving it three weeks to reply, and posted the matter for further hearing on July 6.Also Read: Plea filed against Twitter in Delhi High Court over non-compliance of new rulesThe new IT Rules were announced on February 25 and social media companies, including Twitter, had time till May 25 to comply. Twitter, however, found itself engaged in a faceoff with the Centre over the guidelines. In recent days, it has also been in the news for various other reasons. These include the Uttar Pradesh Police for summoning Twitter India managing director Manish Maheshwari for questioning in connection with an alleged hate crime which the police say, had no communal angle to it. Last week, it was in the news for posting an incorrect map of India on its website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-in-final-stages-of-appointing-resident-grievance-officer-report-101625303719148.html
03-07-2021||India||Mayawati criticizes Congress govt for factionalism in Punjab||In a series of tweets, Mayawati said that the people of the Congress government and should vote for BSP-Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in the next Assembly polls."Congress government is responsible for poor management of industry-business, agriculture, farming in Punjab. All of this has been badly affected due to power crisis in State. Ruling government is only engaged in factionalism, tussle and conflict. Public needs to take its cognizance," said Mayawati in a tweet.The BSP chief requested people to make sure they form the government with a full majority in Punjab."Therefore, for the better future of Punjab and the well-being of its people, lies in the fact that they get rid of the Congress government and I request to all, that in the upcoming assembly make sure Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and BSP alliance form the government with full majority," she added.Amid the infighting with its Punjab unit, Congress has held several meetings over the past few weeks to resolve factionalism and other problems.Meanwhile, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal supported Mayawati's statement and said that the Congress leaders in Punjab are not concerned for the farmers and the common man."Bahenji Mayawati has rightly pointed out that Congress leaders in Punjab are only interested in fighting for the spoils of office and that concerns of people including paddy farmers and common man who are facing power cuts are of no concern to them," Badal said.Earlier on June 12, SAD and BSP formed an alliance to contest the upcoming Punjab Assembly elections together. Out of 117 seats in the Punjab Assembly, BSP will contest on 20 seats and SAD will contest the remaining 97 seats.The Assembly elections in Punjab are scheduled to take place next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mayawati-criticizes-congress-govt-for-factionalism-in-punjab-101625300540638.html
03-07-2021||India||Delta symptoms may differ from traditional Covid symptoms, claims study||Loss of smell may not be the main symptom of a Covid patient, if he or she is infected by the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 as the new variant, which is on its way to becoming predominant across the world, is believed to have brought in some changes in the symptoms, a study conducted by Australia's Griffith University has revealed. As published in The Conversation, Lara Herrero, research leader in virology and infectious diseases of the university, has said the data they have worked with were mostly from the United Kingdom and collected through a self-reporting system. Lara also mentioned that the study did not take into account which participant is infected with which variant but as the Delta variant is at present the predominant one in the UK, it's a "safe bet the symptoms we see here reflect the Delta variant," she wrote.What is the Delta variant?Delta variant, first reported in India in 2020, is an emerging variant of the Covid-19 virus which has now spread to close to 100 countries. It is believed to be stronger and more transmissible than the Alpa variant, first reported from the UK. Among the four variants reported so far -- Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta, Delta is believed to be more virulent.What are the changes in symptoms?Lara Herrero wrote a runny nose is a new symptom that might be caused by the Delta variant as it was rarely reported as a symptom in earlier data, while loss of smell that was quite common earlier ranks ninth now. According to her, the current top five symptoms of Covid-19 are:1. Headache2,. Sore throat3. Runny nose4. Fever5. Persistent cough.Why have the symptoms changed?The research highlighted several possible reasons behind this change, including that of the evolution of the virus. But she also takes into account that these mild symptoms are possibly reported by younger people as senior citizens in the United Kingdom are now mostly covered by vaccination."Humans are dynamic. With our differences come different immune systems. This means the same virus can produce different signs and symptoms in different ways. A sign is something that’s seen, such as a rash. A symptom is something that’s felt, like a sore throat...So when we talk about the signs and symptoms of a virus, we’re referring to what is most common. To ascertain this, we have to collect information from individual cases," the researcher said.Delta in IndiaThe second wave of the pandemic in India in April-May has been attributed largely to the Delta variant. About 174 districts in 35 states of the country have reported Delta variants. States have now reported a new variant of Delta which is Delta Plus.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-symptoms-may-differ-from-traditional-covid-symptoms-claims-study-101625303823128.html
03-07-2021||India||'Never a part of CM race': Trivendra Singh Rawat says as his name does the round||Ahead of the BJP's legislature party meeting to choose the new chief minister of Uttarakhand after Tirath Singh Rawat's resignation, senior leader Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday put the ball in the party leadership's court. "Neither was I part of the race earlier, nor today. The legislative party leader will be elected at the meeting today," Trivendra Singh Rawat, a former chief minister, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Tirath Singh Rawat stepped down late on Friday just four months after he was given the post by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). He took over the charge from Trivendra Singh Rawat who was Uttarakhand's CM from March 2017 but had to leave the role as BJP sought his exit.Also read | From Satpal Maharaj to Trivendra Rawat: List of probable CM faces in UttarakhandSeveral MLAs were said to be unhappy with Trivendra Singh Rawat, who allegedly kept many of his cabinet member colleagues out of the decision-making process, BJP leaders told HT. The discontent was developing and things gathered pace in February. Earlier this year, 13 legislators wrote to the BJP’s central leadership against Trivendra Singh Rawat’s work style, accusing him of not listening to them.And, his successor Tirath Singh Rawat’s resignation ended a controversial stint that was supposed to help the party revive its popularity in the state. Tirath Singh Rawat drew flak for allowing the Mahakumbh as Covid-19 cases were on the rise and also because of large-scale fraud in testing during the mega fair.On Friday night, 57-year-old Rawat resigned citing that Election Commission (EC) was unlikely to hold by-elections due to Covid-19. But an EC official indicated that no request was made to hold a by-poll and suggested there were precedents that may have permitted it. A chief minister, if not a member of the assembly, needs to be elected within six months of assuming the post. The EC does not typically hold by-polls to vacant constituencies when an assembly’s remaining term is less than a year.Also read: Uttarakhand BJP meeting today after Tirath Singh Rawat's resignationThe BJP is set to hold its legislature party meeting to be chaired by state unit president Madan Kaushik on Saturday to name a new leader and all its MLAs have been asked to attend it.Assembly elections are due in the state in March-April next year. The BJP has 56 members in the 70-member House, while the Congress has 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-a-part-of-cm-race-trivendra-singh-rawat-says-as-his-name-does-the-round-101625298432375.html
03-07-2021||India||ED conducts raids in connection with religious conversions||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday carried out raids at six locations in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh in connection with the alleged forced religious conversions involving key accused Mohammad Umar Gautam, officials said. The Anti-Terrorist Squad of Uttar Pradesh last month arrested Gautam and his associate Mufti Qazi Jahangir Qasim, both residents of Jamia Nagar in Delhi, and claimed that they were running a “mass conversion racket” across India. Police have said the accused persons allegedly received funding from international organisations and targeted specially-abled children and other vulnerable groups for conversion to Islam. They were allegedly involved in the conversion of over 1,000 people over the past 18 months, Uttar Pradesh police claimed last month. Pakistan’s spy agency Inter-services Intelligence is also alleged to have funded them. The authorities have said they came to know about the group in June following the arrest of two Muslim men who tried to enter a temple complex in the Dasna area of Ghaziabad district pretending to be HindusOn the basis of the Uttar Pradesh police’s case against the accused, the ED launched a money-laundering probe and carried out raids on Saturday. In Delhi, the ED teams raided three places including the office of Islamic Dawah Centre and residences of Gautam and Qasmi. In Uttar Pradesh, ED searched offices of Al Hassan Education & Welfare Foundation and Guidance Education & Welfare Society in Lucknow. These organisations, ED said, were run by Gautam and have been playing an instrumental role in carrying out conversions. The central agency said it recovered several “incriminating documents” on Saturday “which reveal large-scale conversion carried out by accused Umar Gautam and his organisations all over India”. “The documents also reveal several crores of foreign funding received by the accused organisations for the purpose of illegal conversions,” said an officer, who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-conducts-raids-in-connection-with-religious-conversions-101625301236770.html
03-07-2021||India||ED raids 6 locations across Delhi, UP in religious conversion PMLA case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday conducted raids in at least six places in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh in connection with a recent allegation regarding deaf students and poor people being forcibly converted to Islam with funds from abroad. Officials familiar with the development confirmed that the raids were conducted at various locations in the national capital and the adjoining state.Several incriminating documents have been recovered during the raids, HT has learnt, which reveal the large-scale religious conversion carried out by the chief accused, Mohammad Umar Gautam, and his organisations all over India. The documents also reveal several crores of foreign funding received by the accused organisations for the purpose of these illegal conversions.Earlier, the UP Police's Anti Terror Squad (ATS) had arrested Umar Gautam, who allegedly ran the Islamic Dawah Centre (IDC) outfit, and his associate, Mufti Qazi Jahangir Alam Qasmi -- both residents of Jamia Nagar in Delhi. The police claimed that this outfit received funds from Pakistan's inter-services intelligence (ISI) and other foreign agencies to carry out religious conversions.The locations in Delhi, searched by ED officials on Saturday, include the office of the IDC, and as well as the residences of Mohammad Umar Gautam and Mufti Qazi Jahangir Qasmi. All of these places are located at Jamia Nagar in the city.In Uttar Pradesh, the ED raided the offices of the Al Hassan Education and Welfare Foundation and the Guidance Education and Welfare Society, both located at Lucknow. These organisations are run by Umar Gautam and have been playing an instrumental role in carrying out these alleged illegal conversions, officials said.The case was unearthed by the Uttar Pradesh's Police's ATS last month, following which the ED lodged a criminal case under the provisions of the stringent Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), before launching its own probe in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-raids-6-locations-across-delhi-up-in-religious-conversion-pmla-case-101625297721056.html
03-07-2021||India||Anganwadis in Kerala to be completely electrified soon||All anganwadi centres in Kerala will be completely electrified soon, thanks to a significant decision taken by the Left government in the state. A recent meeting, attended by Health-Women and Child Development minister Veena George and Power Minister K Krishnankutty, decided to completely electrify all childcare centres as part of plans to improve the infrastructure facilities here.According to the state Social Justice Department figures, there are 33,115 anganwadi centres functioning in Kerala. Of them, 2256 centres in various districts are yet to get the power supply, an official statement said here. The anganwadis, which are not electrified even after the wiring works are completed, would be provided the connection on a war footing, it said. Details of those buildings, where the wiring process was progressing, should be handed over to the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) within one month after completing the pending works. KSEB would allot electric post free of cost to those anganwadis, if it is necessary for its electrification process, after including them in concerned schemes.There are 221 angandwadis which are facing fund crunch to meet the expenditure of electrification and respective village panchayats would extend them necessary support in this regard, it said.Besides ministers, secretaries of both departments, district collectors and panchayat presidents were also among those took part in the ministerial meeting on Thursday, the statement added. According to government figures, over 18,000 anganwadis are functioning in their own building in Kerala. While 20,837 centres have toilet facilities, over 19,000 have cooking gas connection, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anganwadis-in-kerala-to-be-completely-electrified-soon-101625294696432.html
03-07-2021||India||Covid-19 this week: Covaxin's efficacy, Moderna in India to 120 mn vaccine doses||From promising 120 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines for July, to witnessing the clearance of the fourth jab against coronavirus, India saw progress in its fight against the deadly infectious disease this week. However, the country also crossed a grim milestone as the death toll from Covid-19 in India surpassed the 400,000 mark on Sunday. Reports, however, have indicated that the death toll from the country's second wave appears to be significantly higher than the official figures recorded. The government has also abstained from suggesting that India has turned a corner in its fight against viral contagion and said that the second wave is not yet over.Don't lower guard: Health ministryHealth ministry officials have spotlighted the need to vaccinate against Covid-19 and following the safety protocols like wearing the mask and maintaining social distance, suggesting that lowering of guard could spell trouble. "The second wave of Covid-19 is not over yet," joint secretary of health ministry Lav Agarwal said.Covaxin demonstrates 93.4% efficacyBharat Biotech's Covaxin has demonstrated 77.8% efficacy against symptomatic Covid-19 and 93.4% against severe disease, a final analysis of the efficacy of the vaccine from phase 3 clinical trials published in a pre-print study revealed.Centre rushes teams to 6 statesAfter identifying the top hotspots of Covid-19 in the country, the Centre on Friday sent multi-disciplinary teams to Kerala, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Manipur in view of a high number of Covid-19 cases being reported daily by these states.Relief for pregnant womenNot only is the Covid-19 vaccine safe for pregnant women, but they also protect their unborn children from the disease, the Union health ministry said on Friday. "Women who are pregnant can now take the coronavirus vaccine, the health ministry said expanding the eligibility criteria.India asks EU members to accept Covishield, CovaxinIndia on Wednesday asked the European Union (EU) member states to accept Covid-19 vaccines authorised by the World Health Organization or national authorities, such as Covishield and Covaxin, for Indian nationals travelling to Europe. Non-acceptance, India said, will be followed with a policy of reciprocity and exempt EU nationals possessing the “green pass” from mandatory quarantine only if the bloc does this, officials said.44.9 lakh Covid-19 vaccines in the next 3 days: GovtA total of 44.9 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses will be shared with states and the Union territories over the weekend, health ministry officials said on Friday.SC on ex-gratia for Covid-19 familiesThe government will have to frame uniform guidelines on ex-gratia payments to the kin of those who succumbed to Covid-19 within six weeks, Supreme Court directed on Wednesday. The court noted that Prime Minister-headed National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) “failed to perform its statutory duty” by not envisaging a compensation scheme.Count deaths within 2-3 months of testing positive as Covid-19 deaths: SCIn a significant judgment on Covid-19, the Supreme Court on Wednesday said people who died within two to three months after testing Covid-19 positive should be counted among the deaths caused by the viral infection. The court directed the central government to incorporate this benchmark in its official guidelines for recording coronavirus fatalities.PM Modi lauds contribution of doctorsPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday lauded the contribution of doctors in saving lives from coronavirus disease and said his government has given maximum thrust on augmenting the healthcare infrastructure in the country.In his address at an Indian Medical Association event on National Doctor's Day, PM Modi said India saved lives of lakhs of its people and has fared better than more developed and prosperous countries in terms of the Covid infection and mortality per lakh population. A big credit for that goes to doctors, healthcare and frontline workers, he said.Moderna’s Covid vaccine approved for use in IndiaIndia on Tuesday approved the import of US pharmaceutical major Moderna’s mRNA technology-based Covid-19 vaccine, paving the way for the entry of the first international jab in the country.States will get 120mn vaccine doses for JulyThe Centre will distribute 120 million doses of coronavirus vaccines – 100 million shots of Covishield and 20 million of Covaxin – to all states and Union territories for July, according to advance information shared with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-this-week-covaxin-s-efficacy-moderna-in-india-to-120-mn-vaccine-doses-101625279351963.html
03-07-2021||India||News updates from HT: Congress criticises BJP over Uttarakhand 'political instability' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress hits out at BJP over ‘political instability’ in UttarakhandThe Congress on Saturday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the “political instability” in Uttarakhand following chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat’s resignation four months after he took over the state’s top post. Read MoreBihar amends mine rules with aim to contain emboldened sand mining mafiaThe Bihar government is amending the mines rules to provision for levy of heavy fines following seizure of vehicles involved in illegal sand mining, which has shown no sign of abating, leading to environmental hazard and revenue losses. Read More'People who haven't even led a gully team are giving Virat advice': Akmal calls Kohli India's 'best captain' after DhoniFormer Pakistan wicketkeeper-batsman Kamran Akmal has questioned those to have pointed fingers at Virat Kohli for not winning an ICC title as India captain. Read MoreAamir Khan and Kiran Rao announce divorce after 15 years of marriageActor Aamir Khan and filmmaker Kiran Rao have announced their divorce after 15 years of marriage in a joint statement. Read MoreSpongeBob SquarePants to Ratatouille: Woman re-creates real-life versions of iconic dishes from cartoonsBe it the main dish from the movie Ratatouille or Krabby Patty from the world of SpongeBob SquarePants, the iconic dishes from the cartons often look tempting. Read MoreLamborghini teases new model, will break cover on July 7Automobili Lamborghini has revealed that it is going to unveil a new model on 7th July 2021. Read MoreShibani Dandekar's video shows how she trains at gym, internet calls her ToofaanShibani Dandekar just gave the internet a glimpse of how she trained the entire week at the gym. Read MoreWatch: China building nuclear missile sites, show satellite photos; USA warnsThe Chinese army is trying to snatch Indian land. The Chinese navy is trying to grab territorial waters of other countries. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-congress-criticises-bjp-over-uttarakhand-political-instability-and-all-the-latest-news-101625294557224.html
03-07-2021||India||Here's how you can get your driving license without a test at RTO||The Union transport ministry has introduced fresh, easier rules to obtain a driving license without going through the painstaking process of spending hours at the Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) and then appearing for a driving test.The rules, which came into effect from July 1, allow the facilitation of ‘Accredited Driver Training Centres’, which will provide high-quality driving courses to candidates seeking a license. If the candidates successfully pass the test at these centres, they will be exempted from appearing for driving tests at RTOs at the time of getting a license.What are Accredited Driver Training Centres?> According to the transport ministry, the Accredited Driver Training Centres are equipped with simulators and a dedicated driving test track to provide high-quality training to candidates seeking a license.> Remedial and refresher courses, according to the requirement of the Motor Vehicles Act (MVA), 1988, can be availed at such centres.> Candidates successfully clearing tests at these centres will no longer be required to appear for a driving test at an RTO at the time of getting a license.What are the types of vehicles in which candidates will be trained?> As per the transport ministry’s notification, candidates will be trained in light motor vehicles (LMVs), medium and heavy motor vehicles (HMVs)> The duration for training in LMVs is 29 hours, which will be completed in a time span of a maximum of four weeks from the date of the start of the course. Candidates will be given both theoretical and practical knowledge.> The duration for training in LMVs is 36 hours, which will be completed in a time span of six weeks. Training here will also be theoretical and practical, the ministry said.> Not just LMVs and HMVs, the centres will also provide industry-specific specialised training.MoRT&H has issued a notification wherein the requirements to be fulfilled by Accredited Driver Training Centres have been mandated. This will help in imparting proper training and knowledge to candidates who enrol at such centres. pic.twitter.com/QlFaJ9bhyvThe transport ministry tweeted on June 11 that enrolling at these centres will give candidates proper knowledge and training. “Shortage of skilled drivers is one of the major issues in the Indian roadways sector. A large number of road accidents occur due to lack of knowledge of road regulations,” it said in a subsequent tweet.India registers a very high number of accident deaths annually, which experts say are caused because of lack of knowledge of road regulations, underage driving (below 18) and blatant disregard of traffic and speeding rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heres-how-you-can-get-your-driving-license-without-a-test-at-rto-101625296506765.html
03-07-2021||India||BJP observers in Dehradun ahead of meeting to choose new CM||A team of central observers led by Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar arrived in Dehradun on Saturday ahead of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s legislature party meeting to choose the new Uttarakhand chief minister later in the day.The central observers will meet the state BJP leadership before the legislature party meeting at 3 pm.The meeting has been called to replace Tirath Singh Rawat, who resigned as the Uttarakhand chief minister on Friday just four months after he took over.BJP spokesman Manveer Singh Chauhan said two central observers Tomar and general secretary D Purandeshwariparty and BJP state in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam and co-in-charge Rekha Verma have reached Dehradun.A BJP leader, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said ministers Satpal Maharaj and Dhan Singh Rawat were the front runners for the top post. “Other names include lawmakers Ritu Khanduri and Pushkar Dhami.”He added the final decision would be taken with approval from the central leadership.Rawat’s resignation ended his short stint that was marred by controversies including over allowing the Mahakumbh during a devastating surge in Covid infections, and large-scale fraud in testing during the mega fair. Rawat, 57, suggested he resigned because the Election Commission (EC) was unlikely to hold by-elections due to Covid-19. But an EC official indicated that no request was made to hold a by-poll and suggested there were precedents that may have permitted it. A chief minister, if not a member of the assembly, needs to be elected within six months of assuming the post. The EC does not typically hold by-polls to vacant constituencies when an assembly’s remaining term is less than a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-observers-in-dehradun-ahead-of-meeting-to-choose-new-cm-101625296556180.html
03-07-2021||India||Aadhaar card: Here's how you can correct gender, date of birth, address and name||f you need to change certain details like your name, date of birth, gender and address on your Aadhaar card, you need not visit a centre and can make these changes from the comfort of your home. According to the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), you can update these details by using two options.For one, you can visit a permanent enrolment centre. For this, you can search the nearest enrolment centre by clicking on “Locate Enrolment Center” on uidai.gov.in. Under the second option, one can make these changes online by using Self Service Update Portal (SSUP). Click “Update Aadhaar Details (Online)” on uidai.gov.in.To correct your date of birth, you need to upload valid documents. To make these changes, the mobile number of the cardholder should be linked to the Aadhaar.If you want to make changes in other details updates such as biometrics - fingerprints, iris and photograph - for your Aadhaar card, you will have to visit the permanent enrolment centre.The enrollment and mandatory biometric update for the age group between 5 and 15 years are free of cost if you want to get a new Aadhaar.For updation in Aadhaar, either demographic or biometric, you have to pay ₹50 inclusive of taxes) to the service provider each time you get your details updated. You can also click on “Charges for Various UIDAI Services at Aadhaar Kendra (PEC)” on uidai.gov.in for UIDAI approved fee structure, the UIDAI website says.If someone charges more than this, you can immediately call 1947 or register your complaint via email at help@uidai.gov.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aadhaar-card-here-s-how-you-can-correct-gender-date-of-birth-address-and-name-101625293298249.html
03-07-2021||India||Congress hits out at BJP over ‘political instability’ in Uttarakhand||The Congress on Saturday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the “political instability” in Uttarakhand following chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat’s resignation four months after he took over the state’s top post.Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said the state will now get the third chief minister in the fifth year of the government’s tenure. “Uttarakhand is becoming an example for greed for power, political instability and BJP’s incompetence and failure.” he said at a press conference. He added the BJP “is famous for creating political instability” and recalled how it changed chief ministers thrice in Delhi between 1993 and 1998.Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat referred to Tirath Singh Rawat’s suggestion that he resigned because the Election Commission (EC) was unlikely to hold by-elections due to Covid-19 and called it a lie. “What can be a bigger lie than this that byelections cannot be held in Uttarakhand due to Covid and the chief minister is resigning due to constitutional compulsion. The reality is that by-elections have been held before in the same Covid period,” he said.A chief minister, if not a member of the assembly, needs to be elected within six months of assuming the post. The EC does not typically hold by-polls to vacant constituencies when an assembly’s remaining term is less than a year.Devendra Yadav, another Congress leader, said the change in Uttarakhand is the result “of lack of leadership, carelessness and foolishness” of the top brass of the BJP.“Amidst a deadly pandemic, where the duty of the government should have been ensuring the safety of the people, the only thing BJP has done has play games.” Yadav said the BJP has betrayed the people of Uttarakhand.There was no immediate response from the BJP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-hits-out-at-bjp-over-political-instability-in-uttarakhand-101625295956198.html
03-07-2021||India||Tiger kills 28-year-old in Bihar’s West Champaran district||A 28-year-old man was allegedly killed by a tiger that has strayed from Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) in Bihar’s West Champaran on Friday. Banka Manjhi, 28, son of Suresh Manjhi and a resident of Serwahi Barwa village in Ramnagar block, about 275 km north of state capital Patna, was attacked by the tiger when he was working in his field on the fringe of the village, next to his house. “My husband was working in the field along with two other villagers. While others managed to escape, tiger attacked my husband. But by the time others rushed to his rescue, he was lying in a pool of blood,” said victim’s wife Savita Devi. Police said victim’s body bore deep teeth marks around neck and thighs.Locals said the tiger had strayed from Valmiki Tiger Reserve and had recently killed a goat on the fringe of the village. HK Rai, wildlife conservator and field director of VTR said, “Prima facie, it seems that the man was attacked by a tiger. The body has been sent for post-mortem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-kills-28-year-old-in-bihar-s-west-champaran-district-101625295476024.html
03-07-2021||India||Retail, wholesale trade included as MSME, PM Modi hails 'landmark' decision||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday described as "landmark" the decision to include retail and wholesale trade as MSMEs, which will allow traders the benefits of priority sector lending, and said his government is committed to empowering the community.Union minister Nitin Gadkari had on Friday announced the inclusion of retail and wholesale trade under MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) as per which the traders will now get the benefit of priority sector lending under RBI guidelines.In a tweet, the prime minister Modi said, "Our government has taken a landmark step of including retail and wholesale trade as MSME. This will help crores of our traders get easier finance, various other benefits and also help boost their business. We are committed to empowering our traders."Official sources said the move will have an immediate impact on smaller retailers and wholesalers with businesses up to ₹250 crore of turnover in availing immediate-term finance as part of various schemes announced under "Atmanirbhar Bharat" programme.This landmark decision will have a structural impact for the sector, helping it get formalised by giving better finance options for businesses that want to get structured, they said, adding it will give retail MSMEs the support they need to "survive, revive and thrive".Retail and trade associations have welcomed the move, saying it will enable traders to get access to much-needed capital having been impacted greatly due to the Ccovid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/retail-wholesale-trade-included-as-msme-pm-modi-hails-landmark-decision-101625290523570.html
03-07-2021||India||Rawat’s resignation could impact BJP’s poll prospects||Dehradun: Tirath Singh Rawat’s resignation as the Uttarakhand chief minister just four months after he replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat comes months before the elections in the state. Political experts say the fresh change of guard could impact the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) prospects in the 2022 assembly polls. The change has also given Congress a fresh handle to attack the BJP over political inability in the state. Tirath Singh Rawat’s resignation ended his short stint that was marred by controversies including over allowing the Mahakumbh during a devastating surge in Covid infections, and large-scale fraud in testing during the mega fair. Rawat, 57, suggested he resigned because the Election Commission (EC) was unlikely to hold by-elections due to Covid-19. But an EC official indicated that no request was made to hold a by-poll and suggested there were precedents that may have permitted it. A chief minister, if not a member of the assembly, needs to be elected within six months of assuming the post. The EC does not typically hold by-polls to vacant constituencies when an assembly’s remaining term is less than a year.The situation for the BJP in Uttarakhand is a throwback to 2011 when Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank resigned ahead of the assembly polls the following year. BC Khanduri, who replaced Nishank, lost the assembly elections as Congress returned to power.SMA Kazmi, a Dehradun-based political analyst, said the change of leadership within four months will increase the political instability in the state and alter various equations between the Kumaon and Garhwal regions as well as Thakurs and Brahmins. “Opposition Congress will again get an opportunity to target the government...(over) growing political instability...” He added there is also brewing discontent over unemployment and issues related to traders.Congress leader Suryakant Dhasmana said the people feel betrayed and can clearly see there is no political stability in the state. “With such instability and infighting, can they provide any relief or succour to people here? They are themselves in crisis.”None of the state’s chief ministers barring Congress’s ND Tiwari have completed their five-year term in the state since it was formed in 2000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rawats-resignation-could-impact-bjp-s-poll-prospects-101625291455631.html
03-07-2021||India||India records 44,111 Covid-19 cases, 738 deaths in last 24 hours||Cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) dipped again on Saturday as India recorded 44,111 fresh infections, taking the country's cumulative tally past 30.5 million, the Union health ministry's data showed. And 738 related fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, lower than 853 on Friday, pushing India's death toll to 401,050 so far. India's active cases of Covid-19 also dropped further by 14,104 in the last 24 hours and settled at 495,533, accounting for 1.67% of total infections. The country's recovery rate stood at 97.01% on Saturday, as more people were cured of the coronavirus disease and outnumbered the daily new cases for nearly two months.The health ministry data showed that 34,46,11,291 people have been vaccinated in the country so far, out of which 4,399,298 were vaccinated in the last 24 hours.Covid-19 cases in India dipped below 50,000 for the first time on June 21 and have since remained stagnant in the bracket of 30,000-50,000. The country has seen a sharp fall of Covid-19 cases in the second wave after they peaked with 414,188 fresh infections on May 6.However, experts have cautioned people saying they need to follow Covid appropriate norms. NITI Aayog member (health) VK Paul said close monitoring is crucial at this stage and the country “cannot lower its guard”. “As we are seeing in Europe right now, the disease transmission has started growing again, with cases having dropped to 50 per million at one point, which is now almost double... It is in our control to ensure India doesn’t see the third wave,” he said.Officials on Friday said India is vaccinating on average 5 million individuals daily since June 21. This is equivalent to inoculating the entire population of Norway every day and asserted that the process is like a “marathon and not a 100-metre race”.To date, 340 million people or equivalent to the entire population of the US have been vaccinated with at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine since the nationwide inoculation drive began on January 16, health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said on Friday in a press briefing.Responding to the de-acceleration in the rate of inoculation, Agarwal said, "We are in a marathon and not a 100-metre sprint."Even as the second wave has declined to 1/7th of its peak, officials have abstained from announcing its end. "The second wave of Covid-19 is not over yet," Agarwal said.The central government underlined the need for vaccination and following Covid-19 protocols, noting that the second wave of the pandemic is not over yet and people should not lower their guard.Though daily new Covid-19 cases continue to show a declining trend, 71 districts reported a case positivity rate of more than 10% from June 23 to 29, Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-44-111-covid-19-cases-738-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101625280693285.html
03-07-2021||India||'Mind the gap': Rahul Gandhi targets Centre over Covid-19 vaccination rate||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi once again took a shot at the central government on Saturday over the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination rate in the country. Sharing a cumulative vaccination tracker graphic, Gandhi pointed out that India's actual Covid-19 vaccination rate is 27% below the government's target rate to avoid a potential third wave of the pandemic.The graphic shared by Rahul Gandhi was sourced from information published by a Delhi-based news organisation. It tracks the actual cumulative vaccination rate in India, said to be 50.8 lakh vaccine doses a day, versus the vaccination rate targetted by the central government to avoid a potential third wave -- 69.5 lakh doses a day. Therefore, the Congress leader said, there is a 27% gap between the actual vaccination rate and the government target."Mind the gap!" Rahul Gandhi remarked, sharing the graphic from his official Twitter handle on Saturday.Mind the gap!#WhereAreVaccines pic.twitter.com/0VNhT6K8fnGandhi has been a harsh critic of the central government's vaccination policy ever since its inception. He has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on numerous counts, to end the 'shortage' of vaccine doses in the country. On Friday, he questioned the government on vaccine availability and said, "It's July already, yet there are no vaccines."At least two Union ministers, including health minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan, hit back at the Congress leader over his tweet. The minister, in turn, had asked, "What is Rahul Gandhi's problem? Does he not read? Does he not understand?" The minister added that he had a day ago put out "facts" regarding vaccine availability for the month of July. "There is no vaccine for the virus of arrogance and ignorance," he remarked, adding that Congress must think about a "leadership overhaul".Meanwhile, an acute vaccine shortage has been reported from various parts of the country. The Odisha government halted the vaccination drive in 16 districts due to a "shortage" of Covishield doses. Assam, on Thursday, said it could vaccinate only 16.63 lakh people in the last 10 days, almost 45% less than the target set by state chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, due to a massive shortage of Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mind-the-gap-rahul-gandhi-targets-centre-over-covid-19-vaccination-rate-101625282681951.html
03-07-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After Tirath Singh Rawat exits, Uttarakhand BJP to meet today and all the latest new||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uttarakhand BJP meeting today after Tirath Singh Rawat's resignationUttarakhand BJP unit will hold its legislature party meeting on Saturday to decide on a new leader after Tirath Singh Rawat resigned as the hill state's chief minister.Read more. Monsoon session of Parliament to commence from July 19, conclude on August 13The Monsoon session of the Parliament will commence from July 19 and last till August 13 this year, an official communique said on Friday. The Lok Sabha secretariat said that the sixth session of the 17th Lok Sabha will begin on Monday, July 19, and conclude on Friday, August 13, subject to exigencies of government business.Read more.Bharat Biotech says completed final analysis for Covaxin, claims 77.8% efficacyHyderabad-based Bharat Biotech on Friday said that it has completed the final Phase-3 analysis for Covaxin, its indigenous vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Citing pre-print data from "India's largest efficacy trial", the pharmaceutical claimed that an overall efficacy of 77.8% against symptomatic Covid-19 patients has been found in Covaxin.Read more. French judge to probe alleged corruption in Rafale deal: ReportA French judge has been appointed to head a probe into suspected “corruption and favouritism” in the ₹59,000 crore Rafale deal with India for 36 fighter jets, according to a report in a French online journal, Mediapart.Read more.UP zila panchayat chairperson polls to be held in 53 districts todayVoting for 53 seats of zila panchayat chairpersons in Uttar Pradesh will be held on Saturday after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 22 of them unopposed and the Samajwadi Party’s candidates in one, poll officials said. The polls, being held ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections scheduled next year, will be held from 11am to 3pm and the counting of votes will start after that, they added.Read more. Arjun Kapoor says him, Anshula, Janhvi Kapoor and Khushi are 'not one unit': 'We still are different families'Actor Arjun Kapoor has opened up about his and Anshula Kapoor's equation with their half-sisters Janhvi Kapoor and Khushi Kapoor. He said that he doesn't 'want to sell a fake lie that everything is perfect'. Arjun further added that they are 'different families who are trying to merge and coexist with each other'.Read more. 'It is ridiculous': Ashwin on Kohli's best-of-three WTC final comment, says Virat 'never demanded something'India lost the first-ever World Test Championship final to New Zealand by eight wickets at Ageas Bowl in Southampton. Team India's performance in the WTC final was criticised by many former cricketers and fans alike as the batsmen and bowlers failed to perform at their best in the all-important match. Read more. Anushka Sharma's crop shirt in video with Virat won't burn a hole in your pocketActor Anushka Sharma and her husband Virat Kohli delighted netizens with a fun new video on Instagram. The couple shared a video of themselves balancing cricket bats on their fingers for the viral Bat Balance challenge. Anushka wore a steal-worthy top and denims combo in the video, and we have the details for you.Read more. Rawat Vs Rawat: Former Uttarakhand CM on ‘mistakes’ made by his successorFormer Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat speaks on the alleged fake Covid-19 vaccination certificates scam in the state. The former CM talks about how he would have dealt with the Kumbh Mela situation amid the pandemic. Trivendra Singh Rawat also explains his statement on cows.Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-tirath-singh-rawaat-exits-uttarakhand-bjp-to-meet-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101625280707168.html
03-07-2021||India||ED seized assets of actor Dino Morea and Ahmed Patel's son-in-law under PMLA. Here's why||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday attached properties of late Congress leader Ahmed Patel's son-in-law, actors Dino Moria and Sanjay Khan, and DJ Aqeel. The development comes in connection with a money laundering case related to bank fraud, news agency PTI reported. The assets of the four people, worth ₹8.79 crore in total, have been seized under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), the ED said.The ED informed on Friday that the case pertains to a Gujarat-based pharmaceutical company, Sterling Biotech Group, and its absconding promoters -- brothers Nitin Sandesara and Chetan Sandesara.The money laundering case allegedly involves a sum of ₹14,500 crore in bank-loan frauds. According to the ED, the amount is even greater than the fraud committed by fugitive businessman Nirav Modi, who was the chief beneficiary of the ₹11,400 crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam.The ED said that four separate preliminary orders have been issued under the PMLA to attach properties of the four aforementioned persons. The property is valued at ₹8.79 crore. Of this, the value of attachment of assets for Sanjay Khan is ₹3 crore, and for Dino Morea, it is ₹1.4 crore. For Aqeel Abdulkhalil Bachooali -- popularly known as DJ Aqeel -- it is ₹1.98 crore, and for Irfan Ahmed Siddiqui, who is late Congress leader Ahmed Patel’s son-in-law, it is ₹2.41 crore.According to the agency, the assets seized consist of three vehicles, several bank accounts, shares, and mutual funds.It is said that the Sandesara brothers "diverted" proceedings of the bank loan fraud to these four people. Earlier, the central investigating agency had questioned Siddiqui, Morea, and Aqeel in the case. The ED also recorded the statement of Sandesara family employee Sunil Yadav, who said that Siddiqui was in possession of a house in Delhi's Vasant Vihar, which allegedly belonged to Chetan Sandesara.The agency then said that it had enough evidence to claim that Dino Morea and Aqeel were illegally paid by the Gujarat-based pharmaceutical company, back in 2011-12, when they attended a family function organised by the Sandesara brothers.Meanwhile, Nitin Sandesara, Chetan Sandesara, Chetan's wife Dipti Sandesara, and Hitesh Patel have been declared fugitive economic offenders by a special court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-seized-assets-of-actor-dino-morea-and-ahmed-patel-s-son-in-law-in-bank-fraud-case-here-s-why-101625279779388.html
03-07-2021||India||Bharat Biotech says completed final analysis for Covaxin, claims 77.8% efficacy||Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech on Friday said that it has completed the final Phase-3 analysis for Covaxin, its indigenous vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Citing pre-print data from "India's largest efficacy trial", the pharmaceutical company claimed that an overall efficacy of 77.8% against symptomatic Covid-19 patients has been found in Covaxin.Also Read | Delta: List of vaccines that are claimed to be effective against this Covid variantCOVAXIN® Proven SAFE in India's Largest Efficacy Trial. Final Phase-3 Pre-Print Data Published on https://t.co/JJh9n3aB6V pic.twitter.com/AhnEg56vFNElaborating on its findings from the efficacy analysis, Bharat Biotech added that Covaxin also demonstrates 93.4% effectiveness against severe symptomatic Covid-19 cases. On the other hand, Covaxin provides 65.2% protection against the B.1.617.2 (Delta) strain, currently the most predominant Covid-19 variant in India, it said.Also Read | Covaxin 'effectively neutralises' Alpha, Delta Covid-19 variants, says US National Institute of HealthAgainst asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, Covaxin provides an efficacy of 63.6%, Bharat Biotech said at the conclusion of its Phase-3 efficacy trial.Here are the overall efficacy rates of Covaxin in a gist, as claimed by Bharat Biotech in its pre-print analysis.Asymptomatic cases: 63% Covaxin efficacyMild, moderate, and severe cases: 78% Covaxin efficacyDelta variant: 65% Covaxin efficacySevere Covid-19 cases: 93% Covaxin efficacyThe Covaxin Phase-3 analysis, published on the medRxiv pre-print server, was reportedly conducted across 25 hospitals in India as trial sites. The large-scale final analysis deployed a double-blind, randomised, multi-center clinical trial, using a sponsor-supplied randomisation scheme where volunteers received two intramuscular doses of either the Covid-19 vaccine or a placebo -- four weeks apart. It consisted of 25,800 volunteers from the age group of 18 to 98 years, the report said.The vaccine was approved for emergency use in the Indian population in January, and the Hyderabad-based company had then said it would release phase III data by March. The release was since pushed back on several occasions. It had earlier shared the data with Indian drug regulators, however, the data regarding the multiple analyses had not been released until now.Earlier, Bharat Biotech's US partner Ocugen had reported similar findings regarding Covaxin, adding that adverse events reported in the study were low. Only 12.4% of the subjects experienced commonly known side-effects, it said. Both adverse events and severe adverse events reported in the vaccine group were found at similar rates to the placebo group, the company added.Covaxin, along with the Oxford University-Astrazeneca shot, has been used since the beginning of India's nationwide vaccine drive against the viral disease on January 16. Russia's Sputnik V was given emergency use authorisation (EUA) in April, while US pharmaceutical firm Moderna's mRNA-based vaccine on Tuesday received approval to be used here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-says-completed-final-analysis-for-covaxin-claims-77-8-efficacy-101625276667922.html
03-07-2021||India||Indian Railways: Mumbai-Delhi August Kranti Rajdhani Express back on track from today. Details here||The August Kranti Rajdhani Express, running from Mumbai Central to Hazrat Nizamuddin railway stations, will be back on track starting on Saturday i.e. July 3, the Indian Railways announced a day ago. The train service is being restored in popular demand with a view to meet the travel needs and convenience of passengers, the Railways said in its official communique. The return train, from Hazrat Nizammudin to Mumbai Central, will start running from Sunday i.e. July 4.For the convenience of passengers, August Kranti Rajdhani Express Special Train is being restored w.e.f 3rd July, 2021 till further advice.@drmbct pic.twitter.com/FxM6ZPbbbGAccording to a press release issued by Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer of the Western Railway, the Mumbai Central - H Nizammudin August Kranti Rajdhani Express Special (Train number: 02953) will be restored from July 3. Similarly, the H Nizammudin - Mumbai Central August Kranti Rajdhani Express Special (Train number: 02954) will be restored from July 4.For detailed information on the trains restoring services this week, passengers have been requested to visit the official inquiry portal of the Indian Railways -- www.enquiry.indianrail.gov.in. Notably, only those passengers who have their confirmed tickets will be allowed to board these special trains, the Western Railway mentioned.The booking for the aforementioned train, the Mumbai Central - H Nizammudin August Kranti Rajdhani Express Special, will commence from July 4 at select PRS counters and on the official website of the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC).The railway passengers have also been requested to adhere to all appropriate Covid-19-related protocols while boarding the train and for the duration of their travel, till they reach their respective destinations. This includes adhering to all social distancing norms and respecting the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Union ministry of railways in this regard.Notably, all regular passenger train services of the Indian Railways were suspended last year in March following the imposition of the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown. The Railways have only begun gradually restoring services of its special train services since May this year, as Covid-19 cases continue to decline in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-irctc-news-mumbai-delhi-august-kranti-rajdhani-express-from-today-details-here-101625274742344.html
03-07-2021||India||Govt giving ₹4,000 to all under Covid scheme? Here's the truth||A WhatsApp message claiming that the government is giving ₹4,000 to everyone under a Covid relief scheme is false and there is no such financial assistance being extended, the Press Information Bureau has tweeted. "It is being claimed in a WhatsApp message that the Indian government is, under a Corona Care Fund Scheme, giving a sum of ₹4,000 to everyone. This is a false claim. The government is running no such scheme," PIB's Fact Check handle said in a tweet in Hindi.The tweet comes as Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on June 28 announced eight new schemes, including a ₹1.1 lakh crore loan guarantee scheme for the Covid-affected and an additional ₹1.5 lakh crore under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme launched as part of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat package last year.एक #WhatsApp मैसेज में दावा किया जा रहा है कि भारत सरकार 'कोरोना केयर फंड योजना' के तहत सभी को ₹4000 की सहायता राशि प्रदान कर रही है।#PIBFactCheck: यह दावा #फ़र्ज़ी है। भारत सरकार द्वारा ऐसी कोई योजना नहीं चलाई जा रही है। pic.twitter.com/SSLK6x66HeThe government has announced a slew of measures amid the economic distress during the coronavirus pandemic and the restrictions put in place to curb the rising cases of Covid-19 across the country.Before this, PIB Fact Check rejected claims that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced a nationwide lockdown from July 1 till July 31 and also declared the "beginning of the third wave" of the pandemic. PIB Fact Check clarified that no such announcement was made by PM Modi and asked citizens to be wary of such viral posts."The Prime Minister has not made any such announcement. Kindly be wary of such misleading messages. The said claim is fake," PIB Fact Check tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-giving-rs-4-000-to-all-under-covid-scheme-here-s-the-truth-101625272988029.html
03-07-2021||India||Monsoon session of Parliament to commence from July 19, conclude on August 13||The Monsoon session of the Parliament will commence from July 19 and last till August 13 this year, an official communique said on Friday. The Lok Sabha secretariat said that the sixth session of the 17th Lok Sabha will begin on Monday, July 19, and conclude on Friday, August 13, subject to exigencies of government business.Also Read | Govt lines up key bills for passage during monsoon sessionThe Rajya Sabha secretariat also said along these lines that the 254th session of the Rajya Sabha will begin from July 19 and continue till August 13."The President has summoned the Rajya Sabha to meet on Monday, 19 July 2021, at New Delhi. Subject to exigencies of business, the Session is scheduled to conclude on Friday, 13 August 2021," a Rajya Sabha official order said.Both the Houses are going to have 19 sittings, simultaneously. The Parliament sessions will be held amid the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), albeit with necessary protocols. Not unlike the last session, arrangements are being made this time, too, to accommodate the members of the Parliament (MPs) on a social distancing basis.As many as 444 members of the Lok Sabha and 218 members of the Rajya Sabha have so far been vaccinated against Covid-19, according to a PTI report. Some MPs have not been able to take their second jab yet as they were affected by Covid-19, a top functionary told HT on condition of anonymity. “Another 30 MPs have not sent us any communication. We are trying to contact them to know their vaccination status.”The Covid-19 pandemic has affected Parliament sessions since March 2020, forcing early closure of last year’s budget and monsoon sessions and this year’s budget session. The 2020 winter session was skipped altogether due to the public health crisis. The high rate of vaccination among the lawmakers and Parliament staff improves chances of a longer Parliament session and higher productivity. More than 40 bills and five ordinances are pending before Parliament.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-of-parliament-to-commence-from-july-19-conclude-on-august-13-101625271713100.html
03-07-2021||India||Lancet sets out 'flexible' Covid-19 vaccination strategy for India, says outreach is key||A Lancet report published on Friday shed more light on potential steps that India can take to tackle the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the country, pointing out that a 'flexible' and 'agile' vaccination strategy is the need of the hour. The report also highlighted the importance of sentinel site-based surveillance and detection of early warning signals with the help of the test positivity ratio (TPR).Also Read | 10 European nations recognise CovishieldThe Lancet report, titled 'Responsive and Agile Vaccination Strategies Against COVID-19 in India' was published in the current issue of its monthly, open-access global health magazine. It explained how even "limited vaccination resources" can be deployed to the best extent when used 'flexibly'. For this purpose, it cited experience past influenza pandemics in 1918 and 2009, as well the current coronavirus pandemic in several other countries, to observe that there might be more than two waves of the infection.“Flexible, agile vaccination strategies could thus play an important part in protecting lives and livelihoods as the COVID-19 pandemic continues to unfold,” the report read.Elaborating on the matter, the Lancet report said that "community-based outreach activities" as well as transport facilities for the older section of the population can help reduce the distance between a vaccination center and its potential beneficiaries in different regions. These outreach activities include -- setting up satellite vaccination centers closer to hamlets in rural settings; resident welfare associations in urban areas arranging vaccination for people in the vicinity; drive-in vaccination using large community halls and parking spaces, etc.The active engagement of community-based organisations for this purpose is key to achieving a flexible Covid-19 vaccination strategy, the report said. “Such measures will help to speed up vaccination while maintaining safety,” it said.Further, the report also noted a few key facts about the protection that even a single dose of the Covid-19 vaccine can provide.Also Read | Health ministry allows Covid-19 vaccination for pregnant womenEarly findings from the UK suggest that the single-dose efficacy of the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine is significantly reduced when considering symptomatic infection of B.1.617.2, the dominant Covid-19 variant in India, as an endpoint. However, the entire scenario offers up a "mixed picture". More recent findings suggest that a single dose of the vaccine can protect against hospitalisation, as has been reported among as many as 71% of the health workers in India, it said.Similarly, a rapid-response vaccination strategy could potentially reduce mortality substantially, even though single-dose vaccine efficacy was reduced to 30%. “It will be important to adjust for population density and other factors to make systematic comparisons of seroprevalence across different regions, but the collection of the necessary evidence will take time. In the immediate term, more rapidly deployable strategies are urgently needed,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lancet-sets-out-flexible-covid-19-vaccination-strategy-for-india-says-outreach-is-key-101625269230931.html
03-07-2021||India||10 rescued women ‘flee’ shelter home; probe on||Delhi Police are investigating the “disappearance” of 10 women from a shelter home in Dwarka, and released an advertisement for information on their whereabouts on Friday morning.Police said they have registered a case of kidnapping, but contended that initial investigations suggested that the women, aged between 20 and 26, fled the shelter home last month.In the advertisement, police said 10 women were lodged in a shelter home run by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation(DMRC) in Tis Hazari.DMRC officials clarified that the shelter home they run in Tis Hazari is only an observation home for boys, and that no women lived there.Later in the afternoon, the police said that the 10 women lived in a shelter home in Dwarka Sector 19.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Meena said that, on March 19, police rescued 12 women, who alleged they were forced into sex work, at GB Road.“On the directions of the child welfare committee, they were lodged at the shelter home in Dwarka. On June 24, all the women escaped by breaking the exhaust fan hole on the third floor of the shelter home. Two of them sustained injuries and 10 of them fled. We have registered a case in this connection and published an advertisement for the purpose of tracing the women,” said the DCP.Investigating officials said they registered a kidnapping case because it is the norm when rescued women go missing while they are under the custody of the government.Till late Friday night, police did not receive any information on their whereabouts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-rescued-women-flee-shelter-home-probe-on-101625262664951.html
03-07-2021||India||French judge to probe alleged corruption in Rafale deal: Report||A French judge has been appointed to head a probe into suspected “corruption and favouritism” in the ₹59,000 crore Rafale deal with India for 36 fighter jets, according to a report in a French online journal, Mediapart.“The highly sensitive probe into the inter-governmental deal signed in 2016 was formally opened on June 14,” Mediapart said. It said the development was confirmed by the financial crimes branch of the French public prosecution services on Friday.The French website carried a series of reports on alleged irregularities in the Rafale deal in April 2021.Also Read: 'No violations in Rafale deal with India', says Dassault AviationIn one of those reports, Mediapart claimed that the former head of the financial crimes branch of France’s public prosecution services, Éliane Houlette, shelved an investigation into alleged evidence of corruption in the Rafale jet deal despite the objection of colleagues. It said Houlette justified her decision to shelve the investigations as preserving “the interests of France, the workings of institutions.”“Now, her successor as head of the PNF, Jean-François Bohnert, has decided to support the opening of a probe, after the complaint was updated with details from Mediapart’s recent series of investigations,” Mediapart’s latest report said.The criminal investigation, Mediapart said, will “examine questions surrounding the actions” of former French president François Hollande, who was in office when the Rafale deal was inked, current French president Emmanuel Macron, who was at the time Hollande’s economy and finance minister, and foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian, who was then holding the defence portfolio.India ordered the jets in September 2016 as an emergency purchase through a government-to-government deal. The deal became controversial, with the Opposition, led by the Congress, claiming that the price at which India is buying Rafale aircraft now is ₹1,670 crore for each, three times the initial bid of ₹526 crore by the company when the UPA was trying to buy the aircraft. It has also claimed the previous deal included a technology transfer agreement with HAL.The NDA has not disclosed details of the price, but the UPA deal, struck in 2012, was not a viable one, former defence minister Manohar Parrikar has previously said, implying that it would have never been closed and that, therefore, any comparison is moot. Indeed, the UPA was not able to close the deal till 2014, largely over discussions related to pricing of items not included in the initial bid.The NDA government has said that it cannot disclose the details of the price on two counts: a confidentiality agreement with France, and the strategic reason of not showing its hand to India’s enemies; however, it said that the current deal also includes customised weaponry.The Supreme Court heard a public interest case on the deal and in November 2019, said it saw nothing wrong in it. In a February 2019 report, the government’s auditor, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India audited the deal and said India had not overpaid for the jets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-judge-to-probe-alleged-corruption-in-rafale-deal-report-101625258923727.html
03-07-2021||India||10% of those who had Covid-19 were reinfected during April wave: Study||More than 10% of the people who had Covid-19 were likely exposed to the virus again during the April wave of infections in Delhi, found researchers from the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB).The findings were based on the sequential analysis of samples from 1,000 people across ten locations part of the study, which found that the antibodies in them were mostly declining before they shot up again.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“More than 10% of the people in our study showed declining and then increasing levels of antibodies. The proportion might increase further as we are analysing more data,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, director, IGIB.The study found that 80% of the participants had antibodies against Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, in June, after the fourth wave of infections (and the second nationwide) in Delhi.The findings are higher than the estimated 4.5% re-infection established by the Indian Council of Medical Research, although experts said those cannot be compared since they are based on people who test positive through the RT-PCR method. The distinction between the two relates to circumstances in which people may get a test – if they have symptoms or had a confirmed close contact.But re-infections can also be silent, and a more accurate way to catch them could be via antibody tests. The disparity could also be because the IGIB study includes data up to June, whereas the ICMR study is from January to October last year.Also Read | Covid: 2 govt labs to start genome sequencing from July to detect mutations“I think, measuring the antibody levels gives a better picture of re-infections in the population. This is because many may not get tested if they are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. If we have to confirm re-infection through genomic sequencing of the samples from both the infections, there would be just over a handful of cases in India perhaps,” said Dr Agarwal.The researchers have previously shown that the Delta variant (B.1.617.2) which was in circulation during the second wave pandemic is significantly less sensitive to immunity from a previous infection or vaccination.Experts said that a 10% re-infection rate was not sufficient to cause a third wave.“Reinfections is the norm and not the exception, but it is not enough to lead to a third wave. The increase in the antibody levels is sometimes the only way to detect re-infections as the second infection is likely to be less severe and people might not have symptoms or get tested for it,” said Dr Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College-Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-of-those-who-had-covid-19-were-reinfected-during-april-wave-study-101625257344070.html
03-07-2021||India||Smuggler held with leopard claws, teeth||The forest department, along with the wildlife crime control bureau (WCCB), arrested one person for illegally smuggling and selling a bag of leopard claws and teeth at Delhi’s Kashmere interstate bus terminus (ISBT) on Friday.Aditya Madanpotra, deputy conservator of forests (north division), said, acting on a tip-off, the team -- projecting themselves as prospective buyers -- met the man at Kashmere Gate ISBT around 7am on Friday and caught him with a bag of leopard claws and teeth.“The seller has been arrested and the parts have been seized,” said Madanpotra.He said the department is not going to release the price of the animal parts in the illegal market, because the Wildlife (Protection) Act prohibits making such information public.The Indian leopard has been listed as a vulnerable species on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN)--an international organization working in the field of nature conservation and sustainable use of natural resources-- because of its depleting population. Poaching of the animal for the illegal trade of its skin and other body parts is strictly banned.Forest officials said such illegal trade and transit has increased over the last few years and teams are often on alert to track such criminals. The operation often involves coordination from forest and wildlife departments from other states as well.A senior forest department official explained that even though Delhi is not a hub for wildlife-related crimes, it is an important transit point from where poachers and middlemen transport animals, dead and alive, and their body parts.“After illegally poaching protected animals such as leopards, tigers, crocodiles, and even trading several protected species of birds from the jungles of Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, West Bengal among other places, these illegal traders often use Delhi as a transit point to take these items further into north east India and then across border to Nepal, Bhutan or China. The black market value of these goods is quite high,” the official explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smuggler-held-with-leopard-claws-teeth-101625256865347.html
03-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu logs 4,230 new Covid-19 cases, 97 deaths in 24 hours||Tamil Nadu has recorded 4,230 new Covid-19 cases and 97 deaths, pushing the overall caseload to 24,88,407 and 32,818, the Health Department said on Friday. Among the new cases were those of nine people from other States while there were 30 deaths from Thanjavur alone. As many as 4,952 people got discharged today, aggregating to 24,18,882 leaving 36,707 active infections, a bulletin said. The State reported its highest daily infection at 36,184 on May 21 and it has been reporting a decline since. On May 30, daily cases dropped below 30,000; on June 7 the numbers were less than 20,000; and on June 17 they were less than 10,000. As many as 25 districts reported new infections in double digits while there were no new deaths in 13 districts, the bulletin said. Chennai saw 238 people contracting the contagion aggregating to 5,32,992 till date. The number of Covid-19-related fatalities in the State capital also reached 8,196.The testing of RT-PCR samples stood at 1,60,810 in the last 24 hours, pushing the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 3,31,62,714. Among the 97 deaths, 74 patients succumbed in government hospitals while the remaining were in private. As many as 30 people (of the total 97) who died of Covid-19 hailed from Thanjavur district alone while the remaining were scattered across other districts. Eighteen of the deceased were patients without any co-morbidity or pre-existing illness, which include a 27- year- old man from Chennai. Meanwhile, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma Subramanian, after flagging off an awareness campaign on Covid-19 in Chennai, said in some districts like Thanjavur, Kallakurichi and Cuddalore, the impact of virus increased by 10 to 20 cases a day. "The Health Department Secretary (J Radhakrishnan) and I will be personally visiting for an inspection (to identify the reasons)", he said. On the vaccination front, Subramanian said the State received 1,56,26,550 doses till date of which 1,48,64,430 doses were administered to people. The remaining 8,16,890 are in stock, he said, adding that on Thursday alone, the State received 8,69,000 doses. On the awareness campaign launched by him, the Minister said 10 vehicles were flagged off to create awareness on following Covid-19 behaviour and maintaining social distancing.The vehicles with volunteers would visit places where people gather in large numbers to create awareness, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-logs-4-230-new-covid-19-cases-97-deaths-in-24-hours-101625255928125.html
03-07-2021||India||HC seeks plan to deliver nutritious food to kids under govt scheme in TN||Chennai: The Madras high court on Friday issued a notice to the state government to file its response on how it plans to ensure that children, who are missing mid-day meals since schools are closed, can receive adequate and nourished food.The bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said that this matter needs “the immediate urgent attention of the State.” The court made the observations on a plea which sought the state to provide food and nutritional content as referred to in the National Food Security Act, 2013 daily to children, who are enrolled in the midday meal scheme, at their doorstep.The court said that there may be logistic and practical difficulties in this regard but it must be done given that these families have lost income due to the pandemic situation and lockdown. “There is no doubt that aggressive steps need be taken by the State to ensure that the children are well fed and nourished, particularly since many families have lost jobs or have less resources available as a result of the pandemic and business not being normal,” the court said. The judges suggested that the state could organise the drive through corporations and municipalities in urban and semi-urban areas. And in rural areas where it may be more difficult, the state was asked to rope in NGOs besides using the panchayat system.“For such purpose, notices be issued immediately,” the court said. The matter has been posted to July 7 for the Tamil Nadu government’s initial response. “It would serve the children well if the State has a road-map ready so that the lack of adequate food and nourishment that children have suffered over the last 15 months or so, particularly among the more vulnerable sections, may be remedied without delay,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hcseeks-plan-to-deliver-nutritious-food-to-kids-under-govt-scheme-in-tn-101625256531799.html
03-07-2021||India||Right to practise faith subservient to right to life, says Madras HC||Chennai: The Madras high court on Friday said that the right to practice religion can take a backseat when the right to life is threatened while disposing of a petition that sought re-opening of temples all over the state that were shut due to Covid-19.The bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy didn’t entertain the plea filed by the Hindu Dharma Praishad,“The right to practice religion is certainly subservient to the right to life and when the right to life is threatened, the right to practice religion can take a backseat,” the court said in its orders. The court said that they will not interfere in such matters unless it finds the actions of the executive being arbitrary citing a similar matter which appeared earlier on Friday which was also disposed of pertaining to bus services and the restricted operation in certain parts of the state.The judges noted that there is no doubt that the state has obtained expert advice and considered relevant factors, including the crowding that occurs at religious places, in continuing the restrictions in areas which were more severely affected by the second surge in the pandemic. “Ordinarily, even a constitutional Court will not interfere in such matters, since it may not possess the expertise in deciding what is appropriate and unless it finds the executive action in such regard being utterly arbitrary and completely without basis,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/right-to-practise-faith-subservient-to-right-to-life-says-madras-hc-101625256531240.html
03-07-2021||India||Human skeleton found inside burial urn in TN excavation site||Archaeologists have discovered a full human skeleton inside an urn which they excavated from the Sivagalai archaeological site in Tamil Nadu’s Thoothukudi district. This is a first at the site where there are remnants of ancient civilisation.“We have found evidence of second burials before but this was the first time that we discovered a primary burial,” said site excavation director, M Prabhakaran. “We found the skeleton in a lying down position like the head had been positioned to a side and the legs were folded. The skull was severely damaged so we could only collect pieces.”Two burial urns were opened on Thursday as part of the second phase of excavations which is ongoing at the burial site as well as the habitation site. While one contained the skeleton, the other contained small bones and a red and black bowl. Experts from Madurai Kamaraj University were present when they opened to collect samples for DNA testing. The previous AIADMK regime had signed an MoU with the institution to conduct DNA testing of skeletons found across all excavation sites in Tamil Nadu including in Keeladi.Around 40 burial urns have been found at the site so far which was taken up for excavation by the state archaeology department from 2019. The previous government had sanctioned ₹31 lakh for the project.A history teacher is said to have drawn the state government’s attention to this site having found ancient artefacts here. In 2018, a government appointed expert confirmed that it was an ancient site. They have been able to find burial urns containing teeth, jaws and small bones, antiquities and iron tools. Initial examinations have given a sense to the team that these findings could belong to a period that is more than 3000 years old.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/human-skeleton-found-inside-burial-urn-in-tn-excavation-site-101625256411822.html
03-07-2021||India||Why can’t Jayalalithaa death probe panel submit report in 3 months: Madras HC||The Madras high court has sought the Tamil Nadu government to respond on why the Justice A Arumugamsamy Commission, probing the death of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa, should not be directed to file its final report within the next three months.The bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorth issued the notice to the state to respond in six weeks based on a petition filed by an advocate Thondan Subramani. The petitioner called the commission a waste of taxpayers money stating that it was defunct since 2019 after Apollo Hospitals which treated Jayalalithaa had obtained a stay from the Supreme Court on the proceedings of the commission.After being re-elected for a second consecutive term in May 2016, Jayalalithaa underwent a long treatment towards the end of year and died on December 5 2016 due to cardiac arrest. The following year, the one-man judicial commission was set up by the previous AIADMK regime on the insistence of O Panneerselvam who officiated in the post during her illness. The commission was meant to independently enquire into her death and the medical treatment given to her.Taking note of the petitioner’s submissions that the commission hasn’t made any progress in the past two years and has had several extensions, the court in its orders said, “The State should indicate why the relevant Commission should not be directed to file its final report and wind up its business within the next three months.” The matter has been posted to August 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-can-t-jayalalithaa-death-probe-panel-submit-report-in-3-months-madras-hc-101625256411244.html
03-07-2021||India||Behind Delhi’s unusual weather this summer||The maximum temperature recorded in Delhi on June 30 was 43.73 degrees Celsius. This is the second highest maximum temperature on this day since 1951, less than a tenth of a degree lower than the 43.76 degrees Celsius recorded on June 30, 1987. That Delhi is experiencing a heatwave when it should have been raining is yet another example of unusual turns in Delhi’s weather. This newspaper has earlier reported that Delhi’s climate created a new record every month since August 2020. An HT analysis of the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) gridded database on rainfall and temperature confirms the deviant trends in Delhi’s climate this summer. Here are four charts summarising the break in the patternIt was not hot in Delhi when it was supposed to beDelhi’s maximum temperature, according to IMD’s gridded database, was 43.73 degrees Celsius on June 30, 2021. This is the second highest maximum temperature on this day since 1987. However, what is even more unusual is the fact that June 30, 2021 was the hottest day in Delhi this summer, something which has never happened since 1951, the earliest period for which we have temperature data in the IMD’s gridded database. To be sure, the month of June is one of the hottest in the March-June period, but usually in its first half.In the 71 years from 1951, the hottest day of March-June period has come 38 times in June. On 23 of these 38 times, the hottest day has been on or before June 12, and only 15 times on or after June 16. The last week of June or the June 24-June 30 period, when monsoon generally arrives in Delhi, has recorded the hottest summer day only twice before 2021: in 1987 and in 1991.The gridded database temperature is different from the ones recorded as a particular station because it is based on interpolating data from weather stations that have been working long-term and whose historical data has been checked for quality, while IMD bulletins might include data from newly added stations too. A grid in this dataset is a box bound by two latitudes and longitudes. While the rainfall grids are 0.25 degree apart in IMD’s dataset, the temperature dataset grids are 1 degree apart. Delhi is not captured by the temperature dataset. The temperature statistics for Delhi here therefore also include the seven districts bordering Delhi: Sonipat, Baghpat, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Faridabad, Gurgaon, and Jhajjar.Data also shows that average maximum temperatures in Delhi in the months of April, May and the first half of June this year have been either close to or significantly lower than the 1981-2010 period average. IMD uses the average of temperatures in the 1981-2010 period to check whether temperatures are higher or lower than what is expected for an interval, with a deviation of 1 degree Celsius considered as normal. This proves that Delhi had a far more pleasant summer or at least a normal summer until the last week of June.It rained before it was supposed to rainDelhi received a cumulative rainfall of 111.1mm in May this year. This is 400.4% more than the long period average (LPA) for the month. The LPA of rainfall is defined as the average of rainfall for an interval in the 1961-2010 period. To be sure, bulk of the cumulative rainfall in May was on account of the disturbance created by Cyclone Tauktae. 80.2mm or 72% of the 111.1mm rainfall took place on May 20, which is the highest since 1901 for this day. The LPA figure for rainfall on May 20 is just 0.87mm. May 19, May 21 and May 22 were also high rainfall days, recording the 11th highest, eighth highest and the highest rainfall for these days since 1901.Moreover, small amounts of rainfall took place once every week in May, making sure that temperatures stayed much lower than what they have been historically. Delhi’s maximum temperatures from May 18 to May 20 were ranked lowest for those days since 1951. From May 21 to May 24, the maximum temperatures for the day were ranked second lowest, sixth lowest, third lowest, and seventh lowest since 1951.What followed has been an exceptionally dry monsoonThe period between June 1 and September 30 is officially considered to be the monsoon season in India. According to IMD’s gridded database, Delhi’s cumulative monsoon rainfall as of 8.30am on June 30 was 23.32mm. This is 61% lower than the LPA and the 39th highest deficiency since 1901, the earliest period for which data is available. The deficiency is more acute if we look at cumulative rainfall in just the second half of June. Against an LPA of 44.7mm rainfall from June 16 to June 30, this year’s rainfall is just 6mm or 87% deficient, making it the 22nd highest rainfall deficit since 1901.Monsoon has halted at all-India level tooPart of the reason for a drier monsoon in Delhi could be that the monsoon has weakened before it was scheduled to enter north-western India. Rainfall at all-India level was above the LPA on all days except two from June 1 to June 20. After June 20, it has consistently remained below the LPA. Cumulative rainfall was 83.7% above the LPA on June 1. This surplus dropped to 23.7% of the LPA by June 10, rose again to reach 46.83% on June 20, and has since dropped consistently. The overall 188.9mm rainfall in June is only 15% above the LPA of 164mm for June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/behind-delhi-s-unusual-weather-this-summer-101625255013290.html
03-07-2021||India||India's Covid-19 vaccination drive: Govt says more than 344 million doses administered so far||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 34.41 crore according to the 7 pm provisional report, the Union health ministry said on Friday.More than 38.88 lakh (38,88,643) doses were administered on Friday, it said.The ministry said 20,08,217 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 97,458 vaccine doses were given as second dose, in the age group of 18-44 years, on Friday.Cumulatively, 9,61,89,940 people in the age group of 18-44 years across states/UTs have received their first dose and a total of 23,73,507 people have received their second dose, since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Eight states, namely Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra have administered more than 50 lakh first doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the age group of 18-44 years.Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group of 18-44 years for the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-vaccination-drive-govt-says-more-than-344-million-doses-administered-so-far-101625255638218.html
03-07-2021||India||Kerala records 12,095 new Covid-19 cases, tally moves close to 3-million mark||Kerala recorded 12,095 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, pushing the infection count to 29,49,128, while the toll rose to 13,505 with 146 more deaths.As many as 10,243 people have been cured of the infection, taking the total recoveries to 28,31,394 and the number of active cases has touched 1,03,764, a state government release said.In the last 24 hours ending 2 pm, 1,19,659 samples were tested and the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) was 10.11 per cent.So far, 2,33,18,214 samples have been tested.Malappuram continued to account for the highest number of cases, with 1,553 new cases, followed by Kollam - 1,271 and Kozhikode 1,180.Of the new cases, 58 are health workers, 68 had come from outside the state and 11,363 were infected through contact with source of contact being not clear in 606 cases, the release said.There are currently 3,91,753 people under surveillance in various districts of the state.Of these, 3,67,251 are in home or institutional quarantine and 24,113 in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-records-12-095-new-covid-19-cases-tally-moves-close-to-3-million-mark-101625254899894.html
03-07-2021||India||K’taka minister’s aide held for ‘cheating’ job aspirants||A close associate of Karnataka’s social welfare minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator, B Sriramulu, was arrested on Thursday night on charges that he cheated government job aspirants. The accused, Rajanna, was picked up by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) and was arrested outside the residence of the minister, following a complaint by chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s son, BY Vijayendra on June 28. People aware of the developments said that Vijayendra was forced to make the complaint as the accused was using the former’s name to extort money from government job aspirants. “Yesterday evening Rajanna was detained for questioning. Team of one ACP Nagraj and 2 police inspectors Hazresh and Prashanth Babu have questioned him in detail. His voice sample has also been taken. It is being sent to FSL for matching with audio clippings available. Further investigation is being done. A notice has been served to him to appear before the Investigating Officer (IO) when summoned again,” Sandeep Patil, the Joint Commissioner of Police (CCB) said in a statement on Friday. The arrest has fueled speculation of a growing rift within the Yediyurappa government and his cabinet, wherein Sriramulu claimed that he got to know about the developments only through media reports. “I heard this news in the media and no one should misuse another’s name,” Sriramulu said on Friday. He added that once the investigation is complete, law will take its own course. The minister said that he would also speak to Vijayendra and the chief minister and added that Vijayendra did not share this information with the former and called it a “miscommunication”. He clarified that Rajanna was his acquaintance but denied that the latter worked in any capacity. “The accused person misused (the) complainant’s name to get a job done by receiving illegal gratification. The complainant also stated that he does not know the said accused nor he has anything to do with him hence the complainant requested to take necessary action against all the persons concerned including the said accused,” stated the FIR lodged with the police by Vijayendra on June 28. Hindustan Times has seen a copy of this FIR. The case has been filed under Section 66 of the Karnataka Information Technology Act 2000 and Section 420 under the IPC. The developments add to the already strained relations with the chief minister and senior ministers in his cabinet who have aired their discontent with the former’s son, who is accused of running a parallel administration under the aegis of his father. “It has come to my knowledge that a person has misused my name on many occasions to cheat people and has received money by luring them with false promises. As soon as it came to my notice, I lodged a police complaint and requested to take appropriate action as per the law,” Vijayendra said in a post on Twitter on Friday. “I request everyone to exercise caution and beware of such fraudulent people and immediately bring to my attention if you come across any such incidents of fraudsters trying to misuse my name by making false promises,” he added. However, the clarification on Twitter still leaves several questions unanswered as to why the BJP’s vice president in Karnataka did not reach out to Sriramulu before filing the complaint. Sriramulu is one of the more influential leaders within the government and is a close associate of former illegal iron-ore mining kingpin, Gali Janardhana Reddy. The minister who hails from a community classified as scheduled caste, was also an aspirant for the post of deputy chief minister when the BJP seized power after Yediyurappa engineered the collapse of the HD Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal (Secular)-Congress government. In the last two months, at least four BJP legislators have levelled serious charges against Yediyurappa and his son including the “sex-for-job” scandal on Ramesh Jarkiholi, “bribe-for-bed scam” against Satish Reddy, allegations of taking cuts from private hospitals for vaccination against Ravi Subramanya and one (Arvind Bellad) who suspected that his phone was being tapped. One legislator of the BJP said that Yediyurappa would get vindictive against anyone who has tried to criticise the government and even hinted that most of the allegations in recent times against his own partymen, have been at the behest of the chief minister. Yediyurappa is on shaky ground as several legislators from his own party have rallied for his removal that has threatened the stability of the two-year old government, adding to the strained relations in BJP’s only government in southern India. The BJP is yet to act on ministers and other legislators of the party who have openly sought Yediyurappa’s removal and even accused him and his son of corruption. Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal) and AH Vishwanath have alleged that Yediyurappa and his son have indulged in wide-scale corruption, amounting to thousands of crores. One legislator of the BJP said that Yediyurappa would get vindictive against anyone who has tried to criticise the government and even hinted that most of the allegations in recent times against his own partymen, have been at the behest of the chief minister. Yediyurappa is on shaky ground as several legislators from his own party have rallied for his removal that has threatened the stability of the two-year old government, adding to the strained relations in BJP’s only government in southern India. The BJP is yet to act on ministers and other legislators of the party who have openly sought Yediyurappa’s removal and even accused him and his son of corruption. Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal) and AH Vishwanath have alleged that Yediyurappa and his son have indulged in wide-scale corruption, amounting to thousands of crores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-minister-s-aide-held-for-cheating-job-aspirants-101625254790980.html
03-07-2021||India||Bengal govt in denial over post-poll violence: HC||The West Bengal government was in “denial mode” on post-poll violence in the state, the Calcutta high court said on Friday, while taking cognisance of an official report on the attacks and ordering the authorities to record statements and provide relief to the victims.The court’s observations are a setback for the Trinamool Congress (TMC) administration that has repeatedly denied large-scale violence after the May 2 assembly election results and accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of fabricating charges.A five-judge high court bench took note of a report by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and gave the seven-member team, which was set up on the high court’s orders, till July 13 to visit more districts and meet more complainants.It directed a second autopsy of a BJP leader and issued a show-cause notice to a top Kolkata Police officer over an alleged attack on a member of the NHRC team.“From a perusal of the report prima facie stand taken by the petitioners is established that there had been post- poll violence and the state was found on a wrong foot, where throughout it was on a denial mode,” observed the bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal and comprising justices IP Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar.The bench said a perusal of the report established the allegations that a number of people were killed and many suffered sexual violence and grievous injuries, including minor girls who were “brutally assaulted sexually”.Violence broke out in various parts of the state hours after the TMC trounced the BJP to secure a third consecutive term on May 2. BJP leaders alleged that they were thrashed and threatened by TMC members, their houses ransacked and offices vandalised.The TMC denied the charges and said the BJP was trying to inflate isolated clashes. “One or two cases may be genuine but the rest are made up by the BJP. These are all fake allegations,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday.On June 18, the high court -- hearing a bunch of public interest litigation -- asked NHRC to probe the violence. Three days later, it rejected the state government’s review petition and said the administration’s conduct didn’t inspire confidence.The NHRC’s preliminary report was submitted to the court on June 30 in a sealed envelope. The court refused to disclose the contents but officials aware of the developments said the panel received complaints about 41 murders and 13 rapes. The preliminary report did not mention the role of the local police but it will be a part of the final report, officials said.The court directed the state government to provide all logistical support to the NHRC panel and ensure no obstruction in this process. “Such obstruction will be viewed seriously, which may entail action under the Contempt of Courts Act besides others,” the bench said in its order.Leader of Opposition in the state assembly, Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP, welcomed the court’s decision. “The government said all the violence took place when the Election Commission was in control of the administration and nothing happened after the new government took charge. It was a lie,” said Adhikari.The TMC said the violence took place before Mamata Banerjee was sworn in as CM on May 5. “The government will follow the court’s order. But our contention is that Mamata Banerjee controlled the situation after she was sworn in. The violence took place before that,” said TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy.Hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PIL), the bench issued a slew of orders.It asked the administration to conduct a fresh autopsy of local BJP leader Abhijit Sarkar, who was allegedly strangled to death by a mob in Kolkata on May 2. The body is kept in a city morgue.During the hearing, advocate general Kishore Datta told the bench that the Supreme Court had taken cognisance of Sarkar’s killing. The bench said it was only ordering a second autopsy without giving any direction.The victim’s brother, Biswajit Sarkar, is among the petitioners who moved the Supreme Court in May seeking the formation of a special investigation team to probe the violence.The bench also issued a show-cause notice to Rashid Munir Khan, deputy commissioner of police of the south suburban division of Kolkata Police, for failing to give protection to Atif Rasheed, vice-chairperson of the National Commission for Minorities and a member of the NHRC team, on June 29.Rasheed alleged that he was attacked while visiting Jadavpur, which falls under the south suburban division. The bench asked why the police should not be held guilty of contempt of court.The court also directed the police to register cases of all complainants, get statements of the victims as per law and provide medical relief to them.The NHRC panel includes a member of the West Bengal Human Rights Commission and a member of the West Bengal State Legal Services Authority.The NHRC panel is led by commission member and former Intelligence Bureau chief Rajiv Jain. The other members are National Commission for Women member Rajulben L Desai, NHRC (director) investigation Santosh Mehra and DIG (investigation) Manzil Saini, West Bengal Human Rights Commission registrar Pradip Kumar Panja, West Bengal State Legal Services Authority member secretary Raju Mukherjee and Rashed are other members.Divided in two groups, the members visited north and south Bengal districts. A camp was also held in the eastern outskirts of Kolkata on Monday where many local residents came to give their statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-in-denial-over-post-poll-violence-hc-101625252510773.html
03-07-2021||India||Bengal governor Dhankhar cuts short speech amid ruckus in House||KolkataWest Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar cut short his speech inaugurating the state assembly’s budget session on Friday after raucous protests by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) members in the House, reading out only a few lines and finishing in around four minutes. Dhankhar, who repeatedly clashed with the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and previously expressed reservations about reading out a speech prepared by the state government, started at 2 pm. But he was interrupted after four minutes by BJP legislators who reached the well of the House and started shouting slogans against the government. The BJP members held posters and banners showing images of BJP supporters allegedly killed by TMC workers. They objected to some lines in the speech that said some violence took place before the new government took charge and a “section of people” was carrying out a false campaign using fake photos and videos. Amid the ruckus, Dhankhar ended his speech by reading out a few lines from the last paragraph and left the assembly around 2.15 pm. Leader of Opposition and BJP legislator Suvendu Adhikari said Dhankhar did not read the whole speech to express sympathy for the victims of post-poll violence “We staged the agitation because the speech prepared by the government did not mention post-poll violence although it is now a national issue. We were not protesting against the governor,” said Adhikari.Parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee dismissed the suggestion. “The governor was interrupted by the unruly BJP members but his speech was accepted and placed before the House. In the second half of the session, the speaker passed the motion of thanks as well. So, technically the governor delivered his speech. Those who are denying it do not know parliamentary rules,” said Chatterjee.Dhankhar was not available for comment. This is the first assembly session after Mamata Banerjee-led TMC won the state elections on May 2. The developments came a day after ties between Raj Bhavan and the TMC touched a new low with the ruling party linking the governor to a fake vaccine scam. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who attended the House proceedings on Friday despite not being an MLA, also alleged on June 28 that Dhankhar was an accused in the 1996 Jain hawala case.The same day, the governor denied the charges and told reporters that he was not bound to read out the speech prepared by the state government – contradicting established House norms backed by the Constitution. In February last year, Dhankhar wanted to edit the speech prepared by the state for the budget session. The government rejected his suggestion. Dhankhar finally followed convention and read out the speech critical of the Citizenship Amendment Act. On Friday, however, the acrimony was not visible at the House. The chief minister and speaker Biman Banerjee greeted Dhankhar at the gates when he arrived at 1.48 pm. They walked up to the statue of B R Ambedkar and paid tribute together. Banerjee escorted Dhankhar to the House and also saw him off. The two were seen talking cordially.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-governor-dhankhar-cuts-short-speech-amid-ruckus-in-house-101625252451415.html
03-07-2021||India||TMC seeks removal of S-G Tushar Mehta over alleged meeting with Adhikari||Kolkata: The Trinamool Congress sought the removal of solicitor general (SG) Tushar Mehta in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday and alleged that the senior lawyer met Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Suvendu Adhikari in violation of established norms. Mehta denied the meeting and said Adhikari, the leader of Opposition in West Bengal, came to his residence-cum-office in Delhi at 3pm on Thursday, but left without meeting the SG, who was tied up in previous engagements, and expressed his inability to meet the Nandigram MLA.Adhikari is an accused in the 2016 Narada sting operation case, and Mehta -- the Union government’s second highest law officer -- is representing the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the Supreme Court and Calcutta high court in the agency’s probe against senior TMC leaders in the case. Casual meetings between judges and lawyers or between law officers and political leaders in social gatherings are not per se improper or frowned upon. In 2018, at a social event organised by a newspaper in Delhi, a Supreme Court judge found himself seated next to a prominent politician whose son – also a politician, had a case being argued before a bench which included that judge. However, it may not be in keeping with the conventional mores of independence of investigating agency when the agency’s lawyer meets an accused in an unofficial set up like his residence. It may also raise issues of conflict of interest with the statutory duties of the lawyer for the investigating agency whose primary task is to ensure a just and fair investigation and a trial. Any meeting with an accused in a case may also give rise to questions of impropriety of the lawyer, besides integrity of the office if the lawyer happens to be a law officer. In 2013, the Supreme Court had called the CBI a “caged parrot” on being told that the then Union law minister Ashwani Kumar had made significant changes in the agency’s draft probe report on Coalgate, while top law officers and government officials, including those from the PMO, had suggested amendments. In November 2014, the Supreme Court had ordered then CBI Director Ranjit Sinha to stay out of the 2G case over accusations that he tried to interfere with the probe as purported entry registers at Sinha’s residence showed his meeting the accused in the 2G and Coal scam cases. A lawyer for an investigating agency may meet an accused who wants to turn an approver and strengthen the prosecution’s case but in all these cases, the accused must be somebody against whom chargesheet has been filed or against whom charges have been framed and he/she has been sent up for trial. The TMC letter, signed by party MPs Derek O’Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Mahua Moitra, said the alleged meeting between Adhikari and Mehta “reeks of impropriety”.“Such meeting between an accused in grave offences with the SG, who is advising such agencies by whom the said accused is being investigated, is in direct conflict of interest with the statutory duties of the SG of India,” said the letter, which came a day after Adhikari met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi. The MPs said that the alleged meeting was organised to influence the outcome of cases where Adhikari was an accused. They also said the main accused in the 2013 Saradha chit fund scam had levelled serious allegations against Adhikari, who switched from BJP to TMC in 2020. Notably, Adhikari has not been chargesheeted by CBI despite being initially named as an accused in the case. Hence, at present, there is no question of Adhikari’s trial or his appearance before the special CBI court in the Narada sting case. At the time of filing the chargesheet, the CBI has, however, kept the option of filing a supplementary chargesheet open. “In order to avoid any doubt in the mind of the public at large, as to the integrity and neutrality of the office of the SG, we approach you to initiate necessary steps for removal of Tushar Mehta from the post of the SG of India,” the letter said. A few hours later, Mehta denied the meeting. “Shri Suvendhu Adhikari did come to my residence cum office yesterday at around 3pm, unannounced. Since I was already in a pre-scheduled meeting in my chamber, my staff requested him to sit in the waiting room of my office building,” the SG said in a written statement.“... When my meeting was over and my staff informed me about his arrival, I requested my staff to convey to Mr Adhikari my inability to meet him and apologise as he had to wait. Mr Adhikari thanked my staff and left without insisting on meeting me. The question of my meeting Mr Adhikari, therefore, does not arise,” the statement further said. Adhikari, who attended the assembly session in Kolkata on Friday, claimed he could not meet the SG.The BJP said as leader of the Opposition, Adhikari can meet the SG to discuss legalities. “The TMC is trying to make an issue out of nothing to divert the attention from other important issues such as post-poll violence, deterioration of law and order in the state and the vaccination scam. Is there is Constitutional bar which says that an elected public representative cannot meet the SG even though he may be an accused in a case?” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in West Bengal. The party’s state unit chief Dilip Ghosh said it was up to the TMC to substantiate its claims. “The question is how many persons the TMC would like to be removed from post. they want the governor to be removed because he is vociferous against the government. Now they want the SG to be removed. In future they may want the PM, home minister and even the President to be removed to survive,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmcseeks-removal-of-s-g-tushar-mehta-over-alleged-meeting-with-adhikari-101625252390664.html
03-07-2021||India||SC refuses to stay TN law on quota for Vanniyars||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to stay Tamil Nadu’s law, passed in February, creating a 10.5% sub-quota for the Vanniyar community within the 20% reservation for Most Backward Classes (MBCs) but later agreed to issue notice to the Tamil Nadu government and keep the petition pending along with others filed against the same law.A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat observed that petitions against the law were already being considered by the Madras high court and gave the petitioner, S Sandeep Kumar, the option to approach the high court. Senior lawyer S Nagamuthu, however, urged the court to issue notice to the state government and keep the petition pending in the top court along with other similar petitions.The Tamil Nadu assembly passed the law on February 26, hours before the model code of conduct kicken in with the Election Commission’s announcement of the poll schedule for the state elections. In the assembly, the then chief minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami cited demands for the reservation by Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), a key AIADMK ally that counts the Vanniyar community as its core vote bank.The law provides internal reservation within the 20% MBC quota that benefits the Vanniyakula Kshatriya community most as it allocated 10.5% quota to them. The remaining share of 9.5% is apportioned between so-called Denotified Communities and other MBCs. Denotified Communities are those that once stood notified under the Criminal Tribes Acts during the pre-Independence period but were “denotified” after the government repealed the Acts in 1952.Nagamuthu questioned the validity of the law, arguing that it was passed for political considerations in a hurried manner without any discussion and without waiting for the report of a one-man judicial committee headed by Justice (retd) A Kulasekaran set up on December 21, 2020, to gather quantifiable data on the identified castes and tribes in the state.The petition filed through advocate P Sriram said the law was passed without any quantifiable data relating to social and educational backwardness of the Vanniyakula Kshatriyas . Nagamuthu told the top court that the immediate implication was that reservation benefits have been cornered by one community though 122 communities are classified MBCs, He said the law was passed on the assumption that the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes Commission made a recommendation for a separate quota for Vanniyakula Kshatriya community.The petition said the commission hasn’t made any such recommendation and the outgoing government, which pushed the law through the assembly, merely cited a letter written by Justice (Retd) MS Janardhanan, chairman of the commission in his individual capacity. The commission had seven other members.The petition also questioned the timing and intent of the law. “The bill is politically motivated and to please Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), which is a splinter group of Vanniyakula Kshatriya community,” it said.In addition to the 20% MBC reservation, Tamil Nadu has allocated quota benefits to 30% among other backward classes (OBC), 18% to Scheduled Castes and 1% to Scheduled Tribes. The 1993 law, which allowed Tamil Nadu to continue with 69% reservation ( first instituted in 1990; it was 68% since 1980; and 49% before that) , thereby exceeding the 50% cap on reservation fixed by the Supreme Court in 1992, is also under challenge before the top court, which said it would wait till a Constitution bench decides on the Maratha quota issue, the validity of the Maharashtra State Reservation for Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act of 2018 that made reservations in the state touch 65%. However, Tamil Nadu’s 1993 law was brought under the Ninth Schedule of Constitution, giving it protection from “any judgement, decree, or order of court...”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-stay-tn-law-on-quota-for-vanniyars-101625252210692.html
03-07-2021||India||Chinese national held at border quizzed in UP||Chinese national Junwei Han, the alleged kingpin of an illegal money transaction racket who was arrested by Border Security Force (BSF) while illegally crossing the India-Bangladesh border on June 10, was brought to Lucknow on Friday for interrogation, said senior UP Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) officials.The alleged racket involved illegal money transactions after opening online accounts in banks using fraudulently activated SIM cards, the officials said. It was busted by UP ATS in January this year.The officials said the ATS approached the BSF authorities after coming to know about Han’s arrest and brought him to Lucknow on Friday. They said Han’s name surfaced after Chinese national Sun Ji Ying, 35, was arrested from Gurugram, Haryana, in connection with the illegal money transaction racket on January 27. Before that, ATS had arrested two Chinese nationals Xu Xunfu alias Julahi and Pochnli Tengli alias Alice from Gautam Buddh Nagar in the same matter on January 24.A senior ATS official said the ATS sought the custody remand of Han from the ATS court in Lucknow in order to interrogate him. He said the decision about his custody remand was still pending.He also said Han, a resident of Beijing, reached Delhi by illegally entering India through the porous India-Bangladesh border two years ago.He said Han, along with Sun ji Ying who was in the country on a business visa till January, and two other Chinese nationals had procured over 1800 fraudulently activated SIM cards. He said these SIMS were used by different people for illegal online money transactions.The official said the role of Chinese nationals’ involvement had surfaced after the arrest of 14 people, who were allegedly providing pre-activated SIMs illegally, from different parts of the stateon January 17. He said the racket was involved in money-laundering and the possibility of terror funding behind it could not be ruled out. He said the ATS was probing the motive behind illegal money transactions.Another ATS official said the Chinese nationals arrested were in regular touch with another person in China through an instant messaging application for illegal money transactions. He said the racketeers misused relaxations offered in banking services for the common man during the pandemic. In this period, people were allowed to open their online bank accounts through their mobile phone numbers, without visiting the banks.A senior ATS official explained that at least two SIM cards could be issued in a day on one person’s identity proof. Some SIM card retailers and distributors used to get two SIM cards activated when any person approached them for a SIM card without letting the person know about the second card.The online bank accounts also have the facility of mentioning one beneficiary other than the account holder. The beneficiary could withdraw money from the ATM machines by getting one-time passwords sent to their registered mobile numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-national-held-at-border-quizzed-in-up-101625252211236.html
03-07-2021||India||Charred body of IIT-M staff found on campus||The body of a 22-year-old man was found in a partially burnt state at the Madras campus of the Indian Institute of Technology late on Thursday in a suspected case of death by suicide, officials said on Friday.The deceased, a resident of Kerala, was a temporary project researcher at the premier institute and was living in rented accommodation in Chennai outside the campus, the officials added.The police have recovered a suicide not where he says he was “unable to cope with his work”.People on the campus spotted his body on the hockey ground and alerted the management and the police. “His body was sent to the Royapettah Government Hospital for post mortem. The burning is caused by self-harm,” Chennai assistant commissioner C Subramanian said.In the 11-page suicide note, the man wrote that he didn’t want to trouble his parents, a police officer said on condition of anonymity.Inflammable material found at the scene has also been sent for testing.Subramanian added: “His parents visited him often. They sensed that he was not fine, and they had informed the house owner about it too. From the suicide note we can tell that he was very upset with life and work.” The man last spoke to his mother on a video call on Thursday morning, he saidThe institute described the incident as an “unfortunate and tragic incident”. “We are shocked and deeply grieved, and convey our heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of the departed soul. The police are investigating the incident and theinstitute is fully cooperating with the authorities,” it said in a statement. Further investigations in the case are on.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/charred-body-of-iit-m-staff-found-on-campus-101625252151758.html
03-07-2021||India||No plea filed to EC for bypoll: U’khand govt official||Tirath Singh Rawat or the Uttarakhand government have not petitioned the Election Commission of India to hold by-elections to allow the chief minister, who is not a member of the state legislature, to become a member of the house, a government official familiar with the matter said on Friday.Rawat resigned late on Friday, suggesting he did so because the EC was unlikely to hold by-elections. “The petition has not been received so far,” the official cited above said on condition of anonymity. A chief minister, who is neither a member of the Legislative Assembly nor the Legislative Council, has to be elected to either house within six months of assuming office, according to the law.Since Uttarakhand does not have a bicameral system, Rawat, who was appointed in March amid fierce dissent against former chief minister Trivendra Rawat, had time till September to be elected to the assembly. According to the official quoted above, either the state or the chief minister has to petition the poll panel to conduct elections that are necessary to meet the constitutional requirements. “The election commission can hold by-elections even if the general elections are less than a year away. There is no rule barring it. But in case there is a situation like Uttarakhand where the chief minister’s continuation in office depends on the bypoll, the state has to petition the poll panel which will then take a call on the elections,” the official said. A similar situation was witnessed in 2020 when Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was required to be elected to either the assembly or the legislative council. Since elections were then put on hold in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, there was pressure from the state government to relax restrictions to allow the elections. Thackeray, who was eventually elected unopposed, had even sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention in the matter. Earlier, Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari had not acted on the state cabinet’s recommendation that Thackeray be nominated to the legislative council. BJP functionaries could not be reached for a comment despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-plea-filed-to-ec-for-bypoll-u-khand-govt-official-101625251970658.html
03-07-2021||India||A sudden leadership change not new to Uttarakhand||A likely change in leadership in Uttarakhand, following the resignation of chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Friday, is reminiscent of the 2007-2012 period when the state saw a change in the role on three occasions.In 2007, B C Khanduri was elected as the chief minister but continued only for 841 days (more than two years) in office. In 2009, he was replaced by now Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal who stayed in office for 805 days (more than two years) till 2011. In September that year, Khanduri made a comeback to serve for another 184 days in the top job. “The state came into being in 2000, but has had only one chief minister - Congress’s ND Tiwari - who completed a full term. Between 2012 and 2017, Vijay Bahuguna was in the chief minister’s chair for about more than a year. He was replaced by Harish Rawat who completed three stints as chief minister; there was also President’s rule for 25 days in between,” a BJP state functionary said, wishing not to be named.While former chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who was voted to power in February 2017, resigned in March this year amid fierce dissent BJP cadre, Tirath stepped down from the post on Friday. A second party functionary said the frequent changes could affect the party’s performance in the state election.“If the current chief minister is replaced because of a technical reason, it will be difficult to convince the people that he was removed for administrative purposes. It gives the opposition ammunition against the BJP,” the functionary said on condition of anonymity. Incidentally, there is speculation that Pokriyal is also in the list of contenders for the top post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-sudden-leadership-change-not-new-to-uttarakhand-101625251850675.html
03-07-2021||India||Tirath’s tenure as CM ends in just 4 months||Tirath Singh Rawat resigned as chief minister of Uttarakhand on Friday after a four-month stint marred by controversy, including allowing the Mahakumbh during a devastating surge in Covid infections, and large-scale fraud in testing during the holy event.The 57-year-old leader’s resignation came days after he was summoned to Delhi by the BJP leadership and met Union home minister Amit Shah and party chief JP Nadda. The hill state goes to the polls in early 2022. Rawat suggested he resigned because the Election Commission was unlikely to hold by-elections due to Covid-19. An EC official, however, indicated that no request was made to hod a bypoll, and suggested there were precedents that may have permitted it.A CM, if not a member of the assembly, needs to be elected within six months of assuming the post – a process that was seen as tough for two reasons: the EC does not typically hold bypolls to vacant constituencies (a possible route he could have taken) when the assembly’s term ends in less than a year, and holding an election amid Covid-19 would be risky.“I must express my gratitude to the party’s central leadership which has given many responsibilities from time to time. I have been MLC, MLA, MP, party state president and recently chief minister. I thank my party president JP Nadda, home minister Amit Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the core of my heart,” he said after submitting his resignation to the governor. State BJP president Madan Kaushik said the party legislative party will meet at 3pm on Saturday and decide on the new leader. “The new leader will be an MLA”, he said Rawat arrived in Delhi on Wednesday and met Nadda and Shah. On Friday, he met Nadda for a second time before arriving back in Uttarakhand, where he hurriedly called a press conference in the evening. At the briefing, he listed achievements of his short tenure. A little before 11.30pm, he reached the Governor’s residence and submitted his resignation. Rawat’s is the shortest term for an Uttarakhand CM. State BJP president Madan Kaushik said the legislative party will meet at 3pm on Saturday and decide on a new leader. “The new leader will be an MLA”, he said. Separately, in Delhi, functionaries in the central BJP said Narendra Singh Tomar will be the central observer at the meeting. The BJP has 56 MLAs in the 70-member house. Rawat, who was elected to the Lok Sabha from Garhwal in 2019, was elevated as the ninth CM of the hill state in March after his predecessor, Trivendra Singh Rawat, resigned due to infighting in the state unit. In his short term, Rawat quickly courted controversy with his critical views on women’s clothing and saying that the waters of the Ganga could prevent infections. He also allowed the Mahakumbh to go ahead in Haridwar without any restrictions in April despite doctors warning that lack of social distancing and violation of Covid norms could trigger a surge in cases across the country.In all, 9.1 million people took the holy dip – at least six million of them in April, coinciding with the peak of the second wave – and officials in many other north Indian states traced local infection surges to Kumbh returnees. The Uttarakhand high court sharply criticised the government for green-lighting the event. A month later, a Faridkot resident complained to the authorities that he received a message for collecting his Covid report despite never having been tested. The complaint triggered a probe that unearthed roughly 100,000 fake rapid antigen tests, and cast a shadow on the role of the mela authorities and local administration. Facing mounting pressure from Opposition and some members of his party, Rawat said the irregularities occurred before his tenure, prompting a sharp denial from Trivendra Rawat. The controversies were likely to hurt the BJP’s prospects of securing a second consecutive term in assembly elections just months away. “Because of the vested interest of leaders of BJP, the future of Uttarakhand has become uncertain and people of the state are suffering. BJP doesn’t care about the development of state but only for how to grab the power by any means,” said Congress state general secretary Vijay Saraswat. According to an EC official who asked not to be named, either the state or the chief minister has to petition the poll panel to conduct elections that are necessary to meet the constitutional requirements. “The election commission can hold by-elections even if the general elections are less than a year away. There is no rule barring it. But in case there is a situation like Uttarakhand where the chief minister’s continuation in office depends on the bypoll, the state has to petition the poll panel which will then take a call on the elections,” the official said. Political commentators said the change of a CM for the second time in a year could dent BJP’s electoral prospects when polls take place next year. SMA Kazmi, a Dehradun-based political analyst, said the resignation could further increase political instability and various equations between Kumaon and Garhwal regions would have to be reset on the basis of region and Thakur-Brahmin axis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiraths-tenure-as-cm-ends-in-just-4-months-101625251791652.html
03-07-2021||India||Armed forces must keep their guard up in Ladakh: Bipin Rawat||Chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat on Friday said the Indian armed forces should stay prepared for any misadventure by the Chinese forces in eastern Ladakh and respond as needed.“We have to keep our guard up, remain prepared and not take things lightly. We must also be prepared for any misadventure and respond accordingly. We have responded in the past and will do so in the future,” Rawat said.His comments came during a seminar organised by the Global Counter Terrorism Council. Rawat said negotiations were on with China at the political, diplomatic and military levels to resolve the border row.“This will take time and in a gradual manner we should be able to achieve status quo because if you do not achieve status quo and remain in this kind of position it could lead to misadventure at some time. Both nations understand that returning status quo is in the best interest of peace and tranquillity,” Rawat said.The Indian and Chinese armies began negotiations to resolve the border row in eastern Ladakh exactly a year ago, but the two sides have only had limited success in hammering out an agreement for disengagement of rival soldiers deployed at friction points on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC).The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have held 11 rounds of talks between corps commander-ranked officers since June 6, 2020 to reduce tensions along the disputed border.The only significant outcome of the military dialogue has been the disengagement of front-line troops and weaponry in the Pangong Tso sector in mid-February after the ninth round of talks.“There is suspicion on both sides because while the other side has deployed their forces and created infrastructure, we are not lagging behind. We have also moved a large number of troops and resources. So some kind of suspicion is there on both sides as to what can happen. This will take time and in a gradual manner we should be able to achieve status quo,” Rawat said.He said China had realised that Indian armed forces can’t be taken lightly.“They are no longer the armed forces of 1962. This is a strong armed force and not a pushover. They will stand up to what they are worth. That is what has been realised. They (China) also have to create capacities and capabilities to deal with a strong military,” Rawat said.IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said nothing had changed at the LAC after the February disengagement. He said China was building infrastructure on its side.“We are aware what kind of Chinese assets are based where...They have spent a lot of energy in building infrastructure at many of their airfields and it is defensive in nature as they have analysed as to what all can be hit by us quickly in case the situation requires. They are looking at covering deficiencies and bringing in more efficiency in their air operations,” he said.Bhadauria said the IAF was also building its capabilities in the sector.“We are doing our own upgrades in exercises, sensors, weapons, new integrations…We are much more capable than what we were one year back. We have not maintained status quo on our capability,” the IAF chief added.Both armies have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre and the deployments haven’t thinned after the disengagement in the Pangong Tso sector.The Indian Army’s focus is on resolving outstanding problems with the PLA at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang, but the disengagement process has hit a wall as a result of the PLA’s reluctance to pull back its forward deployed troops and restore the status quo ante of April 2020, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-forces-must-keep-their-guard-up-in-ladakh-rawat-101625251550584.html
03-07-2021||India||Probe into Agra hospital case not over: Deputy CM||Agra: Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister and minister of higher education, Dinesh Sharma, assured on Friday that strict action would be taken against Sri Paras Hospital if it were found guilty in the final report. According to him, the FIR has been lodged against the owner doctor and license of the hospital has been suspended. To note, Sri Paras hospital hit the headlines recently after a video went viral, In which the owner doctor admitted to allegedly conducting a ‘mock drill’ on patients to check their oxygen dependence, after which 22 patients turned ‘blue’ and were ‘eliminated’. “The probe against the hospital has not ended and only a preliminary report has surfaced. Still, action has been taken against the hospital and it has been sealed. FIR has been lodged against the owner doctor and license of the hospital has been suspended. Further action will be taken if the hospital is found at fault in the final report,” Sharma said. On Sri Paras Hospital being given Covid hospital status in the second wave despite being sealed for anomalies in the first wave, the deputy chief minister said that as the second wave was more intense, the priority was to have more hospitals to save corona patients. Regarding vaccine shortage affecting pace of inoculation in the state, Sharma stated that sufficient number of vaccines were being made available. “Yet, in case there is some shortage, it would be fulfilled in a day or two wherever it occurs. For Agra district also, sufficient quota of vaccines has been sanctioned like other districts,” he said. “ Some political leaders made efforts to spread confusion about vaccines but fortunately the people of Uttar Pradesh did not fall for false propaganda and are now turning up for vaccination in smart numbers, even in rural areas,” he said. “Screening committees are moving in 97,000 revenue villages in the state and are even making medicines available to villagers at home. The emphasis on ‘’Triple T’ i.e. Tracing, Testing and Treatment continues and there is positive outcome in villages after these initiatives,” Sharma said. “In apprehension of a third wave, pediatric intensive care units (PICUs) are being prepared. Oxygen plants are coming up at community health centres and primary health centres are being strengthened by making medicines available for the common man,” he said. In reply to another question, the deputy CM said no groups or alliances had succeeded against the BJP and even in the past, such combinations failed to stop the party which had done a lot under the leadership of chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath. Caption ::: Deputy chief minister and minister of higher education, Dinesh Sharma being welcomed in Agra by new zila panchayat president Manju Bhadoria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-into-agra-hospital-case-not-over-deputy-cm-101625251490601.html
03-07-2021||India||Sidhu takes dig at Punjab CM over power cuts||Chandigarh: Former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu attacked his rival, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, on Friday over widespread power shortages in the state, indicating that infighting was rife in the Congress state unit despite two months of troubleshooting by the party leadership. Sidhu said Punjab was buying electricity at higher than national average prices, alleged mismanagement by state authorities, and called for contracts signed by the previous Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) government to be cancelled. His criticism of Singh and his own party’s government came amid protests by Opposition parties, farmers and consumer groups over hours-long power cuts and high tariffs. “There is no need for power cuts in Punjab or for the chief minister to regulate office timings or AC use of the common people ... If we act in the right direction,” said Sidhu, Facing spiralling protests, Singh on Thursday announced emergency measures, including reducing government work hours, curtailing supply to industries, and appealing to people to limit the use of air-conditioners. The attack by Sidhu came two days after he met former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. In interviews last week, he called Singh a “liar” and “corrupt”, prompting a three-member Congress panel, set up to resolve differences in the state unit, to say that they will talk to the cricketer-turned-politician. Punjab goes to the polls in early 2022, and power supply is likely to be a major poll issue. On June 28, Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal promised free electricity up to 300 units to each household and round-the-clock power supply in Punjab, if his party wins the state polls.Capt Amarinder, who holds the power portfolio, did not respond to Sidhu’s remarks. However, senior party leader Raj Kumar Verka said that power shortage was caused by sudden surge in demand due to delayed monsoon and record heatwave, and would not last more than two-three days. “A number of steps have been taken and things are already improving,” the three-time MLA said.Sidhu, the Amritsar East MLA, quit the Punjab cabinet in 2019 after his portfolio was changed from local bodies to power and new and renewable energy. In a series of tweets, Sidhu said he was sharing the truth of power costs, cuts, power purchase agreements and how to give free and 24-hour power to the people of the state. Sidhu said that Punjab was buying power at an average cost of ₹4.54 per unit whereas the national average was ₹3.85 per unit. He alleged the state was overly dependent on three private thermal plants. “The (previous) Badal Govt signed power purchase agreements (PPAs) with 3 private thermal power plants in Punjab. Till 2020, Punjab has already paid 5,400 crore due to faulty clauses in these agreements and is expected to pay 65,000 crore. People’s money is just fixed charges,” he tweeted. Advising the state to purchase power from the national grid at much cheaper rates, he said the PPAs are acting against Punjab’s interest. “Punjab may not be able to renegotiate these PPAs due to them having legal protection from hon’ble courts. But there is a way forward. Punjab Vidhan Sabha can bring in new legislation with retrospective effect to cap power purchase costs to prices available on the National Power Exchange at any given time. Thus, by amending the law, these agreements will become null & void (sic),” he wrote. The legislator further stated that Punjab’s revenue per unit of consumption is one of the lowest in India, due to gross mismanagement of the complete power purchase and supply system. “Punjab State Power Corporation Limited pays Rs. 0.18 per unit extra on every unit supplied, even after receiving over 9,000 crore in subsidy from the state,” he tweeted, advising the state to harness renewable energy which is becoming cheaper and also environment friendly. Criticising Kejriwal’s promise to give 300 units of free electricity to every household, Sidhu said, “Punjab already gives 9,000 crore power subsidy but Delhi gives only 1699 crore. If Punjab copies Delhi model, we will get merely ₹1600-2000 crore as subsidy… Punjab needs an orignal Punjab Model, Not a copied model.” He added: “Punjab model for power - money spent on giving unreasonable & exuberant profits to private thermal plants should be utilised for welfare of people i.e giving power subsidy for free [ower for domestic use (upto 300 units), 24 hours supply & to invest in education & healthcare!”Tensions between Singh and Sidhu have simmered since 2019. But the bitterness mounted in May after the government suffered a legal setback in a 2015 case of police firing on a crowd protesting the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy book. The three-member panel submitted its report to party chief Sonia Gandhi on June 10 and said she will take the final decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-takes-dig-at-punjab-cm-over-power-cuts-101625251430569.html
03-07-2021||India||Treat vaccinated Indians on par with those given jabs in E.U.: Govt||New Delhi India on Friday said it expects its vaccinated citizens to be treated on a par with those inoculated in European Union (EU) states, and the recognition of its digital Covid-19 vaccination certificates by the 27-member bloc on a reciprocal basis. The remarks by external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi at a weekly news briefing came against the backdrop of 10 European countries, including eight EU members, recognising the Covishield vaccine for proof of Covid-19 vaccination for travel. Referring to the EU Digital Covid Certificate or “green pass” introduced on July 1 for exempting vaccinated people from restrictions on movement, Bagchi said: “Our expectation is that Indians who have been vaccinated through our domestic vaccination programme would be treated at par with those vaccinated in the EU and the CoWIN vaccination certificate would be recognised by the EU on a reciprocal basis.” Bagchi said India’s digital vaccination certificates can be authenticated on the CoWIN website. “We are in touch with EU member states in this regard for reciprocal acceptance. I understand that a number of EU countries have already taken positive steps in this direction,” he added. A large number of Indian students who have gained admission to educational institutions in Europe and professionals are keen to travel so that they can join classes or resume work. Questions have arisen about their ability to travel as Covishield hasn’t been approved as yet by the European Medicines Agency (EMA). Covaxin is yet to be approved by the World Health Organization (WHO). EU member states, however, have the option of accepting vaccines that have been approved by WHO or national authorities. Currently, EU members Austria, Estonia, Germany, Greece, Ireland, the Netherlands, Slovenia and Spain, and Iceland and Switzerland, which aren’t in the bloc but are part of the Schengen visa regime, recognise Covishield for travel purposes. Of the EU members, only Estonia recognises both Covishield and Covaxin, the two main jabs used for India’s vaccination programme. The Indian side has informed EU member states it will follow a policy of reciprocity in recognising Covid-19 vaccines for travel, and exempt EU nationals possessing the green pass from mandatory quarantine only if the bloc recognises Covishield and Covaxin. Travel between India and Europe continues to be tightly restricted. For example, India is on the Netherlands’ list of “very high risk” areas from where travel is barred. Of the 10 European countries that recognise Covishield, India has an air bubble arrangement only with Germany, which has emerged as a key transit hub for Indian nationals. In response to other questions at the briefing, Bagchi said the government is making all efforts to augment the availability of vaccines across the country through domestic production and imports. The status of imports of specific vaccines depends on the regulatory authorities, he added. Bagchi also ruled out any immediate resumption of vaccine exports, saying, “Let me reiterate that currently, our priority remains on purposing domestic production to our domestic vaccination programme, which as you know is progressing rapidly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/treat-vaccinated-indians-on-par-with-those-given-jabs-in-e-u-govt-101625251370579.html
03-07-2021||India||Covid infection spike in Kerala a cause of worry||In the seven days ending Thursday, India recorded an average of 46,243 new Covid-19 cases every day, according to the HT dashboard. Of this, 11,815 (or 26%) came from Kerala.The southern state ended Thursday with 102,523 active cases, around 20% of the total active cases in the country.And over the same seven-day period ending Thursday, Kerala’s positivity rate was 10.3%, nearly five times the national average of 2.1%.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs the number of cases in the state increases, neighbouring Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have mandated fresh restrictions on people travelling from Kerala.The reasons for the virus’ trajectory in the state are not clear, and experts have called for deeper scientific study.One reason could be low community immunity: according to a sero-survey (a blood test of antibodies) conducted by the Indian Council for Medical Research in February only 11% of the state’s population had antibodies, as compared to 21% across India.Another could be variants of the original virus. The detection of a few people infected with the Delta Plus variant have added to the state’s woes. Three villages in Pathanamthitta and Palakkad have been under a so-called triple-lockdown for two weeks after the detection of Delta Plus.And still another could be carelessness. “Many flout home isolation protocols infecting family members. In rural Kerala it is quite rampant,” said Devika Rani, a health worker dealing with home quarantine patients.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan admitted on Tuesday that the progression of the second wave in the state is a matter of serious concern. “First wave we managed it well but second wave progression is very slow and it is a real concern and challenge.”To be sure, the fatality rate is still one-third the national average, but it is mired in controversy after increasing complaints about deaths not being attributed to Covid-19; the state is now auditing its death records. Hospitals and local government offices are flooded with applications to certify Covid deaths after the Supreme Court mandated some financial relief for families of the deceased.Some experts blame continued obsession with cheap antigen tests despite having a relatively high testing rate (cumulatively, the state has conducted 660,457 tests per million population, as compared to the national average of 310,790), and the recent assembly elections for the cases. They also believe the state has been lax in restrictions.“We have to be very careful while easing restrictions. We have to be cautious about the new Delta Plus variant also,” said Dr N M Arun, a public health expert from Palakkad. He was the first to point out massive underreporting of Covid deaths in the state.“No serious scientific studies are taking place. Since we have to live with the virus for some more time we have to explore it,” he added.With a high density of population (859 people per sq km) and a large number of elderly population (at least 15% are above 60 years of age) and high incidence of lifestyle diseases the state should be extra cautious, they warn.“When we point out pitfalls we are branded as those working against the interest of the state. The government should heed experts and conduct more studies on different variants of the virus,” said Dr S S Lal, another public health expert. The government will have to conduct a sero-surveillance study to identify susceptible populations and also sequence viral genomes in real time to avoid a possible third wave, he added.Opposition leader V D Satheesan added: “For everything the government cites WHO or ICMR standards but in most cases including death certification norms are against recommendations of these bodies.”And if there is a bright spot, it is the state’s record of vaccines. Kerala has thus far fully vaccinated 3.5 million people and partially vaccinated, 7.6 million. This means that the state has vaccinated 31% of its eligible population with at least one dose, compared to the national figure of 21%.There are also no signs of overcrowding or panic in hospitals. Some of the temporary first line treatment centres were closed down for want of patients and there is no shortage of oxygen. Doctors say many patients prefer home isolation and it was another reason for the rise in cases.New health minister Veena George put up a brave face saying things were moving on expected lines and there was no need for any panic. She also denied reports of deaths being underreported. “The state fatality rate is 0. 4 in the second wave also. The government has nothing to hide and those affected can file complaints of non-inclusion of Covid deaths to the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-infection-spike-in-kerala-a-cause-of-worry-101625251311083.html
03-07-2021||India||Pregnant women can now get vaccinated||Women who are pregnant can now take the coronavirus vaccine, the Union ministry of health and family welfare announced on Friday, joining the list of countries that have expanded the eligibility criteria to help protect expecting mothers and their unborn child from the viral illness. The health ministry said it made the decision on the recommendations of two expert panels: the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC). “Based on recommendations from National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI), the Union Ministry of Health and family Welfare (MoHFW) today approved the vaccination of pregnant women against Covid-19… The decision has been communicated to all the States/ UTs to implement it under the ongoing National Covid Vaccination Program,” the ministry said in a statement, adding that the NEGVAG too unanimously backed the decision.The move was also declared at a ministry briefing on Friday. “The vaccine is useful for the pregnant woman and it should be given,” said Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director-general Dr Balram Bhargava.Countries such as the US, the UK, Canada and Israel have already opened up their vaccine drive to include pregnant women. The US’s Centres of Disease Control and Prevention also encourages pregnant women to get the jab, saying that the group is at a higher risk of severe illness from Covid-19 and initial studies have not identified any concerns about the safety of the shots so far. The Union health ministry also said on Friday that pregnant women, who get infected with Covid-19 and have co-morbidies, have higher chances of pre-term delivery and birth complications. Women who are expecting a child can take the vaccine at any period during their pregnancy, Dr NK Arora who heads NTAGI, said in another statement issued by the ministry. “It does not matter whether the vaccine is being given in the first, second or third trimester,” he said. Dr Arora said that every woman who is administered the jab and the foetus will be monitored for any signs of discomfort. “Foetal outcomes, that is, growth of the child in mother’s womb, will also be monitored,” he added.Earlier this week, the health ministry also released a fact-sheet advising pregnant women to take the jab and said the risks outweighed the benefits of vaccination.Dr Arora said, “One in 10 lakh (1 million) women have experienced bleeding or formation of clots. The symptoms that manifest are severe headache, vomiting along with headache, stomachache along with vomiting tendency or also breathing problems. By and large, this sort of three or four symptoms may happen and generally it happens within a period of three to four weeks after vaccination. In such cases, family members should quickly take the pregnant woman to a hospital where vaccination is done. The reason for illness can be investigated at the hospital and required treatment can be provided to her.”Previous studies have shown that mothers who were inoculated with the mRNA vaccines (Moderna, Pfizer-BioNtech’s shots) during their pregnancy passed on the antibodies against Covid-19 to their child as well.Doctors agree that the decision has merit but said the government will have to tackle vaccine hesitancy among pregnant women. “There is great reluctance in pregnant women to take the Covid-19 vaccine... Pregnant women will be worried about the side-effects on their baby and the issues related to blood clots, etc. This needs to be addressed well,” said Dr Shivani Sachdev Gour, a Delhi-based gynaecologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pregnant-women-can-now-get-vaccinated-101625251250666.html
03-07-2021||India||Army jawan, five LeT terrorists killed during Pulwama gunfight||Srinagar: Five Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists and an Army jawan were killed during an overnight encounter in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district, police said on Friday.The police have identified one of the slain terrorists as Nishaz Lone, alias Khitab, who was the district commander of the LeT in south Kashmir, while another as a Pakistani national. “For us, it is a big success,” said inspector general of police (Kashmir), Vijay Kumar, adding that police are trying to identify the other three terrorists killed in the operation.According to a police official familiar with the matter, a team of the police, 44 Rashtriya Rifles and the CRPF launched a joint cordon-and-search operation in Pulwama’s Rajpora area on Thursday night, following information about the presence of terrorists. The operation soon turned into an encounter when the terrorists opened fire on the security personnel, killing one soldier and injuring another, the official added. After hours of gunfight, five terrorists were killed, said the official. The slain soldier has been identified asHavildar Kashi Rao of the 44 Rashtriya Rifles. A resident of Vijaypura district in Karnataka, Rao succumbed to his gunshot injuries in the chest early on Friday, the official added. The injured soldier is currently undergoing treatment. Soon after the encounter, internet services were suspended in Pulwama.This is the third encounter in Kashmir in the last four days. On June 30, three local terrorists were killed, while two soldiers sustained injuries during an encounter in Chimmer village in Kulgam district. On June 29, a Pakistani terrorist and LeT commander Nadeem Abrar Bhat were also killed in an encounter at Maloora, a day after he was arrested.The LeT commander, police said, was arrested from a checkpost in Parimpora in connection with the attack on a CRPF patrol party at Lawaypora in March this year, in which three jawans were killed. Police said Bhat was killed when he was taken to a house in Maloora by security forces to recover an AK-47 rifle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-jawan-five-let-terrorists-killed-during-pulwama-gunfight-101625251190603.html
03-07-2021||India||Centre rushes teams to 6 states with 36% cases||The Union government has rushed expert teams to six states showing an increase in Covid-19 cases of late, the health ministry said on Friday, and top officials reiterated warnings that the second wave has not receded fully and that states must bring back restrictions if infection or hospitalisation trends cross certain thresholds.The warnings come at a time when cities have recorded increased rush at markets and places of business as lockdowns are lifted. Friday’s announcements identified six states where “localised” pockets are causing concern: Kerala, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Manipur.The six states together accounted for, on average, 36% of the daily cases seen across the country over the seven days to Thursday, with Kerala alone accounting for 26%, or 11,815new infections a day. The seven-day daily case numbers of the other five states are: Arunachal (279 cases a day), Tripura (389), Odisha (3,184), Chhattisgarh (357), and Manipur (590). As of Thursday night, these six states also accounted for 29% of the 516,378 active cases in the country. “There are 71 districts that are showing a test positivity rate of over 10%... The second wave is still not over,” said Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, at the government’s press briefing on Covid-19 on Friday. The official added that states have been asked to identify locations where the test positivity rate is above 10% or hospital occupancy is higher than 60%, and implement strict restrictions which should be in place for at least two weeks.Aggarwal’s caution was echoed by Niti Aayog member (Health) VK Paul, who said that outbreaks must now be nipped as soon as possible. “There still are certain problematic districts that are being closely monitored. Expert teams of the health ministry have been deployed in some of these states such as Kerala, Odisha, Manipur, Chhattisgarh, etc. The pockets of outbreak that are currently visible, those need to be nipped right there as these are in localised pockets at the moment. We do not allow it to spread further,” he said.The teams sent to each state comprise two members – a clinician and a public health expert. They will assess the overall management of Covid-19, particularly testing, surveillance and containment operations, and monitor the enforcement of Covid-safe behaviour among the public. The teams will also take stock of availability of hospital beds, and of logistics such as ambulances, ventilators, and medical oxygen. They will assess the Covid-19 vaccination speed and as a whole, suggest remedial actions, the health ministry said in a statement.An analysis of case numbers from the six states identified by the government suggest that as a whole, most of these regions are not particularly logging a resurgence, but that the problem may be in particular districts. According to the University of Michigan-led COV-IND-19 Study Group, Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland (not identified as one of the six states), have an effective reproduction number (R) of more than 1 – which suggests the outbreak in these regions is growing. No other state reported an R number above 1. Kerala and Maharashtra have an effective R number of 0.97 and 0.96, but the latter has recorded a consistently high test positivity rate of around 10% -- this proportion should be below 5% for an outbreak to be considered under control.Officials said that of particular concern were some pockets in the northeastern states. “Certain north-eastern states are showing increase in case load and containment is important in these states as there are many hard to reach areas in these states where health care delivery system is not as strong. Therefore, it is important to stop the spread before it grows beyond control,” said a senior central government official, who asked not to be named. Paul said close monitoring is crucial at this stage and the country “cannot lower its guard”. “As we are seeing in Europe right now, the disease transmission has started growing again, with cases having dropped to 50 per million at one point, which is now almost double,” he said. “It is in our control to ensure India doesn’t see the third wave. Even though we are fully prepared for the third wave— in rural areas, for children, overall facilities such as beds, ICUs, ventilators, oxygen, medicines, containment strategies, testing, all these preparations are in place -- our disciplined behavior will eventually decide whether a third wave will come or not,” said Paul.Experts said that along with vaccination, the behavior of people will be the key to stop the virus in its tracks. “Covid appropriate behavioural changes are required to be made in a big way; it will be crucial. Vaccination is important but since vaccinating everyone will take a lot of time, people will need to strictly adhere to Covid appropriate behavior to stop the outbreak,” said Jugal Kishore, head, community medicine department, Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-rushes-teams-to-6-states-with-36-cases-101625251130586.html
03-07-2021||India||In Gurugram, fake insurance claim unravels racket||It was a meticulously planned insurance fraud built on a foundation of data stolen from insurance companies, potentially earnings for its perpetrators hundreds of crores in life insurance claims on around 10,000 fake deaths -- but it was discovered by chance, after possibly a few hundred claims, because of an insurance policy that was linked to three others.That insurance claim itself was worth only ₹30 lakh, below the threshold requiring a physical verification by insurance surveyors, but the ones it was linked to were worth ₹10.2 crore, something the perpetrators were not aware of. And on June 20 , when the surveyors went visiting, they met the wife of the man believed dead, the chairperson of a private university in Gurugram, who was very much alive.The lady complained to the police, and the fraud came to light.The Gurugram Police said a gang of six is behind the fraud, built around stolen insurance data, forged death certificates, hundreds of bank accounts, and fake claims. They have arrested four of the gang. The police said they are ascertaining details of the number of such claims filed by the gang, and added that they have so far recovered at least 250 insurance claim documents from their possession. They believe the gang may have actually claimed money against 150 policiesBased on the complaint of the lady mentioned above, KK Rao, Gurugram’s commissioner of police, formed teams comprising members of the police’s crime and cyber crime units led by an assistant commissioner of police (crime). The success of the fraud depended on the entire process being digital -- and by checking the online claim process, the teams were able to follow the digital breadcrumbs -- the address of the suspects, the details of the bank accounts into which the claims were paid, and the mobile numbers linked to those accounts.The trail led them to the four gang members -- Rajnikant Kumar, the mastermind who earlier worked with the insurance company; Durgesh Dubey, a call centre employee; Naval Kishore, who helped with the opening of the bank account, and Nitish Saini, a Delhi-based property dealer -- all of whom were arrested from Delhi on Thursday.The other gang members, who arranged for the death certificate, have been identified but are yet to be arrested.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said: “The four suspects are presently on five-day police remand and are tough nuts to crack. They are not sharing any details but we are questioning them and are also contacting families through the insurance claims [recovered] to find out whether they were aware of this fraudulent activity.”Gang members Sangwan said the mastermind, identified as Rajnikant Kumar from Jaipur, moved to Gurugram in 2011. In 2012, he started working with an insurance company where he met Durgesh Dubey, who, at that time, was deployed in the back office of the same company.In 2014, Kumar moved to another insurance company where he worked till August 2019. In 2017, Dubey left the insurance company and started working with a fake call centre in Gururgam. These are centres that specialise in telemarketing, credit card and insurance frauds, sometimes even on people outside the country.Police said that in March 2020, the two men hatched the plan for the fraud to overcome financial difficulties. But they needed more people, including some with specialised skills (or access), Sangwan explained.“Before they could start the process, the first wave of the coronavirus disease hit . They took advantage of the situation, and started making connections with the staff of private hospitals.” The idea was to see if they could get insurance and other details of patients who had combined health and life insurance plans.They also had data on hand. Kumar, the police claim, left the two insurance companies with details of around 10,000 life insurance policies from across the country.The data, Sangwan said, had “details of insurance policies, Aadhaar cards, PAN cards, e-mail IDs and mobile numbers; nominee details were [also] easily accessible through the documents.”First step Meanwhile, Dubey, who lived in Delhi, contacted his school friend, Nitesh Saini, a Delhi-based property dealer whose friend, Naval Kishore, worked in a private bank in Gurugram .The four decided to join hands.According to Sangwan, they also met a few insurance advisers and sought their help to understand the safest way to claim money -- that wasn’t theirs by right. They also needed documents that made them the beneficiaries, and bank accounts. “They wanted someone who was expert in forging documents. Saini and Dubey knew two people who were experts in forgery and so they contacted them and involved them .”How the fraud workedRao said the gang members used to work 14 hours a day, making calls and sending emails for insurance claims.The gang, the police claimed, opened at least 300 bank accounts in different places in Delhi-NCR. They planned to dupe more than 10,000 families of their insurance money, police said.Then came the event that led to their capture.“Kumar got details of a customer whose policy was for ₹30 lakh and they got the forged death certificate made and applied for the claim in the first week of June. They were unaware of the background and details of the victim. They opened a bank account in the nominee’s name with forged documents and were waiting for the insurance claim. They even sent two reminders to check the progress,” Rao added.They did not know that the insurance policy belonged to chairman of a prominent university; nor that it was linked to three other policies of ₹10.20 crore.Physical verification is not mandatory for insurance claims less than ₹40 lakh. The gang was aware of this. However, they were unaware that the policyholder had multiple linked policies with the same company.On June 20, an insurance surveyor reached the house of the man believed dead in South City -1 in Gurugram for verification. They met the wife. Then the man himself. “The family was shocked to know that someone tried to dupe them. The wife went to Sector 29 police station and registered a case against unidentified persons,” said Rao.Sangwan said they are questioning the suspects to get names of the hospitals where staff the details of patients. The Gurugram Police have called a few families whose policies have been misused by the gang and also alerted insurance firms to share details if they receive complaints from customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-gurugram-fake-insurance-claim-unravels-racket-101625251072158.html
03-07-2021||India||Lull in monsoon may affect kharif crops, says IMD||The June-September monsoon, which is currently stalled as part of its natural stop-and-start cycles, is taking longer to revive, a delay that is “something to worry about”, said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, the chief of the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The top meteorologist said he expected the showers to be active again by the third week of this month.The monsoon is the lifeblood of Asia’s third-largest economy, as nearly 60% of the country’s net-sown area doesn’t have irrigation access and half of all Indians depend on a farm-based livelihood.“The delay (in the revival of the monsoon) is something to worry [about] because crops like paddy, which are at the transplantation stage, at this time need to be soaking in water,” said Mohapatra. He said the lull in monsoon activity stretched longer than expected.The rain-bearing system also replenishes more than 80 nationally important reservoirs, critical for drinking, power supply, and irrigation.The country is counting on farm output to cushion some of the economic impacts of a devastating second wave of coronavirus infections. In 2020-21, when India faced a recession due to the pandemic, agriculture was the only sector to record positive growth of about 3.1%. This helped to prop up the rural economy.“In the first week of July, monsoon will remain weak, it will pick up in the second week of July and return to normal by the third week of July,” Mohapatra said. The rains started on a promising note, arriving in Kerala, their first port of call in the Indian mainland, on June 3.According to agriculture ministry data reviewed by HT, the progress in kharif sowing till June 26 lags last year’s levels. On June 26, 2021, the total summer-sown area stood at 20.2 million hectares. This is 21% lower than last year’s 25.8 million hectare sown during the corresponding period. The sowing area is sure to pick pace soon, an agriculture ministry official said, requesting anonymity. From an agriculture point of view, July rainfall is the most critical, said Jeet Singh Sandhu, vice-chancellor of the SKN Agricultural University, Jaipur. “This is the prime time of sowing. Most Kharif crops have to be sown by July 15-20. We have another 15 days. So, at present, I don’t think there’s worry. But in areas where irrigation is not available, there will be an impact,” Sandhu added.The Met department has forecast a normal monsoon for the country as a whole for the third straight year, saying rainfall would be 98% of the 50-year average. According to the IMD’s classification, rains are considered normal if they are between 96% and 104%.The Met chief said the Madden-Julian Oscillation, a global weather pattern that influences India’s monsoon, had not been favourable for a while. He added there were strong westerlies, or winds blowing in from the west, and a decrease in low-pressure formations, factors that lengthened the monsoon pause.The agriculture ministry official said there was no reason for any concern at this stage. “Pre-monsoon showers were good, so moisture levels (in soil) are good. Rains will revive soon. There is nothing to worry about,” the official said.Farmers in the food bowl states of Punjab and Haryana have come under pressure due to a lack of rain. Electricity demand has soared, resulting in long outages, forcing farmers to depend on costlier diesel to irrigate lands. “The main impact so far has been that farmers’ cost of cultivation has gone up,” said Balwinder Singh Sandhu, Punjab’s agriculture commissioner.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered government officials to curtail office timings and curb supply to certain industries with high power consumption to save crops, an official statement said.Millions of farmers rely on the monsoon to plant crops such as rice, cane, corn, soybeans, cotton, nuts, and lentils.The dry spell has triggered a heatwave across much of north India, with Punjab facing a power crisis.Nearly 32 farm unions protesting three new farm laws have asked the Punjab government to ensure farms get at least eight hours of supply by July 5, said Balbir Singh Rajewal, a farm union leader.According to official data, power demand shot up to a new high on June 30, touching 191.24 gigawatts (GW), higher than the previous peak demand of 189.64 GW on January 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lull-in-monsoon-may-affect-kharif-crops-says-imd-101625251070551.html
03-07-2021||India||IAF spells out concerns on theaterisation; CDS differs||Indian Air Force (IAF) chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Friday flagged concerns about the military theaterisation model, arguing that it was critical to first get the structure right, even as chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat gave out details of the plan to achieve jointness and brushed aside the reservations.Bhadauria also differed with Rawat’s assessment that IAF was “a supporting arm to the armed forces” and countered the CDS’s statement saying air power has “a huge role to play” in any integrated battle area.The differences on the military’s theaterisation plan surfaced during a seminar organised by the Global Counter Terrorism Council -- both Rawat and Bhadauria addressed separate sessions of the seminar.While the IAF’s specific reservations about the current theaterisation model were reported by HT last month, this is the first time that the two four-star officers addressed the issue publicly.Bhadauria stressed that IAF wasn’t against theaterisation, but it was critical to get it right.“We must understand that appointing CDS was a big reform. The next biggest reform is the integrated theatre commands. And it is much more complex. We are for the establishment of integrated theatre commands, but have raised issues in our internal discussions and it is about how we should do it. We must get it right,” the IAF chief said.The air force also has reservations about the division of its air assets, nomenclature of commands, leadership of theatre commands and dilution of the powers of chiefs, as reported by HT on June 21.Rawat, who spoke before Bhadauria during the seminar, said the theaterisation plan included the setting up of an integrated Air Defence Command to be led by IAF for the management of the country’s entire airspace.“The AD command will be responsible for all the things that use the airspace – aircraft, helicopters, drones, artillery shells and missiles. There is a need to coordinate anything that uses airspace because you cannot afford to have fratricide,” Rawat said.The CDS said the land-centric Western and Eastern Theatre commanders would be advised by Air Component commanders.“We are creating land-based theatres for the western and northern adversary. The IAF is not just responsible for air defence, it also has the charter of providing close air support to land forces when they undertake operations and for offensive air support in case you go into the adversary’s territory…There will be air component commanders who will be advisers to the western theatre and the northern theatre while air defence will be done by one entity as is being done today,” Rawat said.The CDS said IAF is required to provide “support” to the ground forces. “Do not forget that IAF continues to remain a supporting arm to the armed forces just as the artillery support, or engineers support the combatant arms in the army. They will be a supporting arm but they have an air defence charter and supporting the ground forces in times of operations. This is the basic charter which they have to understand,” Rawat said.The IAF chief did not agree. The air force has concerns about being treated as an adjunct rather than a joint partner in war-fighting.“It is not a supporting role. Airpower has a huge role to play. In any of the integrated battle area, it’s not an issue of support alone. And a whole lot of things go into any airpower plan that is made. Those are the issues that are under discussion,” Bhadauria said.Experts said this is unusual that military commanders are expressing their differences in public.Former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd) said, “We know there are some differences in how theaterisation should be carried out. It would be better if these issues are resolved behind closed doors. Airing of opinions in media glare by senior functionaries is unwarranted in such crucial matters. It will only harden positions.”The military’s theaterisation drive is aimed at integrating the capabilities of the three services and optimally utilising their resources for future wars and operations. The current plan is to have two land-centric theatre commands (Western and Eastern Theatres), one Air Defence Command, a Maritime Theatre Command and a logistics command.The armed forces currently have 17 single-service commands spread across the country. The Indian Army and the Indian Air Force have seven commands each, while the Indian Navy has three. Creating theatres would involve merging the existing commands (except the Northern Command).Theaterisation refers to merging specific commands of the army, navy and air force, and placing them under a theatre commander. Such theatre commands are to be led by an officer from any of the three services, depending on the roles assigned to them.The government expects CDS Rawat to bring about jointness among the three services by January 2023. The defence ministry and the armed forces are refining the military’s theaterisation plans through internal consultations and detailed discussions with other ministries involved before seeking the approval of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) to implement the military reform.The government has formed an eight-member panel under Rawat to fine-tune the plans and bring all stakeholders on board, especially IAF, for speedy roll-out of new joint structures.The issues under the panel’s consideration include the executing authority for theatre commands, the geographies they will control, command and control structures, budgeting, appointment of senior three-star officers who will take over as theatre commanders and placing some paramilitary forces under the commands.The CDS on Friday addressed concerns about the dilution of the powers of the chiefs and distribution of assets.“Even today the entire resources of IAF are not controlled by one agency. They have five operational commands where the entire resources of IAF are distributed. The case is the same with the army and the navy,” Rawat said.“Depending on how threat develops, reallocation of resources takes place. What we are saying is when the theatre command come ups, in the peacetime you will have to allocate resources to them and as the threat evolves, depending on where the primary threat is and where the secondary threat is, you will accordingly reallocate resources,” the CDS said.He explained how the existing system and the role of the service chiefs.“This happens even in the army. Today all the army’s resources have been distributed to the army commands. The army chief has nothing at his disposal, same thing happens in the navy. There is nothing that lies in the control of CNS. Yet all the assets belong to the three service chiefs. They are at liberty to redistribute their resources. And now in the future this will be done by the chiefs of staff committee headed by the CDS with the three service chiefs giving him advice. So it will be a collective effort where redistribution of resources will be based on threats,” Rawat said.“Now instead of three heads doing the thinking, you have four heads doing the thinking. That is all that has happened. There is no change otherwise. As far operational planning goes, that process is not undergoing a change. It is the same,” the CDS said.Rawat also said Northern Command would stay intact, as reported by HT on Friday.“We have terrorism and insurgency which is going on there. The Northern Command is one command that looks after both the fronts, the China front in Ladakh and the northern front in the Kargil sector. This is one area which will actually witness a two-front war... We have to be careful and not let our guard down. We do not want to disrupt the existing organisational structure of the Northern Command,” Rawat said.The IAF chief said with the setting up of theatre commands, the Indian military should reach the next level to project the country’s military power. “We should be able to synergise and have more flexibility. We cannot have more boundaries. So there are issues in some of the options that are being discussed and we are discussing those internally. I would not like to go to the media and describe what my concerns are,” Bhadauria said.He said the IAF was totally committed to theatre commands. “But we must get it right. And that is the focus area of all our deliberations. Issues are being looked at and there are deliberations between the three services. And that process is continuing,” the IAF chief added. .“We are of course for it (theaterisation). Wrong to say we are against it. But every service has its own doctrine, has the best knowledge of how to employ the capabilities and capacities to get the desired results. And whenever we have a system that is integrated we must look at the entire doctrine and the ability of the services must be brought in. It must be a synergised result. We are discussing. There is no need to get concerned that we will not have a solution. When you sit and talk there will always be a result,” he added.The perceived role of air forces changed after the Gulf War in 1991, and established their reputation as leading partners in warfighting. And that’s what the IAF believes itself to be. It feels the current theaterisation model will reduce its role to a secondary one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-spells-out-concerns-on-theaterisation-cds-differs-101625250950567.html
03-07-2021||India||Kerala HC refuses to quash sedition case against Lakshadweep activist||KOCHI The Kerala high court on Friday refused to quash the sedition case registered against activist-filmmaker Aisha Sultana over her remarks against Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel. Sultana moved the high court, which has jurisdiction over Lakshadweep, with a fresh plea to quash the case after she was granted anticipatory bail last week. She has also appeared before the police in Lakshadweep for questioning. A single-judge bench of justice Ashok Menon said the case cannot be quashed or stayed without hearing all parties concerned. The court has asked the Union government and the Lakshadweep administration to file detailed replies. It will hear the case next after two weeks.Police on June 11 registered the case against Sultana for an alleged remark against Patel during a TV debate.Lakshadweep’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief C Abdul Khadar Haji filed the case against her, saying the remark was in a bad taste. Sultana regretted her use of words.The Lakshadweep administration and the Centre have said Sultana’s comments were “used by many foreign journals” to show the country in a poor light.Sultana’s comments came amid protests in Lakshadweep over new rules and proposals introduced in the region. Opponents of the measures say they are “anti-people” and threaten their livelihoods. Some of the measures provide for the removal or relocation of islanders from their property for town planning and detentions without trial for up to a year. Other proposals include a ban on cow slaughter.The opponents say the measures “will affect the unique culture and tradition” of the island. They allege they will destroy the region’s character and identity as 97% of the islands are covered by pristine forests and 95% of its Muslim population belongs to the protected scheduled tribe category.The administration has justified the norms saying they will boost tourism in Lakshadweep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-refuses-to-quash-sedition-case-against-lakshadweep-activist-101625215307703.html
03-07-2021||India||Drone spotted over Indian mission in Islamabad, New Delhi lodges formal protest||New Delhi A drone was spotted over the Indian high commission complex in the Pakistani capital on June 26, prompting New Delhi to formally protest to Islamabad over the security breach and to seek an investigation. The drone was seen within the complex at a time when an event was being held at the mission, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity on Friday. India lodged a formal protest over the incident through a note verbale or unsigned diplomatic correspondence, the people cited above said. “A drone was spotted over the premises of the Indian high commission in Islamabad on June 26 this year. This has been taken up officially with the government of Pakistan,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a weekly news briefing. “We expect Pakistan to investigate the incident and prevent recurrence of such breach of security,” he added. Pakistan’s foreign ministry described the Indian statement about the drone being spotted over the Indian mission as a “preposterous” claim and said “no proof whatsoever has been shared with Pakistan to substantiate these allegations”. Foreign ministry spokesperson Zahid Hafeez Chaudhri contended this was part of a “propaganda campaign by India” at a time when evidence collected regarding a blast in Lahore on June 23 was “increasingly pointing to external forces with a history of perpetrating state-sponsored terrorism against Pakistan”. Chaudhri was referring to a car bombing near the residence of Lashkar-e-Taiba founder Hafiz Saeed that killed three people. The Indian mission is located within the fortified diplomatic enclave in Islamabad, across a key road that runs in front of Pakistan’s Foreign Office. A residential complex for staffers of the mission is located a short distance from the high commission. The entire diplomatic enclave is heavily guarded by Pakistani security forces and there is another layer of security near the Indian mission. The incident in Islamabad occurred hours before a drone attack on an Indian Air Force base at Jammu on June 27 – the first-ever offensive use of unmanned aerial vehicles to target an Indian military facility. While the IAF has officially confirmed that two low-intensity explosions took place in the technical area of Jammu air force station, senior officials and experts said the attack appeared to have been carried out using drones and marked a new chapter in Pakistan’s proxy war against India in Jammu and Kashmir. National Security Adviser Ajit Doval had raised the issue of drones being used by terrorists at the recent meeting of NSAs of the member states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Dushanbe, Tajikistan. Doval had specifically referred to the need to monitor new technologies used by terrorists including drones for smuggling of weapons. Responding to several questions on Pakistan’s possible involvement in the drone attack in Jammu and the neighbouring country’s efforts to tackle terrorism and terror financing, Bagchi noted that an investigation was in progress into the Jammu air force station case and said New Delhi expects Islamabad to take credible and irreversible action against terror networks and proxies. “As far as terrorism and terror financing are concerned, we have a zero tolerance policy. We condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. All countries must take credible action against terrorism, including by putting an end to cross-border movement of terrorists, [and] ending terrorist safe havens and infrastructure and their financing channels,” he said. India wants Pakistan to take “credible, verifiable and irreversible action against terrorist networks and proxies operating from territories under its control” and to bring to justice the perpetrators of terrorist attacks, including the 2008 Mumbai attacks and the 2016 attack on Pathankot air force station, Bagchi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drone-spotted-over-indian-mission-in-islamabad-new-delhi-lodges-formal-protest-101625214287530.html
03-07-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: Uttarakhand CM submits resignation to governor||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat submits resignation to governorUttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat submits his resignation to Governor Baby Rani Maurya, reported news agency ANI.PM Modi expresses condolence over Ramban accident in J&KPained by the loss of lives due to an accident in Ramban, Jammu and Kashmir. Condolences to those who lost their loved ones. I pray that the injured recover soon, tweets PM Modi.Tamil Nadu extends Covid-19 lockdownTamil Nadu extends Covid-19 lockdown till July 12; restaurants, amusement parks to open at 50% capacity.West Bengal government files an affidavit in Calcutta HC in 'fake vaccine' caseWest Bengal government has filed an affidavit in Calcutta high court in the fake vaccination drive case, reported ANI. The fake vaccination drive first came to light after the ruling party's MP Mimi Chakraborty, who was inoculated there, raised an alarm.Kathua district administration imposed a ban on dronesThe Kathua district administration imposed a ban on the storage, sale, possession, use, and transport of drones or any flying objects.Centre announces curbs on storage of pulses by traders, retailersThe Union government, alarmed at rising prices of pulses, has put curbs on quantities of pulses traders, including retailers, can store. The stock-holding limits, as the price-control measure is known, comes into effect from July 2, according to a government official.Delhi reports 93 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deathsDelhi recorded 93 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, the total tally of infection now stands at 1,434,374. The death toll was pushed to 24,983 after 2 new fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the state health bulletin.Goa extends state-level Covid curfew till July 12Goa has extended state level curfew extended till 7am of July 12, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday. Shops will be allowed to remain open from 7am to 6pm, saloons and outdoor sports complex, and stadiums may also be allowed to open, reported ANI.Sudden change in weather as Delhi-NCR hit by dust storm and rains#WATCH Rain in parts of Delhi brings relief from soaring temperatureVisuals from Chanakyapuri pic.twitter.com/xN3D5tQXTJConcerned with increased violence Afghanistan, says MEAThe Ministry of External Affairs has been concerned by a recent spate of violence in Afghanistan and the MEA has issued advisory for Indians there, MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said at a press briefing.India has 56 cases of Delta plus Covid variant in 12 states, says Dr VK PaulThere are 56 Delta AY.1 (Delta A Plus) cases in 12 states: Dr VK Paul, Member-Health, Niti Aayog to ANI pic.twitter.com/ewVWX9hL5oUP to re-open Multiplex, gyms, and stadiums from July 5The Uttar Pradesh government will be allowing Multiplex movie halls, gyms, and stadiums to re-open all over the state from July 5, as it relaxes lockdown measures imposed due to the rising number of coronavirus cases in the state.71 districts reporting Covid positivity rate over 10%, says health ministryLav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, said in a press conference on Friday that 71 districts have been reporting a Covid-19 positivity rate of over 10%, and that the country is reporting 46,000 cases daily on an average. Encounter between terrorists and security forces underway in J&KJammu and Kashmir: An encounter is underway between terrorists and security forces in Pulwama(Visuals deferred by unspecified time) pic.twitter.com/6k9m6dFbxASensex surged 166 points to settle at 52,485, Nifty closes at 15,722As markets closed for the day, Sensex surged 166 points to settle at 52,485, and Nifty closed 42 points higher at 15,722 on Friday, reported news agency PTI.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta refutes TMC’s allegations, denies meeting BJP leader Suvendu AdhikariSolicitor General Tushar Mehta refuted Trinamool Congress allegations of meeting BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari. "Shri Suvendu Adhikari did come to my residence cum office yesterday at around 3:00 PM, unannounced. Since I was already in a pre-scheduled meeting in my chamber, my staff requested him to sit in the waiting room of my office building and offered him a cup of tea. When my meeting was over and thereafter my PPS informed me about his arrival, I requested my PPS to convey Mr Adhikari my inability to meet him and apologise as he had to wait. Mr Adhikari thanked my PPS and left without insisting to meet me. The question of my meeting with Mr Adhikari therefore did not arise," he said in a statement.Union Minister Prakash Javadekar launches 6 technology innovation platformsUnion Minister Prakash Javadekar launches 6 technology innovation platforms. "Our problem is lack of innovation &, nation that innovates makes progress. Innovation in high-end technology is very important as it creates wealth and ensures 'Brain Gain', not 'Brain Drain'," he says. pic.twitter.com/9niq2lt2LUMukul Goel joins as Uttar Pradesh police chiefMukul Goel, 1987-batch IPS officer, formally joined as new Director General of Police (DGP) of Uttar Pradesh on Friday.TMC demands removal of Tushar Mehta as Solicitor General after his meeting with BJP's Suvendu AdhikariTMC MPs write to PM Modi, requesting him for removal of Tushar Mehtar from the post of Solicitor General of India, calling it a 'conflict of interest' in light of a meeting between SG Mehta & BJP leader Suvendu AdhikariLetter terms Adhikari an accused in various criminal cases pic.twitter.com/8gnu2k2NWHDrone spotted near Indian mission in Pakistan's IslamabadA drone was spotted near Indian mission in Pakistan's Islamabad. India has strongly objected to the security breach, reported ANI.Delhi court adjourns order on framing of charges in Sunanda Pushkar death case till July 27Delhi's Rouse Avenue Court adjourned the passing of order on the issue of framing of charges in the Sunanda Pushkar death case on Friday for July 27.Pushkar was found dead in a suite of a luxury hotel in the city on the night of January 17, 2014.Former Haryana CM Om Prakash Chautala released from Tihar JailFormer chief minister of Haryana, Om Prakash Chautala released from Delhi's Tihar Jail on Friday. He was welcomed by his supporters at the Delhi-Gurugram border.Calcutta HC passes orders on Bengal post-poll violence, says all cases to be registered and TMC govt to ensure victims' treatmentCalcutta High Court on Friday passed orders in the Bengal post poll violence matter and ordered Police to register all cases of the victims of the violence. It also directed the state government to ensure medical treatment for all victims and to ensure ration for the affected even if they don’t have ration cards.Centre rushes Covid-19 control teams to 6 statesCentral government rushes teams to 6 States for #COVID19 control and containment measures.Teams sent to Kerala, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, and Manipur - that are reporting a high number of COVID-19 cases.Body of research scholar found at IIT Madras, forensic account awaitedThe body of a guest lecturer-cum-research scholar was found at IIT Madras in Chennai on Friday. Kotturpuram Police is present at the spot and the body has been sent to Government Royapettah Hospital for autopsy, according to ANI.US troops leave Afghanistan's Bagram airfield after nearly two decadesUS officials said on Friday that the US military has left Bagram Airfield, the epicenter of its war to oust the Taliban and hunt down the al Qaida perpetrators of the 9/11 attack, after nearly 40 years, as per an AP report.Another black fungus death reported in AssamA man died of black fungus in Dibrugarh, Assam Medical College Principal Dr Sanjiv Kakati said on Friday. "Patient who came from Lakhimpur had post-Covid symptoms. We got him tested for black fungus and report came positive. He succumbed to the disease 2 days after a 6-hr-long successful op," ANI quoted Dr Kakati as saying.J&K: Army jawan killed in encounter with terrorists at PulwamaAn Indian Army soldier was killed during an encounter with terrorists on Friday in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama district, news agency PTI reported. Read moreIndia reports 46,617 new Covid-19 cases, 853 deathsIndia on Friday reported 46,617 new Covid-19 cases and 853 deaths, pushing the toll to over 400,312 in the past 24 hours, the Union health ministry data showed.More than 1.8 million samples tested for Covid in 24 hours: ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/DhpUJxgMjaMaana Patel becomes 1st female, 3rd Indian swimmer to qualify for Tokyo OlympicsBackstroke swimmer Maana Patel has become the 1st female and 3rd Indian swimmer to qualify for #Tokyo2020. I congratulate Maana, who qualified through Universality Quota. Well done!! pic.twitter.com/LBHup0F7RKAntarctica hits record temperature of 18.3°C, UN confirms reportAntarctica logged temperatures up to 18.3 degrees Celsius (64.9 degrees Fahrenheit), a new maximum temperature record for the region, on February 6 earlier this year, the United Nations World Meteorological Organization (UN WMO) has confirmed. Read moreJamui becomes 1st panchayat in MP to achieve 100% vaccinationJamui in Shahdol district of Madhya Pradesh has become the first panchayat in the state to achieve the target of 100 per cent Covid-19 vaccination.Encounter between terrorists, security forces underway in PulwamaAn encounter is underway between terrorists and security forces in Hanjin Rajpora area of Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir, reported ANI.J&J says its Covid-19 vaccine neutralizes Delta variantJohnson & Johnson said that its single-shot Covid-19 vaccine neutralizes the Delta variant. It has generated strong, persistent activity against the variant, and other highly prevalent variants. The shot neutralized the delta variant within 29 days of a first dose, and protection matured and improved over time, according to the company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-july-2-2021-101625185500285.html
